.Vol. 13.

AUGUST, 1905.

No. 138

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass.f Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianopolis, Ind DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

ByE. H ARNOLD. M. D.

XVI.

THE terminology of exercises done in certain positions or from a certain starting position offers no difficulty at all. The command for the starting position is given, it is assumed, then the command for the exercise is given, the exercise is stopped by the proper counter-command when the proper counter-command is given to that movement which made the gymnast assume the starting position from which the exercise was done. For example:	Hands	on	hips—place! Left sideward—stride!

(starting position), Trunk forward—bend! Straighten—bv counts begin: One, two, one, two, etc. Halt! Replace, arms—lower!

Neither do sequences prove an obstacle to the carrying out of our scheme to terminology. The exercises are simply named in the order in which they follow. For instance: Left sideward—stride! Arras sideward—raise! Lower!—Replace by counts—begin : One, two, three, four, etc. Halt!

Shortness of command may here sometimes be attained if cir-

Digitized by L^OOQle
-162-

cumstances are favorable. This is the case if the movements of arms and legs are of the same type and proceed in the same direction, as: Left leg sideward—raise!—The arm! Lower: the arm,—the leg!

In this manner the repetition of the verb of the movement and the adverb for the direction is made unnecessary. If movements of the same form occur which however proceed in different directions one still may shorten the command by not reiterating the verb, but simply giving the adverb of direction, as for instance: Trunk forward—lower! Head—backward! Trunk —raise! the head!

The terminology of combination exercises offers nothing new. for we reemploy all the old terms. We must endeavor to bring into s\stem the order in which the commands for the movements of the several parts entering into the combination movement follow. We here make the rule that the commands should follow in this order, head, arm, trunk and leg movement, using the verb of the leg movement, or whichever of the movements is the last one in the combination, as the executive command for performing the whole combination, thus: Raise arms forward and left sideward—fall out! Turn head—left and trunk forward—bend!

Our endeavor to abbreviate the command here is restricted to such combinations wherein the exercises being of the same form, or proceeding in the same direction, allow us to use only one verb or one adverb of direction in the whole command. Thus for instance: Arm and left leg sideward—raise! Head backward, trunk forward—lower! Arms and knees—bend! etc. When form and direction differ it is best to give them in detail as the explanation necessary in a too much abbreviated command will make the abbreviation no saving of time in the end.

In sequence of exercises we place the verb in the position in the sentence in which it would serve as executive command, i. e. at the end of the sentence. In combination we reverse the order. We here place the verb at the beginning of the sentence so that it may not be mistaken for the executive command, by the use of the word “and” we coordinate all the following parts of the command as to the time, using the verb first in all the part-edmmands till we arrive at the final one when we use the verb as executive command and therefore put it last in our sentence. For example:	Raise	arms sideward, bend trunk for-

ward, turn head left and left foot backward—place!

COMMON SENSE IN EXERCISE.

In the midst of many systems of exercise, with the marvelous claims and clamorous warnings for and against them, one is apt to become bewildered. Money-hungry men of small character are always alert to launch a possible money-making fad upon the public. In their anxiety to combat these fads with their impossible promises, honest exponents of physical education sometimes go to the other extreme and leave in the minds of the casual reader false impressions.

With one class advocating huge masses of muscle and another insisting upon the danger of every form of exercise but light calisthenics, is it any wonder that many are left idle because they do not know

Digitized by

Google
—If >3—

what to believe? It seems only reasonable to believe that somewhere between these two extremes lies the inhabitable middle ground, where one needs not waste time and energy in blind experiment, nor do too much, nor too little.

There are as many varieties of men as there are of any other species of animals; not only do they differ in size, intelligence, features and color, but, in connection with the many differences of physical and mental characteristics, they differ in ability to develop strength, speed, skill and endurance. Each man must therefore apply the common-sense test to himself that he would apply to a machine, and learn by careful observation the kind of work and the amount that results in a more erect carriage, a feeling of exhiliration and buoyancy, that causes him to become comfortably tired all over, so that the bed is a luxury, sound, peaceful sleep assured, with an awakening of the whole man ready and anxious for the work of the day before him.

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

As Arranged and Illustrated by ROBERT NOHR, M D., Fort Wayne, lnd.

(For “MIND AND BODY” and Yale Summer School). July 6 to Aug. 10, 1005.

PRINCIPAL STARTING POSITIONS OF THE ARMS.

Command.—

1.	Hands on hips—place! Arms— down!

2.	Arms to thrust—bend! Arms— down!

3.	Hands on shoulders—place ! Arms—down!

4.	Hands under shoulders—place! Arms—down!

5.	Hands behind head (or neck) place!—Arms—down !

6.	Hands backw.—grasp! Arms—down!

7.	Arms forw.—fold ! Arms—down!

8.	Arms backw.—fold ! Arms—down !

9 and 10. Flex (or bend) forearms upon the arms—flex (or bend)!

ARM POSITIONS.

Command.—

1.	Arms forw.—raise (or 1)! Arms—down ^ • (or 2)!

2.	Arms outw.—raise (or 1)! Arms— down (or 2)!

3.	Arms forw. or outw. overh. (upw.)— raise (or 1)! Arms—down (or 2)!

4.	Arms sidew. left—raise (or 1)! Arms— down (or 2)!

5.	L. arm sidew. duwnw. obi., r. arm sidew. upw. obi.—raise (or 1)! Arms —down (or 2)!

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—164—

b. L. arm forw. upw. obi., r. arm backw. downw. obi.—raise (or 1)!

Arms—-down (or 2)!

7. Arms outw. upw. obi.—raise (or 1)! Arms—down (or 2)!

FOOT POSITIONS.

Command.—

1.	Toe-touch forw. 1.—1! Pos.—2!

2.	“	“	sidew. 1.—1 !	“	44

3.	44	“	backw. r.—1!	44

4. Cross toe-touch forw. 1.—1! Pos.—2 !

5.	44	“	“	backw.	1.—1! “

LEG OR STEP POSITIONS.

r

A AM k

Command.—

I. Stride pos. forw. 1.—step (or 1)! Pos.— stand (or 2)!

^	2.	Stride pos. outw. step—1, 2 ! or jump !

Pos.—stand (or 1, 2)! or jump!

3.	Stride pos. forw. outw. obi. to the I.—1 ! Pos.—stand (or 2)!

4.	Stride pos. inw. (legs crossed) jump or 1! Pos.—stand (or 2)! or jump!

5.	Jump upw., spread legs wide sidew., clap hands overh. and return to pos —jump!

b. Jump upw., spread legs crosswise 1. forw., r. backw., with raising 1. arm forw. and r. arm backw. (and vice versa), and return to

pos.—jump

LEG RAISING.

Command.—

1.	L. leg and arms forw.—raise! or 1! Lower (down or pos.)—2!

2.	L. leg sidew., 1. arm sidew. downw. obi., r. arm sidew. upw. obi.—raise! or 1! Lower (down or pos.)—2!

3.	L. leg backw. and arms forw. overh.— raise! or 1! Lower (down or pos.)—2!

4.	L. leg inw. and arms folded backw.— raise! or 1! Lower (down or pos.)—2!

5.	Bend r. knee, raise 1. leg and arms forw -1! Pos.—2!

b. Bend r. knee, raise 1. leg and arms sidew. 1.—1! Pos.—2!

FOOT AND LEG POSITIONS.

Command.—

1. Raise heels—1! Lower (or pos.—2! n y 2. Half knee-bend-1! Pos.-2!

JW	3.	Squat rest and hands on hips—1 !

yu	Pos.-2!

4.	Kneeling on 1. knee—1! Pos.—2!

5.	Stride squat forw. 1.—1! Pos.—2!

(To be continued.

S'.

Digitized by

Google
—105-

THE TWENTIETH CENTURY SCHOOL.

IT HAS BECOME THE SOCIAL CENTER OF THE COMMUNITY.

By LAWRENCE H. TASKER.

(By Courtesy of the “The Saturday Evening Post.’’)

Anew idea of the functions of the schoolhouse is the outgrowth of conditions in the twentieth century city. In olden days the district school confined its activities solely to the teaching of academic knowledge. The three R's held undisputed sway. “Readin’, ’ritin’ and ’rithraetic” (chitfly “tigerin' ”) constituted the greater part of what was taught in the little red brick school on the corner of ‘Squire Jones’ farm. By way of variation, there was the by-monthly spelling match which created a distinct local exitement, and the usual annual Christmas entertainment when the children “spoke pieces,’’ the crowning event of the school year. GREAT CHANGES WROUGHT.

Shades of our fathers! If a school trustee of the early thirties could be suddenly transported into one of the million-dollar schoolhouses in New York! What would astonish him most? Not. I ween, merely the beautiful and chaste architecture of the Renaissance school building; not even the immensity of an eighty-six classroom school, with accommodation under one roof for 5,000 children; not merely the wonderful improvement in matters of sanitation and hygiene, but rather the “new fangled’’ things that the boys and girls are learning nowadays. To him it would be a strange sight to see a class of boys setting type in a miniature printing shop; another class of boys caning chairs, and still another drawing an Indian from actual life. Here a croup of girls are making hats, another croup weaving baskets, still others cooking dinners and learning the art of waiting on table. In the basement gymnasiums the boys are performing on trapezes, parallel bars and flying rings; in the sub-cellar fifty or sixty at once are learning to swim in a great swimming tank, ceaselessly watched over and protected by a competent instructor. On an upper floor a class is receiving instruction in first aid to the injured, another is being taught nursing and the scientific preparation of food, another millinery and another manual training. Boys are conducting experiments in physical and chemical laboratories; girls are playing basket ball, and even the roof is made use of for all kinds of games.

HOW CHILDREN ARE KEPT OUT OF MISCHIEF.

What is still more surprising, the school building is not shut and locked up when the electric clock rings the bells at three. The big building has still its hospitable doors wide open. At dusk the electric lights make the rooms as bright as day, and in the school are gathered nightly not only children, but parents. The uses of the school building now pass under another name—“recreation centers.’’ By this is signified almost every activity (except mischief) which the wide-awake boy or girl delights in—gymnastic exercises, basket ball, ping-pong, manual training, cooking and sewing classes, basket weaving, scroll-saw work, Venetian ironwork, debating societies, parliamentary clubs and reading circles. For adults there are evening lectures on travel, history, science,

Digitized by
art, literature and everv department of human interest. Moreover, the big building does not cease its operations during the long, hot davs of summer. As soon as the regular sessions are over, about the end of June, there begin the vacation schools, where the same activities repeat themselves with additions and variations, such as recreation piers, open-air playgrounds and roof gardens. Such is the twentieth century school of a great city. The school is not merely a place of instruction for children; it is a place of resort for the whole family. Little tots barely able to walk have the kindergarten; the boys and girls have training in useful arts as well as classical study; the parents have their men’s and women's clubs, societies, reading circles and lectures—all in the school building.

THE NEEDS OF METROPOLITAN EDUCATION.

The problem of education in a great center of population is not a simple one. More than mere intellectuality must be provided for. What profits it if for five hours a day the most highly-trained teachers instill into youthful minds the principles of morality, if from three o’clock in the afternoon till midnight the corner saloon, the cigar store, the policy shop and the five-cent dance-hall claim the interest and attention of the public school child? The majority of New York children, and of the children of every great city, have a place to sleep in, but have no home. In many cases whole families live, eat, work and sleep in one room. It is small comfort or pleasure to take one’s airing on the fire escape. Consequently the children live in the streets. Five layers of population in crowded districts turn out on the pavements. The asphalt is more of a home than the dingy room up four dark stairs. The necessity of caring for the growing child more hours in the day than the ordinary school session contains is very urgent. As in every other realm of human activity, necessity evokes inventions, and the twentieth century school is the product of the brains of earnest sociological workers who have concern for the future of the race.

To keep the boys and girls off the streets is the problem which in New York City has been met by the establishment of vacation schools, playgrounds and evening recreation centers.

The fifty odd vacation schools are in operation during July and August. The majority of the half-million children who attend public schools in New York are not fortunate enough to be able to get away to the country or the seaside. They must remain in the great, hot streets, and during the long, wearisome summer days mischief is naturally rampant, and the police officer on the corner has all he can do to prevent wanton injury to persons and property. To meet the summer need, vacation schools have been established, and their popularity has been so marked that the number has increased from fifteen to fifty-four.

THE DELIGHTS OF VACATION SCHOOLS.

In vacation schools there is no requirement for regular attendance, nor is there a fixed course of study. The aim of the department is to make the school so attractive that pupils will come of their own accord. Manual training is the great feature in vacation schools. The New York boy is extraordinarily anxious to “make something,’' and if he

Digitized by C.ooQle
-167-

can make a few pennies or nickels out of the products of his dexterity, so much the better. Chair caning is exceedingly popular, and at the close of the session it is generally found that all the chairs in the neighborhood have been recaned, whether they needed it or not. 'Basketry is another profitable occupation. The children are allowed to keep what they make, and the families of the vicinity are stocked with beautiful and substantial work baskets, paper baskets and all the other baskets which human ingenuity can devise and nimble fingers execute. Venetian ironwork is a fascinating occupation also, and models of wonderful design have been made by tiny hands. In the office of Miss Evangeline Whitney, supervisor of vacation schools, is a model of the Brooklyn bridge in Venetian ironwork, constructed by one boy with the assistance of his comrades.

DOMESTIC SCIENCE AND SEWING CLASSES.

To the girls needlework and millinery is taught. The higher classes cut and make their own dresses and wear them with pardonable pride. The girls also learn to knit and crochet, and to prevent any labor, however pleasant, from becoming monqtonous the girls are asked to sing at their work, and the sewing is interpersed with calisthenics and gymnastics. Domestic science is inculcated with great care. In the words of the superintendent, “The classes were called on to make contributions to their rooms. And when a bare, unfurnished room was transformed into a cheerful living room ny simply using a few yards of demin and silkaline, with here a settee, there a screen, yonder a tabouret, a candelabrum on a stand and simple decorations on the walls, the children received an object lesson not soon to be forgotten. In the same room the table would be set with faultless regularity and dainty luncheons properly served. The girls learned to preserve fruit and to prepare many nutritious dishes, and practical applications of all this teaching have entered many houses. The trained nurses also contributed much toward the increase of comfort in the over-crowded tenement rooms. The babies made sweet and clean from the bath crooned so happil}’ that many a little mother resolved that her charge should never again suffer for so necessary a luxury.”

During the summer much attention is given to nature study. Usually one room in.each building is filled with growing plants, boxes for sowing seeds, birds in cages, aquariums, and as many specimens of living things as can be procured. It is a perpetual delight to the children to see things grow, and many a city child gets its first knowledge of the beautiful world and of plant and animal life from seeing the sprouting seeds and the birds and fishes in the schoolroom.

When the doors of the vacation school close at 1 p. m. the children are not of necessity turned again on the streets. There is for them now provided the vacation playground which is open from 1 to 0:30 p. m., and the roof playground from 7:30 to 10 p. m.

PLAYGROUNDS ARE PROVIDED FOR CHILDREN.

Vacant lots and corners of the parks * are given over to the use of the Board of Education. Wagonloads of gymnastic apparatus are installed and the playground is ready for business. Under a competent

Digitized by LjOOQle
—168-

instructor there are marching, drilling, calisthenics, athletics and free play. The equipment of the gymnasium consists'of Indian clubs, dumbbells and wands, parallel and horizontal bars, trapezes, ladders, swinging rings and 'ropes, and horse, buck and spring boards. The girls engage in lighter gymnastics and in fancy drills. At the close of the terms tournaments are held on every ground, and the successful contestants meet at a later date in a grand contest for the city championship. At the final games the winners receive suitable prizes, and victory is just as sweet to the child of the slums as was the Olympic laurel to the fair-formed Greek 2,000 years ago.

The city of New York has provided along the water front a number of great double-decked piers which stretch far out into the cool and refreshing water. These are crowded day after day with tired mothers and sickly babies to whom the fresh and invigorating sea breeze would otherwise be denied. Two kindergartners are sent to each pier, and kindergartens are held with new members each day. Here the youngest children are looked after while the tired mothers can obtain much-needed rest. Then there are fifteen swimming pools where boys and girls are taught to swim by a strictly modern and scientific method. The pupil lies on a wide belt which is slightly submerged in the water while he is learning the proper stroke. Then he is allowed to try to swim without support, but if he flounders and splutters he is sent back to “pound the belt” until his nerves are restored to a condition of equanimity. Last year over 1,600 pupils took the prescribed course and learned to swim.

THE MAKING OF GOOD CITIZENS.

The roof playgrounds are the happiest places in the city on the hot summer nights. Thousands of men and women, boys and girls, climb the long stairs to where, in Oriental fashion, they may rest and enjoy themselves under the starry sky, with the inspiration of fresh air, cool breezes and the music of a band.

The long winter evenings bring new dangers to the city child. For the boys and young men the glittering corner .saloon, the “one-cent-a-cue” billiard-rooms, the poolrooms and worse dives of every prescription stand invidingly open, and for the youth of both sexes the doors of the five-cent dance halls offer questionable amusement. To offset these allurements twenty-one schools in New York are now open in the evenings under the name of “recreation centers.” , Yet it is a mistaken idea that these exist only for recreation. The value of play is not ignored, but is made a means of teaching, and while the future citizens are finding an outlet for their surplus physical energy in drill, gymnastics, athletics and all kinds of games, their mental activities are being trained and developed under wise direction. Rough and coarse boys of the street who, if left to themselves, would naturally become members of the Cherry Hill or Mulberry Street gangs, learning robbery, cruelty and the mysteries of knock-out drops and knuckles, organize themselves under the direction of the principal of the recreation center into athletic clubs, debating societies and literary circles. The same instinct that leads them to follow, reverence and uphold a square-jawed, chin-tilted and big-cigar-smoking leader, even to the doors of

Digitized by

Google
—169—

the Tombs, causes them to organize into clubs with constitutions and by-laws, to electioneer for office, and conduct the business of the society with as much fervor as any politician. The following is a preamble of the “Maroon Athletic Club,” of Public School No. 159, on One-hundred-and-nineteenth Street near Third Avenue:

“Whereas, it is agreed that attention should be paid to the physical as well as the mental development of the body, and that same can l>e best accomplished by the concerted efforts of a body of persons, we, whose names are hereunto annexed, do form a society' whose object shall be the physical development of the body by systematic training and exercise.”

NEIGHBORHOOD CLUBS ARE FORMED.

Then follow sections relating to the name, object, membership; officers, duties of officers, committees, meetings, etc., of the club, concluding with the following article relating to the punishment of any member whose conduct may be unbecoming:	“Any	member	whose	be-

havior is detrimental to the welfare of the club, who absents himself from four meetings consecutively without reasonable excuse, or becomes three weeks in arrears of dues, may be suspended or expelled from membership by a two-thirds vote of the members present at any regular meeting after the one at which his name shall have been referred to the executive committee.”

The secretary of each club must keep the minutes with perfect accuracy, as must also the treasurer his accounts. The dues and fines are dispensed according to the majority vote. Usually gymnasium suits are purchased or pleasure trips provided. One instance may be related in which the club rose to the dignity of a benevolent or fraternal society. In a certain cTub the treasurer had seventy-five dollars of the club’s money deposited in a bank. One of its members lost his position and, having others dependent on him, was greatly depressed, but the club came to his aid and loaned him twenty-five dollars to start business in a small way. In a short time the grateful debtor returned every dollar he had borrowed.

CLUBS MEET AT THE SCHOOLS.

The number of clubs meeting at a given center varies, but all enrolled members have access to the gymnasium, the game rooms and the library. A large number of parents also share these privileges. They are glad to have a well lighted and warmed place in which to meet their friends and to watch the acrobatic performances of their children. One proud father remarked. “If only we could smoke here our comfort would be complete.” Smoking, however, is not allowed.

In the recreation centers drills are effective in promoting correct bearing and prompt obedience. One gymnasium is organized as a military camp, and the amateur soldiers are becoming splendid specimens of military manhood. Basket ball is a favorite amusement, and the quiet games—chess, checkers, authors, anagrams and ping-pong— are always popular. Photography, basket-work and pyrographv are also taught.

In the girls’ recreation centers a large amount of literary work is

- Digitized by <^.ooQle
-170-

done. The standard authors are read, and about once a month a dramatic entertainment is given. The girls are usually allowed to dance the last half-hour, and the stately minuets have done much to turn the romping, boisterous girl into a dignified and lady-like young woman. Many of the mothers come with their daughters and form women’s clubs. They even don gymnasium suits and take part in the exercises. Nearly every play center has a glee club and an orchestra. The reading room is kept supplied with illustrated papers and magazines, and the library is kept well stocked with a good selection of standard books.

THE RESULTS TO JUSTIFY THE EXPENSES.

The yearly cost of the recreation centers, vacation schools and playgrounds is about $275,000, a small fraction of the $22,000,000 budget of the Board of Education. Yet it keeps nearly 300,000 children off the streets the greater part of the summer days, and in the winter it provides a safe place where thousands of boys and girls can spend their evenings, and the moral, mental and physical uplifting is incalculable.

Ill	this expansion of the public school system to include other than elementary education, to place the means for rest, recreation and culture within the reach of parents as well as children, and to make the school house the social settlement of the district, the twentieth century school is fulfilling a new and greater mission, the term education is given a broader significance, the elements of New York’s cosmopolitan population are being welded into a homogeneous unity, and the children of the native American as well as those of the foreign-born Hebrew, Slav or Teuton are being trained to the nobler duties and privileges of American citizenship.

FRIEDRICH LUDWIG JAHN, AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF POPULAR GYMNASTICS (VEREINSTURNEN)

IN GERMANY.*

Hy FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

(Concluded, t

A CONFERENCE of monarchs at Aix-la-Chapelle in the fall of 1818 did much to confirm Frederick William III. of Prussia in his suspicions of intrigue. Metternich also laid before Prince Wittgenstein, the Prussian Minister of State, a memorial in which he declared that the Burschenschaften were nurseries of revolution and the Turnplatze preparatory schools for university disorders; both must be suppressed, for no palliative measures would suffice. A more forcible argument was the assassination of the German dramatist Kotzebue by Karl Ludwig Sand at Mannheim on the 23rd of March, 1819. Kotzebue was a paid spy of Russia and a reactionary writer who had attacked with special bitterness the student unions and the turners. Sand was a turner and had visited Jahn and others in Berlin the year before; he was a member of the Jena Burschenschaft, and had been present at the Wartburg-fest. Without any proof of the fact it was assumed that he had carried out the decision of an organization. On the night of July 13 to 14 Jahn was arrested and taken to the fortress of Spandau. on suspicion

* Part 1 of this article appeared in the Review for March (Vol. V., pp. 18-39).

Digitized by

Google


-171-

of “secret and most treasonable associations.” Meanwhile Kamptz had been made Prussian Minister of Police and clothed with extraordinary powers, and a special commission had been charged with the prosecution of demagogues. A little later a conference of German ministers adopted the oppressive Carlsbad Decrees, which were ratified by the Frankfort Diet September 20th. These provided for censorship of the press, police supervision of the universities, and a central commision of seven to search out “the origin and ratification,of revolutionary conspiracies and demogogic associations.” The Burschenschaft was disolved, and January 2nd, 1820, Frederick William III. decreed that Turnen should absolutely cease throughout Prussia.

Jahn was kept at Spandau for a few days, transferred to Kiistrin July 17th, brought back to Berlin for trial early in October, and by an official report of February 15th, 1820, the chief charges against him were declared null and void. A cabinet order of May 81st declared him released from arrest, but stipulated that he should reside, till further notice, in the fortress of Kolberg, on the Baltic, and placed him under the oversight of the commanding officer there. The 1000 thalers which he had been receiving from the state—800 as teacher of gymnastics and 200 from the Ministry of War—was to be continued. His two younger children had died since his arrest; but he had with him his wife and remaining child, and enjoyed a fair degree of freedom, busying himself with historical and other studies. His wife died here September 8th, 1823. After prolonged investigation the supreme court at Breslau, by its decision of January 13th, 1824, absolved him from all suspicion of complicity in the murder of Kotzebue, but sentenced him to two years additional confinement in a fortress on account of “repeated irreverent and insolent utterances regarding existing conditions in the state.” From this decision Jahn appealed and sent in his “self defense” (Selbst-vertheidigung. finished October 9, 1824) to the supreme court of Frank-fort-on-ihe-Oder, by which body he was entirely acquitted March 15, 1825.

But a cabinet order of May 3rd forbade his living in Berlin or within a radius of ten miles from the capital, or in any city containing a university or higher school for boys; and werever he settled he was to remain under police surveillance. The thousand-thaler pension remained unchanged. Jahn selected for his home the Thuringian town of Freyburg-on-ihe-Pnstrut, about thirty miles west and south of Lcipsic. Thither, besides his son, he took his second wife, Emilie Hentsch, and later brought his mother, who, after the death of her husband in 1811 had followed her son to Berlin. In the winter of 1828 he was obliged to move again, for it was reported in Berlin that he had visited Merseburg frequently and had been in communication with schoolboys in that and the neighboring cities. For seven years, therefore, he resided in Kolleda, twenty-five miles farther west, and meanwhile had to undergo, in 1830, six weeks’ confinement in the fortress of Erfurt because of expressions used in a complaint to the provincial diet.

From Kolleda Jahn returned to Frevburg. There on a night in August 1828, fire destroyed his house and most of its contents, including his library and many valuable manuscripts. Gifts from a wide circle of sympathizing friends enabled him to build a new house of his own, however, on the slope of the castle hill; but the loss of books and papers

Digitized by C^ooQle
meant the cessation of his literary activity. The accession of Frederick William IV. to the throne of Prussia was followed by the final removal of all police restrictions, and brought him also the long-expected decoration of the Iron Cross. By a cabinet order of June 6, 1842, gymnastics was “formally recognized as a necessary and indispensable part of male education and received into the circle of means for popular education.** Turnen began to revive with this, but though Jahn followed its development with interest and received hospitably the turners who visited his home, he took no active part in the movement. In 1844 he attended the centennial exercises of his first school, the Gymnasium at Salz-wedel. Four vears later he was present as a delegate in the German national assembly at Frankfort-on-thc-Main, but returned to his home bitterly disappointed. He died at Freyburg, after a brief illness, October 15, 1852.

Although Prussia’s example in suppressing public Turnen was followed by other German states, the procedure was bv no means universal. Thus the reaction did not directly affect the Kingdom of Wurttemberg, the Grand Duchies of Mecklenburg and Oldenburg, the Duchy of Brunswick, and the Free Cities of Hamburg and Liibeck; and it was not of long duration in the Kingdom of Bavaria. Between 1820 and 1840 the old organizations continued without interruption, therefore, in scattered cities, and new societies of older boys and young nien who met regularly for exercise were formed in Hanover (1831), Frankfort-on-the-Main (1833), Plauen in Saxon}' (1834), and Pfortz-heim in Baden (1S35). Even in Berlin Ernst E;selen (1792-1840), Jahn’s faithful assistant, was allowed to open a private indoor and outdoor gymnasium in 1828. The venture prospered, and he added a gymnasium for girls in 1832, and four years later opened a branch institution in another part of the city. The latter was transferred to his helper Wilhelm Liibeck (1S09-1879) in 1839. Both men trained many teachers of gymnastics, and wrote valuable manuals, bridging over in this way the gap between the older and the newer Turnen.

With the accession of Frederick William IV. to the Prussian throne in 1848 the hopes of his people were kindled afresh, and during the next decade all Germany was stirred by an agitation for reform which steadily gathered force until the outbreak of the French Revolution in 1848 brought it to a climax. One sign of this quickened national and political life was a general revival of the Jahn gymnastics. The incorporation of physical training in school programs led to the formation of separate societies (Mnnnerturpvereine) for adults, in which the bond of union was at first merely an agreement to meet for exercise at certain fixed hours; but this was soon followed by the adoption of by-laws, the appointment of boards of directors, and the fixing of definite' dues. Partly as a result of excursions and exhibitions new societies- sprang up everywhere, until at the close of the decade they numbered nearly three hundred. The desire for union which early showed itself was met by holding district conventions (Turntage) and gatherings for gymnastic exercises (Turnfeste). So we find turners from Frankfort, Hanau and Mainz coming together in Frankfort-on-the-Main September 5th, 1841, for the first of several annual Turnfeste, and on the Feldberg in 1844 inaugurating the important series of Feldbergfeste\ the Swabian
—173-

turners holding a convention and Turnfest at Gniund, in upper Bavaria, in 1844, and later Turnfeste at Reutlingen (1845) and Heilbron (1846) in Wiirttembcrg: a Rhine-Westphalian Turnfest at Iserlohn October 9th and 10th, 1847; and in Saxony, where progress had been especially active and orderly, the first Turntag at Dresden, October 31, 1846, was attended by delegates from fiftv-four societies. Periodicals devoted to the interest of the turners also began to make their appearance—Karl Euler’s “Jahrbiicher der deutschen Turnkunst” (Danzig, 1843, and Solingen, 1844), “Der Turner” (Dresden. 1846-52), the “Mainzer Turn-zeitung” (1846), Ravenstein’s “Nachrichtenblatt liir Deutschlands Turn-anstalten und Turngemeinden” (Frankfort. 1846 and 1857), and K. Euler and Lamey’s “Turnzeitung” (Karlsruhe, 1846 and 1847). But a second period of reaction set in with the revolutionary movements of 1849, in which man}' of the turners, the Saxon and South Germans especially, took active part. In carrying out their policy of repression the various governments again disbanded or put under careful supervision the gymnastic societies, and not only those directly concerned in disturbances, but others which had been well-disposed and preferred to keep Turnon free from partisan politics. Of the three hundred societies in existence in 1849 hardly a third survived the next ten years. A few, however, continued vigorous and active, and this number included some of the largest and best Turnvereine in Saxony and Wuttemberg. Herr Theodor Georgii started his “Turnblatt fur und aus Schwnben” (1850-53), followed by the “Esslinger Turnzeitung” (1854-56), and this in turn was succeeded by the “Deutsche Turnzeitung (Leipsic, 1856- ). the present organ of the German Turnersehaft. In Dresden Moritz Kloss began to publish the “Neue Jahrbiicher fur die Turnkunst” (1855-94).

Toward the close of the fifties signs of life began to multiply. The war of France and Sardinia (1859) and uncertainty as to future relations between France and the German states helped to rouse the slumbering societies and fill abondoned Turnplatze once more. A summons printed in the Deutsche Turnzeitung in March of 1860 and signed by Theodor Georgii and Karl Kallenberg resulted in the first general German convention and Turnfest, held at Coburg June 16-19 of that year—the anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo. More than a thousand adult turners were present, representing 139 cities and villages. Formal organization into a national bodv was impossible as yet, but notwithstanding this a feeling of union was established and a great impulse was given to further growth. The next year the fiftieth anniversary of the opening of the Hasenheide Turnplatz was celebrated by a second convention and Turnfest at Berlin, August 10-12. The attendance was 2812 adult turners, 1658 of them from outside the capital. 262 places were represented. This time a “Standing Committee of the German Turnvereine,” composed of 15 members, was appointed to look after matters of general interest. The committee, at its meeting in Gotha the following December, organized by electing Theodor Georgii chairman and Dr. Ferdinand Goetz business manager; it decided that Turnvereine as such must hold themselves unconditionally aloof from all political partisanship, took action which put a damper on those who wished to have military exercises in all societies, and charged Georg

Digitized by
Hirth with an investigation which led to the first “Statistical Annual of German Turnvereine” (Leipsic, 1853). According to this there were on July 1st 1832, in 1153 towns and cities 1284 societies, not less than 1050 of them organized since I860.. In 1863 the semi-centennial of the Battle of Leipsic, more than 20,000 turners gathered in that city for the third convention and Turnfest. Another statistical annual, issued two years later, showed an increase of 650 societies and more than 33,000 members over the numbers recorded in the first volume (July 1, 1862—November 1, 1864).

Enthusiasm had reached a pitch that a reaction was inevitable, and the Austro-Prussian war of 1866, by diverting attention and draining the resources of the people, interfered with further expansion and threatened to paralyze the existing Turnvereine. In the five years between November 1, 1864, and August 1, 1869, there had been a falling off of nearly four hundred societies and forty thousand members, according to the statistical annual of 1871. A Turnfest planned for July 22-24, 1866, in Nuremberg, had to be given up; but two years later 168 delegates assembled for the fourth general convention at Weimar (July 20 and 21, 1868), aud there formally organized the “Deutsche Turnerschafta firm union of all German gymnastic societies, including the Austrian Germans. A constitution was adopted, the old committee was increased to 22 members, and Georgii and Goetz were continued in their positions as chairman and business manager. During the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-71 fifteen thousand turners followed the colors to the field, and many gymnasia were converted into hospitals. But in spite of this temporary check the war brought what Jahn and his followers had looked forward to for sixty years And more—the unification of Germany. Experiences of march, battle field, and camp had driven home to the minds of all the need and value of physical efficiency as nothing else could do it; and after the formation of the new Empire popular Turnen began, at first slowly and then more rapidly, to flourish as never before, and this time with the full approval of the state.

The following table shows the development that has taken place since the first statistical investigation made in 1862. The second column gives the number of German towns and cities in which there were gymnastic societies (Turnvereine), and the third column the total number of these societies irrespective of membership in the Turnerschaft. “Active” turners are those who actually take part in the gymnastic exercises.

	Date	Places	Turnvereine	Belonging to Deutsche Turnerschaft (since 1869)		
				Societies	Members	Active Turners
1862	Tulv 1		1153	1297		134,607  167.943	96,272  105,676
1864	J M v 			  November 1 ...	1769	1934				
1869	August 1 		1415	1546	1	128,491	80,327
1876	November 1 ...	1532	1788	| 1547	156,590	69.872
1880 January 1		1741	2226	1971	170,315	86159
1885		2413	3208	2878	267,354	144,134
1890		3340	4434	3992	388,513	195,375
1895		4536	6061	5312	529.925	270,528
1900	4 *	5509	7238	6483 !	647,548	310,374
1904	4 4	6195	8400 1  !	7489  i 1	760,338	369.691

Digitized by CaOOQle
—175—

General German Tarnfeste and conventions (Turntagc) of the D titsche Turnerschaft (since 1868) have been held as follows;

No.	Tumfestc		Turntagc	
	Place	Date	Place	Date
I	Coburg	18(>0 June 17-18	Coburg	1860 June
11	Berlin	18(51 August 10-12	Berlin	1861 August
III	Leipsic	18(53 August 2-5	Leipsic	1863 August
IV	Bonn	1872 August 3-(5	Weimar	1868 July 20 and 21
V	Frankfort	1880 July 25-28	Bonn	1872 August 3
VI	Dresden	1885 Ju^ 10-21	Dresden	1875 July 25 and 26
VII	Munich	1889 July 28-31	Berlin	1870 July 27 and 28
VIII	Breslau	1804 July 22-24	Bisenach	1883 July 24 and 25
IX	Hamburg	1808 July 23-27	Coburg	1887 July 19 and 20
X  XI  XII  XIII	Nuremberg	1003 [ul'y 18-22	Hanover Esslingen Naumburg a. S. Berlin	1891 July 21 and 22 1895 Julv 22 and 23 1899 July 30 and 31 1904 April 4 and 5

The Bonn Turnfest fell in the period of decline, and one planned fur Breslau 1878 was given up because disturbed political conditions threatened its success; but beginning at Frankfort-on-the-Main two years later these great national gatherings have brought together not less than ten thousand turners, and at Hamburg and Nuremberg between twenty-five and thirty thousand were present. Successive conventions have left the outward form of the German Turnerschaft almost unchanged, although various details have been modified. The Esslingen Turntag defined its object to be “the promotion of Gernun gymnastics as a means to physical and moral vigor, and the fostering of patriotic sentiment and a spirit of racial unity among Germans. In 1887 Georgii gave up his position as Chairman of the Committee and was succeeded by Alfred Maul, of Karlsruhe, who resigned in 1894. The next year Dr. Ferdinand Goetz (the present Chairman) was appointed to that office, and his place as a Business Manager was given to Dr. Hugo Riihl, of Stettin.

Turnvater Jahn is still held in loyal and grateful remembrance, as the apostle of German unity and the man who gave to the German people the love for gymnastics. The hundredth anniversary of his birth (1878) and the fiftieth anniversary of his death (1902) were celebrated throughout the entire Turnerschaft. That body has erected monuments in his honor at the Berlin Turnplatz, and in Lantz, Freyburg, and other places; has built a memorial gymnasium (Turnhalle) over his grave in Freyburg; and has brought together there, in the “Jahn Museum," numerous relics of the man and his work. In 1903 a separate building was provided for this collection.

—The CLEVELAND IHYSICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT published a neat pamphlet on some of the work done in the public schools and at different playgrounds and swimming places. The pamphlet is interest-ingly illustrated and contains the proceedings of the meetings held bv the organization.

Digitized by CjOOQle
AAlND ftND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

MY

Subscription Price, 91*00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

3n£U-ct’«l'uJcm, T^7Tj»coa3JMl3a.-

49- Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Hqrold Bldg., Milwaukee, W.s Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

AS WE SEE THEM

VIDENTLY everything is not right in the British Empire. At least

not in the realm of physical education. Judging by what we read in “Physical Education, an illustrated monthly journal for the advancement of scientific physical training: a representative magazine of the British System,” which is published in London, England, there is more wrangling among the various organizations and instructors than the Swedes and Germans in this country ever dared to stir up. And it is not even on account of a supposed superiority of one or another system either. Accusations fly back and forth, clad in language not entirely, as a rule, approved bv good sportsmen.

The trouble is over the outcome of contests, and we regret from this distance to lie unable to form an opinion as to who is right or wrong.

To one from this side of the big pond reading this journal for the first time a good many things must remain hard to comprehend. A great many challenge shield competitions, reports thereon, communications containing protests or direct accusations fill the greater part of the space.

But we do not wish to be unjust and criticise things which we are not familiar with. Perhaps those contests form an important integral part of the British system, if there is such a system.

We can justly state that as far as our experience goes the number of contests should be limited inasmuch as they must always be regarded as a necessary evil rather than an agent for the advancement of the cause.

It has often been our wish to see clearly stated what the British system really consists of; to what extent it has been adopted in that country, and also how the British societies and clubs are organized. Perhaps the editor of “Physical Education” will favor our readers with an answer in his or our journal.

“Physical Education” publishes some valuable articles on gymnastics and athletics and for that reason is interesting to American readers.

In order to correctly understand the whole contents we ought to be familiarized with the organization controlling physical training, its workings and aims.

In the May issue the editor, under the heading “En Passant,” comments on happenings, characteristic in a way, and which we reprint in the following:

We hope that the English contingent who attended the French F£te Ftfderale, and who were billeted at the Hotel de la Paix, during their brief sojourn in Bordeaux, had no cause to exclaim, as did our Lancashire friend during the late

Digitized by

Google
-177-

Exhibition, after reading name of street, “Rue delaPaix! That’s what they ought to call all the streets, for it’s naught but pay wherever you go, and don’t vou rue it ?”

# * #

In discussing the political outlook one has, roughly speaking, to deal with three distinct sections of the gymnastic community, viz.: The Swedish, the Reform, and the Anti-Swedish. The latter are necessarily the strongest, numerically, since they accord Inventors, Experts, Eclectic jokers and various types of Usurpers a hearty welcome.

»	•	•

The Reform party, who are seeking to bring about a gymnastic “Entente-Cordiale,” have long realized that a genuine compromise between the two cardinal systems, is the only logical, or honest, solution to the fight which is at present raging betwixt the various factions.

Respecting the Swedish party, the majority of whom still cling to the Utopian idea that one system can be universally adopted in this country, we frankly admit that they have practically made no attempts to popularize the system, and appear unwilling to do any real fighting on its behalf.

*	*	#

We have before us twenty illustrations of various exercises, which we are assured can be safely and correctly executed, in the space of one minute, and for which the proprietors of a paper are stated to have paid 100 guineas to a youthful gymnast of the usual muscle-bound type, who is credited with having formulated same.

The whoje affair has every appearance of having been engineered by an individual whose identity, for obvious leasons, is not disclosed, but we may certainly congratulate ourselves on the fact that our work has in this instance been brought	into	ridicule,	by	Experts,	and	not	by	Teachers.

#	•	#

Beyond	pointing out	that	several	of the	exercises	are	cribbed from the Swed-

ish system, though incorrectly taken, as is invariably the case where the executants are ignorant of the true object and form of the movements; and that any ordinary person who attempts to accomplish the whole of the exercises prescribed, in the space of one minute, will not only defeat the object in view, but run considerable risk of injuring himself, we do not, for a moment, propose to offer further criticism.

•	*	*

It is amusing to note how careful Mr. Vardon (the Castle Lane youth) seeks to suppress the fact in his advertising medium that his own team (St. Bride's) actually figured at the bottom of the list in the recent Inter-Poly. Drill Contest. Whether his flock qualified for their unenviable position with scholarship honors does not	transpire,	but,	if we	abstract	all	the	soft	soap	from	the	said	youth’s

report of	the meeting,	in	which	no	marks are given, there is practically	nothing left.

*	*	*

Our strictures on certain individuals, who still persist in willfully obscuring the truth and masquerading under false colors, appear to have touched the proverbial spot. Being unable to refute or meet our statements, their fighting scribe, with charasteristic bravery, can only suggest the application of the gag, as a remedy. What a commentary on the boasted tolerance, open-mindedness, and policy of the Anti-Sweden party!

*	•	*

We notice that in one of their monthlies, the Physical Culturists, to wit: the muscle manufacturing gentry, are said to be congratulating themselves on being united and not subjected to the petty bickerings, etc., etc., which seem to obtain in gymnastic circles. Now, apart from the obviously inspired source whence the foregoing twaddle emanates, how could there possibly be aught but unity among the gentry in question, seeing that all are tarred with the same brush and simply vie with each other in doling out soft soap or quack recipes, etc.? Truth and error must ever remain divorced; nor can there be the slightest affinity between those whose sole aim appears to be to misrepresent, or obesure the truth, and those who do not.

Digitized by Google
-17«-

In the same issue we find a report on the French National Gymnastic Festival held at Bordeaux April 22 to 25, by H. Gregorius Brown, which reads as follows:

FRENCH NATIONAL GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL, BORDEAUX, APRIL 22.-25.

If you asked me what were the things which stood out most in my mind on returning from the Bordeaux fetes, I should say they were (1) the extraordinary hospitality of the committee of organization, of individual members of the Union, and of the municipal authorities; (2) the excellence and beauty of the site chosen to make the festival ground; (3) the charming situation of the town and its decorations; (4) the gaiety and good humour of the crowd and people generally: (5) the excellence of the wines. Under these five heads, my readers have a fair resume of the features of the festival and will perhaps appreciate my sentiments. On the competitions proper I can hardly write, for my “duties'’ as a guest prevented the seeing of many of them, though I shall rely on my companions Wright and Peters to send their notes for Part II. Our party came back with delightful impressions of their visit, one of them so much so that he vows he will go each year. We would wish to record our congratulations and thanks to one and all. from M. Cazalet and M. Marot down to the humblest official, who, without exception, were courteous, kindly and untiring in their efforts to please and to make us comfortable. Even to the hotels, where they had no interest but their own to serve, the same patience and forthought extended itself. Bordeaux will indeed be a pleasant memory. It was a treat to us also to meet two amateurs from Edinburgh (Messrs. Scott and Langmead), and I am |>ersonally glad that others besides myself are beginning to study continental conditions and practice*. In the following short article 1 shall try to give a bird’s-eye view of the fete, though not taking the daily order of events.

NOTABILITIES.

President Loubet must, of course, have the first place. He came to Bordeaux, as he has done to the six previous festivals, to show by his presence how much France and the Government appreciate the labors of the French Union. His arrival by water produced a scene on landing which baffles description. It was delightful in the extreme and wonderfully picturesque. M. Loubet presided on Monday at the great display and on Tuesday at the unveiling of the Gambetta Monument. M. Berteaux, Minister of War, made an excellent chairman on the first ray, both at the displays and banquet. He spoke to Mr. Sully and the writer in excellent English. General Andre, an ex-Minister of War, was also present, besides the staff detailed to attend M. Loubet. Of Senators, Deputies, and Mayors, it is not possible to name all, for there were so many. I had an interesting conversation with Mine. Merisse, the sister of Gambetta, who was greatly touched at the attention shown by so many strangers in coming long distances to assist at the ceremony. Then, of course, there were the chief officials of the French Union and the various foreign delegates, including their charming “better hulves” in manv instances.

DISPLAYS.

The great mass exercise, consisting of free movements, was shown twice, in addition to the rehearsal, and on President Loubet’s day was remarkably well executed, especially considering the difficulty of the combinations. The frontleaning-rest with arm flexion and extension seemed to surprise and rather tickle the vast audience. The accompanying music was splendidly played. One would like to see better alignment, but discipline, so far as I could observe, was very well maintained. It was an inspiring sight. The picked international teams showed off to advantage; but the work of the large “Nord” team canuot have been so interesting to the average outsider, though the fact that it was executed by 12 gymnasts simultaneously on 12 horizontal bars made it striking, especially where thrv got a swinging movement exactly together. The displays of the Havre children with clubs and wands alternately were clever and gained the complete sympathy of the audience, though whether it is educationally and morally good to bring young children so far away from home for such a purpose 1 am not quite sure. The rest of the display items were really competitions, of

Digitized by
- 17i> -

which the pyramids and fancy mass-drills were the most beautiful and taking. The French teams are really very good pyramid builders, never showing the slightest fear.

COMPETITIONS.

From the foreign visitors’ point of view the international tournament, a contest l»etvveen picked teams representing France, Holland, Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg, was probably the most interesting. The teams finished in the order I have named, the only change from two years ago being that the. second and third changed places. As the men work individually and not simultaneously. this is the type of competition which most nearly resembles our own, and should we succeed in getting together a really representative team our chances would not be unreasonably bad. The number of events is greater and the allroundness wider than in British competitions. The team contests (simultaneous and alternate work), the individual gymnastic and athletic championships, and the various special competitions seemed to pass off well.

RECEPTIONS, BANQUETS, EXCURSION. &e.

The reception of the French Gymnastic Union and foreign delegations by the Mayor and Corporation of Bordeaux took place in a beautiful hall of the Hotel-de-Ville. Speeches were made by M. Cazalet, the Mayor, Senator Todaro (Rome), Mr. Sully, Mr. Dahlman, and others. The ceremony was a very interesting one. The banquet was presided over by M. Berteaux and attended by about 1,000 |>ersons. Several excellent speeches were made, notably those of MM. Berteaux and Merillon, the latter of whom is President of the French Rifle Clubs Union. The reception accorded to the British delegates was most extraordinarily cordial. The banquet given by the city in honor of President Loubet is said to have been very “chic.” The receptions, at homes, lunches, and aftertoon teas, given by Mesdames Charles Cazalet, Marot, Pancol, Benjamin Cazalet, Momay, and Des-eombes, as well as the gala performances at the Grand Theatre, all passed off splendidly. The Wednesday excursion to the Medoc and Royan was a marvellous combination of scenery and hospitality. About 500 officials, delegates, and gymnasts undertook it and came back enchanted.

SIGNAL HONOUR TO GREAT BRITAIN.

During our stay in Bordeaux, Mr. Sully, hon. secretary of the National Physical Recreation Society, was decorated “Officer of the French Academy,” a well-merited distinction given by the Government in recognition of his long services to the cause of physical education.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Doctor Carl Zapp, one of the oldest gymnastic instructors of the country and a member of the first class of the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union (Turnerbnnd) from which he graduated in 1875, has resigned his position with the “Germania” Tumverein, Cleveland, O., thereby retiring from active work as a teacher of gymnastic societies.

Dr. Zapp was not only one of the oldest but also one of the most able and progressive instructors whom the Turnerbund can boast of. His retirement is universally regretted.

He served his last society continuously for 27 years, practically introducing two generations to the benefits of rational physical development. He also for many years has been director of the Physical Training Department of the Cleveland, O., Public Schools.

—The harvard summer school of physical training held its annual exercises August 10th and 11th at the Hemenway Gymnasium, Cambridge, Mass.

Digitized by Google
—180—

A normal institute was conducted at Pueblo, Colo., from July 31st to August 12th. Prof. Louis Lepper, formerly instructor of physical training at Leadville, Colo., had charge of the department of physical education.

DANCING DEFENDED.

The following article was recently contributed to the Boston American by Rev. Martha A. Bartle, formerly assistant pastor to Rev George L. Perin, of Boston, and at an earlier time principal of the Bortle Seminary in Rochester:

1 am an ordained minister of the Gospel. I have been a teacher of the young in college and in boarding school thirty-two years. I have, in fact, been associated with young men and young women all my life.

I have much of the time been a participator in their amusements from the game of “hide and seek” to the stately dance. I have watched them at play, have observed and noted the influence of various amusements upon their conduct, and I am constrained to say that all of the amusements in which young people indulge, that of dancing has the most favorable tendencies.

Let us review some of its advantages. If correctly performed, dancing cultivates the body, gives it a grace and demeanor which no other exercise is capable of doing. It exercises the muscles and sets the blood in a circulation akin to the health of childhood.

Dancing is the index of grace and ease. It has the power to render one supple and of limbering the joints. Is not happiness, to a certain degree, the result ol dancing?

The ancient Greeks taught dancing as a means of health by reducing flesh. There is probably no movement more conducive to the reduction of weight than dancing. If the swaying movements and the stretching ones, which may be found in the old Greek dance, were practiced to-day there would be fewer bodies overloaded with flesh, rendering so many persons uncomfortable and unsightly.

Rhythm is music. Rhythm in movement rests and rejuvenates. Wherever rhythm is found there is serenity, peace. To watch the graceful movements in the stately minuet not only fascinates, but uplifts the beholder. There is something divine about a graceful movement. The artist tries to put it upon canvas, and the nearer he approaches to the original the sublimer becomes his effort.

Dancing should be taught in the schools. It should become a part of the earliest education of the child. If you would make a perfect linguist of your child, teach it to speak languages in the home at an early age. If you would have it possess a graceful body, and that means health, teach it very early in life the means by which this most charming accomplishment may be attained.

Now, what are its weak points? Wherein is it sinful? Like all other amusements it lies in excess—late hours, exposure to cold. I have heard of a minister who was so fond of croquet that he had a brilliantly lighted croquet ground, and many nights the old town-clock tolled the midnight hour ere he and his comrades dropped the mallet and sought sleep. That is excess and i9 wrong. Everything may be carried to excess.

The association of young men and young women in the dance may in certain cases lead to improper tendencies. Does not the hammock produce the same tendency? Let us be just

The average young man and 3'oung woman enter the dance with the thought of doing it as well as he or she is capable of doing. There is a certain pride in dancing that each one takes to himself, and each one feels that he is doing himself some degree of credit.

As regards improper tendencies, I believe that there are other conditions that escape the eye of the parent, the teacher and the preacher, which arc more pernicious in their influence than is dancing.

I would that the careworn, depressed business man and woman, th« stiff rheumatic, the croaker of the evil in dancing, those who are “getting old,” would

Digitized by c ogle
-181-

get upon the floor and to the tune of “Virginia Reel” dance off some of their depression, their rheumatism, their croaking, their old age. It would put new life into them. Half of depression, rheumatism, croaking aud old age lies in sluggish blood.

The time was when the violin was regarded as a Satanic instrument; now it discourses sacred music in the churches. The world is moving on, and who says that it is not moving upward ?

We may preach and pray and sing and dance all in the same spirit. When I teach a young woman to use her body gracefully, whether it is under the name of physical culture, delsarte or dancing, I feel that I have helped her to live out her life more in keeping with the great law of harmony, and more as God intended her to live.

It were well for us to believe more in the good and pure, for in this way we inspire goodness and purity. I consider it my sacred duty to cultivate my body through any legitimate means by which this may be done.

THE LAKE GENEVA SUMMER SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL

HE institute and training school has seventy students enrolled in

its department of physical training in the summer school at Lake Geneva, Wis. This is the largest school of physical training for men in the country. Twenty-two states are represented. There are twenty-one distinct courses given by a corps of seven instructors. The courses in theory include anatomy, physiology, hygiene, first aid to the injured, physical examinations and prescriptions of exercise, diagnosis of heart and lungs and massage. The courses in practice include elementary and advanced calisthenics, class evolutions, gymnastic games, foil fencing, wrestling, three grades of heavy apparatus work, track and field athletics, base ball, swimming«nd rowing. The school is under the direction of Henry F. Kallenberg, M. D. The other teachers are William E. Day of Dayton, Charles J. Kurtz, M. D., of Chicago, Albert J. Coats of Lincoln, Neb., Marvin H. Markle of Mitchell, So. Dak., James S. Ford of Nashville, Tenn., and William J. Monilaw, M. D., of Drake University, Des Moines.

In addition to a choice of work from the courses above indicated students have an opportunity to elect courses of instruction in the Bible and in the history and principles of Young Men’s Christian Association work. One of the collateral subjects is a course in biblical pedagogy under the direction of Mr. Fred S. Goodman of New York City. Another is a course in psychology under President W. Ilinnitt of Central University of Kentucky. This course deals particularly with the mental phenomena of religious experience and with those mental changes incident to adolescence.

The school has a very well equiped gymnasium, a good athletic field and ample equipment for instruction in aquatics. Tennis and golf tournaments are constantly in progress during the hours of recreation. Base ball games are frequent and the two sailing yachts at the disposal of the school are kept busy.

The school runs through the month of July and is now in its 16th session. The student body is a hale and hearty crowd. The average

TRAINING.

By WM. E. DAY.

Digitized by

Google
-182-

age is twenty-three years. Summer or winter it would probably be hard to find seventy students who turn off more hard work every twenty-four hours than these men do. The school runs six days in the week. Physical training is a matter of bread and butter with these men, not merely a matter of amateur enthusiasm. It would be hard to find a body of men in whom the moral tone is higher. Their method in life is in keeping with the highest ideals of physical training. The drinking of malted or distilled liquors is not known among them, the daily diet is plain and wholesome and it is rare that one uses -tobacco. In the athletic instruction and practice dean sport is the dominant principle. The motive that rules among these men is not only to make a living but to make the world better while making a living, to help men to better thinking and living while helping them to better bodily health.

PHYSICAL COURSE.

Allen, H. I., Dayton, Ohio.

Alexander, J. L., Spring Forge, Pa. Angle, A. C., E. Liverpool, Ohio.

Apple, W. M., Dayton, Ohio.

Balskey, H. A., Dayton, Ohio, 912 Richard St. *

Bates, L. G., New Castle, Pa., Y. M. C. A. Bassett, Shell S., Houston, Tex.

Bentz, G. W., Chicago, 432 VV. Van Buren St.

Birch, F. E., Terre Haute, Ind. Blackman, C.R., Colorado Springs, Col., 1806 Wood Ave.

Boone, J. N., Temple, Tex., Y. M. C. A. Brown, W. E., Chicago Central.

Burke, J., Chicago.

Chadwick, F., E. Liverpool, Ohio. Cherrington, B. M., Omaha, Neb., 514 N. 23rd St.

Coughlin, W. B., Kewanee, 111.

Dake, Leroy G., Harvard, 111.

Dahleen, C. A., Galesburg, III., 817 Willard St.

Day, W. E., Dayton, Ohio.

Day, J. L., Ft. Dodge, la.

Dunn, Allen B., Etna, Pa., Grismar St. Earl, Edwin C., Rock Island, 111., Y. M. C. A.

Evans, David G., York, Pa., Y. M. C. A. Eyer, L. E., Bloomington, 111.

Foss, J. D., Los Angeles, Cal.

Franks, H., Peoria, 111., Y. M. C. A. Fritsch, D. L., Chicago.

Gethmann, W. W., Charles City, la. Giffin, Morrison. Tarkio, Mo.

Grainger, C. B., Lincoln,Neb., Y. M. C. A. Gilmore, V. R., Rockford, 111.

Hagenbuch C. H., Chicago.

Hanson, C. A., Ft. Dodge, Chicago. Hehman, F. W., St. Louis, Mo., 2709 Blair Ave.

Hemingway, W., Pottsville, Pa., 215 Union St.

Hoffer, D. L., Colorado Springs, Colo. Hirst, Harry E., Aurora, 111.

Horton, R. J., Pontiac, 111., 421 E.

Madison St.

King, J. G., Sacramento, Cal.

Kurtz, C. J., Chicago.

Lewis, G. A., Ottumwa, la.

Lewis, P. A., Ottumwa, la., 340 Mabel St.

McCall, John, Chicago, 2457 Cottage Grove Ave.

McCord, R. N., Bloomington, 111. McCullough, G. W., E. Liverpool, Ohio. Miller, C. J., Chicago.

Miller, Jas. L., Lakewood, Ohio. Markle, M. H., Mitchell, So. Dak. Mitchell, H. L., Chicago.

Moore, Wm. J., Cincinnati, Ohio. Morgan, C. D , Grand Rapids, Mich. Myers, Geo. M., Cincinnati, Ohio. Ockerblad, N. F., Burlington, Vt.

Olsen, G. L.t Lake Geneva, Box 28. Pershin, E. R., Monmouth. 111. Reinhardt, H* L., Chicago., 205 McLain St.

Richards, J. C., Lima, Ohio.

Rogers, F. C., Freeport, 111., Y. M. C. A. Salassa, M. C., Calumet, Mich. Schofield, F. E., Burlington, la. Sherwood, F. D., Kalamazoo, Mich., 1004 Academy St.

Slie, H. S., St. Joseph, Mo.

Sourbier, J. H., Loch Haven, Pa. Staples, J. K., Harrisburg, Va.

Stewart, W. A., Tarkio, Mo. Weiflfenbach, C. G., Dayton, Ohio, 2101 E. Fifth St.

White, E. W., Dayton, Ohio.

Wright, C. B., Rockford, 111. Wunderlich, A. J., Kankakee, 111., 248 Fourth St.

Young, G. D., Chicago.

Digitized by

Google
—183—

SECRETARIAL COURSE.

Argraves, E. D., Sterling, III.

Baldwin, A. C., Dixon, 111.

Bass, I. H., E. Liverpool, Ohio. Bingemann, A. S., Kingston, N Y. Brown, H. E., Chicago.

Buttriss. J. W.f Evansville, Ind.

Chase, C. R., Chicago.

Coleman, W. J., Lawrence, Kans. Collins, C. W., Birmingham, Ala. Conley, H. N.,-Columbus, Ohio. Crossman, L. T., Chicago.

Deerhake, F. M., Indianapolis, Ind. Dimmick, C. B., Terre Haute, Ind. Dobbyn, J. I., Chicago.

Dreher, I. H., Scranton, la.

Dzau, Sill Kung, Shanghai, China, Y. M. C. A.

Findley, J. S., Chicago.

Guss, H. L., Niagara Falls, Ont. Hankins, S. K.f Hastings, Neb.

Harter, W. L., Owosso, Mich. Hockenbury, E. J., High Bridge, N. J. Hoisington, H. A., Rockford, III. Johnson, B. E., Chicago.

Johnston, R. R., Marietta, Ohio. Kassens, D. W., Greensburg, Ind. Keltner, R. H., Anderson, Ind.

Lewis, H. H. Bloomington, Ind.

Litten, H. 0., Chicago.

Mocker, J. F., St. Louis. Mo., 1900 St. Louis Ave.

Moore, D. W., Brookfield, Mo.

Oliver, J. W., Sedalia, Mo.

Pierce, E. H., Winfield. Kans. Richmond, C. M., Chicago.

Schuerman, W. J., Peoria, 111.

Small, B. A., Laurel, Miss.

Shuman, R. W., Chicago.

Smith, T. B., Memphis, Tenn. Stauflfacher, C. J., Sioux City, la. Stickel, M. J., Chicago Central. Stieknev, J. M., Nashville, Tenn.

Van Dis, J. A.. Kalamazoo, Mich. Vinson, James, Washington, Pa.

Volz, C. H., New Castle, Pa., Y. M. C. A. Warren C. W., Marshalltown, la., Y.

M. C. A.

Webster, L A., So. Wayne, Wis.

Welsh, B. W., Newton, Kans. Westerman, G. D., Calumet, Mich. Widmer, W. F., Chicago.

Wilson, H. E., Winnepeg, Man.

Zang, George W., Lewistovvn, Mont.

HEALTH LOST IN THE GYMNASIUM.

President E. J. James of the University of Illinois, after five years’ careful investigation, says the severe strain undergone by college athletes largely unfits them for business or profess onal life, leaving them unable to play a man’s part in affairs, because of physical weakness induced by overexertion. •

Football players, baseball men, lawn tennis experts, nearly all. he declares, have weak hearts and are more liable to other forms of disease than men who take a more rational interest in college sports.

For years President James has felt that college athletics were being carried to dangerous extremes and has opposed the excessive training necessary to competition in college games. With the idea of ascertaining the actual effect of the long training and the terrible effort necessary to the contests he began collecting statistics regarding the health of famous athletes and their accomplishments in the affairs oflife.

President James says the result of his inquiry will undoubtedly cause much surprise to the men who declare the college athlete develops into the vigorous man who does things. Continuing President James says:

,,The lives of English and American athletes have been investigated. In England it has been easy to follow the “stars” after they left school, as the alumni of the big university are kept track of carefully. Here the task has been more difficult, because many of the “cracks” have disappeared. Besides the strenuous training of American athletes is of comparatively recent development. Football as played to-day was Hot developed until the middle of the ’70s and baseball before that time was a simple kind of sport.”

Tennis players, runners, oarsmen and others present better chances for investigation and furnished President James valuable statistics. Regarding the crack tennis players he said:

“There is scarcely one of the top-notchers but who suffered from heart disease, many of them in severe form. Many died of heart disease between the ages of 40 and 45, when they should have been at their best physically.

You must not think that I am opposed to athletics, for I am not. The rational sports of college ha\e no stronger supporter than me. I believe that

Digitized by Tooele
every boy and girl should take part in healthy out-door sports. I am opposed to the present methods, where, at the University of Illinois, out of 2500 students sixty men appear to train for the football team, and after untold hardships of training eleven are picked to represent the college. The only exercice a majority of the 2500 students gets is in rooting.

This is wrong and should not be permitted. Fortunately things have gone to such an extreme that a reaction is bound to set in, and sports will be conducted on more rational lines, so as to include more students and to eliminate the great strain on the leading athletes.

While I am not ready to cite figures proving my assertions, I must say that my investigations have shown athletics in a bad light. It is often asserted that the successful athlete brings into his after life a courage and reserve strength which makes him eminently successful. This is not the case.

Few of the winners of the Oxford-Cambridge foot races, records of which are available for over 100 years, ever achieved more than moderate success. Frequently they were left physical wrecks and seldom they escaped without some physical injury. The strokes on the boat crews present the same history. Few but what carry the marks of the terrible strain all through their lives.

The conditions in this country are *the same as those in England. Here, as a rule, a boy begins playing football in the high school. He goes through four years of severe training and upon entering the university the hard work is doubled. He goes to a training table and for months undergoes severe physical strain. If he is a good player this is kept up for four years more. The athlete's heart is frequently badly strained and the work tells upon the strongest constitution.

In after life, when the body should be strongest, the undermined system collapses und the athlete fills an early grave from heart disease, consumption or some other disease induced by overexertion.”

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

Continued.'*

R CLASS DRILL, class work on the apparatus and closing with the contests “Wrestling Circle” and “Relay Race” in three or four divisions.

As a preliminary figure marching.

After receiving wands (iron of 5 bis,, or wooden bar bells), form a front line and count

T

T T T T T T T T

T

T

T

T

■’ T V TV TJ V-T -

.V/r V T'O"

Figure 1.

/ /* / ;; » • %»

// - :!\ \ *•. T	!T	’ n.T	\ T. T

off by fours or sixes, or turn r. face, march forw.. file 1. to center, then turn 1. face by fours or sixes in close order (the ranks about one step apart (Fig. I). After all have	/	/	!	\	'*	**.

formed, then open order forw., sidew.	^	^	^	^	T

'obi. and others directly sidew. respect-	Figure	II.

ivcly to two steps distance (fan like) (Fig. II). After the class has opened order, turn 1. about face, so that the shorter members stnnd in front.

WAND DRILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower! 1, 2!

1. Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Bend 1. knee, move wand upw\ 1. (r. hand in front of r. shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Pos. —4! Same r.—1,4! Alternately—1, 8!

Digitized by C.oosLe
—185-

Wand in front of shoulders—raise!

2.	Turn trunk to the 1. and r. alternately and stretch arms upw-1,4! Wand—down!

•1. Stride pos. sidew. I. and raise wand forw. to a vertical pos., r. hand upw., 1. hand downw.-l ! Bend 1. knee, move wand sidew. upw. obi. to the 1., r. hand in front of 1. shoulder (r. forearm in line with wandJ—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1,8!

Stride pos. outw. and raise wand overh.—jump!

4. Bend trunk sidew. 1. and r. alternately in two counts (slowly)* arms remain in line' with the trunk. 6 or 8 times. Pos.—jump!

•”>. Bendkneestep forw. 1. and raise wand forw. 1. to a high diagonal pos. (1. arm forw., r. arm upw.)—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3,4!

In place—rest! Or some variety of gymnastic tactics (wand resting on shoulders). Pos.—stand!

Wand on shoulders—placed

C>. a) Bend trunk forw. and stretch arms forw. (arms in line with the trunk)—1 ! Pos.—2 !

b)	Bend trunk backw. and stretch arms upw. (arms in vert. pos. and wand in line above chin)—Pos.—2!

c)	a and b alternately—1, 4! Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower! 7. a) Lunge forw. 1., raise wand overh. and lower r. arm backw.

downw. obi. behind shoulders; 1. hand above 1. shoulder—1 ! Pos.—2 ! Same opposite—3, 4! b) Lunge sidew. 1., raise wand sidew r. to a high diagonal pos. (1. arm upw., r. arm sidew.)—1! Pos.—2 ! Same opposite—3, 4!

5.	a) Stationary run with raising lower legs alt. backw., wand raised

and held in various directions about six‘or eight counts each.

b)	As a, but raise extended legs forw., etc.

c)	As a, but raise knees forw., etc.

9.	Raise wand overh.—1! Lower behind hips—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat 10 to 12 times.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wand overh. in four counts; exhale and lower wand behind hips in one count. Inhale as before and wand overh. in four counts, then exhale and lower w'and forw. to starting pos. in one count. Repeat four to six times.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry! 1, 2!

Close ranks forw. and inw. as in Fig. I. The first rank r. face, all march forw. and turn r. face in successive order to a flank line and deposite wands.

High Horizontal Ladders (three or four).

CLASS FORMATION.—Three or four files standing opposite the center of the ladders, or if the space permits they are to stand parallel with and facing the same.

MARCHING ORDER.—The members leave the head of the files to approach the apparatus to stand in either front or rear cross-stand, according to exercises to be executed as stated below. Return by passing to rear of files, the latter moving one step in the direction of head of files with each succession.

In front cross-stand.—

Digitized by CaOOQLe
—180—

1.	Jump to straight arm hang, hands in outside grasp on beams and travel forw. to farther end with lower legs raised backw. Down.

In rear cross-stand.—

2.	As ex. 1, but travel backw. with knees raised forw. Down.

3.	As ex. 1, but inside grasp on beams, and travel forw. with both legs spread wide sidew. Down.

4.	As ex. 2, but inside grasp on beams and both legs spread wide sidew. Down.

* 5. As ex. 1, but with side swinging (legs extended and held together). Down.

6.	As ex. 2, backw. with side swinging (legs extended and held together). Down.

7.	As ex. 3, forw. with side swinging (legs extended and held together). Down.

8.	As ex. 4, backw. with side swinging (legs extended and held together). Down.

9.	As ex. 1, but move both hands forw. simultaneously and both legs spread sidew. Down.

10.	As ex. 9, backw.

Note.—When the preceding member has traveled half way the next /	member	may	follow	in	order	to save time.

Remove the ladders and take a similar formation for class work on the long horses (three or four).

Long Horses (three or four).

MARCHING ORDER.—The members leave the head of the files and approach the apparatus and return by passing (countering) along the respective files to the rear of the same, the latter moving one step forw. with each succession.

Note.—All movements to be executed 1. and r. whenever possible before taking up the next exercise.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Rear vault r. over croup.

2.	Rear vault r. over croup with Vi turn 1.; rear vault mount 1. (Vi turn r.) in saddle, hands in rear; rear vault dismount sidew. 1.

3.	Rear vault r. over saddle, (hands placed on saddle) with V4 turn 1. to front side stand; rear vault mount 1. on neck, place hands in front of thighs; raise both legs backw. to a front leaning rest; straddle dismount forw. to rear cross-stand.

4.	Squat rest on croup; extend forw. to momentary free front rest (hands on neck) and straddle dismount forw. with V4 turn 1.

5.	As ex. 4, but squat vault dismount forw.

(>. Leap to front leaning rest (hands on neck); straddle dismount forw. with V‘2 turn 1. to front cross-stand, hands return on neck to support half bent-knee pos.

7. Leap to momentary free front rest (hands on neck) and straddle vault forw. Repeat.

S.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Wrestling Circle.”

d

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-187-

Form circles of about eight members each. After conclusion of this game rearrange three or four files for a “Relay Race” (Indian club, a flag or some other object to be carried over the course). Three heats. Concluding with the second contest, reform to a front line, clap hands once and dismiss.

N. E. A. MEETING.

DEPARTMENT OF > PHYSICAL EDUCATION.—FIRST SESSION, [ULY 5.

President’s Address: The Importance of the School Yard for the Physical Well-Being of School Children.

By E. H. ARNOLD, Director New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics. New Haven, Conn.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION is a comparatively new branch in the curriculum of the public schools in this country. Like other innovations, its way has been bestrewn with a great many difficulties. One of the main ones has been the lack of sufficient space for carrying on physical training. This lack of space brought with it the necessity of adapting gymnastics to the smaller space and the unfavorable conditions of the school room. Through this adaptation there has been lost a great deal of the efficiency of physical training. This is small wonder if we consider that practically all the systems of physical training now in vogue have originated either in the gymnasium or on the play ground. Now, since we are gaining slowly suitable gymnasia in high and grammar schools we find that in the re-adaptation of gymnastics to these more favorable circumstances features of the original system of exercises, and which contributed largely to the efficiency of the exercise, do not reappear. They had been sacrificed to the necessity of exercising in the crowded school room and on re-entrance in the gymnasium they are usually sacrificed to convenience. This is why schoolroom g>m-nastics have been unsuccessful in a great many places, and why even with the provision of gymnasia they cannot always be made a success. All this has been wrought by lack of space, in the school building for physical training. Let us consider for a moment whether this has been an unavoidable process. The experience of other people with whom physical education at some one time has also been a new branch in the public school curriculum may serve us as a guide in this matter. Neither the school houses of Germany nor those of Sweden offered gymnasia to physical education when it was first introduced. Yet neither country has experienced the necessity of school room gymnastics. It is interesting to know how this necessity was circumvented. In most places where by ministerial edict physical education was made over night a compulsory branch of the public school curriculum, resource has been had to the school yard as the place most suitable to the conducting of physical education. And it is, in a great many places, finding themselves compelled to furnish physical training and who, for some reason or another, can not furnish the gymnasia, the rule to this day that gymnastics are done in the school yard, weather permitting, and if inclement weather prohibits their being done in the school yard, they are dropped from the schedule at such times rather than transplanted to the school room.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-188-

Why could not, and why can not, this same procedure be followed out in this country? A country as vast in extent as this, and as thinly populated as this, should certainly furnish ample opportunity for physical education in school yards of sufficient size. As a matter of fact, however, we find that in those places where physical training makes itself felt as a necessity this is not the case. The places where physical education is thought to be more urgently necessary than elsewhere are the large cities. In these we find that neither in the old school buildings is there room for a gymnasium, nor do there exist school yards of sufficient dimensions to allow their use for the successful conduct of physical education exercise. In the smaller towns and villages the necessity of physical training is not felt to be urgent. No provision in the school buildings is made for gymnasia and no one thinks of providing school yards of considerable size. The unoccupied lots within town or village, the outlying fields and meadows, offer such fine opportunities for physical training of the best kind, athletics, and games, that no one thinks that the school yard has any right of existence at all beyond serving to give access to the school building. The marvellous growth of cities in this country makes it highly probable that over night a place may take on such rapid growth that within the span of a very few years it has become a densly populated city wherein building grounds command high prices. If now in this newly erected large city the necessity for physical training in the public schools demonstrates itself one finds that there is not room in the school building for gymnastic exercises, and worst of all, that there is practically no school yard. It would seem, then, a wise policy to establish the rule: that in view of the possibility of growth of any city or town in this country it is necessary that with each school house to be erected there should .go a school yard of considerable size. If I could make this plea before school authorities and before the tax payers and could rest it simply on the grounds of gymnastic necessity, the chances of their lending a willing ear to it would be mighty small. It behooves me then to reinforce my argument bv additional reasons. The school yard is important for the physical well-being of the child from other standpoints than that of physical training. The most important matter of school sanitation—the matter of ventilation—cannot satisfactorily be solved unless we have a large school yard surrounding the school building. \o matter how perfect may be the ventilating contrivance of a modern school building, you must have good air to take in your fan, or whatever else it may be, to begin with. In a crowded district with a scant few yards dividing the school building from tenements, factories, etc., it is impossible to furnish the ventilating contrivance with good air. This is recognized by sanitary engineers and architects in the larger cities, for we hear and read of their placing in operation in connection with the ventilating plants of large office buildings, contrivances for the sifting out of dust. This having proven inefficient, they are now beginning to wash the air before using it in the ventilating outfits. Such contrivances are costly and a good many times unsatisfactory. It strikes me as much easier and much more economical to provide good air from a large school yard free of dust, exposed to the beneficial

Digitized by CjOOQle
-189-

action of the sun rays. Provision for the lighting of school rooms are unavailing and it amounts to little that the laws of some states provide for a minimum of window area for the floor area of the school room if the school house so well provided with windows stands so close to buildings higher than itself and who shade it on all sides practically continually. It is impossible now-a-days to restrict the height of buildings once we have gone to construct buildings of twenty stories and more for commercial and industrial purposes.

The attempt to do so would involve legislation of most complicated and in the end inefficient and unsatisfactory kind. It would seem then a much more rational performance to regulate by law the size of the school yard. There should be established definite proportions of school yards to the ground area of school buildings, to its height, and to the number of children in the school building. This would provide for efficient ventilation and for a plentiful source of light. It would also do away with one great difficulty schools in large cities have to contend with, namely, the street noises. Street noises penetrating into the school room are not onty disagreeable, but are positively deleterious to the health of the child. School life without any doubt makes necessary on the "part of the child great nervous effort even under the most favorable circumstances. Given a bright, willing child, a good teacher, good teaching facilities, we shall still find that the nervous strain to which the child is subjected at school is tremenduous. No unnecessary difficulty which would tend to increase this nervous strain should be added. One of these additional difficulties is the street noise. The child will have its attention diverted by these noises from the subject matter under consideration. It can no longer pay the attention or interest to the instruction, but as its attention or interest is engaged bv the unusual sound of a street noise, it must in order to follow the instruction pay the so-called willful attention. Willful attention is a power a child acquires late, a power which exhausts easily, and if the child must pay willful attention to the instruction and must in addition use its power of inhibition in order to prevent the street noises against which it cannot close its ear as it could its eye, against a sight which it was unwilling to behold, to reach the sense of consciousness, it is small wonder that the child will become nervous under such strain. The school is so often accused of destroying the nervous health of children that it cannot afford to have such a blame settled upon it without making some attempt of remedying the evil. Attempts of diminishing street noise by paving streets around school houses with a pavement which will diminish the rattling of wagons and cars and horses* hoofs have been made and are still being made. While the noises have thereby been diminished in number, others still exist which this remedy can never reach. The one efficient remedy in this respect is the greater distance from the street and the neighboring buildings—a large school yard. This will do away with a great many noises altogether and will reduce the intensity of all. If we have proven the necessity of a large school yard for other reasons than gymnastic considerations and have been granted a school yard of good dimensions, then it is my opinion that such school yard should be made use of in the first place

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
—190—

for purposes of physical training. A large well-kept lawn and magnificent flower beds in front of the school building may serve the purposes of aesthetic education admirably. They are, however, absolutely out of place if in order to have such aesthetic enjoyment the place where the child can play and room is reduced to such dimensions that play is no longer possible. We may then behold the peculiar spectacle of blooming flowers on the front lawn and withering children in the school building,	which spectacle would remove	to any feeling being	any

aesthetic	enjoyment of	lawn and flower	bed. The school yard	then

should in	the first place	be a play ground	for the children. If it	were

of the proportions indicated above, it would give a chance for the re-establishment of the old-time recess when all the school turned for play and recreation in the school yard at one time. This recess has been sacrificed to the necessities of discipline by small school yards which allow one class of children at one time only to enjoy its freedom. This freedom, however, is not unrestricted for it is on con-, dition under which one class may enjoy its separate recess, namely, that by its play it does not disturb the classes in session. This means play without shouting, natural activity without its natural form of expression—the	shout of joy	of playing children. Most consequential	and

logical beings we are, we school masters. On the one hand we strive to free the child from awkward forms of expressions of its feelings, we strive to give it powers of expression, we preach about expression, the desirability of it, and so forth, and so on, and when the child is given a chance to indulge in the most natural and the most important of its activities—play—we tell it that it must not express its feelings by the expression intimately connected with this activity. This is to say, the child is given no chance to play at all, for while it plays and the tendency to be noisy for the exhibition of which there was before no chance now crops out with renewed vigor, and while the child made no effort before to restrict the shout, there being no occasion for one, it now is induced to play, is led into the temptation of shouting, and must now make special effort to suppress it. We wish to free it from awkward consciousness by play and make it intensely conscious that it is playing and must not shout. This is what we call relief from mental strain and free play. This is what our deep knowledge of psychology brings us to do. A large spacious school yard will do away with all this. It will allow the re-establishment of the old time recess with all the children playing at one time in a school yard and shouting, that is really playing. In order to provide such spacious school yards, provision for their acquirement has to be made long before they may be actually used as school yards. Not only years but decades ahead must the sites for school yards and buildings be bought by the communities in the districts as yet outlying and unoccupied. Money so invested will come back with interest to any community that tries the scheme as is evidenced by the prices paid for school sites by communities that buy the land for school houses after the sections in which they are to stand have been settled. Economy then makes it necessary to buy a lot as small as possible. This can be avoided by foresight and prompt action of communities that this da) foresee a chance of rapid growth. School yards may not only serve the child and its
-191-

physical well-being during school hours, but the conviction that the use of the school house and its facilities during a part of the day, week and year only is ineconomical is fast gaining ground. School buildings and school yards are being opened outside of school time as natural centers for the play and other activities of the child. As play grounds outside of school hours they are certainly vastly superior on account of their greater number and of being of easy access to play grounds in parks. Two sets of children will be mainly benefited by such use of school yards as neighborhood play grounds. In the first place the small children who can easily walk the comparatively short distance to the school house while they could not reach the park play ground by walking without being, by the walk, so fatigued as to incapacitate them for play. To these smaller children the school yard will offer ample ground for play, for their play does not require as much space as the base ball and kindred games of larger children, which larger children may well walk to the play grounds in the park. In the second place, the children of the poor, to whom the larger, and of necessity remoter, parks are inaccessible, they not having the means of transportation, are the-bencficaries of school play grounds.

For all these reasons we should demand legislative action to compel communities to furnish school yards which can serve the above purposes. Communities compelled by law to furnish them would have to exercise foresight and acquire the sites in such goodly time that the purchase of school yards of proper dimensions would not unduly burden the community.

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

SECTION OF NORMAL SCHOOLS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

(Meeting held Tuesday, Apiil 18, 1905, at Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York.)

Chairman, G. H. Arnold, M. I).. Director New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

The following Normal Schools were represented:

Boston Normal School of Gymnastics.

Columbia University, Teacher’s College, Physical Training Course.

New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

New York Normal School of Gymnastics.

North American Gymnastic Union, Normal School at Milwaukee.

Posse Normal School of Gymnastics.

Sargent Normal School of Gymnastics.

Temple College, Philadelphia Normal School of Gymnastics.

The following qualifications were adopted as representing in the opinion of those assembled the minimum requirements for admission to a normal school of gymnastics:

A. Mental Qualifications.

1.	Graduation from a public high school having a four years’ graded course of instruction. The fact of such graduation is to be proven by submitting the original diploma and a certificate of standing in the studies of the senior year signed by the principal of the school issuing the diploma.

2.	The equivalent of a high school education. This equivalent is to be established by an examination conducted by the principal of a high school of above description.

Digitized by kjOOQle
. B. Physical Qualifications.

1.	Age: Men from twenty to thirty-five years; women from eighteen to forty years.

2.	Stature: Neither too £reat excess over, nor too great defficiency from the average height ot either sex is desirable.

3.	Health: Good health is a requirement. It is to be proven by a physician s examination such as is imposed by high class life insurance companies.

4.	Deformity or serious physical defect should not be present.

C.	Moral Qualifications:

Moral fitness for the calling of a teacher of physical education is to be established by the testimonials of at least two people of recognized standing in the community of the applicant. These must not be relatives of the candidate.

D.	Gymnastic Qualifications:

A fair gymnastic or athletic proficiency is necessary.

E.	Each candidate shall be subject to a probation of one month as a further

proof that he possesses all the above requirements. Neither candidate nor school is, during this probation, to assume any financial or other obligations to the other party.

A PRACTICAL BOOK FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATORS.*

One of the latest and most valuable publications on physical training from a scientific and medical point of view are undoubtedly the ten lectures on ten kindred subjects delivered by the well known author of „Unser Koerperu. Dr. Ferd. A. Schmidt of Bonn, Germany, at the special invitation of the Department of Physical Education, Worlds Fair, St. Louis, a year ago.

As not many, outside of the local profession, with sufficient mastery of the German language attended these highly interesting lectures, this publication certainly will be welcome.

This handy book, very tastfully gotten up and containing 32 illustrations, some of them new and original, is published by R. Voigt-lander, Leipsic, in the German language. It is warmly recommended to every person in the profession able to read and understand German.

In order to give an idea of the contents I give in translation the head lines of each lecture:

In an introduction he draws a comparison of the German and English school gymnastics which is very interesting.

1.	The physiological considerations of bodily exercise.

2.	The influence of physical exercise upon the bones and joints of the body.

3.	Influence of physical exercise upon the different muscles in their local aspect.

4.	The physiological processes in the muscular tissues initiated by the work of

the muscles, influenced through bodily exercise.

5.	The physiological training of the nervous system through physical exercise.

6.	The influence of physical exercise upon the respiration and lung development.

7.	The influence of physical exercise upon the heart and its function.

8.	The influence of physical exercise upon metabolism.

9.	The physiological value of different kinds of physical exercise.

10.	Relative requirements of physical exercise during the different periods of life.

A. E. Kindervater, St. Louis, Mo.

* Arrangements are under way to have Dr. Schmidt’s book translated into the English language.

Digitized by kjOOQle
fllUtUUiUUiUUUUU

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.a DIRECTOR.

/Offers

A Two Years' Course of Preparation for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

d Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

unnnnrnnrrrmrun

idrtb mm muffinm

NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS,

550-S6S BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, address GEORGE W1TTICH, Director.

Complete Volumes

*----—OF-------*

"91U &

75 Cents. Bd. $1.25.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis. TTTTTTTVTTTTTVTVTTTVTffTTV

if crcrsT ottti *r'

Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Steps

FOR THE

a^GYMNASIUM.^a

BY

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUNDGREN,

Formerly Physical Director of Kansas State Agricultural College and of the Young Women's Christian Association of Burlington, Iowa.

Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Education.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
PLAYGROUNDAPPARATUS

NEW CATALOG - JUST OUT!

WRITE FOR IT!

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO. -—si^GYMNASIUM OUTFITTERS'^-

PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A.

We want and recommend

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS,

Athletic Coaches, and Teacheis, for high-grade positions in all parts of the United States. We have filled vacancies in some ot the largest universities, colleges, secondary schools, etc., in the country, at salaries ranging from $800 to $2,000 a year. If you would accept promotion, we can help you.

No advance fee required. Free service to employers. Write us to-day.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, 111.

Jacob Willig

MANUFACTURER OF

Gymnasium, Athletic and Sporting Goods,

N. W. Washington St., CHICAGO, ILL.

Apparatus	of all Descriptions.	Equipping Gymnasiums a Specialty

Digitized by

Google