MIND AND BODY

Tol. 18.	FEBRUARY,	1912	No	206

-	Editorial	Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

DR. ROBERT FISCHER, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Etoonal communications are to be sent to WM. A. STF.CHfiR, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. AH business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

REPORT ON METHODS OF SCHOOL VENTILATION BY THE CHICAGO COMMISSION ON VENTILATION.*

In the publication called “Open-Air Crusaders,” information is given as to three' types of schools—open-air schools, cold-room schools and ordinary schools. It is well to bear in mind that these are three different types and that they are suited to three different types of children.

OPEN-AIR SCHOOLS.

The open-air school is expensive to maintain. It is unnecessary except for a small group of children. Its field is the clinically tuberculous children, the distinctly subnormal children from a tuberculous environment, and a certain small percentage of distinctly subnormal children from nom tuberculosis homes. It might be argued that children of this class are better off if they are not ini school at all. There is an occasional child of whom this is true, but it i9 not true of the great mass of children of this group. The years of school are immensely valuable from both a pedagogic and a physical standpoint. The child should have an education if it can be had without physical prejudice. But these children are very much better off in a physical sense in the proper physical environment of open-air schools, under the proper control of such schools, learning the lessons of right living,, than they would be at home; and, finally, the educational value of such schools to the family and to the neighborhood is to be taken into account. These are the things which make open-air schools worth while, even though the number of children taught in them is small. Open-air schools require extra clothing, extra food, sleeping or quiet rest periods, medical supervision and individual instruction. In such schools there is shielding against wind, snow and rain. Otherwise, the weather conditions are about as they are in the open. “Open-Air Crusaders” gives instructions in dressing and feeding the children in such schools.

COLD-ROOM SCHOOLS.

Cold-room schools are probably slightly more expensive to maintain than ordinary schools, but the difference is nominal. Their field is caring

* Bead In the Section on Preventive Medicine and Public Health of the American Medical Association, at the Sixty-Second Annual Session^ held at Los Angeles, June, 1911.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-418-

for a group of children who are more nearly normal than the group properly cared for in. open-air schools. In them there should be no children with open tuberculosis or in the contagious stage of any other infection. However, they should take care of the great majority of children who have subin'fections and latent infections, but which are not contagious. The field of cold-room schools includes the following groups of children:

Pale anemic children, flabby children, children with enlarged neck glands and tonsils, adenoids, children who are mouth-breathers, children with frequent headaches, all children who catch cold easily, children who contract contagion easily, and all children who fail to make grade.

This means that there should be a cold room in every school except iti the very congested parts of a great city where schools are very close together. In such places the cold-room children from three or four schools can be sent to one school and half or all of that school can be operated on the cold-room basis.

In cold-room schools the windows should be thrown wide open; a few screens for diverting the air can be used to advantage. The temperature of such rooms should be around 55 F. It should not go higher than 60 F. on days when artificial heating is maintained. It should not go lower than 50 F. Effort should be made to keep it at 55 F., as shown by thermometers so placed that they will show the temperature of the occupied part »f the rooms and not that of dead spaces or walls.

Children taught in such rooms do not need to have clothing or food furnished them. They are comfortable in street wraps and gloves, such as they get at home. The usual desk arrangement of ordinary class rooms is not adapted to cold school-rooms. The proper arrangement is one which lends itself to a good deal of moving around by the pupils. Such pupils need, say, 10 per cent, more than the usual amount of medical supervision. The service of the teacher is at least 10 per cent, more individual.

Only a few of the children who come to the cold-room schools would be better off if kept out of school. In the col'd-room school group belong most of the children who by reason of poor physical condition are now kept out of school for fractions of school years by their parents. Almost everyone of these children would be better off in such a school with its good hygiene, good control and educational opportunity than he would be in his home. And, in addition, the educational influence of such schools on the students, the families and the neighbors is magnificent.

For the authorities to furnish food and clothes in such schools is * mistake. Their great value lies in driving home the idea that this large group of children can be inexpensively cared for; that curative methods are right at hand; that they are inexpensive and that they may easily be applied. *

ORDINARY SCHOOLS.	v

But very much the most important group of children is that comprised of just the ordinary children who are taught in the ordinary schoolrooms. They are the most important because they constitute much the largest group. How can we get better ventilation for them? Air-borne infections are numerous in spite of the present tendency to doubt the existence of certain of them. We still have air-borne infections, especially when we include subinfections and latent infections. There are the air-caused conditions, such as frequent headaches, pallor, muscular flabbiness, enlarged

Digitized by CjOOQle
-419-

glands, tonsils and adenoids, and increased susceptibility to coMs and infections with the usually described contagions.

The agencies causing harm in air in the order of their importance are:

(i)	bacteria, (2) improper temperature, (3) low humidity, (4) lack of air movement, (5) dust, (6) carbon dioxid, (7) carbon monoxid, (8) other agencies.

The measures necessary to prevent harm being done by these agencies are as follows:

1.	Bacteria.—To exclude from the schoolroom all carriers of infection.

’A. All cases of typical, atypical and carriers of diphtheria and typhoid

fever.

B.	All cases of typical and atypical scarlet fever, measles and whoop-

ing-cough.

C.	All open cases of tuberculosis.

D.	All unvaccinated children.

E.	All children with colds.

F.	All special contagions under special circumstances.

2.	Temperature.—The temperature of the schoolroom should not go above 68 F. during the days when the rooms are artificially heated.

A.	There should be a thermometer in every schoolroom.

B.	It should be placed about 4 feet above the floor. It should be at-

tached to an inside wall in such a way that if is insulated therefrom.

C.	An hourly record of the schoolroom temperature should be a part

of the school routine. Such a record should go to the governing authority. If there is much difference between the temperature in different parts of the room this should be of record.

D. The temperature of the schoolroom should be 60 F. when the

students come in from play. It should reach 68 F. within twenty minutes after the children are in their seats. If at any time it goes above 72 F., the children should be dismissed from the room.

E.	When the children are at play the windows should be thrown wide

open and the room aired.

3.	Humiditiy.—The humidity of artificially heated rooms is always too low unless special humidifying provisions are made. Artificially dried air predisposes toward .infections by drying up the membranes of the respiratory passages. It especially predisposes toward subinfections and latent infections.

A.	The air of a schoolroom should have a relative humidity above 40

and as near 70 as possible.

B.	Window sweating and frosting softens the light in the room and

releases some heat. It is therefore an advantage rather than a disadvantage.

C.	Wall sweating does no harm except where it harms the wall; there-

fore .it may or may not be objectionable.

4.	Air Movement.—Air which is too still does harm because the air in the aerial envelope gets too hot and too foul. The same is true in a lesser measure of the air in the breathing zone. Such air being in« contact with the body or just from within it, is the hottest, foulest air in the room.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-420-

There is no comfort 'or well-being unless this air is displaced promptly. Appreciable currents are needed for its displacement. Where there is no air movement, the aerial envelope will overheat. The necessity, then, is for appreciable air currents. These are needed in cold weather, just as they are in warm weather. Diffusion currents do not suffice.

5.	Dust.—Dust does harm by assisting in infections, subinfections and latent infections. Schoolroom air is generally not very dirty. Measures for its betterment are as follows:

A.	Control of blackboard dust.

B.	Control of cleaning methods.

6.	Carbon Dioxid; 7, Carbon Monoxid; 8, Other Agencies.—These slightly .harmful agents are well cared for under the use of prevailing measures.

METHODS OF VENTILATING SCHOOLS.

There are few ventilating problems which are so difficult as those of the schoolroom. The children come from many sources. Therefore they bring in many varieties of bacterial life. The pupils while at work are inactive physically, therefore they generate but little heat and their feet get cold easily. They are fixed in their occupation of every part of the room. Those who are near the outside windows must stay there. Those who are near the inside wall must stay there. Therefore there is the maximum need for a uniformity of heat and air distribution. The pupils are highly susceptible to infection. Their bodies are highly impressionable. Here is a combination the difficulties of which are hard to duplicate.

The difficulties are almost wholly connected with the necessity for ’ heating. In warm weather ample air movement is had through open windows. On very dusty days wiping the desks with a moist cloth is easily done and removes the only objection to window ventilation. In cold weather, and especially in cold weather in a very severe climate, the difficulties appear.

If the school is heated by stoves the result will be disastrous unless special provision is made for fresh "air and its conditioning. The best outlet is through the fire itself. If it be argued that there is no ventilation of the upper 4 feet of air in such rooms, it can be answered that such unoccupied space does not need to be ventilated. But an arrangement providing for all the air outgo through the stove would furnish too much heat and at the same time be inelastic and sometimes inadequate. Suoplementarv outlets should be provided around the stovepipe, thus getting the benefit of the indirect draft at that point.

Where feasible some of the inlets should be through floor-ducts opening under the stove. Windows used as accessory inlets should have deflectors extending the width of the sash. The bottom of the deflector space, the window-sill and the window-sash should have an outward, downward slant to facilitate the removal of cinders and dirt and so that water may drain out. If the school is heated by steam or hot water, the air preferably should be heated by indirect radiators in the basement and introduced through flues. Where this is impracticable air m«av be introduced through direct radiators supplied from openings in the outside walls. Such radiators are called direct-indirect radiators, and in practice it has been found necessary to have enough plain direct radiators to heat each room

Digitized by L.ooQLe
—421-

in depen den tly of those used to warm the air-supply. Eduction flues must be provided and these should have both floor and ceiling openings, the latter for use in most effective ventilating and cooling; but these must be provided with closing devices and must generally be closed when heating the rooms. .

Where the rooms are heated and ventilated by a warm-air system, the inlets should be about 8 feet above the floor, and the outlets near the floor line on an inside wall. Such installations will not be satisfactory without some accessories for stirring the air. Electric fans, where there is an electric current, will convert a bad installation with a still, morgue-like air intd one which is satisfactory. No system which makes use of diffusion currents alone is satisfactory, even where 2,000 to 3,000 cubic feet of air per hour per occupant are furnished. When the temperature is kept down, the humidity kept up, and currents are always perceptible, the quantity of air supplied need not exceed 1,000 cubic feet per occupant per hour. In very exceptionable installations where there is little waste space and the air can be kept moving actively, as, for example, in street-cars, the Chicago ordinances require less than 500 cubic feet per hour per occupant. Where there is no electric current and fans cannot be used, we know of no way to create perceptible currents except through windows. Such openings must be covered by deflectors. The air which is to be heated should never be brought in. contact with iron hot enough to char the dust and make the air smell burnt.

TO INCREASE HUMIDITY.

Where heating is done by stoves, pans of water on the stove and in other places around the room help to increase the humidity. If the heating is done by steam radiation, buckets and pans can ibe hung on these, but the greatest good will come from allowing steam to escape into the room from the radiators. If the heating and ventilating is done by a hot-air system, jets of steam should play into the intake ducts.

The heat required for the evaporation of water to bring the relative humidity up will be compensated for by the lower temperatures which can be maintained in the schoolroom.

TO DECREASE DUST.

Blackboard dust may be kept down by using erasers which are very slightly moistened.

Floor dust may be obviated by (a) vacuum cleaning, (b) sweeping at proper times, (c) sprinkling or sawdust preliminary to sweeping, (d) moist dusting, (e) making the students wipe their feet.

SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS.

1.	Schoolrooms should not be heated to a point above 68 F.

2.	The thermometer should be located about 5 feet from the floor on an inside wall not closer than 6 feet to an air outlet.

3.	The thermometer should either be suspended, or so attached to the wall that it will record the temperature of air (and not that of. the wall).

4.	The temperature of the schoolroom should be 60 F. as the pupils enter the room after they have been taking exercise, and it should reach 68

F.	within twenty minutes. The temperature of the schoolroom should be recorded each hour and this record should be sent to the proper authority.

Digitized by

Google
-422-

5- The air in the room should he kept actively in motion. A sense of stillness is always to be avoided. Electric fans for this purpose are advised.

6.	During all recess periods the windows should be opened wide and the rooms “blown out.”

7.	The air inside should not be drier than that outside.

8.	The air inside should have 50 per cent, to 70 per cent, relative humidity and the outside walls should be built with air spaces or other insulation so as to make it possible to reach this humidity before wall-sweating begins.

9.	Window-sweating, so far from being a disadvantage, is a distinct advantage, in that it softens the light.

10.	Dust should be kept down, in the schoolroom by using blackboard erasers which are faintly moist; by vacuum-cleaning, or by opportune and proper sweeping.

11.	With proper wall insulation very little heat is required for a school room even on days of zero weather.

12.	All windows used for continuous air-supply should be provided with deflectors, preferably of glass, placed at their bottoms. These should extend the width of the sash and be so arranged as to deflect the air upward when the windows are open.

13.	In buildings equipped with ventilating system when the windows are raised to flush out the rooms, all rooms should be flushed simultaneously, in order to interfere as little as possible with the proper operation of the ventilating system.

14.	In climates where the air must be heated before it is discharged into the room the simplest procedure is to take this air in through indirect radiation.

15.	So far as we know, the best results are obtained by forcing the air through the indirect radiation by means of fans, delivering it upward in each room through a multiplicity of openings in the floor and removing it at the ceiling.

16.	Where fans are not used the inlet to the rooms is best placed near the ceiling, with a foul-air outlet at the floor for use when heating the room and a foul-air outlet at the ceiling for use when ventilating or cooling the room, the latter opening to have a device whereby it may be closed at will.

17.	The method of ventilation known as direct- indirect, in which the cold air enters through openings in the walls of each room and passes through radiators, is effective only when outside conditions are ideal and the use of this system except as a* makeshift is deprecated.

18.	Where schoolrooms are heated by stoves some of the air should be taken into the rooms through windows provided with deflectors. Some of it should enter through a duct in the floor and discharge around the stove.

19.	Where steam is available steam jets should be employed to humidify. Where steam is not available, pans of water on the radiators, kettles on the stove, containers filled with water or other moistening devices should be used around the room. These should be abundant. The usual small pan is not adequate.

20.	People with the following diseases, either through contact or infection of the air, are capable of doing harm and should be excluded from the room: small-pox, measles, scarlet fever, diphtheria, whooping-cough.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—423—

chicken-pox, poliomyelitis, cerebrospinal meningitis, influenza, cold9, coughs, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, trachoma, itch, lice, and some others of no consequence in Chicago.

21.	Where schools are ventilated by unsatisfactory methods great l'm^ provement can be effected if to them the following additions are made:

1.	If fans or other forms of agitators are installed.

2.	If humidifiers are installed.

3.	If the temperature is kept at 68 F. or below.

4.	If the windows are raised and the air blown out at least three times

a day.	/

22.	Open-air schools are schools for tuberculous or other definitely subnormal children. In them the temperature and humidity is that of the open air. The only change from the straight open air is that there is some shielding from the wind, rain and snow. The children in such schools require special food, special clothing and special rest hours.

23.	Cold-room schools are xthose in. which there is some shielding against cold, wind, rain and snow. The temperature should be 55 to 60 F. and the relative humddity around 70. Such rooms are for children who have enlarged glands, adenoids or are pale, anemic, headachy—in a phrase, children who are moderately below par. Such children wear their own wraps during school hours. They do not need school feeding or nourishment more than other children require. They do not need an hour for sleep.

The Chicago Commission on Ventilation:

W. A. Evans, M.S., M.D., LL.D.

F. O. Tonney, M.D.,

Chicago Department of Health.

Prof. J. W. Sheperd,

Chicago Board of Education.

George Mehring,

W. L. Bronaugh,

S. R. Lewis,

Illinois Chapter, American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers.

ONE OF PHILADELPHIA’S OPEN AIR SCHOOLS/

Type No. 1 by Grace E. Phelps.

The first Open Air School in Philadelphia was opened May 15th, 1911, at 433 Christian St. under the joint management of the Board of Education and the Henry Phipps Institute. The use of the roof, bathroom and two rooms 'to be used as dining rooms, had been generously given over to the project by the College Settlement.

As the space was limited the school was equipped with desks for but twenty children, nine of whom were on hand the first day. To protect us from the heat of the sun, the roof was covered with canvas, and khaki curtains which could be let down in case of rain were hung on the side. *

* In response to numerous requests for accurate information regarding Open Air Schools we present this report.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—424—

The children were selected under the direction of Mr. Alexander Wilson, sociological director of the Phipps Institute for the Study of Tuberculosis and Dr. Frank Craig physician in charge of the school. The method of selection differed in several instances, but in the majority of cases the children are those who have been themselves under the care of the Institute or whose parents have been* patients. None of the children are what is termed “open cases” of tuberculosis, but are for the most part anaemic, underfed, or predisposed to the disease owing to their environment, or contact with the disease in their homes.

The purpose of the school is two-fold. That of the Institute is to bring the children back to health by giving them plenty of fresh air and good, nourishing food, and at the same time not to let them lose their school work which would be the case if they were sent to hospitals!. That of the school authorities is to see whether with little more than half the regular school hours these children could accomplish approximately the same work as children in the ordinary schools.

The first object has of course been the more important one. From the physical standpoint the school has been a decided success. Dr. Craig says that from the beginning there has been marked improvement in the health of the children and it is his intention to hand the children back to their parents in a fit physical condition to successfully cope with the disease.

In order to facilitate this latter object the nurse, who is employed by the Institute, visits the homes of the children weekly. The necessity of rest, fresh air, wholesome food, cleanliness and regular living is emphasized and the parents are asked to co-operate with the nurse and to see that the child follows the instructions. In most cases the nurse has been able to carry on, or at least institute, a vigorous preventive crusade against the disease.

From the educational standpoint the results have been most gratifying. However, starting late in the school year as we did, and with children who, owing to ill health, had been absent from school for months, and in one case years previous, we were at first able to do little more than review work which had been, for the most part, forgotten.

During the summer the regular school work was dropped, and in its stead certain forms of playground work were taken up. With rug weaving, hammock making and similar occupations the summer passed quickly.

Toward the latter part of August the entire school, teacher, nurse and children, adjourned to a farm in Westtown, where after a two weeks’ vacation, school work was resumed. Lessons were carried on in a rather unique way. With camp chairs under their arm?, books and pencils in their hands the children had a movable school. In fine weather they ranged themselves in a circle in the shade of a big oak or maple. In'wet weather the barn floor made an excellent schoolroom. Sometimes chairs were dispensed with altogether and armed with a microscope the children were taken out on. exploring trips through the fields and woods, learning more about nature by a few observations of their own than they would have learned in a hundred stereotyped lessons on the subject.

To many of the children the country was a novelty, and it was amazing to see how quicklv they understood the various activities of the farm, and were able to talk intelligently about the corn and the potatoes, the cows

Digitized by CjOOQle
-425-

and tire chickens, Marry of their former reading lessons about the country, which had been just so much Greek to them before, now became clear.

A little conception, of the vastness of the universe, which would have been impossible for them to realize in the crowded alleys from which they came, was given the children by a little study of the stars. One clear evening they were permitted to stay up later than usual, and with an. opera glass, try to find some of the more prominent constellations. For several days previous they had been told some of the myths connected with the stars and great was the delight of the children when they discovered the Big Dip^ per, the Dady-in-the-Chair, the Dragon, and many others whose stories they already knew.

Late in September, with rosy cheeks and alert minds the children were brought Iback to Philadelphia. Here more formal school work was begun, and a more complete program, similar to that used in the spring was outlined.

According to this program the children arrive at school at 8:30. Temperature, pulse and respiration are taken by the nurse, bread and milk is served, and at 9:15 school begins. To show how the work is divided the

P. M.

MONDAY and WEDNESDAY.

.3.00—3.80 Drawing.

8.30—4.00 Reading.

3.30—	3.45 Third grades.

3.45—4.00 Fourth grades.

TUESDAY, THURSDAY and FRIDAY

3 00-3.15 Spelling.

3.15—3.45 Reading.

3.15—3.30 Fourth grades.

3.30—	3.45 Third grades. 3.45—4.00 Fourth grade. History.

No formal instruction in language is given owing in. the first place to lack of time and in the second place to the firm belief of the teacher that correct speech can be taught by example better than by precept. No one is permitted to speak ungrammatically, and even the children take it upon themselves to correct one another at all times.

At 11:30 the children go to the bathroom to “wash up” for dinner. A small tooth brush and cup and a nibber lined bag containing comb, brush* and towel are presented to each child on entering the school, and their regular use is insisted upon by the nurse. While part of the class is attending' to this important duty a detail of children is arranging the steamer chairs on the roof to be ready for the rest hours.

At twelve o’clock dinner is served by the inaid. The dinner consists of soup, meat, vegetables and a dessert, all of which are partaken of at first sparingly, owing to lack of appetite and unfamiliarity with the food, but later heartily.

The children brush their teeth immediately after dinner, and from one o’clock until three they stretch out on their chairs and sleep or rest quietly. One hour of school work follows, and at four o*clock the temper-

detailed program is here given.

A. M.

9.15—9.30 Opening exercises. 9.30—10.15 Arithmetic.

9.30-	9.40 First Grade. 9.40—9.50 Second Grade. 9.50—10.00 Third Grades. 10.00—10.15 Fourth Grades.

10.15—10.30 Recess.

10.30—11.00 Reading.

10.30—	10.45 First Grade. 10.45—11.00 Second Grade.

11.00—11.30 Geography.

J 1.00-11.15 Third Grades. 11.15-11.30 Fourth Grades.

Digitized by UooQle
-426-

atures are taken and bread and milk served. At five o’clock the children are dismissed for the day. ^

At first school was in session all day Saturday as it was during the week, hut later it was found advisable to dismiss the children at one o’clock instead of keeping them all day.

Variety is given, to our Saturday program by games, stories and manual work similar to that done in the summer playgrounds. The children are permitted to take home various small articles of their own make which makes the Saturday work doubly attractive.

It will be seen from the program that the time alotted to each class is very small. When the school was opened the children ranged in age from six to fifteen years, and from the first to the fourth grades. As the grades are divided into two divisions each there were eight divisions in- all.

It was plainly to be seen that if justice were to be done to the children the v number of classes must be decreased. Accordingly it was decided that hereafter only children of the third and fourth grades should be admitted. The second grade has since been eliminated by promotion and a fifth grade added. At present the school consists of five divisions.

A second drawback to the welfare of the bright or normal children who are usually given too little consideration on the grounds that they didn’t need it, was found in the presence in the school of a number of backward children. A class advances only as far as its slowest member can, go, and it does not seem fair that bright pupils should be held back for dull ones. This does not mean that dull children should receive no attention,— on the contrary, they should receive a great deal, but it should not be in conjunction with other children.

By examination with the Binet Tests of Intelligence which aim to determine the child’s mental capacity without much regard to his educational training, four children were found to be mentally deficient and three to be one or two years below the standard. These tests were afterwards) verified by Dr. Lightner Witmer, head of the Psychological Department of the University of Pennsylvania who very kindly placed his clinic at our disposal.

In view of this fact it was decided to dismiss these children as soon as their health would permit, and to admit none who fell more than a year below the normal standard.

Despite these drawbacks the progress of the school has been, very good. There seems to be a certain incentive to work and a quickening of the ambitions of all the children who come to the Open Air School which is sadly lacking in many schools. Quite frequently the children have become as excited over the solution of an arithmetic problem as they would be over a game of ball. Drills and frequent repetitions do not seem to be necessary, and in consequence the work can be done much faster and more correctly.

One of the most important problems which the school had to face was how to keep the children warm during the cold weather. Before the first cold wave the Institute had provided the children with felt boots and trousers made of a heavy blanket~m*aterial which were to be drawn over their other clothing. Most of the children were already supplied with warm undewear, coats and sweaters, but where the need arose, application to one of the charity bureaus was made, and the necessary clothing provided. Heavy woolen blankets to be used during rest hours completed the outfit.

Digitized by LiOOQle
-427-

It is quite probable, however, that much of our time during the winter months will be taken up by games and exercises to keep us warm, and it is probable also that we shall have to mark time in consequence as regards our school work. But, owing to the fact that all the classes are very much in advance of their required work, we can easily allow for three or four months of severe weather and still maintain the regular standard.

Whether the results achieved have been due more to the fresh air, the nourishing food, the hours of rest, the expert medical attendance or to the individual attention, which the children receive, it is not possible to state. But it is certainly true that all these things have been very important factors.

VENTILATION AND THE BODY’S AIR ENVELOPE.

The recent address before the Heating and Ventilating Engineers’ Society, of Dr. Luther H. Gulick, director of the Department of Child Hygiene of the Bussell Sage Foundation, on the subject of ventilation, has aroused so much discussion in engineering circles that, at the request of the Heating and Ventilating Magazine, he has put into concrete form that portion of his remarks which dwelt on the matter of the "air envolope” about the body.

"Our feelings/’ said Dr. Gulick, "are predominately related to so-called mass sensations, the sensations of the body. They do not come from the organs or from the bones, but from the skin. The skin is the physical boundary of the personality. In rooms where the air, even though good, is stationary, the blood-vessels of the skin are dilated and thus the skin is flushed with blood. But the skin should not be so flushed with blood at a time when the brain must be flushed with blood in order to do its work.

"If the air in a room is stationary, that part of the air which comes closest to the body becomes enmeshed in the underwear and so becomes damp and warm. In the endeavor to reduce the temperature the skin starts up a gentle perspiration (because evaporation reduces heat) and the body is enveloped in a warm, moist atmosphere which produces useless perspiration, the air next the body being already saturated. This nigh temperature and excess moisture cause great restlessness. It is not because school children are overworked mentally, but because the material conditions are such as to demand the preponderance of blood circulation in the peripheral parts of the body, that children are restless in school.

"How open all the windows in the schoolroom, and if you have a plenum system and do not want to throw the janitors into paroxysms, open all the windows of the building at once and lower the temperature as much as possible in five minutes. During those five minutes have the children take vigorous gymnastics or let them walk up and down so fast that they will not catch cold. Then we get the effect of cold impinging against the skin. The layer of damp, moist air has been swept away from the body, and a cooler layer has taken its place and driven the blood from the surface and it is available again for the brain.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
-428-

This all shows that there are other features in ventilation that are just as important as the purity of the air.”

In another part of his address he said:

“Oxygen is not nearly so important as has been generally supposed.

* There is an apparatus in the back of the human brain which controls respiration, that when such a variation of oxygen occurs, even in the worst-ventilated room, the amount of oxygen used by the individual does not van’ at all, so far as is shown by the most accurate experiments it has been possible to make. If there is 18 per cent of oxygen in the air, you extract from it just as much as if there were 21 per cent, which is the normal amount. You are forced to breathe faster. If, by artificial means, the amount of oxygen is made to fall below 15 per cent, this regulating apparatus which makes you breathe faster when there is less oxygen in the air is not inadequate to overcome the obstacle/*

CAMP BRUMBAUGH.*

By ERNEST W. SIPPLE,

Northeast Manual Training High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

Cosily nestled between the beautiful wooded hills of Bucks County and the broad, picturesque Delaware Kiver, on a fertile flood plain* levelled by Nature for an ideal camp ground, lay Camp Brumbaugh. This Girls* camp established by the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia, was planned to give sixty girls a real camping experience at a nominal cost, the Association providing an ideal equipment of tents* cots and athletic materials. The personnel of the camp consisted of a director, who in conjunction with his wife, were responsible for the organization'and development of the plan; three senior and five junior councilors.

In order that the advantages of this camping experience might be brought within the reach of the working and poorer girls, the Association fixed the charge per week at $4.00 which amount but little more than paid for cost and preparation of the food consumed.

To this fixed charge must be added the cost of transportation from Philadelphia to Bvram N. J. and return, which amounted to two dollars. As the average stay of a child was between two and three weeks the gross cost to the child was approximately $5.00 per week.

Looking back upon the season just closed we feel that it has been demonstrated beyond a question that camping for girls is as feasible as camping for boys.

The heart of the child-lover would have warmed, indeed, upon beholding sixty girls, buoyant, free and happy, clad in simple and comfortable costume of “middies,” bloomers and “sneaks,” ready for any outlet for pent-up energy which characterizes normal childhood.

Perhaps the girl's camp life can best be pictured by outlining a typical program of her week’s activities. We must, however, under-

* The second camp of the Playground Association, Camp Stecherr was situated one and a half miles farther upstream.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
—429-

stand that no two weeks were alike; innovations were of almost daily occurrence, and some new pleasure in the way of a surprise was sure to greet the girl on the morrow.

The morning songs of countless birds are the first sounds that call the youthful camper from dreamland. Long before the bird-songs cease, the great gong sounds noisily and the sixty girls are soon making ready for another happy day. Dress, snatch soap, towel and basin; then away to canal or river to enjoy a real camper’s wash.

Before some are ready for it, the gong again sounds; it is now 7.15' o’clock and time to assemble on the large campus for wand-drill. Watch the graceful movements, the precision of military drill and ’tis over only too soon for the spectator—ten minutes is the time allowed. Two days each week a ten-minute run along the tow-path is substituted for the wand-drill, generally when the morning is cool or other conditions warrant the change.

Wand Exercises before Breakfast.

The call to breakfast is answered with alacrity and the 7.30 gong # has hardly ceased to sound before the large dining-room in the old farmhouse is completely filled. Healthy and vigorous appetites accompany the outdoor life at Camp Brumbaugh. At the table, the large family is a lively one and all enjoy the spirited conversation and jests of active, youthful minds. A short half hour finds appetites satisfied and breakfast is over.

Now to the tents, and if the day is bright the young housekeepers pull their cots and bed-clothes out of the tents into the bright sunlight to receive a good sun-bath. This leaves the tents comparatively clear and easy to sweep and put in order. How this part of camp-life was enjoyed! It was a real pleasure to have a clean and orderly tent and

Digitized by ^ooQle
win the commendation of the directress upon her round of tent inspection at 8.30 o’clock.

. Now begin the morning activities. They are so numerous and varied that it is impossible to picture the many interests, which engage the different individuals. Tennis and rowing were perhaps most popular. Then there was captain ball and track work, with the fascinating interest of competitive play. Four events were arranged by the Association; profficiency in all of which was recognized by the awarding of a beautiful bronze button. These tests were difficult and we were delighted that fourteen buttons were given to fourteen happy girls.

While these various activities are occupying many in camp, one of our senior councilors each morning conducted a tramp, leading a score or more of girls through the pleasant mountain paths of a most picturesque locality. At intervals a specially planned tramp for a seclected few was taken. The distance covered varied from ten to twenty miles. In these long tramps, however, the girls chosen had been carefully trained in previous shorter walks. One day each week an all day picnic was participated in by everyone, the objective point being some spot chosen for its beautiful site and where a good spring was accessible.

While many are athletically engaged and others are tramping over the hills, there are still others, who prefer something less strenuous and are pleased to remain within their tents or in the shade of the huge trees in hammocks, writing letters, reading, embroidering or planning

Picnic Group. Resting from a Tramp.

Digitized by

Google
-431-

Hushed and happy, likewise hungry are the girls as they flock in to dinner at 12.30 o'clock. After dinner everyone enjoys the rest period* until 1.30 o'clock, when tennis and similar games occupy those carihg to participate until the gong calls all to swimming at 3.00 o'clock.

Promptly on the hour all assemble on the campus for the dry land swimming lesson, and even though proficient in the art, every girl is required to go through the exercise. Only a few minutes are thus consumed, the object being to teach beginners the stroke and to correct and perfect the stroke of those already knowing how to swim. The success in teaching swimming was remarkable. Eighty-eight girls learn-, ed to swim well. In an endurance test one afternoon, six girls swam a distance of one and three-eighths miles. The swimming period was twenty minutes. There were generally two sections; one, the swimmer's section in the canal and the other, the non-swimmer's section in the swimming pool in the river.

Just as soon as the girl learns the stroke and swims fairly well, she

The Swimming1 Pool in the Hirer where the Girls were tanglit.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-432-

is taught to jump from the bank into the deep water, thereby entirely overcoming her fear of the water. Very soon this jumping became one •of the greatest pleasures of the swimming period and the girls frequently gained special permission to jump from the bridge into the canal—a height of ten or twelve feet.

After the swimming hour, basket and captain ball engages a coterie of devotees until the gong sounds the supper hour at half-past 5 o’clock. After supper until dark, basket-ball holds the center of the field of action. One day at least each week we see a spirited contest between the “permanents” and “transients” and even the councilors are occasionally challenged by the winning team. These games invariably drew many visitors from the neighboring village.

Now darkness makes a different program necessary. The great lights of the camp dispel the gloom and groups of girls pass here and there chatting. About eight o’clock the camp fire is lighted; then the real enjoyment of a summer evening begins. Stories and songs, marshmallow toasts, popping corn and eating peanuts are on the informal program; but to understand the real enjoyment one must be at the fire-side. In the midst of some interesting story the evening mail arrives. What a rush and crowding about the director’s tent and oh, the happiness if your name is called and you are the recipient of a letter from home!

Some nights the camp fire gives place to an evening in the large dining-room. The tables and benches are removed and music soon calls many to the dance; or, again, special music finds expression in graceful folk dancing.

Towards the latter part of each week various talents of our large family, modestly hidden at first, come to our notice. She may be a musician, or perhaps an elocutionist, or even in several cases, a fancy dancer. The program is hurriedly made up and our various talents put to use—and the more quickly this is done, the more enjoyment it gives. We never allowed the entertainments to interfere with the games or other athletic routine of the day. Several Friday evenings during the summer a real, live miustrel show gave a merry time to all; or perhaps a wild animal show is the order, and curious, wild beasts of all descriptions are socn secured in the form of talented imitators in the camp.

The directress is a trained nurse and, owing to this fact, the many ailments of the large camp were prescribed for and checked before any serious illness develops. During the entire summer.not one serious accident occurred, and the general health was excellent. The councilors occupy tents with the younger children and take mother’s place by manifesting a sympathetic interest in the child thus dispelling all traces of home-sickness.

Perhaps the most pleasant memories of camp are associated with that glorious camp-fire, singing heart-songs and forming sweetest friendships. Wien the cup of happiness is completely full and both mind and body need rest, the nine-thirty Bell to retire, rings, and now, singing one last song, the lanterns, like fire-flies, are seen moving to the twenty scattered tents, and soon sixty happy girls roll up in those

Digitized by
-433-

welcome blankets, receive cheery good-nights fijom their companions and a final good-night visit from the directress and councilors; and then the lanterns of man are taken away, but not so those other lanterns, which the Master of us all has caused to fill the heavens. Now the girl, a real camper, looks from her cot into the myriads of twinkling stars filling the vast vault above her, and unconsciously drifts into dreamland .

Breaking1 Camp. The Final Farewell.

—Care of the complexion. Don’t bathe in hard water; soften it with a little.powdered borax or a handful of oatmeal.

Don’t attempt to remove dust with cold water;' give the face a hot bath with soap; then give it a thorough rinsing with clear tepid water or cold water.

Don’t tub the face with too coarse a towel.

Don’t be afraid of sunshine and fresh air; they give bloom and color.

Don’t forget that the nurses of beauty are seven: Fresh air, sunshine, warmth, rest, sleep, food and whatever stirs the blood, be it exercise or enthusiasm.

Don’t neglect sleep; you can even sleep yourself good-looking.—Fresh Air Magazine.

Digitized by C.OOQle
-434-

THOSE LITTLE POSTURAL DEFECTS/

By F. 0. E. SCHNEIDEB* M. D.

Physical Directpr, Muegge Institute, St. Louis, Mo.

A sound mind in a sound body is a good maxim, but everyone does not inherit a sound mind or a sound body or both. We find very few individuals that are absolutely healthy. Some of us inherit certain, physical defects, others acquire them through bodily abuse, through faulty habits, through improper nourishment, faulty modes of living, etc.

The body is built and operates according to definite laws; and discord of the normal physiology can be traced to 9ome disobedience of these laws. Many of the postural defects though thought little of at first, have through negligence and improper care gradually developed into gross deformities or disease. It is impossible to talk too strongly against faulty attitudes. Did you ever 'hear someone tell a child to stand and sit erect? Probably you said* it to many a child or for-that matter to an adult. '‘Straighten upr are the words often heard by the child. He will do this; yet it is only an instant before he fe back in the same faulty attitude. Not a few of the afflicted have not succeeded after persistently attempting to do their best. It is a physical impossibility for them to retain a correct posture.

Did it ever occur to you to find the cause of this ? Some will say the , child will outgrow it. Now let me state right here, if left alone he will not outgrow it. As the child grows older and approaches puberty, that critical change from childhood to youqig manhood or womanhood, the entire system undergoes a readjustment, and many defects have a tendency to come to the surface. It is most frequently at this time, and during the following years of adolescence, that a common and well-known affection developes.

Now let us go to the bottom of most all anatomical and physical defects and ailments, i. e., the spine. The spine is the chief support of the body, and when anything is out of order with it the whole physical organism is affected. When the spine weakens the shoulders become stooped, the chest contracted and all the vital organs drop below their normal position in the body. Then all sorts of complications set in. Take for example a posture noticed on the average person known as round shoulders or stoop shoulders. This position's commonly attributed to laziness, which is a mistaken idea. Probably a few cases are due simply to laziness and indifference, and a few others may be from carelessness. But there is a class, and this is by far the largest, in which round shoulders is a real weakness of the body. And the weakness is not primarily in the shoulders, as nearly everyone thinks. The stoop is the result (an effect) of the weakness.

Its origin will be found at and just below the waist line, in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions of the spine. Here will be found a backward tendency of the spine, a posterior curve, instead of the graceful inward curve at the waist line. This is the real, the original cause of the major portion of round shoulders.

This backward curve of the spine, instead of the forward curve at the waist line, as it should normally be, takes away the “brace” or truss if you will, of the spinal column, that Is so essential in maintaining an erect posture

* Bead at a meeting of the teachers of physical training of St.

Louis, Mo.

Digitized by CjOOQ
-435—

of the shoulders. It allows the persom to “double up” squeezing the contents of the abdomen at the waist line, and to drop the shoulders, flatten the chest and depress the lungs. The back is one continuous backward bow. When the individual does try to sit straight it is with a constant effort; the normal physiological curves of the spine are not apparent. (In other words it is impossible for him to sit upright.)

First then, there is a spinal weakness in the region of the nerve supply to the digestive organs; indigestion of various forms is a common accompaniment. The stomach being cramped and crowded down cannot digest the food ,properly. The liver cannot -wholly eliminate the bile and poisonous matter from the blood, aijd the system is thus made ready to receive and retain deadly disease gjrms. The natural action of the intestines is interfered with and the body is filled with impurities. The kidneys cannot thoroughly do their filtering work and this adds so much more to the process of destruction.

Second, the flattened chest lessens lung and heart capacity. The upper ribs are depressed, shutting off freedom of circulation to these parts. The lungs cannot expand sufficiently to take in enough oxygen to vitalize the blood, and the heart cannot, keep it properly circulating. It is an actual fact that many cases of consumption and other dangerous ailments can be traced directly to spinal trouble. The round shoulders are of course the most noticeable, and still the least serious.

Is it a wonder that a child’s blood (or adult’s either) is apt to be impoverished? Primal causes of anemia are poor digestion and insufficient aeration of the blood.

What, then, should be done in order to correct what the average person calls round shoulders?

From careful observation and study of these cases, it is evident that the treatment resolves itself into the treatment of a posterior spinal curvature. Shoulder braces, steel braces and jackets and casts have very little, if any, place in these cases; but there may be diseased bone of such severity and character that the cast becomes necessary; such cases do not come within the scope of this paper.

The treatment should be proper exercises of a character that would strengthen the back muscles; exercises that will bring about the normal curves of the spine; exercises that will make and keep the spinal column flexible. The individual’ must be conscious of the work required of him and act in harmony with his tutor. The individual’s part is, in a way, as necessary as the work of ^'he physical trainer or the physician. Usually, when the person arrives at an age where pride of physique and gallantry enter as life factors, some individuals soon overcome the postural weaknesses. With others, only correct persistent physical training under a competent instructor will readjust the defect. It is a matter of record, that moderate exercise followed regularly and in a systematic manner brings about better and more general results than can be obtained in any other way.

Some day we will look for the anatomical defects and weak points which are inherited and thus correct and strengthen them, thereby curing the so-called inherited tendencies for certain diseases that run in the family.

Strengthen your physique by getting rid of your physical ailments and the chances are that you can plunge into life with renewed vigor and activity.

Digitized by v^ooQie
-436-

TRACK AND FIELD WORK FOR THE GYMNASIUM.

Bjr Carl H. Heckrich, St. Louis, Mo*

Tn the following I shall endeavor to show how to make use of the so-called natural forms of movement (Volksturnen,) also to show which forms are suitable for different age and sex classes, and for different places, i. e. gymnasiums, fields, etc.

Most, if not all, of the wcrk of the field and playground can be practiced in the gymnasium in a modified form. We must, however, return to the older methods and make use of these to help reawaken an interest in the gymnastic work of our societies. A little thought will show the way. The indoor work is preparatory to the outdoor, that of the lower classes to that of the upper, each developing naturally.

I shall take up the work coming under the head of Track and Field work (Yolksturnen) first, and present it as I think it suitable for the different classes of the gymnasium. I shall probably insert some work which iny fellow teachers may think does not properly come under this head. This may be so, but these exercises lead to the track and field work, and should, therefore, be used as preliminaries.

For a very large school, I like an arrangement of six classes for boys from 6 to 18 years of age, and of four classes for the girls from 6 to 17 years, subdivided as follows:

Boys Class Years	1  6-8	2  8-10	3  10-12	4  12-14
Girls Class Years	1  6-9	2  9-12	3  12-15	4  15-17

, 6 16—18

With this arrangement the boys of 6 to 8 and the girls of 6 to. 9 exercise in one class and take practically the same work. After that the classes are taught separately and the work for boys and girls differs.

In ^his paper the work suggested will be based on classes arranged as follows:

Boys from 6 to 18 years in four classes, girls from 6 to 16 years in three classes.

Boys	Class  Years	1  6-9	2  9—12	3  12-15
Girls	Class  Years	1  6—9'	2  9-12	3  1*-1G

For smaller societies it is wise to divide the boys in three classes, and the girls in two classes, as follows:

Bovs Class 12	3

Years 6-10	10-14	14-18

Girls Class	1	2

Years 6—10 or 11	10	or	11—14 or 15

Unless a school is very small it is best to have the classes so divided that the boys and girls in one class are as nearly of one age as possible. Their ability is more nearly the same and the work can be made much

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-437-

mare interesting for them. The teacher may feel that' he has more work because of more classes, hut on the other hand, it will be easier for him, as he can give the same work to a whole class instead of different work to several divisions. It is also more attractive for the children to work with those of their own age, especially to the older pupils. The younger ones are better off when among themselves. They are sometimes afraid of the older, and when not afraid are apt to overexert themselves by trying work of the older and better-prepared pupils. Boys of 14—18 and girls of 14—17 years are also rilore apt to remain in our classes if they are so arranged; and these are the years when wo lose so many of them. Even though the classes are a little small at first this subdivision is worth trying. The teacher will be agreeably surprised to find how much closer he will get to his pupils.

In a very small society this will, of course, not be possible. Here the teacher must do more individual work and be constantly on his guard to avoid over-working the smaller children.

FIRST CLASS.

(Boys 6 to 8 and girls 6 to 9 years of age.)

: •

A short rim (IJauerlauf) as an introduction to the lesson. The first lesson in correct stepping might properly be given here.

The Standing Broad Jump. This may be practiced without any especial preparation. It may be taken during or after the free exercises. T$e children jump over chalk marks on the floor at will or on command. In case they are asked to jump over sticks placed on the floor care should be taken to have the children stand close to the apparatus so there is no chance of landing upon them and falling.

^ Running Broad Jump, with spring board. The pupils should be taught how to run for a take off (Absprung,) how to raise and use their arms, and how to land (Niedersprung.)

Running and Stepping or skipping from board to board. Three or more low spring boards are placed in a line. The pupils run and jump, or step from one board to the next. I think this is a good preparation for the step in the Hop, Step and Jump (Drei-sprung.)

Running and Stepping from a spring board onto a broad-based box, 12 to 15 inches high, and then from*this to the mat. The box should be placed a foot or two from the board and the mat the same distance from, the box. This is a good method to teach the pupils to step or jump upward without breaking their step and so leads to the High Jump!

Running High Jump, with a spring board. The rod or rope should be placed vcty low. Pupils usually have more trouble with the high than all other forms of jumping. Show them how to take off, how to use their arms, raise their knees, and how to land.

Short Climb on Poles. Teaching pupils the proper climbing position is most important. Let them climb short distances, using the poles in preference to the ropes (unless these are fastened at the bottom.) The little ones climb much easier on the poles, the ropes seem much harder lor them. After they learn the proper way and gain strength they will climb often and of their own accord.

Digitized by CjOOQle
■438

' Peep Jumping, or Far-Deep, from benches or boxes, or best of all, if platforms have been provided, from the vertical ladder. Do not let pupils jump from the ladders without the platforms. Teach carefully how to stand with toes slightly over the edge so as not to slip back when jumping. Caution them again about landing, and be careful not to overdo in the matter of depth. Some of the youngsters will jump from the top if permitted.

Throwing the Bean Bag, with one or both hands, by swinging. Throw for distance, or if the space is limited, throw at a mark or into a box. The bag should weigh about a pound or a pound and a half.

"Races over short distances. If there is a wall free from apparatus or low windows, arrange to run from a mark to the wall. If this distance is too short, touch the wall and run back again. If no free wall is to he had, let children run toward apparatus so placed that they run around the same and back. The uprights ior the horizontal bars, benches and horses are preferable for this purpose as the runners' can get a hold of the same and help themselves around. If this cannot be arranged place jumping stands (hooks and pegs out,'I boxes or even clubs or: the floor around which they must run. The last arrangement makes the run more difficult, for the children must slow up to run around and then get a new start.

Some teachers might object to the running at a wall, thinking of possible injuries. We have had hut very few bumps caused that way and I have heard of no serious accidents. There is a little more danger, however, when the finish is at a wall. This can be avoided by having a chalk mark some distance from the wall for the finish; this will permit pupils to slow up before reaching the wall. New pupils usually are timid and will not run at a wall at full speed, they slow up before getting there, some almost stopping. By the time they feel safe enough to run mst they will have learned to manage themselves without incurring danger. Jf the distance from wall to wall is very short have the races in a circle or an oval. Place benches, horses or jumping stands in a square or oblong and Jet pupils run around them. Starting one at each corner, all will run in the same direction.

All of the work in these classes should be preparatory, and much time must he spent in teaching how (method) so that pupils will be able to do future work properly.

Make use of the spring boards and mats in all of the jumping of these classes, excepting in the standing broad jump. These little children usually have trouble in finding a take-off (Absprungsort) from a flat surface, either in the form of a mark or from a rubber mat. The mats must be placed far euough from a wall so that the pupils run no chance of hurting themselves should they fall after jumping. Where the mat slides, as it often does, have the last two members of a division hold it until the first two have had their turn, when they change and these others take up their places in line again for their turn.

Above nil, over-exertion must be avoided. Records cannot and should not be made here and the pupils should not be taught to think of them. Teach the proper method and the records will come at the proper time and in the proper class.

Digitized by
—439-

SECOND CLASS.

(Bovs 8 to 10 and girls 9 to 12 years of age.)

The work of the boys and girls of these, classes differs but little from that of the first, practically the same work is repeated. If they have been properly started in the first class they will now be able to make a little more effort, ran. a little longer, jump farther, higher and deeper, climb faster, possibly a little higher and throw a little farther.

It is wise now to begin to make marks on the floor for the broad jumping so the pupils can see how far they, jump. They like to see how far they are able to jump. You will find that all classes get better results in jumping if the mats are placed quite near at the beginning and gradually moved away; stick to this plan for the indoor work. The plan of having the mats so placed that each pupil can jump as far as he wishes does not work nearly as well; the better pupils jump no further and the'weaker ones not as far, neither does the occasional lazy one.

The following is not track and field work, but don’t forget to let the boys turn an occasional somersault, cartweel, or hand-spring after the jumping: they will like it; even the girls will gladly do the first. /

A Short Run, which comes in all classes (longer time being given as they get older) should never be forgotten.x

The Standing Broad Jump should be practised as indicated in the first class, also after a lesson with long or short wands.

The Running Broad Jump should be practised.

Running and Stepping or Skipping from board to board—distance increasing slightly—should be practised.

Running and Stepping from a board onto a box, and from this to the mat is repeated; then begin jumping over the bpx as a preliminary to the broad-high jump. Keep the distance small until the pupils feel safe, and be careful to keep the box closer to the board than to the mat. If pupils then'make a short jump they will not strike the' box, even though they miss the mat. When they have had this jump several times, the placing of a boy flat across the box adds considerable to the excitement and pleasure. To keep pupils from purposely touching the one en the box make it a rule to have the one that so touches change places with the one on the box.

The Running High Jump is practised with a spring board, and is still only moderately high.

Climbing on Poles. The object should be quick climbing, not distance. The pupils may begin to climb a bit on the ropes also, climbing up and down, no sliding down.

Deep Jump and Deep-Far-Jump. Call attention each time to the position on the board and watch carefully the depth. Pupils will go too far if permitted to do so.

Throwing the Bean Bag as in the first class. A little heavier bag may be used, or a farther throw attempted.

Races over Short Distances. If properly managed the pupils get a lot of pleasure out of these races.

Chinning with Undergrip. Use a bar or a ladder that is within Teach by standing on the toes. This exercise must be practised carefully so as to avoid over-exertion.	(To	be	continued.)

Digitized by U.ooQle
Mind and body. ^

Price, 91*00 per Year. Foreign $1.25.

m^mmr Published M*nth*r*

mr

freidenker publishing cor

‘WTacort art m.

99* Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial comspondence to WM. A. STECfiFER, 72 W. Johnson St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Dr. Robert Fischer, one of the editors of Mind and Body, died Friday morning, January 5th, in Indianapplis, Ind., after a lingering illness. He was born April 24, 1874, at Detroit, Mich., and after education in the schools of that city, was graduated from the Normal School of Physical Training at Milwaukee in 1892.

He then went to Evansville, Ind., where for four years he was a teacher of physical training; next to Cleveland, O., where for eleven years he taught physical training and was graduated in medicine. He went to Indianapolis five yeare ago to assume the position of superviser of physical education. Since the Normal College was transferred from Milwaukee in 1907 to Indianapolis, Dr. Fischer held the position of dean of the department of physiology, anatomy and hygiene.

He was hel'd in high esteem* by those who took the trouble to understand him as is evidenced by numerous /expressions from men who came in intimate contact with him. We .feel that we are committing no breach of confidence when we, print the following extract from a letter by Mr. Calvin N. Kendall, State Commissioner of Education, New Jersey, (formerly superintendent of schools of Indianapolis) who writes: “I had exercised 2 vain hope that Fischer might .get well. He was one of the finest men with whom I ever came in contact. Hie carried on the work in Indianapolis which you so well began. Under great difficulties he always kept his temper, and gradually won the respect of everyone with whom he came in contact. It will be exceedingly difficult to fill his place in Indianapol'is.”

Dr. Fischer is survived by a widow and two small children.

—Under the guidance of the Committee on Physical Training of the North American Gymnastic Union much constructive work, both in theory and in practise, has been done during the last few years in many brandies of gymnastics by a large group of representative teachers of physical training. The work undertaken embraces class-aims for the gymnastic training of boys and girls, men and .women; track and field wprk suitable for gymnasiums as well as for athletic fields; camps and tramps; games; graded courses for class-leaders; courses for playground teachers; extension courses for teachers; teachers meetings; design and equipment of Turner halls and play-fields; competitions at society, district and national festivals; theory and nomenclature, of gymnastic and aesthetic dancing; free exercises; work on fixed apparatus; tactics. This work will be published in Mind arid Body in a series 6i Articles.

Digitized by

Google
-441—

—Writing in the Chicago Tribune, under a department entitled “How to Keep Well,” Dr. W. A. Evans states:	“Last	week	at	the	Illinois	Fed-

eration of Women’s 'Clubs, the proceedings were interrupted about once every hour iby the opening of the windows. While they were open the ladies stood up. After a few minutes the windows were closed and the exercises resumed.

“Ten minutes in that fresh air,” comments Dr. Evans, “and those quickened minds were worth as much as any thirty minutes where minds are dulled and the air is stale.

“At the Infant Welfare (Congress the same plan was pursued. Prof. Henderson would call for little periods of recess:; there would be a little stirring around, a little quickening of circulation, and then back to concentration of mind.

“The scheme is physiologically and psychologically sound. Now, why can it not be followed in offices?

“The ventilation almost everywhere is bad. Most of it was put in on the old plan of uniformity of temperature and freedom from, air movement. So much was planned. Not through planning but through oversight 1be air is usually harmfully dry. At this day we know there is no dfidency of mind or body unless the temperature varies and unless the air moves around enough to make its movement felt.

“Why should it not be good judgment for the chief clerk to have the office force—or the foreman have his factory force—stand up for five xyin-utes out of each hour while the windows are thrown open and the room blown out. The fifty-five minutes remaining would be used for greater gain than the sixty minutes of the hours which flow along without a break.

“Where it is possible, it would be better to add t» this plan an equip-i ment of fans to keep the air moving during the remaining fifty-five minutes.

“This pl'an would not be ideal. For one thing, the air would be too dry. But it would make a lot of bad situations a good deal better.”

—The next meeting of the American School Hygiene Association will be held in Boston, Mass., March 28, 29 and 30th. The local plans for the meeting are in the hands of Dr. A. T. Cabot, while the program is befog arranged by the executive committee.

—Theoretical vs. Practical Aid to Hygiene. A recent number of the ' Bulletin of the Chicago Board of Health says, sen tent iou sly reiterating a jtruism, “Cleanliness means comfort; dirt, discomfort.” In the same issue it quotes from Modern Sanitation to the effect that perhaps with many persons the matter of bathing is really more a matter of esthetics than of hygienics, for “it is all very well to take a morning tubbing when we can slip from a snug bed into a bright, warm, inviting bath-room,but possibly riot many of uS would insist on such scrupulous cleanliness if, like the less fortunate dwellers in our slums, “we had to carry water from a distant hydrant, bath2 without privacy, in a cold room and then carry the water to a distant receptacle* to be emptied,” more especially if we rwete undernourished and Anemic and therefore doubly sensitive to cold and exposure. There maybe .something in the contention that bathing, like other good personal habits

Digitized by CaOOQle
-442-

is often not so much a proof of innate superiority as of convenient environment and that, if the two classes were to exchange environments, the former slum-dwellers would become devoted to the daily morning bath, .while the bathing classes would slip back to the level of the great unwashed. In other words, hygiene sometimes needs not so much to be extolled as to be made practicable.

—In the October issue of the Northern Medical Archive of Stockholm we find the following:—Jundell and Fries examined 163 athletes after sports of various kinds, 265 times in all, examining 647 specimens of urine, making nine different tests. They compare their findings with similar ones on record, their general conclusion being that sports and athletic training, notwithstanding the apparently serious changes in the urine liable to be encountered, are entirely harmless in the long run for the kidneys. The urine ^ may show albumin and tube-casts over and over again after this excessive physical exertion, for years and decades, but the kidneys are not damaged thereby and are not more predisposed to disease than under other conditions. The changes in the urine after severe exercise resemble closely those of nephritis, except that they gradually subside in the course of a few hours. This is t)ie opposite of the view generally accepted as to the danger to the kidneys by excessive athletic work.

Motes from Newark, N. J.

The demand in Newark for efficient teachers of physical education is a large one. At present there are in this city twelve elementary schools and three high schools having large, well equipped gymnasiums, each with a specially trained teacher of physical training. Two new schools have gymnasiums in the course of construction, and the Board of Education nas just appropriated money for five new gymnasiums.

The Physical Education Association of Newark, which now consists of twenty members, had the pleasure of hearing Mr. John Wendelken, of the New York Normal School, in an interesting lecture on Basket Ball. At a more recent meeting, Miss Jessie Bancroft, of the New York Schools, gave a most interesting talk, with illustrations, on games and their great value in the relaxation they afford.

The Association Foot Ball League of the Newark Public Schools, which have just completed their third anpual schedule, have shown that this sport is surely the best and safest kind of football for the schoolboy. Our plan divides the city into a northern and southern section, for convenience Each section is sub-divided into Junior and Senior classes. The teams then play for the championship of their respective class leagues. The champions of each league being determined, a series of three games is played between the champions of the northern and the southern, leagues, for the championship of the city. A cup is awarded the winner in each, league.

Newark has now twelve afternoon dancing centres for girls. Proficient teachers are selected from the grades, and are paid by the Board. At weekly meetings, these teachers are coached in the dances which they in turn teach the children. The centre selected is one with either a gymnasium or an auditorium; the nearby schools are invited to attend. Classes are large and popular.

The new Central High School of Newark will open February 1st. It has a large one, well equipped gymnasium with a running track. Miss Christine Dobbins and Mr. Carl Anderson -will be the temporary instructors.	Ernest	H.	Seibert.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-443-

TWE THEORY, TERMINOLOGY, AND TECHNIQUE OF GYMNASTIC DANCING.

,	By Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

Gymnastic dancing has generally ibeen considered, during the past years, as part of that branch of gymnastics known as Free Exercises, i. e., those activities performed while standing, walking and marching, running* or bopping and jumping. Exercises in walking, running or hopping included the dancing steps. Theoretically considered this classification answered its purpose very well. However, the vastly increased material of this form of free exercises has made it of sufficient importance to class it as a separate branch of gymnastics; for today dancing steps are a definite part of every correctly conducted gymnastic lesson for girls and women, some teachers "oven introducing them in boys’ and men’s classes with considerable success.

Much may be said of the value of gymnastic dancing, particularly of step combinations composed of pleasing sequences, the dancing of which awakens delight. This emotional phase decidedly enhances the value of steps and should receive thought in the arrangement of dances. In this respect the re-birth of the folk-dance, containing this element and withal consisting of lively, not too intricate, activities is, indeed, justified. The folk-dance is, however, nothing but a step combination or step series, popularized because it expresses in a pleasing form some happy thought felt by, or appealing to a great number of persons. A teacher of gymnastics who knows the material of the dancing steps and who understands the fitting of them to music and their adaptation to age and sex, can compose step combinations and step series- just -as pleasing as those contained in the folk-dances. But composing dances is not within the scope of this pap£r. Our object is to study the theory, i. e. the motor possibilities employed in gymnastic dancing, the technique or execution of steps, and their terminology, i. e. the selection of an appropriate name for them.

We should, however, before proceeding ask ourselves what factors shall determine, in a general way, the selection of the steps, without considering in detail! their worth, for this would involve -us in a discussion of their physiologic and psychic value. We may then decide what shall govern the execution, what shall* guide us in securing suitable terms for each step, and finally study the motor possibilities with a view of discovering natural movement forms and gymnastically valuable exercises useful for our purpose.

(a)	FACTORS DETERMINING THE SELECTION OF STEPS

1.	THE GYMNASTIC FACTOR. The test of the gymnastic

value of a step is of great importance. We should inquire:	Does it pro-

mote grace and skill? Has it any hygienic value? Any psychic worth? Some steps are valuable because they vigorously influence the vital functions,. affecting in a marked degree the circulatory, respiratory, and digestive organs through their bounding activities. Others have a decided co-or-dinative influence apparent in an acquired improved carriage. Emotional phases, particularly the element of joy, usually accompany certain vigorous types of steps and sprightly combinations.

2.	THE RHYTHMdDQ. FACTOR. Rhythm, a significant phase of all the physical work of primitive man, is, undoubtedly, a weighty and

Digitizec • /
— 444—

influential factor. In the course of its development it has evolved the musical measure consisting of different tempi in which musical compositions ate written, and it serves as an invaluable guide iti choosing steps. These musical measures vary in length depending upon the kind and number of notes contained in them. Thus compositions in 2-4, 3-4, or 4-4 time contain two, three, and four quarter notes respectively, or their equivalents. A composition in 6-8 time contains six eighth notes or their equivalent to a measure, and as used in gymnastic dancing this is usually divided into,two beats, adapted to march or two-step time. Inasmuch as the rhythm for steps should be stated in significant and generally understood terms, which is not possible by resorting to the use of 2-4, 3-4, time without adding musical expressions indicating or modifying thk Thythm, it will serve our purpose best by giving the tempo in such known terms, as march, polka, gallop, mazurka, etc., time, illustrating them and obtaining definite measure by writing the time rate in metronomic figures. The following tempi are used in gymnastic dancing:—

March time	(!) j
Sduitiachc time	(1) j
Polka time	(I) j
Tw step time	(!) j
Oilnp time	(!) J
Manmtatime	(!) J
Waltz time	(!)
a) fast	J '*92.
	
b) moderate	J. -62
c) slow	J • 116

*	116 - 12d 0J ’116 " m

*	144 - 148

*	108

* 100 - 108

*	128 - 132

•	116 - 144

Digitized by
—445— •

In the description we will confine ourselves to such terms as march, gallop, mazurka, etc., time. Combinations of movements that cannot be * fitted into this scheme are best omitted for it will be found that steps not based on these age-old rhythms will be extremely difficult to teach. They must, therefore, be observed in the selection of dancing steps.

(b)	FACTORS DETERMINING THE FORM OF EXECUTION.

1.	THE NATURAL MOVEMENT FACTOR. As to the second question, the resemblance of a step to a natural movement-form will influence and shape its mode of performance. Thus the mechanics of stepping, running, hopping, leaping, etc., must be duly considered, harmonized with the principle embodied in the German and Swedish systems, that “the gymnastic value of an exercise depends upon how it combines the greatest enect upon the body with simplicity and beauty of performance” The movement-forms contained in gymnastic dancing should endeavor to approach this “simplicity and beauty of performance.”

2.	THE RHYTHMIC FACTOR. Musical rhythm is also a governing factor. It affects the time interval between the elements of a step-sequence. E. g. the change-step is generally performed in polka (2-4) rhythm. The time required for the first two parts of this step, i. e. the step forward and the following with the other foot, equal the first one of the two beats in the measure, and the third part, the repetition of the forward step, consumes the second part of the nheasure. If, however, each part receives the same time interval for its execution, it becomes a step of mazurka or waltz (3-4) rhythm.. It is thus possible to do many dancing steps in different tempi by slight alterations of the time-rate in which the elements follow each other.

3.	THE FREE EXERCISES AS A FACTOR. Moreover, there are many exercises involved in gymnastic dancing contained in free exercises in standing and as such should resemble them in execution.

(c)	FACTORS DETERMINING THE TERMINOLOGY.

The selection of brief, easily understood, and yet descriptive names, so that the term employed will readily arouse a concept of the desired activity, is always fraught with difficulties. Names frequently appear far fetched.

In this respect, the natural movements underlying the step may again be a decisive factor and simplify the selection of a terminology. Some times the modifying activity will be resorted to, particularly if it is more explanatory than the other. National (and reputable) use may also be applied for a critical test of the suggested nomenclature.

(d)	THE MOTOR POSSIBILITIES,

We may now turn our attention to the motor possibilities of the lower extremities upon which the fundamental elements of dancing in its limited sense are based, and whose articulations are so varied and numerous that an endless number of movements are readily discovered. Making a general survey of this vast field of promiscuous motion we are impressed with the multitude of activities it contains. Children romp and play in so many ways. They skip, run, jump, hop, walk, etc., etc., going through a great . number of apparently unclassifiable actions. If, however, we observe the

Digitized by CjOOQle
methods they employ in propelling their bodies through those intricate and manifold gyrations, we can distinguish two distinctly different processes* In the one the body is always supported by one or both legs; in the other it bounds from the supporting surface, both feet leaving their point of support, and is momentarily lifted in the air. The first is classified as stepping, consisting chiefly of movements involved in walking, and the latter as springing, possessing the characteristic trait of momentary flight. We may thus divide those natural movement-forms into two large groups, conr taining the elements and the combining possibilities of all dancing steps, viz., Exercises in Stepping, and Exercises in Springing.

These generic terms admit of the broadest interpretation. Under Stepping we include the many modes of walking in place and from place in different directions, their derivative forms (of which the closing-step is an example) and the touch-step. Springing consists of propelling the body upward (in place) or from place and. contains the ordinary and derived forms of running, various phases of jumping and skipping” hopping, leaping and cutting.

Before explaining the above in detail an understanding of some technical terms frequently used will illustrate description. The term steps or dancing steps as generally f|nployed has a very broad meaning. It may refer (i) to a polka-hop or step-hop, (2) to a combination of two or more steps, as mazurka-hop and rocking-step combined, or (3) to a very simple movement as the hop, leap, or cut, all three of which, however, belong to distinctly separate classes.

In dancing nomenclature this confusion is avoided by using the term step in a limiting or modifying sense and linking it with a gymnastic term which will give it definiteness; as, step-element, step-combination, etc.

A step-element is the .simplest movement used in gymnastic dancing and requires the time-rate of an ordinary walking step, or less, for its execution. The hop, leap, step, and others given above under exercises in stepping and springing are the types. Two or more such step-elements combined fprm a steprsequence. Examples are the step-hop, leap-hop, and change-step. A step-combination, which is also often* referred to as a step, consists of joining two or, more step-sequences together, as the cross-step turn and rocking-step, an exercise requiring two measures (six counts) of mazurka time. Step-series is the gymnastic word used for a dance and is composed of two or more stepcombinations, which are adapted to the phrases of a musical composition!. It is performed by classes in open order or in column formations (folk-dance, school-dances). The following summary in outline form will illustrate the structure of the theory of dancing.

f

Stepping

r

1

1

Springing^

I

[

Ordinary walking Derived forms of walking Foot placing

Ordinary running Derived forms of running Step-elements. Jumping Skipping Hopping Leaping Cutting

Digitized by CjOOQle
Elements of stepping

+

Elements of stepping

—447 —

Elements of springing +

Elements of springing

Elements of springing +

Elements of stepping

Step-sequences]

_|_	>	Step-combinations)

Step-sequences]	+	VStep-series

Step-combinations J

(e)	MODIFICATION OF DANCING STEPS.

The dancing activities may be varied by adding movements of tl|e different parts which, though having the appearance of step-elements, %rc not fundamental enough in character to be treated as such. They consist of:—

1.	Sliding either the leading or following foot over the floor during a stepping movement. The former being termed “glide,” and the latter “draw.” Both are selfexplanatory.

2.	Other foot and leg exercises combined with the action of the stepping or following foot, or preceding them. Occurring simultaneously they do not change the rhythm, on the other hand, if they are used as prefixed exercises to a step-element or sequence these lose their original time. Stamping, foot, knee and leg raising and swinging, heel raising and knee bending constitute these variations.

3.	Activities of the head, trunk and arim Appropriately and pleasingly combined with a step they will yield pretty and valuable modifications.

4. The adding of turns of various degrees. Combined with one of a number o»f steps, they lead to their executionjupon the lines of a square, cross, and other figures, while a step performed with a whole turn produces such exercises as the cross-step-turn, waltz-turn, polka-turn, etc.

MODIFICATIONS:

Foot and leg exercises:	Sliding,	drawing, stamping, heel raising, knee

bending, foot, knee and leg raising and swinging.	\

Head, trunk and arm exercises.

Combinations of various parts.	>

The adding of turns.

(To be continued.)

NOMENCLATURE OF FREE EXERCISES.

By Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

THE FUNDAMENTAL POSITION.

In position—stand.

Heels together, toes turned outward to a comfortable angle; arms extended, palms toward and a few.inches from side of body. The fingers are extended and together with the forefingers in line with the median line of the thighs. Head up, chin slightly drawn in, chest raised without being forced and weight of body more on the balls of the feet than on the heels. The position suggests firmness, but not rigidity.

Digitized by

Google
J

—448-

WALKING and marching.

With firm step and with common step.

With firm step—march.

The foot is raised forward ankle high; the leg is fully extended. The foot is then placed flat on the floor as the weight'of the body is transferred to the stepping leg.

With a common step—march.

The execution differs from that of the firm step in as much as the heel of the foot is placed first on the floor and while the weight is being transferred the foot gradually rolls on to its ball. It is the ordinary walking step.

Marching in place. (Two modes.)

In place—march.

(a) ^With raising the extended leg forward (ankle high).

(<b) With raising the knee forward just enough to bring the foot off the floor.

Marching with leg exercises.

Toe march. On toes—march.

With raising knees forward—march.

The knee is raised hip High, bringing the thigh in. the horizontal position With the foot and lower leg directly under the knee. The foot is then placed forward with the transference of the weight. It is executed (i) without changing the rhythm of marching, (2) in two counts to each step, knee raising on. one and stepping on two, and (3) in three counts, i. e. knee raising on one, leg straightening on two, and stepping on three.

With leg swing forward—march.

'The extended leg is rapidly raised forward knee high with toes pointing and followed by the forward step. It may also Ije executed in two counts to each step. .

With lunging forward. Lunge-walk forward—march.

Instead of stepping the gymnast moves from place with lunging. (See description of l'unge;.)	,

Derived forms of marching.

Closing step.

Step forward as in marching, the weight being transferred to the stepping leg;-then bring the heel of the rear foot to that of the front foot.

Follow step.

Executed as the closing step except that the instep of the rear foot is placed at the heel of the front foot.

Marching sideward wkh -a arms step.

Sideward with a front cross step—march.

It begins with a side step left and the right leg crosses in front with slightly flexed knee, the body weight being carried from one foot to the other.	,

Sideward with a rear cross step—march.

It differs from the preceding one only inasmuch as the leg crosses be- . hind instead of in fro.ot

Change step.	•	.	.

On one, step left forward and bring the instep of the rear foot to the heel of the front foot, the latter movement on the Last half of the count. '

Digitized by Google


-449-

On two, tbe front foot again steps forward. It is usually counted, one-and-two.

JUMPING.

Stand-jump in place.

Raise heels—one. Bend knees—two.	Jump upward (feet closed,

body extended and return to a squat-stand)—three. Straighten, knees— four. Lower heels—five. In alighting yield by flexion of the joints to prevent jarring the body.

Stand-straddle jump in place.

Raise heels—one. Bend knees—two. Jump upward (with straddling legs sideward and closing them and return to squat-stand)—three. Straighten knees—four. Lower heels—five.

Stand leg-swing jump.

Raise heels—one. Bend knees—two. Jumg^upward (with leg swing forward of the straight leg and return, to squat,-stand, feet together)—three. Straighten knees—four. Lower heels—five.

Stand-jump with raising knees.

Raise heels—one.	Bend knees—two.	Jump upward (with raising

the knees forward (or fore-upward) and return to squat-stand)—three. Straighten knees—four. Lower heels—five.

Stand-jump with raising feet backward,

Raise heels—one.	Bend knees—two.	Jump upward (with raising

the feet backward (or back-upward) and return to squat-stand)—three. Straighten knees—four. Lower heels—five.	\

Stand-jump from place.

The same as in place except that the body is propelled a certain distance in the direction indicated.

Step-jump ini place.

Step forward—one. Bend both knees—two. Jump upward, (closing feet, body extended during flight, and return to a squat-stand)—three. Straighten knees—four. Lower heels—five. It may also be executed from a side-step.

Step-jump forward.

As step-jump in place, but jump forward on three. The knee bending and jump are later executed in one movement, making it an exercise of four counts.

Step (leg) swing jump forward.

Step forward—one. Jump forward with swinging leg forward (and alight in the squat-stand)—two. Straighten knees—three. Lower heels— four.

RUNNING.

Running in place.

In place—run. (Two modes as in marching.)

The execution is the same as that of marching excepting that the body attains momentary fiight.

- Running from place.

Forward—run.

The knee is raised fairly high in front, the leg is then straightened forward and the ball of the foot is placed on the floor with the toe pointing straight forward. The rear lower leg is raised to the horizontal, so that the foot will be knee high.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—460—

Running in and from place with leg exercises.

With raising knees forward, in place—run.

With raising feet back-upward, forward—run.

With leg swing forward, in place—run.

With Large steps forward—run.

The rhythm is slower than in the ordinary running. It is an exaggeration of the ordinary running stride with the flight interval increased and the leg reaching forward as far as possible.

HEAD EXERCISES (NECK EXERCISES).

All neck exercises should embody the resistive feature.

Lowering and raising the head.

Lower head forward—lower. Raise.

The head is sl'owly tipped forward, the chin approaching the neck. Return to the erect posture.

Lower head backward—lower. Raise.

The head is slowly inclined backward. The movement involves the whole neck and is accompanied by a slight raising of the chest. The chin is drawn in with the raising.

Lower head to the left—lower. Raise.

The head is slowly inclined to the left shoulder. There must be an equal pull on the anterior and posterior neck muscles to insure a true sideward movement.

Turning of the head.

Head to the left—turn. Re-turn or Forward-turn.

The head is kept erect and rotates to the left as far as possible.

Circling of the head.

(From forward lowered or backward lowered position, or beginning with this movement.)

Circle head to the left—begin. Halt.

The head moves through the sideward lowered position to the backward (forward) position, then through the opposite sideward position to the starting position-.	%

TRUNK EXERCISES.

All movements are described as starting from the correct erect fundamental position.

Lowering and raising the trunk.

Lower trunk forward—lower. Raise.

The movement takes place mainly in the hip joints, the spine being kq>t as straight as possible; the chest remains arched and the head must not be, lowered. The upper back and shoulder blade muscles must be kept contracted to give the back a flat appearance. The body is lowered forward to the horizontal'. This position of the back is retained while raising the trunk. The trunk may also be lowered in like manner obliquely forward, being a movement of about 45°, and fore-downward, passing beyond the forward position through an arc of about 135°.

For other lowering and raising movements of the trunk see Fall-out, Lay-out, and the exercises of the third order (Companion Exercises.)

Bending and straightening the trunk.

Bend trunk forward—bend. Straighten.

Same as lowering trunk forward with the exception that the spine is

Digitized by CjOOQle
-451-

slightly flexed instead of being kept extended. It may also be performed to the fore-downward position. The straightening movement should begin with the head (neck) and upper part of the spine to obtain an effective contraction of the muscles involved.

Bend upper trunk backward—bend. Straighten.

This movement starts with lowering the head backward. The bending of the trunk should be confined to the upper region: bending in the lumbar region being an undesired element. Contraction of the abdominal muscles and elevation of the chest are accompanying features.

Bend trunk backward—bend. Straighten.

It begins with the previous, movement, i. e. with a backward bending of the upper trunk to which a bending in the lumbar spine is added. Full extension of the hip-joint should also take place to add the slight lowering element produced by it. The abdominal muscles are kept'active.

Bend trunk to the left—bend. Straighten.

The body is bent directly to the side, the movement taking place at the waist, thfc upper trunk and chest retaining their correct positions.

Turning the trunk.

Trunk to the left—turn. Re-turn, or Forward-turn.

The upper trunk retains its erect posture and rotates to the side indicated. The movement takes place in the dorsal spine assisted b$ slight rotation of the pelvis on the femurs.

Circling the trunk.

This exercise starts from an assumed lowered 'or bent trunk position either forward, backward, or sideward. Example: Bend trunk forward. (Starting position.) Circle trunk left—begin. Halt.

The trunk rotates *vith the hips as> a pivot through the left sideward, backward and right sideward positions to the starting position. The degree is determined by 1-2, 3-4, 1-1 circles and may be executed in a certain number of counts.

(To be continued.)

EXHIBITION WAND EXERCISES.

Compiled by D. M. F. Krog^i, M. D., Philadelphia.

Music: Kerry Mills Barn Dance. Written in 4|4 time, by Kerry Mills.

Wands low in front. Introduction: 16 counts or 4 measures.

PART ONE.

A.	1. Place left foot sideward and raise arms forward, 1 and 2.

Raise arms upward, 3 and 4. (Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8.)

Repeat once, 9 to 16. The same right sideward, 1 to 16.

2.	Place left foot backward and raise arms forward, 1 and 2.

Raise arms upward, 3 and 4. (Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8.)

Repeat once, 9 to 16. The same right bw., 1 to 16.

3.	and 4. Repeat A. 1 and 2. 4x16 or 64 counts.

(Total 32 measures.)

B.	1. Stride left sideward and raise arms forward, 1 and 2.

Turn wand, vertical position, left end down, 3 and 4.

Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat 9 to 16.

The same right, 1 to 16.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
\

-452-

2.	Stride left forward and raise arms, left forward with the right hand under right shoulder, 1 and 2.

Change position of arms i. e. right arm forward with left hand under left shoulder, 3 and 4.

Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat once, 9 to 16.

3.	The same as B. 1, but when the wand is turned bend the left knee at 3 and straighten it at 5. (The same right.)

The same as B. 2, but at 3 kneel on the right knee and at 5 reverse etc.

(4x16 or 64 counts twice=32 measures.)

PART TWO.

C.	^l. Bend arms for thrust, 1 and 2.

Thrust forward and bend the knees, 3 and 4.

Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat 9 to 16.

2.	Bend arms for thrust, 1 and 2.

Thrust upward and raise the heels, 3 and 4.

Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 arid 8. Repeat 9 to 16.

3.	and 4. Repeat 1 and 2.

(Twice 32 countsi=16 measures.)

Trio:

D.	1. Bend arms for thrust, 1 and 2.

Thrust downward and bend trunk forward, 3 and 4.

Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat 9 to 16.

2..	Bend arms for thrust, 1 and 2.

Thrust upward and bend trunk backward, 3 and 4.

Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat 9 to 16;

3.	Bend arms for thrust and jump to the side stride, 1 and 2. Thrust downward and bend trunk forward, 3 and 4.

Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat 9 to 16.

4.	Bend arms for thrust and jump to side stride, 1 and 2♦

Thrust upward and bend trunk backward, 3 and 4.

Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat 9 to 16.

(Twice 32 counts=nl6 measures.)

PART THREE.

E.	1. Raise arms forward, 1 and 2.

Place right hand on hip, bend left arm overhead, 8 and 4. Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat 9 to 16.

Raise arms forward, 9 and 10.

Place right hand on hip, bend left arm over head, and turn trunk right, 11 and 12.

Reverse 13 and 14. Return 15 and 16.

2.	The same as E. 1, but opposite, 1 to 16.

3.	Lunge left sideward and raise arms forward, 1 and 2.

Place right hand on hip, left arm over head, 3 and 4.

Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat 9 to 16.

The same opposite, 1 to 16.

4.	Lunge obliquely left forward and bend arms for thrust, 1 and 2. Bend trunk right forward and thrust downward, 3 and 4. Reverse 5 and 6. Return 7 and 8. Repeat 9 to 16.

The same opposite, 1 to 16.

(Three times 32 counts=24 measures.)

Finis: Tableau.

Digitized by

Google
-453-

Preliminary Program of the Nineteenth Convention of the American Physical Education Association,

To be held in Montreal, Canada, February 22, 23, and 24, 1912. Headquarters, Windsor Hotel.

Place of Meetings, McGill University Medical School, University Street and Pine Avenue; Royal Victoria College, Sherbrooke Street and the Montreal High School, Peel Street.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1912,

THERAPEUTIC SECTION

10:00 A. M. “Mechanical Treatment of Joint Disease,” Max J. Walter, Pennsylvania Orthopedic Institute, Philadelphia.

10:30 A. M. “Physical Training in the Treatment of Neurdses,” Dr. B. E. MfcfCenzie, Toronto.

11:00 A. M. “Diastosis Recti and Sacro Iliac Strain,” Dr. Fred W. Harvey, McGill University.

11:30 A. M. “External and Internal Atony,” Dr. MacKenzie Forbes, Montreal.

PUBLIC SCHOOL SECTION

10:00 A. M. “Athletics for Girls,” G. Wittich, Public Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.

10:30 A. M. “How Fast Should Boys and Girls of the Elementary Schools Run,” W. A. Stecher, Public Schools, Philadelphia.

11:00 A. M. Subject and speaker to be announced.

11:30 A. M. “How can the School Complete the Play Life of the Child,” Ernst Hermann, Public Schools, Cambridge, Mass.

GENERAL MEETINGS

2:30 P. M. “The Value of Games of Imitation,” Dr. E. H. Arnold, New Haven, Conn.

3:30 P. M. “The Educational Value of Physical Training,” Prof. Dale, McGill University.

4:00 P. M. Subject and speaker to be announced.

4:30 P. .M. “The Lord Strathcona Trust for the Advancement af Physical Education in Canada,”

THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 22, 1912.

8:00 P. M. Reception at the Royal Victoria College. Address of Welcome, by Dr. William Petersen, Principal of McGill University.

Presidential Address, Dr. R. Tait McKenzie, University of Pennsylvania.

Address, “The Social Significance of Physical Education,” Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick, Russell Sage Foundation.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1912.

COLLEGE AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS.

10:50 A. M. “Physical Education at Princeton,” Dr. Joseph E. Ray-croft, Princeton.

11 :oo A. M. “The Combination of Social Life with Physical Training at University of Toronto.”

11130 A. M. “Physical Education at Queens University.”

!

Digitized by v^ooQle
-454-

PUBLIC SCHOOL SECTION

10:30 A. M. “Heredity and Environment,” Miss Carrie M. Derrick, M. A. .Montreal.

11:00 A. M. “The Teaching of Hygiene to School Children,” Miss Ethel Hurlburt, M. A., Montreal.

EXHIBITIONS AND SKATING ,2:30-4:00 P. M. Montreal High School, Peel street. Demonstration by Girls and Boys of the Westmount School, Aberdeen School, Students of Royal Vivtoria College, and McDonald College.

4:00-6:00 P. M. Skating Rinks will be open to visitors.

Exhibitions of curling will be arranged and matches in curling for the championship of the Curling Association.

8:00-9:30 P. M. Montreal High School.

Exhibition by Boys of Westmount School, Mt. St. Louis Cadets, Montreal Amateur Athletic Assn., Lower Canada College, Efigh School, and Montreal Y. M. C. A.

9:30 P. M. Fancy Dress Carnival, Montreal Amateur Athletic Assn., Rink, Westmount.

SATURDAY MORNING, FEB. 24, 1912.

9:30 A. M. “The Ventilation of Gymnasia,” G. B. Affleck, Y. M. C.

A.	Training School, Springfield, Mass. Discussion led by Prof. Starkey, McGill University.

10:00 A. M. Paper and speaker to be announced.

10:30 A. M. “Fatigue,” Prof. N. Alcock', McGill University.

11:00 A. M. Address by Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, Harvard University.

11:30 A. M. Address by Jacob Bolin, University of Utah.

SATURDAY AFTERNOON, FEB. 24, 1912.

2:30 P. M. Competitions in Ski Jumping, Mt. Royal Park; Tobag-ganing, Park Slide. Skating, M. A. A. A. and McGill University Rinks.

5 :oo P. M. Exhibition, Fancy Skating, by the Earl Grey Club, Victoria Rink.

8:00 P. M. “Fete de Nuit” Park Slide, Mt. Royal Park. Torch Light Parade by Snow Shoe Clubs in Costume. Fireworks.

PLAYGROUND GAMES.

RELIEVO.

Divide the players into two teams. In one comer of the yard mark off a prison large enough to hold all the players of a team. The players are either taggers or runners. At the beginning of the game all taggers are close to the prison walls. After counting twenty-five the taggers (except a few prison guards) chase the runners. A runner who is tagged is a prisoner and is put into the prison by his captor. No wrestling or trying to get away is allowed. If, after one or more prisoners have been made, one of the runners succeeds in getting into the prison (without being tagged) all prisoners are free. If the taggers capture all the runners the sides change places. A handkerchief tied around the arm, or other means, may be employed to mark the two teams.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-455-

6YMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

EMANUBL HAUG, 463 West 159th St., New York City.

I beg to call the attention of my friends and co-workers to the change of address as giYen above.	   Emanuel	Ha to.

—At a meeting of Physical Educators held in Chicago recently, it was the opinion that a Society of Hygiene and Physical1 Education should be organized for the Middle West. A local working committee therefore was appointed to prepare a program and make all the necessary arrangements for the first conference which is to be held in Chicago during the coming spring vacation period. It is expected that delegates will be present from thirteen states, representing colleges, normal schools, private and secondary schools, Y. M. C. As., turners, public schools, Y. W. C. As., Boys clubs and Hygienists. The plan is to organize the new Society at this first convention.

AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATIONS ORGANIZED TO

DATE.

Name	Date	of	Organization

Cook County, Chicago 111............................December	16,	1908

Charleston, S. Car......................................January, 1909

Southwestern, El Paso, Texas.......................... November	4,	1909

N. & S. Garolinas Clean Sport League......................  March,	1910

Kane -County, Illinois................................December	3,	1910

Pierce County, Washington.......................^....December	23,	1910

Philippine Islands......................................December,	1910

Wisconsin State.........................................March 8, 1911

Illinois State......................................March 17,1911

Nebraska State........1..............................September	3,	1911

Columbus, Ohio.......................................   December	1, 1911

The National Collegiate Athletic Association, representing ninety-three different colleges, met in annual conference at the Hotel Astor during the holidays and decided to “stand pat” on the present football rules. Last year’s Rules Committee was reappointed and instructed to stand by the new game when it meets with the other intercollegiate rulemakers in February.

This committee was instructed to regulate the rules so that the open game be continued and the chance of fatality be minimized, and to stick to the rules of 1911 as much as possible. Also to try to secure a clearer and more concise set of rules and to have them published in the Spring season-instead of in the Fall, so that players, officials^ and public will have a chance to read them over before the football season opens.

The convention took important action on the game of association football or soccer. The representatives of colleges in all parts of the country came out in strong terms in favor of it, and if the game is boomed as enthusiastically as it was at the meeting, it is sure to take a strong footing next season. Dr. Babbitt of Haverford was the first one to bring.up the subject, and told about the great popularity of the game around Philadelphia. 'He praised the game highly, saying that it was a sport in which boys and men. take a great delight because they all could play it without having any special athletic talent.

Digitized by
-456-

Cap t. Palmer E. Piefrce, U. S. A., was re-elected President, and Prof-H. W. Johnson of Indiana was elected Vice President. Prof. Frank W* Nicholson of Wesleyan was re-elected Secretary and Treasurer, District" representatives were elected as follows: W. F. Garcelon, Harvard, Dr. Watson R. Savags, Carnegie Institute of Technology; Prof. A. H. Patterson, North Carolina; Dr. Nathan Stauffer, Mississippi; Prof. H. S. Win-. gert, Ohio State College; Dr. James Naismith, Kansas; Prof. Hugo Bez-dek, Arkansas; and Director Frank Castleman, Colorado.

Over ioo members were in attendance.

The National Collegiate Athletic Association has decided to inaugurate a vigorous campaign against college students who play professional, baseball during the Summer vacation.

The plan which will be followed by the organization is educational in its nature. Primarily, it aims to bring about the elimination of professionalism by appealing to the honor of the students. Educational campaigns against the evil will1 be started in the colleges and preparatory schools. The students will be made to believe that amateurism is a moral and ethical feature of athletics closely allied with the educational system; that any violation of the spirit will be considered as a violation of a gentlemen’s agreement and shall be punishable by Faculty authority.

An important factor of the resolution is that although it prevents a student who has'violated the amateur law from taking part in> intercollegiate games, it does not bar him from taking part in any of the athletic activities within the college he attends. It does not aim to embarrass him because he is not an amateur, but rather encourages him to become a welcome part of the college’s own athletic family, but not in its outside relations.

The resolution as it was unanimously adopted is as follows:

It is recommended that the delegates present take the following action with regard to the situation in college athletics. By having this action practically unanimous, it is thought a practical solution of the protJTem can be evolved.

First—‘Endeavor to establish and uphold a high amateur standard In all college sports: (a) by securing the co-operation of the student bodjr through an educational campaign that shall explain the meaning of and the necessity for such a standard: (b) by securing the co-operation of the Faculty and alumni through an educational campaign that will emphasize the moral and ethical Importance of amateur athletics in an educational system.

Second—By proposing to students that the playing in all intercollegiate contests thereafter be governed by the amateur spirit and that students who-compete contrary to the amateur spirit be given opportunity to play in intramural games, but shall be debarred from intercollegiate.

Third—By having it understood that a student guilty of playing in an intercollegiate contest contrary to the amateur spirit shall be considered to* have violated a gentleman’s agreement, and the Faculty or governing bodjr of his institution shall1 discipline him.

Fourth—By inaugurating a campaign of education among preparatory" schools.

Fifth—That all are urged to make this movement a success by adopting it, thus securing a uniform effort throughout the country.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-467-

Sixth—-That a* committee be appointed to formulate a statement to •cover the situation and in the meantime the spirit of amateurism should guide.

The training table for college athletic teams was vigorously condemned at the annual meeting of the Society of Directors of Physical Education in Colleges, which was held at the FaFculty Club at Columbia University during the holidays. The training table has been abolished by the Chicago and Missouri Valley conferences, and representatives of these districts stated that the change was satisfactory. Dr. R. G. Clapp of the University of Nebraska said the athletes at his institution were better off without the training table. He condemned it strongly as a feature of college athletics. • Dr. Raycroft of Princeton also condemned the training table as unnecessary. Dr. James Naismith of the University of Kansas said that he did not favor the training table, but as long as football coaches drive the men through the fatiguing work that a player gets nowadays, it was probably necessary to „ give them special food and a special diet. But if football were played in an ordinary way, the physical condition of the athletes would not call for extra nourishment.

Dr. John W. Bowler, the physical director at Dartmouth, answered the critics of the training table, saying that it was a fine thing for the men, who go through the severe football season, and keeps them in condition, to withstand the vigorous wear of the game.

One' of the most interesting papers was read by Dr. Charles V. P. Young, the former Cornell athlete. Dr. Young has instituted at Cornell a system of intramural sports, much after the system followed in the English schools and universities. He told of the large number of students who were taking part in the various sports and the sportsmanlike rivalry which had developed among the different classes, schools, and departments of the universities. The plan, Dr. Young said, had been a great success at Cornell. It is a plan which physical directors have been advocating in. American colleges for years.

Dr. James A. Babbitt of Haverford advocated a plan for colleges to adopt a physical examination as one of the requirements for entrance to colleges.	/

The Athletic Research Society held its annual meeting at the Hotel Astor Dec. 27th.

The society has been organized for six years, and is endeavoring to find a means of stamping out the evil of professionalism in amateur sports. Committees from the colleges, athletic clubs, Y. M. C. A., public and high schools, have each handled the problem* separately and hope to be able after a thorough investigation of the evil to have a universal rule defining the amateur.

The organization adopted a new resolution defining its aims, which is as follows:	“We	believe	the	aim	in	all	athletics	should	be to build rational

and wholesome play, sentiments, habits, and traditions among the youth of the land; to establish educational leadership and to develop a public opinion to support the efficient and inspiring organization of athletics as play in contrast with athletics organized primarily as a spectacle; and in those ad-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-458-

minis trative policies in the practical conduct of athletics that will develop knd conserve this aim.”

The organization elected officers for the coming year as follows:— President, Clarke W. Hetherington, Chicago; Vice President, William Orr, Boston; Secretary and Treasurer, Joseph E. Raycroft, Princeton.

SOME LEADERS OF SPORTS IN 1911.

BASEBALL.

World’s championship—Philadelphia Athletics.

GOLF.

National championship—Harold H. Hilton, England.

FOOTBALL.

Championship college team—Princeton University.

TENNIS.

National championship (seventh consecutive time) Wm. A. Lamed; national doubles champions—R. D. Little and G. F. Touchard; national woman champion—Miss Hazel Hotchkiss, San Francisco.

RUNNING AND TRACK AND FIELD ATHLETICS.

35 Yards—4s. F. Kuhn, C. A. A., Chicago 111.

50 Yards—5 2-5S. F. Kuhn, C. A. A., Omaha.

60-Yards High Hurdle, Three Hurdles, 15 Yards Apart, 15 Yards Start and Fnish—7 2-5S. R. G. Haskins, C. A. A., Chicago, 111.

60 Yards—6 2-5S. J. Wasson, Notre Dame, Chicago 111.

60 Yards Low Hurdles. 3 Hurdles, 15 Yards Apart, 15 Yards to Fin-ish—6 4-5S. Fletcher, Notre Dame, Chicago, 111.

125 Yards—12 1-5S. Gwynn Henry, Celtic Park, L. I.

220 Yards—21 1-5S. R. C. Craig, University of Michigan, Cam-bridge, Mass.

One-Mile—4m. 15 2-5S. J. P. Jones, Cornell University, Cambridge* Mass.

Two Miles—9m. 25 1-5S. T. S. Berna, Cornell University, Cambridge, Mass.

Three Miles—14m. 32s. George V. Bonhag, Irish-American A. C., Travers Island, N. Y.

3.000	Meters Run, (Indoor.)—8m. 52 2-5S. G. V. Bonhag, Irish-American A, C., New York City.

5.000	Meters Run—15m. 23 2-5S. Louis Scott, South Paterson A.

C.	, Celtic Park, L. I.

10-Mile Team Race—14m. 9 2-5S. Irish-American A. C. teams (M.

D.	Huysman, M. J. Ryan,) Madison Square Garden, New York City.

R?LAY RACING RECORDS.

1,560 Yards—3c. 8 1-5S. (Indoor.) Boston Athletic Club, (F. P* O'Hara, H. Lee, W. C. Prout* E. K. Merrihew,) Boston, Mass.

1,760 Yards—3m. 18 1-5S. Irish-American A. C. team, (H. Schaaf* M. W. Sheppard, H. Gissing, J. M. Rosenberger,) Celtic Park, L. I. Four-Mile—17m. 43 3-55. (Indoor.)' Cornell University A. A. team* (L. Finch, H. N. Putnam, T. S. Berna, J. P. Jones,) Buffalo, N. Y.

Medley Relay, (Indoor)—7m. 38 2-5S. All-New York team, (F. P. Me Nally, 220 Yards; J. M. Rosenberger, 440 yards; J. P. Sullivan, 880 Yards; A. R. Kiviat, 1 mile;) Buffalo, N. Y.

Digitized by Google
-469-

HURDLE RECORDS.

70 Yards, Low, (Indoor)—8 2-5S. Robert Eller, Fordham Univer-sty, and John J. Eller, Irish-American A. C., Madison Square Garden, New York City.

75, Low—9 1-5S. John J. Eller, Irish-American A. C., Celtic Park,

L.	I.

r 220 Yards—24 4-5S. John J. Eller, Irish-American A. C., Pittsburg, Penn.

250 Yards, Low—29 1-5S. John J. Eller, Irish-American A. t C., •Celtic Park, L. I.

WALKING RECORDS.

2	Mile (Indoor.)—13m*. 45 1-5S. G. H. Gouldingj Canada, Central Y. M. C. A., Brooklyn, N. Y.

One-Mile Walk, (Indoor.)—6m. 29 1-5S. G. H. Goulding, Buffalo, N. Y.

JUMPING RECORDS.

Nine Standing Jumps—103 feet 7 inches. Platt Adams, New York

A.	C;, Celtic Park, L. I.

Running Hop, Step, and Jump—50 feet 11 inches. D. F. Ahearne, Irish-American A. C., Celtic Park, L. I.

THROWING 56-LB. WEIGHT.

56-Lb. Weight for Distance.—38 ft. 9% in. P. J. McDonald, Irish-American A. C., Pittsburg, Penn.

56-Lb. Weight for Distance.—40 ft. 6}i in. M. J. McGrath, Montreal, Canada.

561-Lb. Weight Over Bar.—15 ft. i^in. Con Walsh, New York A.

C., Madison Square Garden.

THROWING THE DISCUS.

141 ft. 4^6 in. M. J. Sheridan, Irish-American. A. C., Celtic Park,

L.	I.

THROWING 35-LB. WEIGHT.

53 ft. 11 in. M. J. McGrath, New York A. C., Celtic Park, L. I.

THROWING 16-LB. HAMMER.

187 ft. 4 in. M. J. McGrath, unattached, Celtic Park, L. I. THROWING 56-LB. WEIGHT FOR HEIGHT.

16 ft. 6%. in. M. J. McGrath, Chicago, 111.

PUTTING THE SHOT.

24-Lb. Shot.—38 ft. 10 11-16 in. P. J. McDonald, Irish-American

A.	C., Celtic Park, L. I.

THROWING THE JAVELIN.

165 ft. 2}i in. O. Snedigar, Olympic Club, Pittsburgh, Penn; 166 ft. 1 in. O. Snedigar, Olympic Club, San Francisco, Cal.

BILLIARDS AND POOL.

Holder of 18.1 and 18.2 balk line title, Willie Hoppe.

Holder of three-cushion title, Alfred De Oro.

Holder of pool title, Alfred De1 Oro.

FENCING.

G.	H. Breed, Fencers’ Club (foils.)* G. H. Breed, Fencers’ Club (duelling swords.) A- G. Anderson, N. Y. A. C. (sabres.)

Digitized by tjOOQle
—440-

TEAM FENCING.

Three weapons, Fencers’ Club (A. V. Z. Post, G. H. Breed, A. W. De la Poer.) Sabres, N. Y. A. C. (C. A. Bill, V. P. Curti, A. G. Anderson.) Foils, N. Y. A. C. (W. L. Bowman, V. P. Curti, J. E. Gignoux.) Duelling swords, N. Y. A. C. (W. L. Bowman, V. P. Curti, J. E. Gignoux.) Interscholastic, “Poly Prep,” of Brooklyn.

GYMNASTICS.	•

P. Krimmel, N. Y. T. V. (A. A. U.) West Side Y. M. C. A. (team.) Yale (intercollegiate team.) F. Callahan, Yale (intercollegiate.

CROSS-COUNTRY RUNNING.

W. J. Kramer, Long Island A. C. (A. A. U.) J. P. Jones, Cornell (intercollegiate.) Cornell (intercollegiate team.) Irish-American A. C. (A. A. U. team.)

ATHLETICS.

F.	C. Thompson, Los Angeles, Cal. (all around.) Cornell (intercollegiate.) Irish-American (Ar. A., U.)

SWIMMING.

M.	McDermott, Chicago A. A. (long distance.) C. M. Daniel's, N. Y. A. C. (short distance.) Yale (indoor intercollegiate.) Princeton (outdoor intercollegiate.)	_________________

NEW RECORDS ESTABLISHED AT THE ANNUAL INDOOR CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE A. A. U. DEC. 26-27, 1911. AT

NEW YORK.

300 yd., Senior:—33 i-5s. Roy Dorland, unattached.

1	Mile Walk, Junior:—6.54 1-5. F. H. Kaiser, N. Y. A. C.

Mile Hurdle, Junior:—57 3-5S. E. M. Pritchard, I. A. A. C. 1000 yd. Run, Senior:—2.16 1-5 Abel Kiviat, I. A. A. C.

2	Mile Run, Senior:—9.20 4-5. George V. Bonhag, I. A. A. C. 56-lb. for Height, Senior:—16 ft. 3 in. M. McGrath, unattached. Running High Jump, Senior:—6 ft. 2 7-8 in. ;S. G. Lawrence, B.A.A. 5 Mile Run, Senior:—25.12 4-5. W. J. Kramer, Long Island A. C.

FAST SWIMMING ABROAD.

GERMAN AND HUNGARIAN EXPERTS DO STARTLING PERFORMANCES IN

VIENNA.

Through their sterling swimming performances in Vienna, Austria, on Dec. 16 and 12, W. Ramme of Berlin, a German, and B. Lastores, a Hungarian, earned the right to be seriously considered for the Olympic team from their respective countries;, and all indications point to the fact that they will be serious contenders against the pick of other nations which may be represented.

Rammp swam 68 meters, or 74^2 yards, in 40 5-10 seconds, with one turn, as against 75 yards by C. M. Daniels with two turns, in 40 seconds, the first named performance being, according to experts, of just a bit more merit. Lastores did 5:31 3-5 for 440 yards, with eleven turns, clearly overshadowing Daniels’s best mark of 5:31 2-5, in which he made seventeen turns. These performances give an idea of the progress Continental swimmers are making, and are proving an. incentive to the swimming department of the American Olympic Committee.

Digitized by
—461—

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—The following sentences are taken fro mthe last annual report of the Board of School1 Examiners of Buffalo, N. Y., to the City Council:—

“This hoard believes that no public school subject is of greater importance than the h&lth of the pupils. A municipality is morally obligated to give its public instruction under sanitary and healthful conditions.

“This board believes that pure air and cleanliness are of very great importance in the matter of school hygiene. We emphatically declare that good ventilation in the school's is of absolute necessity for proper and decent school life and the want of it is a crime against the child. A great wrong is inflicted wjien children are obliged to spend long hours in badly ventilated school rooms. The whole subject of ventilation is one for which the principal and the teacher are largely responsible.”

“We find frequently that the best air is in an old building which depends upon the lowered windows.”

“Ol'd buildings are being replaced from time to time, and new ones constructed, and we desire to emphasize the need for careful provision in the architectural plans of new buildings in regard to modern and scientific safeguards for proper ventilation, heat and light.”

“We desire to call attention again to the dangers of dry sweeping and cleaning and to protest against the sweeping of any part of the building until after the final dismissal of the school.”

“As personal health and cleanliness promote health and selfrespect, and as many pupil's come from homes which do not offer any bathing facilities whatever, we believe that the public school should offer opportunities for the bath.”

“Our experience prompts us to recommend that suitable bathing apparatus be installed in all n§w school buildings. The modern private schools consider the gymnasium and the plunge as indispensible adjuncts to successful school life and necessary to good physical ideals, training and development. These opportunities should be offered also to the public school pupil. The use of the bath could be under the control of the principal and his associate teachers; or, in the larger schools, persons could be appointed for management and supervision.”

“No subject has received greater attention from school authorities everywhere than that of the health of the school' children, and it is greatly to the credit of the city of Buffalo that it has established a system of medical inspection* that so far as we have been able to observe, gives promise of becoming one of the most commendable features of the city’s educational development.”

“In addition to his other work each medical examiner is directed to make at least ten physical examinations daily, noting especially anaemic conditions, cases of malnutrition, making superficial heart and lung tests, tests of vision, examination of throat, nose, etc.”

“At the beginning of die "school year a general physical1 examination is held, at which time defectives and those in need of special attention are recommended for proper treatment.

Digitized by

y Google
—462—

Systematic weighing and measuring of pupils have been undertaken, but in this the examiners are handicapped by the lack of proper scales, one set of which with the necessary measuring attachments should, be in every school equipment.”

“By an excellent system of record cards, the history of every child’s health is kept, and the efficiency is further maintained by monthly reports.” “Medical inspection of schools is no longer an experiment here; its necessity as well as its success has been fully demonstrated. It is combating with marked and signal victory the unfortunate conditions which surround child-life in the congested districts of our large cities, and it is daily raising the standard of public health and public sanitation. Let us have more playgrounds, more healthful breathing spaces, more schools equipped with baths and gymnasiums, and more genuine encouragement of healthful sports and athletics. The investment will be more than repaid by the increased mental and physical vigor of the coming generation, who will profit in health and education by the wise provisions of our legislators.”

—The Journal of the American Medical Association, in a discussion of typhoid fever and its prevention by vaccination, figures that “even if every man, woman and child were vaccinated the income to physicians from vaccinating 91,109,447 people every 10 years would be only $9,110,944, or $911,094 each year. This would be an average of $7 per year for each physician.” Arguing from statistics of fever cases that would be prevented by the serum treatment, the Journal says that each physician “would lose $88.46, his present average income from typhoid, so that his net loss, through the introduction of vaccination, would be $81.46 per year, or $814 in 10 years, a total loss to the entire profession of $10,589,800 a year, or $105,898,000 every 10 years. And,” adds the Journal, “It is safe to say that had vaccination never been discovered, physicians would today be making $1000 caring for smallpox patients where they now make $1 for vaccinations. Yet the ignorant and the thoughtless still talk about the graft of vaccination.”

Here are some of the health proverbs which should be pasted in the hat :■—

“The man who says he had rather have smallpox than be vaccinated, never had the smallpox.”

“An open window is better than an open grave.”

“Warm rooms have killed morie people than ever froze to death.”

“If you let the child have measles when he, is young, you may save a doctor’s bill later on;, but you may have to pay the undertaker now.”

“A good iron pump costs less than a case of typhoid.”

“If your milkman brings you warm milk, make it hot for him.” “Wire screens in the windows may keep crape from the door.”

“A fly in the milk often means a member of the family in the graye.” “If some people were as much afraid of flies as they are of bad water, there would be less typhoid.”

“When you see a child looking like an angel, do not kiss it; you might make a real angel of it.”

“Scarlatina may not sound so dangerous as scarlet fever, but ask the undertaker.”—Therapeutic Digest.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-463-	f

—“Diseased teeth,” says a statement issued by the National Hygienic Council* “keep the mouth foul and inflamed; they interfere seriously with digestion; they lower the vitality; they cause inflammation and infection of the glands of the nefck, and they infect the food.

“Ninety-six per cent of the school children have decayed teeth. The council believes that a foul mouth is a frequent cause of tuberculosis, pneumonia and other diseases. Neglect of the teeth in the early years of life frequently is the first cause of physical, mental and moral defects.”

—Here are a few suggestions in regard to the things which a careful housewife may find it wise to teach the new maid:—

•r Teach her to put as much furniture as possible outside the room before beginning to sweep, to brush the rest and cover it with dust cloths.

Teach her to soak newspapers in cold water, squeeze them, tear into bits, and sprinkle on the floor to prevent dust flying;.

Teach her to rub the carpet well after sweeping with a cloth wrung out of dean ammonia water—one tablespoonful to two quarts of water.

Teach her to wipe the polished floor with a damp cloth and then rub with a dry one.

Teach her to cover a soft broom with a clean cloth, and brush the ceilings and walls.

Teach her to dean the windows while the dust is settling.

Teach her to use a flat paint brush for window frames and latches.--------

“Health/' London.

—For the promotion and maintenance of the health of the pupils in the public schools of Buffalo, N. Y., two swimming teachers have recently been appointed, one a man for the boys, the other a woman for the girls.

—The man whose business requires only active, muscular exercise in the open air can eat with impunity many goods which would be very harmful to the man of sedentary habits. The hod carrier or teamster finds pork, pabbage, and beans exactly suited to his taste and needs, but the bookkeeper, student, or professional man neither needs nor can safely use them. The; more one’s business taxes brain and nerve, the more careful ought one to be in the selection of food.

“What is one man’s food is another man’s poison,” is an adage that is becoming more and more true as the diversity of vocation increases, and divergent temperaments are intensified by modern civilization.

To a considerable extent one must find out by experience the particular foods that agree or disagree, each man for himself. This much is certain-, however, that at least half of the things used as food to-day are not fit for food for any man—or~beast, for that matter.

The body is largely what we make it by the food we eat. The stunted Chinese, the brawny Russian, the heavy Hollander, the agile North American Indian, the short, thick Esquimaux, the dark, bilious Spaniard, the ruddy, stout Englishman, the muscular American farmer, the willowy, facile Parisian belle, are just what they are mainly because of the kind of food they eat. Success and failure in*, life are far oftener due to good or bad food than appears in our biographies.—“Health ”

Digitized by L^ooQle
-464-

BOOK REVIEW.

—“DANCES,	DRILLS AND ENTERTAINMENTS,” by

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren, Physical Director Y. W. C. A. Burlington, Iowa. 52 pages 6 by 9 inches. Published by the author. Price 75 cents.

In this book Mrs. Lundgren places before the public her own cam-positions, dances and novelties designed for many occasions. We feel confident that they will be of great service to all who have the need of new features for entertainments and exhibitions.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

HUMAN CONFESSIONS, by Frank Crane, 228 pages 5x7y2 inches. Published by Forbes and Company, Chicago, III. Price $1.00.

This is a volume of about a hundred short essays on all manner of subjects—Art and Democracy, Belief and Fancy, the Church, Commercialism, Courage, Desires, Expediency, The Friendly Universe, The Growth of Ideals, ’and so on until we should have quoted the entire index. Suffice it to say that we have here a very readable discussion of most worth-while topics—the sort of things two or three friends theorize about in serious moments. . And indeed we recognize our own ideas, the notions of a poet or philosopher who has inspired us long ago, or perhaps a thought that strikes us forcibly because of its real originality and truth.

The tone of the book is sincere with only occasionally a turgid and moralizing note. One can get some idea of the whole from these few selections:

“My reader, who is before my mind’s eye in every utterance I make,, is a man who is old enough to have suffered, and still young enough to have faith. I am? not to him a friend nor an enemy, a teacher, a preacher, nor an antagonist. I am a chance acquaintance whom he will consort with only •so long as he can get anything worth while from me.”

“Every organization which is based upon the theory that its members

are better than the rest of the world is essentially immoral....... The

staple joys, the every-day usable, inexhaustible joys that do not wear out, are those we have in common with every cl'ass of men.”

“The high joy of existence is precisely the ability to see those rare tints^ of inability and glory that hover about the commonplace.”

“Loveableness is the one grace that must be genuine; we can pretend honesty and piety, but loveableness is the very flavor of our personality.”

“We edit ourselves too much. We contract a literary self-consciousness. We do not think; we recollect what we have seen printed.”

“Whoever believes in himself, in his fellowmen and in the eternal cosmic goodness, is young even if sixty and bald; and whoever distrusts himself, doubts his neighbors and regards the universe as a poker game or a steam engine, is old eves at twenty-one.”

“The greatest good is to be found in taking things as they came with a healthy digestion that transforms experience into character.”

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin^

/' / ' V;	RND W