MIND AND BODY

FEBRUARY, 1914.

Vol. 20.

No 226

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.	'

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis. Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—In a recent issue we called attention to what appeared to us a remarkable awakening as to the real value of athletics and the Olympic games. As noted in our athletic news, three European nations have secured American coaches to drill their competitors by American methods that their young men may enter the next Olympic games, to be held in Berlin in 1916, on even terms with the Americans.

One of the most significant signs of the times is that in England, the greatest sport nation of modern times when the participation of the masses is concerned, a powerful movement has arisen not against participation in the Olympic games, but against preparing their young men for these games by means that we in America are accustomed to.

That there is a wide-spread belief also in this country that the methods which Sweden, Germany and Austria are introducing in order to beat the Americans “at their own game” are wrong is evidenced by an increasing number of editorials in the better class of our journals. We to-day publish two editorials, one from the Boston Herald of January 6th, the second from the Young Men's Christian Association monthly, “Physical Training,” December issue.

—Sports for all.—England is to be congratulated on her failure to raise the fund of half a million dollars to prepare and train her athletes for the Olympic games in Berlin in 1916. A scant $30,000, half of which went for expenses, was collected to retrieve Britain’s “lost honor in sport.” For this highly creditable parsimony, the English press is responsible. Nearly all the papers deplored the tendency to sacrifice the accepted ideal of “sport for sport’s sake” to the specialization which makes for purely artificial and unessential values in athletics.

Germany now faces a similar problem. The question was raised by the report of the Olympic commission, which exhibited a marked

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 434 —

prejudice against the training of the many rather than the few. From the commissioners’ point of view, Germany does not produce record-breaking athletes to win laurels for the nation. A brief visit to the United States did not alter their conclusions. Their report dwells on the excellence of athletic practice in our public schools, which it holds up as models, because of the universal participation of the student body. Could any impression be more erroneous, and could any plan for their adoption be more retrogressive when one considers the German system of today?

A single comparison throws light on the athletic work in the German schools. At the dedication exercises of the Berlin stadium, a school regatta was held on the river Spree. Six hundred four-oared shells passed in review before the Emperor prior to the races. It is doubtful whether we could muster up as many crafts in the whole country, or find in even our largest cities 2400 school boys who could sit in a shell without danger of upsetting it. Probably not one of these crews could defeat even the weakest of our high school “fours” whose appearance in the Charles river basin invariably attracts a small, crowd on the Harvard bridge and esplanade. But what of it ? Which country is the wiser in its method ? Surely not America. It will mean a sad awakening for Germany, should she allow herself to be sufficiently blinded by false values to give up her magnificent exemplification of “the greatest good for the greatest number” in pursuit of phantom laurels.

—Editorial Comment.—Recently representatives from other nations have come to this country to study the management of competitive athletics in America. These have returned to their country with the impression that they have thoroughly studied the methods in vogue. The victories of the American teams in the Olympic games have stirred other nations to a desire to emulate American methods. We trust other nations will copy only our strong points and not fail to profit by our failures. It would be decidedly unfortunate if they should reproduce the weaknesses we know exist in our system of athletic administration and training, such as undue over-specialization, the exaggerated emphasis upon victory, the unfair system of recruiting athletes, the special favors conferred upon them and the undue exaltation of the successful athlete. We do not believe these representatives thoroughly, or rather completely, investigated all of the aspects of this question. They seemed content to look into the plan of coaching entirely new to them—and in some respects, if they only knew it, which they would be better off without. They did not study some of the more unfavorable results of such a system. They were not careful enough to secure all of the facts and did not discuss the subject with all the leaders. For illustration, to our knowledge no attempt whatever was made to study the athletic work of the Young Men’s Christian Associations, and yet this institution has had

Digitized by V.ooQle
— 435 —

a wide experience in the administration of athletic sports. Nor do we believe educational institutions received the thorough investigation of their methods which was essential if American athletics were to be really understood.

The leaders in sport in America at present are not unanimous in their praise of present methods of management, and conditions cannot be accurately understood nor fairly measured without the point of view and the experience of the two distinctive groups of leaders which now exist. We believe these foreign representatives received only one point of view and that was the old point of view now largely being discarded. We fear that not only were our visitors to blame, but more so those that received them and were responsible for their direction.

—The splendid article “Germany and America,” by Albert Sie-bert, Ph. D., a schoolman who showed his great interest in all forms of body training by visiting everything to be seen in the East and West during his stay of over a year in this country, printed in this issue of Mind and Body, shows that the German Olympic Commission has not sensed the trend of thought among the best thinkers of Germany. Particular attention is called to that part of the article speaking of the nervous tension under which competitors labor.

—Hoiv about the Neiv Dances?—Much discussion has been taking place, not only in America but also in Europe, about the “new” dances, the term meaning tha many variations of the one-step, also the tango. The “Independent1* has an illuminating note about these dances which will interest our readers. This .says:	The

world will dance. It always has danced. It always will. And so long as it does it will dance the best dances to be had.

The simple truth of all this recent agitation is that the new dances are better than most of the old ones. Now, we would not be quite so iconoclastic as to aver that anything can be better than a dreamy waltz, well written, well played, and well danced. But take the thing by and large, the dances of the new day are immeasurably better than the dances of our youth.

For this there are several reasons. In the' first place we have discovered a new dance rhythm. The good old waltz went one, two, three; one, two, three—perfect rhythm of its kind. The two-step went one two, one two, one two. The one-step has reduced the ythm to its lowest terms—one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one,—r a rhythm as fascinating as it is primitive. When the world feels that rhythm pounding through the strains of a tune of the day it cannot help but dance.

Then, too, the new dances are as various as human nature itself. There is the one-step, appearing in a score of modifications from

Digitized by
— 436 —

grape-vine to castle walk. The waltz, perennial in its sensuous beauty, is transformed into the Boston, the hesitation, even the lame-duck, as odd in execution as in name. Then the tango, a difficult dance of stately measures, a kind of minuet a deux, until it becomes infected with the speed mania of the age and emerges as the tango of Argentina.

In this very quality of the new dances which fascinates, their variety, lies their difficulty. You must have danced with your partner before if you would be successful. You must know his style or hers. Unless, of course, you are that wonderful and too rare object, a natural and perfect dancer. Then, if you be masculine, your partner will find herself compelled hypnotically to follow; if you be feminine, you will follow any leading.

Dancing is a gift of the gods. It sets the blood to racing, drives away black care, exhilarates body, mind, and spirit. It is the one sport that brings the sexes together on an equality of execution.

The new dances, par excellence, give oxygen to the blood, vigor to the muscles, gayety to the spirits, refreshment to the mind. Already their early exuberances, which tended toward vulgarity, are toning down. They have received no fiercer denunciation than did the polka or the waltz when they appeared.

—Don’t forget the St. Louis Convention of the American Physical Education Association, April i, 2, 3 and 4. The various local committees under direction of Mr. A. E. Kindervater are hard at work to make the convention a success. In the next issue of Mind and Body the complete program of all the meetings, exhibitions, visits, etc., will be published. In the meantime make your arrangements to be present at the convention.

NEWS-NOTES.

NOTES FROM THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, LA CROSSE, WISCONSIN.

Owing to the Christmas holidays the school activities had slackened, but the work is started again and enthusiasm in athletics and gymnastics is high. A new Athletic Association has been organized and a committee is busy drawing up a constitution. At present the interest and attention is centered upon the exhibition given by the physical education class and the regular Normal School classes on Jan. 23. Aesthetic dancing, marching tactics, Indian club drills, fencing, and exercises on the parallel bars by the physical education class, and dumbell, free exercises and wand drills and class exercises on side horse, buck and pyramids by the regular Normal School classes are the features of the display to be given on that evening. Preceding the entertainment, the normal school band of forty pieces will give a popular concert.

Digitized by Google
— 437 —

Dr. Sputh, head of the physical education department, has held consultations with the several architects, and the plans for the new $10,000 gymnasium were discussed. Bids will be opened for th« new building Feb. i and work will be started on that structure shortly afterwards.

Arthur Strum, Reporter.

NEWARK NOTES.

At the recent examination, held December 20th, 1913, for candidates to teach physical training in the Newark public school system, only seven young men appeared. Four positions are open and will be filled at the beginning of the new term.

The Newark Physical Education Society is growing. Within the last two months twelve new members have been enrolled. A course of lectures have been mapped out for the new year. Regular monthly meetings are held the second Monday of each month.

The department of physical training, of the Newark schools, will soon complete a revision of the course of study in physical training. This revision has taken months of work. The new edition will be ready in February.

The Newark public schools have had a Public School Athletic Association since 1903, but this has only included the grammar schools of the city. Recently the high schools of Newark have also organized an Athletic Association. Wayland E. Stearns, principal of the Barringer high school, was elected president.

Four Leagues of basket-ball have been organized among the grammar schools of the city. Games are played on Tuesdays, Thursday, and Fridays, in the afternoon. Admittance to these games can be obtained only by ticket, and the number of spectators is governed only by the amount of room that can be allotted to them.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, MINOT, NORTH DAKOTA.

The increase in enrollment of the State Normal School at Minot, N. D., was very gratifying, there being eighty enrolled when the school closed for the Christmas vacation against fifty-two at the opening on September 30. The winter term began on January 6, with an addition of fifteen names to the register.

The course in physical education during the fall term was very satisfactory to both students and faculty. The auditorium of the armory, which was used for this work, proved to be quite adequate. Although the purchase of apparatus has been delayed, much benefit was derived from the work in free exercises, games and dances. Basket-ball especially, created much interest. A course in Methods in Physical Education was also given. Bids for a very good apparatus equipment have been received, which apparatus will be installed during the coming month.

Digitized by
— 438 —

That, the social life at the school has not been neglected is shown by the numerous functions held in the armory. In addition to these a number of hikes and skating parties were enjoyed by the students and faculty.

Much interest and enthusiasm were displayed by the pupils of the model school, particularly in the work in physical education. The splendid weather made it possible to give much of this exercise outdoors, chiefly in the form of plays and games. All classes took part in the work, and enjoyed it very much, especially the upper grade boys, between whom there has been a keen rivalry on the baseball diamond.

The playground apparatus erected has proved verv popular. This consists of an equipment of swings, teeter boards, horizontal bars, horizontal ladder, balance poles, basket ball goals, and of volley ball and tennis posts.

GERMANY AND AMERICA FOLK FESTIVALS AND INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC GAMES.

By ALBERT SIEBERT, Ph. D., Berlin, Germany.

(Translated from the German in the “Monatschrift fur das Turnwesen. ”)

The German “Turnfest” in 1913 and the International Olympic Games in 1912 have both claimed the attention of the entire world as gigantic and impressive demonstrations. While the two were essentially different, it must be said of both that they were characteristic and effective pictures of the work of the organizations under whose auspices the festivals were held. Both “Turnen” and sports could here be observed in their highest stage of development. Both movements were presented in their fundamentals, and their high standard of technical excellence was adequately represented. German gymnastics as well as Anglo-Saxon sport are products of their respective home sods. Both have had their development from within, and have been strongly influenced by national tendencies and historic necessity as well as by the actual needs of the people. Thus they show the different basal principles of the past, indicate the difference of development in the present, and point out some future problems. Side by side these two have grown into movements which have made regulated, systematic exercises possible for millions of people. For this reason, if for no other, they represent important manifestations in the eyes of the historian, the educator, the physiologist and the sociologist. Neither movement has been limited to its own country, but has, to a certain degree, extended its influence over the civilized world.

NOTE:—Dr. Siebert was Exchange-professor at Yale during 1909-10. He also visited many cities to study their playground systems.

Digitized by Google
— 439 —

It is indeed noteworthy that two nations which each created a definite independent mental, cultural, social, economic and political life should also have developed independent forms of physical exercise. I am here considering the Swedish form of exercise as an important accompaniment of German “Turnen,” and, on the other hand, the American sport as an accompaniment of the English sport, both the Swedish and American forms having developed into independent and peculiar significance. It was not an accident, then, but a necessity which has given the English sport a different form from the German “Turnen.” The ideal in English sport as in other English activities, is individualistic. When during the middle of the nineteenth century it developed into full blossom, the ideal of English education became the lifting of the individual above the mass. It was, and still is, an ideal of publicity according to which the individual because of his shrewdness forces others to the rear in national as well as in international competition. Initiative, individualism and record performance are the aims of the English merchant and politician as well as sportsman.

The great problem confronting the German people during that same period was one dictated by the times, namely to create first of all a unified nation. Almost methodically German gymnastics, which had begun so modestly, developed under this stimulus into a gigantic movement. It is one of the great national movements which had their origin in the last 150 years—the new literature, philosophy, pure and technical science, politics, military and naval science.

The future historian who will review all of these movements cannot fail to get the impression that here an entire people were consciously and methodically to develop itself from insignificance to a mighty and unified structure. German gymnastics consciously embraces the aim toward nationality, and intentionally it preserves the popular or mass ideal. It has helped unify the nation and develop a feeling of homogeneity; it has helped inspire and create an organized national will. The future historian writing about the development of the German Empire might call his work: From Idealism to Organization by Means of Conscious Will.

It is only natural, then, that there could be no thought for the development of the individual. If a nation was to be created it was of first importance that the individual subordinate himself, his inclinations, and his habits of living. The chief value of German gymnastics then, lies in its significance as a patriotic and educational movement involving the entire people. The question which has of late claimed attention in connection with efforts further to extend the field of physical education, is to what extent gymnastics in Ger: many shall take over parts of English-American sport. The question of Swedish gymnastics has been forced into the background entirely because of this. Why should we not learn what is valuable
— 440 —

from Anglo-Saxon sport? As a matter of fact, this sport as well as Swedish gymnastics dates back to the foundation laid by Guts Muths and Jahn. It must be stated here that sport is by no means the only form of physical exercise in America. On the contrary, in most schools, universities and playgrounds, German and Swedish gymnastics are permanently installed. Especially great has been the influence of the German playground movement The great playground developments of Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, etc., are noticeably similar to those of Brunswick and Kiel. A further influence is discoverable in an extensive movement headed by educators^ physicians physiologists and sociologists which aims to combat the one-sided record system, and which advocates the general training of the masses.

America is the land of records, of championships. This is comprehensible in a land of restless, onward striving, of unlimited business competition, of tremendous economic possibilities, where all progress is measured by figures. Sport, like everything else, had to become a measurable championship performance. Together with the division of labor, so characteristic of English-American life came specialization in athletics and shrewd methods of training for specific forms of sport.

There can be no doubt that we have derived from this benefits hitherto unknown. Large numbers who stood by idly have become interested in physical exercise and have been stimulated by the ambition to play a part in public, to make a record for school, college or city. This aim for record performances has, above all, resulted in attention to clothing, bodily care, treatment of muscle, diet, and equipment of shower and massage rooms, all of which are of permanent importance. An extensive system of competition between schools, cities, etc., insures general and lasting interest. From the student body of schools the best men are selected by the coach and trained in the technique of the special events. Eating, drinking, and the general mode of life during the weeks of training are prescribed. From a purely physiological point of view it is important to ascertain how with such selection, such training, such regulated living, suitable clothing and advantageous equipment endurance and skill may develop, and what record performance may result. In thus raising the standard of form sport unquestionably has rendered an important service. We must not, however, ignore the other side of the question. America being a voung country is unhampered by tradition, but just on this account it often carries every movement to an extreme. Sport, instead of remaining a means of caring for the body became an end in itself. Unfortunately sport too, like most things in this country, has become commercialized. Even universities and schools find it difficult to evade this evil. These institutions suffer in addition from another evil. The sport in these places with

Digitized by v^,ooQle
— 441 —

its intensity, its excitement and its combats, so fills the time and absorbs the minds of the youth that there remains little zest for work. The competition of schools, and the record mania carry with them tendencies which, viewed from the standpoint of character and schocl work, are anything but of high order. It is an open secret that many higher institutions of learning carry on a system of proselytizing, that is, attempts to draw young fellows of exceptional athletic ability to the institution and thereby better its chances in competition. Scholarships and other financial aid are usually offered in return. The teams are frequently sent on trips of competition, the expenses for which are paid by the athletic organization. The institutions of highest standard like Yale, and Harvard or the Boston schools, are probably successful in their endeavor to prevent such abuses, but in many other places the efficiency of the school work is greatly im-oaired. This the thoughtful American recognizes and deplores. He is well aware that these competitions, in order to break records, involve too much time, money and care.

Another danger, no less important, lies in the physical overtension. All height, strength and muscle measurements, all heart examinations preceding the training, or carried on during the training have only limited values. The effect on the nervous system, which for the brain worker is of most vital importance, we cannot measure. It is the nerves that are injured by the intensity of the training and the frequency of competition with the inevitable accompaniment of nervous excitement. Great as the value of stimulation through competition may be, there is also the grave danger oi over-stimulation. Students who are expected to carry on an exacting mental activity for a number of years cannot, without drawing on their nerve capital, submit to any long continued training for series of competitions. It would be far wiser for them to pursue i course of training for health with only moderate exercise of the physical powers and relaxation of the mental powers.

At the present time municipal authorities working together with physicians and educators, are trying to find means by which to relieve high school students as much as possible of the nervous tension accompanying the many examinations. To be sure we are justified hi demanding a considerable amount of productiveness, mental exertion and control of nerves. But there is much unnecessary nervous strain even in examinations, and it would certainly be inconsistent to permit of injuries through nervous over-exertion in athletic training while we are trying to prevent this in other branches of education. It does not at all follow that one needs to be opposed to Olympic sport or record seeking. One may unreservedly praise the advantages coming from American athletic activities and still feel it one's duty to warn against the excesses which often accompany them.

Such excesses are in evidence in our Olympic games. The ad-
— 442 —

mirers of these activities claim that they promote sport and create better international feeling. It is inconceivable that one should attend one of these festivals and not be deeply impressed even though one does not share the hypnotic craze of competition or come within the astonishing strong influence of mass psychology.

It is wise, however, to promote the idea: Germany vs. France; America vs. England, as though the honor or power of these countries were being tested? This would indeed be coining new values. It certainly is erroneous to assume that these young athletes whose strength, agility and endurance thrill us, necessarily represent the flower of their nations in mental achievement, beauty of soul, worth of character, or that they have been summoned to adjust political or economic tensions. The International Olympic games in fact, could bring about a great deal more personal and general appreciation than they do. Witness the bitter complaint at the Olympiad in London over the English-Colonial combination and the Franch-English alliance. Consider, on the other hand, the complaint of England and France about the exaggerated solidarity of the Americans as manifested by their organized cheering.

It is reasonably certain that if this course be pursued further it will lead to degeneration, if not cessation of the Olympic games. There is an opportunity to remedy this in the near future and the reform can be brought about by the joint co-operation of the nations most concerned; namely, the Germans, as managers of the next Olympic games, and the Americans, as the highest ranking nation in Olympic sport.

It is evident that a country like the United States which has grown from a colony to a political and economic world power, a country which can grow still further in extent and industry, shoulcL be proud of its leadership in sport. Having, however, attained that position, it might attain further distinction by assisting in the wider development of the Olympic games, so as to insure harmony among the nations.

These words have been written in the hope that they may also be read by Americans. I have always found that intelligent Americans are receptive to objective criticism although they may at first care most for increasing the prestige of their country and spreading their national ideas and sports.

Germany and the United States have, to say the least, a common interest in strongly advocating what is valuable and useful in education and physical exercise, and in discarding what is harmful. It is most earnestly to be desired that wherever representatives of these two nations are engaged in friendly rivalry they may be on the best of terms.

We kindly request our subscribers when reporting changes of address to give both the old and new one.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 443 —

A SIMPLE UNDERGARMENT.

A single undergarment possessing the characteristics of a petticoat, a chemise, closed drawers and open drawers has recently been designed primarily for the use of school girls and also for the general use of women. Possessing the warmth and comfort of closed drawers, the convenience of open drawers, the appearance of a ripple petticoat and the advantages of a chemise in a sbingle garment it has found instant favor among mothers and their daughters. By reducing the number of undergarments in the weekly wash it has enabled mothers to provide a more frequent change of underclothing for their daughters, improving hygienic conditions without adding any additional burdens upon the household.

The garment is primarily a pair of closed drawers fitted snugly around the hips and buttoning in front, and the chemise is joined to it at the waist. The garment is not fitted at the waist, being provided with a drawing string to render adjustment at this point easy of accomplishment. The fact that it is a single garment gives it two distinct hygienic advantages. It enables the wearer to bear the entire weight of the garment from the shoulders instead of requiring the girl to bear the weight of her drawers from the hips and it removes from the waist that multiplicity of undergarments which is so frequently the cause of pelvic congestion, discomfort and disease.

The fact that this garment is a pair of closed drawers makes it especially suited to the needs of the school girl. It affords the wearer the greater warmth and comfort of drawers of this type. Yet the design of the garment gives it in addition all of the advantages of open drawers. The wide flare around the bottom of the drawers permits them to be drawn aside without unfastening the garment. The serious discomfort, lack cf proper ventilation and circulation, and unsanitary condition resulting from the binding action of closed drawers between the legs is not found in this garment because the crotch, which in an ordinary pair of closed drawers is about nine inches from the bottom of the garment, is only five inches from the bottom in this hygienic undergarment.

School girls frequently wear a petticoat beneath their short skirts because they wish an undergarment in addition to their drawers even though there is no distinct hygienic need for this additional garment. The petticoat is desired because when they romp and play their dress skirt is sometimes brushed aside and the display of the petticoat is considered more modest than the display of drawers. Yet physicians know that multiplicity of undergarments is not hygienic. Our new undergarment because of its exceedingly wide flare at the knee has the appearance of a petticoat when it comes to view and enables the school girl to dispense with the petticoat without suffering embarassment.

NOTE:—Interested readers can, by the editor, be put in touch with the writer of the above article.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 444 —

COMMENTS ON DR. CURTIS’ ARTICLE IN THE NOVEMBER NUMBER OF “THE PLAYGROUND.”*

By ERNST HERMANN, Superintendent of Playgrounds, Newton, Mass.

In his admirable paper on “Playground Equipment” in the November number of “The Playground,” Dr. Henry S. Curtis presents many valuable ideas. This forthcoming book should prove a distinct addition to our playground literature.

The relative value of play with or without apparatus needs, however, more discussion. It is undoubtedly true that some of the playground apparatus which are at present in use on some playgrounds, the kind usually devised by playground outfitters, are at the present not very popular with a majority of the children. Tam, first and last, a firm believer in the great need for formal physical training in connection with child-education, and I am quite satisfied that playgrounds are the proper departments to undertake this work in the future. I am very glad to note that some of the huge, ugly, ill-planned outdoor gymnasium structures are being dispensed with, but I should be very sorry if they were not at once replaced by better arrangements. The huge structures arranged in one compact frame usually take up the most valuable play spaces. Their arrangement makes supervision and systematic use very difficult. I am glad that our playground planners are beginning to appreciate the value of correct arrangement of construction, equipment and implements. Yet I would zvarn all playground directors that the entire removal of the so-called gymnasium apparatus would prove a very serious loss to our children. Who can doubt the value of such outdoor gymnasiums as the girls' and little children's end of the Charlesbank Gymnasium in Boston? The boys' end has been a big failure. This girls' playground could be made even more efficient if the apparatus placed there were differently arranged. However, all who have seen this place will admit that it is one of the liveliest playgrounds, day by day, in this country, and that play here is always spontaneous, and that the girls develop tremendous skill, and that they need very little supervision. Of course, this place always did have good directors.

Dr. Curtis in his article seems to analyze all play by the atavistic theory. “In play every mood and movement is instinct with heredity.” “Play is the motor habits and spirit of the past race persisting in the present.” / This theory explains to a small degree the play instincts in animals, but by no means explains it all. Since Dr. Curtis used the atavistic theory frequently in his article on equipment and since he specially explains play by this theory in the closing sentences of his first paragraph, I would like to call attention to the fact that

* This paper was prepared in answer to a request from the editor of the Playground and Recreation Associat’on of America.)

Digitized by C.oooLe
— 443 —

our children’s most remote ancestors probably surpassed our more recent progenitors in what we now sometimes call acrobatic skill. Also, that our more recent ancestors were obliged to climb into their attic chambers, pull themselves into their cliff dwellings; in warfare and hunting had to vault fences, had to jump barricades, climbed embattlements, shinnied trees for lookout; picked more fruit themselves from trees in one season than we do now in all our lives. If the hunting experience of our forebearers explains our boy’s desires to '“hit the street lamps” why not let it also explain his desire to climb trees; and since we have not enough trees to last all our children’s play, why not have apparatus to fill out and to stimulate this valuable inherited instinct? Why not? Especially since these climbing and shinnying exercises would give him a deep and broad chest without the use of pulley weights and “spinal braces” and corrective gymnastics. What made the monkey’s chest so deep?—his climbing; what makes his waist so small?—his vaulting; what makes his loins so strong?—his balancing on shaking branches; what has developed man’s courage, judgment and vision, self-reliance and confidence? Why go any further in this inquiry into the causes of good motor co-ordinations and the development of skill, the emotions and the judgment,

The great trouble in the failure to appreciate these pieces of apparatus, and also their apparent neglect, lies in the same reason which has been given to explain why we must teach games to our American children, and why we must have teachers who can play themselves, who can lead children to better plan and who can develop self-management in play.

In what way can we have real spontaneous play if it is not with such means and methods with which our progenitors developed their neuro-muscular system ?

We also must remember that physically and physiologically the human waist, muscles and a deep chest are of the very greatest importance in bodily health and efficiency, and that those exercises generally are the most valuable in which arms and legs, and hands and feet are simultaneously employed.

By all means let us do away with manufacturers’ planned outdoor gymnasiums and apparatus and their arrangements. By all means let us get men and women who can appreciate real boys’ and girls’ activities, and who can lead in forms of apparatus exercises as well as in manly games and in fair conduct. Let us learn to appreciate that apparatus play is older than most other forms of play, that apparatus play has a tremendous influence in children’s mental, physical and moral development, and last but not least, let us all appreciate that it is just this form of play activities zvhich our children do not now get in their home environment, in their ash barrel backyards and their narrow tenement homes.

Digitized by CiOOQle
— 446 —

Let us study, in comparison, what the boys do in the country where they have trees and sheds, fences and rails and rocks and mountains, and where they have animals to ride and to drive.

So many of our building trades require men with steady nerves, keen judgment, great courage, strong hands and sure feet.

We need all kinds of climbing devices, all kinds of structures to get upon and to get down from and jump off from. Let us imitate the equipment of the exercising yards of the infantry with their escaladier apparatus, their deep-jump pits, their balance beams over deep trenches and artificial .brooks, their walls and their other oIh stacles.

Let us have these apparatus of varying heights giving varying degrees of difficulty to suit even the youngest, and .we need not fear accidents. We have altogether a too senile idea of what constitutes real play for real children, and because of an accident here and there, and because we have so few skilled teachers on our playgrounds we have discouraged everything that has in it an element of falling. We must remember that the real boys will get these experiences somewhere. One year our papers in my town reported at least one accident per week to boys playing on cars in the local railroad yard.

We have almost completely neglected to study the differences of spontaneous motor education of former and present generations, of former and present trades, of former and present emotions. We have emphasized the moral value and the social and civic influence of plays and games. We do not get down enough to the real level of children. No boy ought to play ball games all the time. The best recreation idea cannot mean only the development of love for sports with an element of chance in them. A good recreation habit must mean something very much fuller. Of course, physiologically this means a great deal to fully matured men and women, but when we think of providing the right kind of play for children, is it wise to think only of the moral, the social, the physiological reactions? Ought we not to keep in mind that the greatest tragedy of the 20th century lies in the lack of variety of motor-reactions? To be brainbuilding any sense stimulation which a child receives should be followed by a motor reaction. We would make poor racial progress if our boys and girls were only to play ball games, if we encouraged only such sports which are sporty, i. e., which have an element of chance. It is true we need these games for social and civic progress, but these games and their forms of play do not fill our .children's needs by a long way. The human hand made the human brain, and when the hand enabled us to lift ourselves off the grounl, we developed an entirely new; set of neuro-muscular co-ordinations and brain cells. Man and monkey became superior to four-footers when they were able to lift themselves off the ground. Man ever since had to develop new skill and new - dexterity to get himself -and his

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 447 —

body into proper relations to the objects of his creative genius. Not only must we continue to adapt ourselves to new hand tools, but we must continue to develop skill and dexterity, strength and poise of the whole body to retain our mastery over the structures we create. A boy who cannot get on top of a shed except by well guarded stairs is a step backward in racial development not only in nervous efficiency but also in physical growth.

Let us have plenty of space, plenty of structures resembling the structures of the old-fashioned farms and yards, plenty of apparatus for the training of the zvhole muscular system, plenty of tools for working the earth and the wood which have always been our best “brain builder.,,

For the young, our playgrounds at least must offer the opportunities which the home environment formerly provided. There should be for all many opportunities for developing the complete control of the body. This can be accomplished only with the help of many kinds of apparatus, and with odd structures which require the use of hands and feet.

In our playground development we must constantly keep in mind what the life history of the race has been, and particularly the history of the development of the human brain through the instrumentality of the muscles. We must certainly keep in mind the forces which have brought about the upright position of the genus homo, and plan such activities which will prevent a deviation from the upright carriage, and the loss of outlines of chest, waist and loins. The Groos’ theory of practice and preparations for adult activities must be our leading thought in planning our playgrounds for children. The life history of the race will point out to us what experiences should be continued and what new ones we may have to provide in order to prevent retrogression. At the best our playgrounds are but a more or less artificial means to reproduce an environment under which race progress may continue. Here we also should remember that we have to deal with larger amounts of surplus energy and a consequently greater number of mentally and physically abnormal children and adults.

Terminology.

I believe what Dr. Curtis terms equipment should be classed under construction, and as such they are structures. All fixtures I would term apparatus and all “smaller things” implements.

Fences.

It seems to me that all experienced playground directors have agreed that every playground should be fenced in large cities and everywhere where there is danger from loafers and passers-by, and from “short cuts.” One imoortant reason I should add and that is that without fences all playgrounds become short cuts for non-players and thereby are a danger to both the pedestrian who is in the habit of making the short cut, and to the players.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 448 —

I would always advise the planting of vines and narrow strips of shrubbery on the playground side of the fence, and better still on both sides of the fence. We should exclude as far as possible the sights of the streets and screen our players from the curious outsiders, especially for the sake of women and girls and older men who when unskilled in play are easily embarrassed and discouraged. To make our girls’ play a spectacle for the morbid and the depraved is very undesirable. I agree with Dr. Curtis that woven wire fences are best, especially if re-enforced concrete posts are used, and I would add that it is well to have the outer fence seven to eight feet hmh and the division fences six feet. Wherever the division fence serves as stops for ball games as in tennis and fistball, etc., games, I would make the fence ten to twelve feet high. Woven wire fences should have at least a top and bottom rail, and if over six feet high, also a middle rail which should, however, be on the inside of the playground.

In this connection we should also take up the discussion of gates and entrances. I am of the opinion that there should be only one main entrance for both young and old, boys and girls; that this entrance should be either close to the shelter building, or there should be a special lodge and a gatekeeper. After passing the main gate there should be different avenues, gates or openings for the boys and men, girls and little children and women. There should be, in addition, auxiliary gates near the main baseball diamond where crowds will have to be accommodated at the close of big games and on field days. There should also be auxiliary gates between sections of the playground (if division fences are thought to be necessary.—Ed.) to enable directors to pass readily from one section to another. To have some lines of demarcation and for the purpose of more shade there should be rows of good shade trees wherever possible. A place where I should always put such rows of trees, without a fence, would be between the children’s sand gardens and baby apparatus and the girls’ playground. I always advocate the planting of shade trees along all border fences; but where space for flying balls is required, for instance, along the lines formed by the home plate and the first and third bases, I advise the planting of poplar trees. This is necessary if the diamond is within thirty feet of the borders of the playground. Where actual play space is very valuable and the area is not large enough for larger landscape effects, we should cover the fence with vines and set a narrow edge of shrubberies. This will not only exclude ugly outside sights, will not only insure inside privacy but always gives to the eyes of the players a restful green background.

The Sand Play.

Much could be said about this greatest of motor educational and imagination-stimulating play. I should let nothing discourage us

Digitized by O-ooQle
— 449 —

from offering these opportunities. I would naturally aim at getting the best quality of sand, the best possible wooden or cement bins, the best kind of bottom under the sand; but yet, if I could not afford anything but poor local mixture of sand, clay and gravel, I would provide this rather than go without any sand play. I would not let the crankiest of microbe fiends deter me from keeping a sand pile even if it were almost black, if I could not afford new and better sand. The microbe hunters are altogether too “scared” people to have charge of healthy youngsters. A normal youngster with vigorous outdoor physical work has in his system that which will defy all “bugs.” Of course, I would get the best of sand if I could afford it. I would have, if possible, two sets of sand bins and use them alternately by the week. When I am using one set I would let sunshine, rain, wind and the caretaker’s muscles purify and loosen the other sand bin. I would cover my sand piles by shade trees and even build shelters and awnings over them, because I like to have the little children use them even in rainy weather. Yet, I would have my awnings or wooden covers so arranged that I could let rain and sunshine into the sand when I wanted to. I would not have all the sand piles moist enough for building purposes, but always keep at least one dry sand pile for the very small children who need to get “touch experiences” and who must get the feeling of the sand dribbling through their fingers. This dry sand pile should be sand (seashore) which will not pack solid. The children should, if possible, have an opportunity to bury themselves in the warm, dry sand.

The bottom of a sand pile or bin should always be well drained. It is easier to moisten the pile artificially than it is to dry it to a needed degree for building purposes. If the sand piles are useless for a number of days after a heavy rain they are a great loss to the children.

I would, if possible, have one large sand bin or sand pile, but I like also a number of smaller ones, say five feet by five feet in size ( 5 1 x 5 *) which can be given to individual children by the week, by the day or by the hour.

This I would do for the same reason for which we give definite garden plots in garden work. A child with capacity for good modelling should have the opportunity to give free rein to his fancy, and this can come only from temporary or permanent command of this “laboratory for future engineers.” This idea can be worked out by having a number of “frames” of sufficient size, which are placed here and there at the edge of a large sand bin, and are then given over to the child or companions who have their exclusive use. I would not exclude the large sand bin. A good sand bin needs other tools besides the customary pails and shovels. There should be “slickers” made from wooden shingles. There should be smooth pebbles, all kinds of blocks, boards and forms.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 450 —

I would always, except in large parks, cover my sand piles at night. I would have every sand pile, except those for special use, groomed by the caretaker at least once every day. I would have a rack with hooks near the bins in plain sight where the children can be made to deposit the tools in an orderly fashion when they leave the sand play. The best pails are those where the eyes for the handles are set below the rim. The best shovels for all kinds of sand play are the large twelve-inch galvanized iron spoons with flat handles.

It is well to stimulate sand play by frequent “expert” modelling or by placing in the neighborhood simple plaster models. You do not need to teach lessons; just sit down occasionally and dig and build, and let your “fancies” take form. Then leave them. The children will have seen you at work; don’t fret about their learning. Watch what will happen, without having given one word of instruction, after you have modeled a backyard in the sand bin.

I would never build my sand bins into the ground, but ratho higher than the surrounding levels.

I should like to give the readers some of my experiences vr wading pools and swimming pools. I should love to discuss 1 relative value of different kinds of swings, the construction of tu surface under swings, of slides, merry-go-rounds, of giant strides, etc., etc., but space does not permit thorough discussion of all thes* valuable features. But, contrary to Dr. Curtis’s views, I must emphasize that all these apparatus are of the greatest value, and that I should never exclude merry-go-rounds and giant strides if I couh afford to buy them. For spontaneous play and the unconscious de velopment of neuro-muscular co-ordinations and judgment, thes apparatus are of the greatest importance.

I cannot close without calling attention to some further valuable equipment. I refer here mainly to those accessories which mak towards more scientific use of certain forms of play, and to thos which make outdoor life more attractive throughout the summer and winter. These are shelter houses for temporary warming durini severe winter weather near skating places and near snow activities then come the benches and tables for quiet play, for busy mothers and for occupation play in warm weather. Under this head I would mention low platforms with small or large surface areas. Sections of such platforms should be sixteen to twenty feet and ten inches high and absolutely level. A number of such sections will finally provide dancing platforms. I doubt if there can be any question about the value of play with building blocks. In the spontaneous mathematical education of the child they are without peer among play implements. How are our children going to learn spontaneously the law of gravity, of lines and angles through the agency of block building unless they have a level and smooth surface to start

Digitized by 0.ooQle
451

with? My experience with such small platforms and whole barrels full of blocks dumped on the platforms leads me to believe that they are of equal value with sand. I shall continue to add platforms, as I add sand bins, and 1 shall add annually more blocks and more varieties of blocks. Next to the platform and close to it there should be a lock-box with at least a cord of blocks. The children must return the blocks to the lock-box when they are through with this form of play. At night the box should be locked.

CORRECTION OF ROUND SHOULDERS THROUGH RESTORATION OF THE NORMAL CONFORMITY OF THE THORAX.

By WILLIAM J. SCHATZ, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pa.

Quite frequently the subject of round shoulders is dismissed by lying that it is due to lengthening or weakness of the longitudinal uscles of the back and of the muscles which adduct the shoulders, jery frequently shortening of the pectorals (and sometimes shorten->g of the serratus anterior) also is mentioned as among the causa-,ATe factors. The corrective measures usually recommended consist, mainly, in efforts to strengthen and shorten the posterior muscles -.and to stretch the pectorals.

The cases are said to be flexible or non-resistant if the shoulders can be brought back into position and good posture assumed. Three six months of daily exercise is considered to be necessary for cor--rection. If reposition of the shoulders and the assumption of good posture is not possible the case is said to be resistant. Stretching the offending structures about the shoulder joint, including the ligaments, is recommended; this to be followed by exercises which strengthen and shorten the posterior muscles. A “long” time is said o be necessary for correction.

4 Cases due to abnormal or diseased condition of the bones such as deformed scapula, Pott's disease or anthritis deformans of the ; spine, and the like are properly excluded from the province of corrective gymnastics. Those due to short ligaments are also excluded.

It is the writer’s opinion that permanent shortening of the depressors of the chest, with associated contraction of the fascias on the anterior surface of the chest, is one of the most important factors if not the most important factor concerned in round shoulders; that many of the resistant cases can be accounted for as occurring through changes in relations as the result of shortened depressors of the chest, and that efforts should be directed upon producing elongation of these anterior structures, and upon improving the condition of the muscles which elevate the chest. Also, because of the constant association of flat chest and round shoulders with each other

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
they may be considered as parts of one abnormal whole. The opinion is based on a study of the normal and abnormal conditions in the living subject and on the cadaver, also on uniform success in the correction of this condition by methods based on the above mentioned

FIG. 1.

Note the extreme posterior convexity (“hump”) in the upper thoracic region. The arrow shows the direction a plumb line would take in a normal case'if it were to touch the posterior convexity; this gives an idea of the extra distance to the posterior midline. The first rib in this specimen is rotated downward so far that its former upper surface is directed outward; the middle of its anterior extremity ;s just four inches lower than its posterior extremity. The fibres of the serratus anterior, still attached in the specimen, formed a sheet of muscle almost as thin as paper. Note that some of #the intercostal spaces are mere slits.

Digitized by CjOOQie
453

principles. The experiments used in the text were devised by the writer to illustrate his interpretation of the movements of the clavicle, scapula, and spine as set forth; the interpretations as to the value of side bendings and rotations of the spine is based on the above observations.

In taking the above view-point it is not to be understood that other factors are not recognized and other methods not commended, for they are; emphasis is simply placed on this aspect.

In order to avoid the complications and involvments of too many explanations the extreme “humped” type of round shoulders will be assumed in the following descriptions, unless otherwise stated, because in it the changes are present in the most exaggerated form. All intermediate grades and types between it and the normal are comprehended.

THE DEPRESSED CHEST OR KYPHOTIC THORAX.

It would be difficult to fancy an infant with round shoulders. Although its little body is extremely flexible, the conformation of its thorax (high chest and straight spine) makes this condition almost an impossibility. With the older child or the adult the matter is different, time having taken the arch from the chest, and bent the spine.

Depression of the chest and round shoulders may be brought about passively by a lengthening of the posterior muscles of the thorax. Active contraction of the muscles which draw the shoulders forward, unless opposed by the elevators of the chest, acting through the clavicle may depress the sternum and thereby the chest. Undoubtedly, however, assistance from the depressors also is a factor.

The most marked depression of the chest is brought about by the active contraction of the depressor muscles, the posterior convexity of the thoracic spine being increased, much like the arching of the bow used in archery is increased by a shortening or tightening of the bow string. The anterior extremeties of the ribs are carried downward and backward and the width of the intercostal spaces from the third to the ninth is greatly decreased except anteriorly and posteriorly. The transverse section of the thorax approaches the quadrilateral (see Fig. 2 and 3) ; the actual dorsum of the thorax formed by the ribs is greatly narrowed and is formed mostly by that part of the ribs posterior to their angles. The back seen from behind appears wide because the shoulders are pulled forward and laterally. The dorsum formed by the ribs and spine is triangular in shape the base being downward (see Fig. 2). Remembering that the lower ribs are pulled backward, downward, and outward by the depressors, the fullness in the lower back seen in permanent pronounced cases is explained. The depressed sternum acting through the clavicle, tilts and holds the acromion process, and, therefore, the

Digitized by (^.ooQle
454

upper part of the scapula, forward and downward. The entire shoulder, including the arm is rotated relatively inward.

Whether the depression of the chest is brought about by active or passive influences is immaterial, if the position is held frequently over long periods, or often with sufficient vigor, the condition becomes permanent. The depressors become permanently shortened and the fascias of the anterior thorax contracted; both oppose eleva-

pig. 2.

The arrow points to the angle formed by the side and thg dofsum. The sides are practically straight and flat. The dorsum at the point indicated by the arrow is six inches wide. The bulging of the lower ribs is well shown. Compare this thorax with the normal as shown in any anatomy.
455

tion of the ribs and chest. Held in a bent position there are alterations in the conformation of the spine (due to structural changes in it, at times) and it becomes resistant also. Its ligaments also are changed.

DISTURBED RELATIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF MOVEMENT.

Slight changes in relation among the structures about the shoulder often bring about marked limitations of movement. Thus,—to illustrate—if arm raising sideways upward or forward is attempted with the arm in extreme forward (inward) rotation, or if the movement shown in Fig. 4 be attempted, it will be found impossible to raise the arms higher than to the horizontal position. The trial in both cases must be made with both arms simultaneously otherwise side bending of the body will take place and the true limitations of abduction of the arm not be so evident. Adduction of the scapulae is also greatly limited in this position.

In the permanently depressed chest disturbances of relation are brought about that limit the degree of adduction of the scapulae and .of arm raising. The normal individual may in a measure appreciate these limitations if he will bring his chin to his sternum and depress his chest as far as possible, now, maintaining this position, adduct his scapulae to the greatest extent possible, then, straightening up, note that he can adduct them still more. Again, from the same position let him attempt arm raising to the vertical position, here also he will find considerable limitation.

From the above it would seem that the same limitations to movement occurring in cases with permanently depressed chests may in a great measure be due to disturbed relations, probably often to shortened ligaments and muscles, and that the permanent shortening of these muscles (pectorals and serratus) may be considered as adaptive changes in them occurring because of the approximation of their origins and insertions over a long period of time. If exercises that raise the chest are provided and they do not assume their former condition they are, probably, at fault.

Normally when the arms are raised to the vertical position overhead by passing sideways upward or forward upward the entire shoulder mechanism moves backward and inward, i. e., with the clavicle acting like the spoke of a wheel, the center being the sterno-clavicular articulation, its acromial extremity describes an arc Of a circle moving backward and inward, carrying'with it the structures attached to it. Appropriate measurements and observations will show this statement to be correct, and that the distance between the shoulder joints is less by several inches when the arms are overhead than when they are at the side; the X-Ray also confirms this. In the final position in arm raising the clavicle is In close apposition to the structures at the root of the neck; in extreme cases of round shoulders, or when the backward and inward movement of the clav-
456

icle is artificially limited, there is a varying interval between the clavicle and these structures.

From the above it will be seen that it is not only the lower angle of the scapula which moves in arm raising, as usually described, but also that the acromion moves backward and inward with the clavicle.

The following is an interesting experiment showing the limitations to arm raising when the backward and inward movement of the acromial region is prevented. Thus, if the left hand of the observer be placed behind the acromion of the subject and resistance is offered to all backward movement of the acromial region, and his right hand be placed on the right side of the chest of the subject below the pectoral and resistance to forward compensatory movement b? made, the subject will be unable to raise his arm higher, if as high, as a position midway between horizontal and vertical. In the extreme “humped” subject this is about the extent of the movement allowed.

The ribs, especially in the lower chest, and the sternum are known to be elevated when the arms are brought overhead in the normal subject but these movements are decidedly limited or absent in the “humped” subject. By having the subject lie on his back and flexing his cervical spine to as great an extent as possible by holding his head forward for him, it will be seen by making appropriate measurements, that the episternal notch and therefore according as the subject is normal or abnormal the sternum ascends or is fixed, and therefore also the sternal extremity of the clavicle, the rar^e of backward and inward movement of the acromial extremity of the clavicle and the acromion process, mentioned above, is increased or decreased and with it adduction of the scapulae and the degree of arm raising correspondingly influenced.

The thoracic spine shortens in arm raising. More than a simple “flattening of the upper back by a closer apposition of the vertebral borders of the scapulae and an accompaning straightening” occurs in arm raising. When the arms are placed in the vertical position overhead, as (i) in hanging from a horizontal bar, (2) when the arms are brought to this position by a simple arm raising, or (3) when a heavy weight is held at arms' length overhead, there is a distinct shortening of the thoracic spine (and lengthening of the lumbar spine) as indicated by measurement along the spinous processes.

That the above mentioned shortening and straightening of the thoracic spine is a necessary adjustment in order that the arms may be brought to the vertical position must be evident from the fact that it occurs in all three instances mentioned, and it becomes still more evident when it is realized that in the marked “humped” cases, in which it does not and cannot occur, the necessary backward and inward movement of the shoulders (clavicle and acromion process) cannot take place and therefore the arms cannot be brought to tHe vertical position.

Digitized by Google
457

Arm raising to the vertical position is prevented because of disturbed relations. With the clavicle attached at one extremity to a fixed sternum, and at the other end to the acromion process, the scapula is tilted (superiorly) and pulled forward and more laterally than in the normal thorax because “the chest is pushed out in a hump behind,” as it were. From this it is evident that the acromial structures are further from the midline posteriorly than in the normal thorax. Backward movement brings about a “binding” and a cessation of movement. Some inward movement is brought about by raising the shoulders, “shrurv~;^'y,” thus bringing the structures to a narrower portion of the thorax. Practically no rotation backward and inward of the acromion takes place. Also, the scapula being tilted forward, the limits of the forward excursion of the lower angle, allowed by the ligaments, are reached before the scapula has arrived at the final position necessary for complete arm elevation.

Reposition of the shoulders is prevented because the acromion

FIG. 3.

The thorax approaches the quadrilateral in this case. The dorsum is shown to be about six and a half inches at the level of the seventh thoracic vertebra. The horizontal line indicates the extent of posterior convexity in a normal thorax.

Digitized by tjOOQle
458

having been tilted forward and placed more laterally, as described above, is held there by an inelastic structure, the clavicle.

* As restoration of the conformation of the thorax will not correct all cases the trouble in these probably lies in shortened ligaments.

PRODUCTION OF PERMANENT ROUND SHOULDERS AND FLAT CHEST.

... It is well known that a position, whether brought about by active or passive influences, if held frequently or constantly over a long period, or frequently with sufficient vigor, becomes permanent. This is seen in the semi-flexed fingers of the mechanic who grasps various tooted-tightly in the course of his work, also in the elevated arm of the “Holy Men” of India who at first tie their arm up for a while, after which they can remove the support and the arm remains elevated.

Sitting curled up all day while reading or writing, especially by school children favors round shoulders by employment of this ^principle. By a constant flexion of the spine and an accompaning depression of the chest the depressors of the chest are permanently shortened and oppose its elevation. Such positions may be necessitated as the result of poor light, errors of vision, improper furniture, and the like. Defective conditions in other parts of the body such as lordosis, etc., in which compensation in the upper thoracic spine occurs, also favor the production of round shoulders.

Engaging in certain physical activities will bring about a permanent shortening of the depressors and, therefore, a depressed chest. Pushing a heavy truck involves powerful contraction of the depressors of the chest, thus leading to this condition. Activities in which the arms are brought down forcibly or against resistance from overhead, such as bringing down a sledge or pick vigorously, call for active contraction of the depressors of the ribs in order that a fixed point for the lower attachments of the depressors of the arms (the ribs) may be provided.

In wrestling, the breaking of Nelsons and the like in which the shoulders are pulled down forcibly, the use of the “quarter circle,”, and the use of the overhead pulley all employ the same mechanism and are productive of flat chests and round shoulders because they develop the depressors of the chest.

Certain forms of gymnastics produce the same condition the employment of the same principle, “support” work, that is, work oi* the rings, horse, and parallel bars in which the weight is supported on the arms. Here almost the entire weight of the body hangs from the depressors of the ribs. That there is a powerful contraction of these muscles is evidenced by the great tendency to depress the chest and by the embarrasrwenrtyfijreatfrrflg brought ~about by fixation of the chest walls.	.	.

It is true that this depressed position is in part due to the reluctance of the performer to “push high” because of the insecurity of
459

the position in swinging and the like, but the main reason is that few persons possess the necessary strength and endurance to hold the better “high” position for any length of time during the performance of an exercise. Another reason is the disadvantage with which the pectorals work when the shoulders are held back; therefore, we see an adjustment of the parts, drawing the shoulders forward and depressing the chest, in order that the pectorals may pull in a straight line instead of at an angle. A third reason is that the powerful contraction of the pectorals necessary in “support” work tends to bring them into a straight line across the chest thus tending to depress it.

It is an interesting fact that among women who wear corsets round shoulders and flat chest is conspicuously less frequent than among men; it is indicative that in wearing corsets the production of the condition mentioned is prevented because depression of the chest is not allowed, and the constant use of the elevators of the upper chest is compelled in breathing.

STRAIGHTENING OF THE THORACIC SPINE IN SIDE BENDING.

In bending the body to the side the normal posterior convexity in the thoracic region is comparatively or entirely effaced as the limits of the movement are reached. In resistant spines in which the posterior convexity exceeds the nohnal, the range of total side flexion is greatly reduced. With these things in mind and the knowledge, that the elimination of the posterior convexity in this region is a necessary factor in the proper functioning in certain movements in and about the shoulder joint (arm raising and adduction of the scapulae) the importance of side bending exercises as a measure for the preservation and promotion of flexibility in the thoracic region will be appreciated.

The ribs on the side of the convexity in side bending are pulled apart and therefore the soft structures are stretched.

In the flexed (forward) condition of the spine the lumbar region is comparatively locked against side bending, the movement taking place higher up (Lovett). From this the value of side bending exercises in bringing about movement and flexibility high in the spine will be comprehended.

In many cases of pronounced posterior convexity the subjects suffer from pain in the lower back because the strain from the side to side swing of the body in walking and in other movements, especially if the spine is resistant, falls on the ligaments about the iumbo-sacral junction. For these cases side bending with boom support and the like is best.

Rotation of the spine is a valuable exercise for promoting flexibility. Rotation being practically absent in the lumbar region and pionounced in the thoracic region, the movement will be localized in “humped” individuals where it does most good.

Digitized by C^ooQle
460

CHEST RAISING EXERCISE.

When used alone the exercise about to be described has given better results, in the writer's experience, than practically all other exercises combined. The quick results with it are attained, first, because it develops the muscles concerned in elevation of the chest and maintaining good posture, and secondly, because it stretches the depressors of the chest and the anterior fascias.

This exercise, exercise 2, and procedures 4 (a) and 5 from Group III described below probably form a more valuable combination than all other measures combined.

The exercise is not intended as a breathing exercise; the performer is instructed to pay no attention to the method of breathing while doing it.

It is not an exercise in which the performer is to be trained to recognize good posture nor is its prime object to develop the habit of holding good posture; both of these results are obtained, however.

FIG. 4.

Stand with the head and back against the wall; keep the forearms verfcal and the wrists against the wall throughout the movement. Raise he arms as high as possible. The tendency will be to bring the head forward and the wrists away from the wall (as the performer is doing). The arms cannot be brought higher "v than horizontal.
461

It is intended mainly for the development of the elevators of the chest.

It is executed as follows: seated on a chair, knees separated, and hands resting on thighs close to the body (a comfortable position, one in which the abdominal muscles offer less resistance to chest raising than in the standing position, and one in which the movement can easily be isolated),—raise the chest as high as possible, hold it momentarily and then allow it to sink by relaxing the motor muscles. The shoulders are not to be drawn back, for with such action the chest cannot be raised to as great a height as without it, and the chest raising is more apparent than real. If properly done the sterno-cleido-mastoid stands out plainly and the episternal hollow is decidedly deepened.

Start with about thirty to fifty movements a day and increase the number progressively, about twenty a day, until at least one hundred movements are done a day. Do about one movement in every two seconds. Improvement will come in about ten days; if not, the exercise is not properly done or other conditions such as lordosis and the like are present which must first be corrected.

PREVENTIVE AND CORRECTIVE MEASURES.

I.	Create a desire for corrective and supervise the measures employed. The need for these are evident. Progress must be reported frequently.

II.	Remove causes and predisposing elements. Whatever the cause, it should be ascertained and if possible removed. Avoid all exercises which by their nature are conducive to poor posture; correct any existing abnormalities such as lirdosis, flat-foot, etc.; the wearing of braces is not recommended.

III.	Stretch the structures opposing good posture. Frequent and prolonged employment of any of the following measures will bring about permanent elongation of the anterior structures, especially the depressors of the chest and of the anterior fascias, and will tend to straighten the spine and make it more flexible. 4 (a) and (b), 5, and 6 are especially recommended.

1.	Raising the arms overhead; with or without heel elevation, attempting to reach as high as possible, or combined with breathing exercises.

2.	Hands behind the body, grasp one wrist with opposite hand; roll the shoulders back forcibly thus adducting them, straighten the arms and arch and raise the chest as high as possible. Besides stretching the anterior structures and straightening the spine this exercise also strengthens the adductors of the shoulders and the elevators of the chest.

3.	(a)Chest-lifting of medical gymnastics; (b) arch flexions employing the stall bars; (c) “passive or relaxed hanging” from the horiontal bar; (d) the use of Taylor's spinal assistant or the em-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
ployment of the boom in a similar manner. All these procedures are good provided the subject relaxes thoroughly.

4.	(a) Passive hyperextensions of the upper thoracic spine with the subject lying on his back, a blanket-roll placed under him high in the thoracic region; (b) Active hyperextensions of upper thoracic region executed either in the standing position or in the lying position with a blanket roll. Bending, if executed low in the spine, while standing brings about powerful contraction of the depressors in order that the balance may be preserved; this must be avoided.

5.	Passive stretching of the side structures. The subject lies on his side with a blanket-roll under him slightly below the arm pit; his free arm is placed overhead. The director exerts pressure downward on the free hip and upward on the free arm pit.

6.	Promote flexibility by also giving side flexions and rotations of the trunk.

Comment.—Stretching of the ligaments about the shoulders will increase the amount of movement in arm raising, and in adduction of the scapulae but it does not necessarily bring about the changes in conformation of the thorax.

IV.	Strengthen and shorten the supporting structures. Hyperextensions of the upper thoracic spine; “shoulder blade” exercises (employing posterior rotation of the humerus, hyperextension in the shoulder joint, and adduction of the scapulae) ; exercise 2 under III above; and, especially, chest raising exercises (see above). Breathing exercises,- also, are valuable here.

It is futile to expect these exercises to produce results worthy of notice unless the anterior structures are properly stretched; the best effects come by combining them with chest elevating exercises, and with procedures that stretch the anterior structures.

A favorite form of exercise, two examples of which are given, used by many is as follows: (1) lying prone on an abdominal table with feet fixed and the body extending over the edge of the table, the performer clasps his hands behind his head then raises his head, extends his spine, and presses his elbows back forcibly, after which he relaxes and repeats the procedure; (2) lying prone with or without fixation of the feet the body is raised high enough that the arm movements of the breast stroke used in swimming may be imitated.

The same effect on the adductors of the scapulae and a better effect on the extensors of the upper thoracic spine can be obtained bv giving shoulder blade exercises and hvperextensions of the upper thoracic spine in the standing position, without taxing the powers of the individual or inducing the severe contraction in the lumbar region necessitated by the above mentioned form of exercise and thereby tending to produce lordosis, or the giving of exercises which are of doubtful value for women.

Digitized by O.OOQLe
463

V.	Muscular education. Habits of faulty posture must be broken; the development of proper motor habits through accurately executed exercises in which the subjective control and good posture are required. Train the subject to recognize good posture and give exercises which cultivate the habit of holding it.

VI.	Breathing exercises and the improvement of general muscular tone. The employment of exercises using the large muscle groups are among the best breathing exercises because they compel the vigorous employment of the breathing apparatus.

Hygienic measures and medical aid may be necessary.

Cases due to poor muscular tone are generally improved and corrected by providing hygienic conditions, if these are not present, by exercises giving nutritive stimulation, by the so-called “shoulder blade” or by setting up exercises.

It is to be remembered that the greatest effects on the vital organs are obtained by exercises which employ the large groups of

A	B

FIG. 5.

Tracings give some idea of the progress at first when efforts are centered on raising the chest and straightening the spine. Two are shown:

A.	These tracings show the progress made in two weeks by the use of the chest raising exercise alone. The solid line is the first tracing; the broken line the second. Subject, young woman of twenty.

B.	Progress made in two weeks using chest raising exercise and procedures 4 (a) and 5. The solid tracing is the first tracing; the broken line the second tracing. The latter tracing was also produced after a two weeks’ rest. Subject, boy of thirteen.

The x in the tracings is placed opposite the vertebra prominens.
464

muscles,—flexors and extensors of the thighs and the muscles .of the back, abdomen and shoulders,—the nutritive effects being in proportion to the number of foot-pounds of work done. By the employment of these large groups of muscles it is easy to do an enormous % amount of foot-pounds of work in a comparatively short time. The * more nearly the exercise partakes of the automatic type the better, because of the elimination of the element of nervous concentration; by stimulation of the breathing they tend to raise the chest permanently.

a day's order.

Choose one or several procedures from each group; start with those from III, and proceed in the order the groups are mentioned.

TIME REQUIRED FOR CORRECTION.

This must, necessarily, vary according to the case; age, cause, severity, duration, and the like being factors. With daily work, , temporary correction should take place within a month or six weeks in ordinary cases; for permanent results measures should be continued over a longer period, but daily work is not necessary. At first, * emphasis should be placed on measures which stretch the anterior structures, measures which bring about flexibility of the spine in the thoracic region, and measures which elevate the chest. Later emphasis should be placed on the measures which raise the chest and strengthen the posterior structures. That is, “loosen up first, then hold back" rather than try to pull back against resistance in front.

AUTHORITATIVE PROCEDURE VS. PERSUASION OR EDUCATION IN DEALING WITH PARENTS AND PUPILS.

By E. A. PETERSON, M. D., Director Division of Medical Inspection and Physical Education, Public Schools, Cleveland, O.

The purpose of this paper is to enter formal protest to the demand of many Medical Inspectors for mandatory laws requiring parent or guardian to carry out the recommendation of the school physician with reference to care of physical defects, and to show why such laws are unsocial and tend to defeat the very end they are thought to attain.

The mother of this demand seems to be a misconception of the status of the school physician and is due to the fact that we Doctors are laboring under the influence of traditions, which grew up out of social conditions which no longer exist or which have changed so much in the last ten or twenty years that they look new. Hence our ethics no longer fit.

* Read at the International Congress on School Hygiene, Buffalo, August, 1913.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
465

The Doctor who twenty-five years ago was an autocrat, enforcing his demands by dangling before the eyes of his patient a picture of dire consequences should his instructions be not followed is now finding his authority questioned, aye in some cases even held up to ridicule.

All of our professional men are coming in for this same questioning, the educator is said to be a back number and a theorist, the lawyer a crook and the preacher a talker of fiction.

These things have come to pass largelv because, for so many years these professional men were so much better educated than the masses that their utterances were accepted without question. Fortified by this thought, perhaps drunk with that thought, many teachings and principles were unconsciously thrust down people's throats simply because they redounded to the advantage of one of these classes and because people didn't know any better. Please do not understand me to be accusing some of the finest men this country has produced with conscious and malicious cheating. I am not, but the same laws which today are said to tend to influence a surgeon to decide for an operation rather than against it functioned at that time and in the same way largely. If it was not pressure for money it was for honor and fame.

Within the last few years schools, colleges newspapers and magazines have done much in raising the average intelligence, and people are more and more thinking for themselves, take pride in it and of course resent with all the force of their character any insinuation that they are incompetent in this respect.

People used to take sugar pills and have no thought but that some wonderful drug had done away with their pains simply because the Doctor said so. People still take sugar pills, but today many of these same persons after the pains subside announce that they have been “fleeced." Of course, Doctors realize that they have fleeced themselves. People in their weaker moments absolutely demand sugar pills and the “necessities of life" demand that Doctors dispense them. Is this a vicious circle?

The fact, however, that people are thinking through these things (indicated by the growth of all sorts of healing sects) points to this, that we Doctors are not held in as high repute as our predecessors of a decade ago, or at least our word is not accepted to the same degree.

Now while these great changes have been taking place in our social conditions and beliefs, we Doctors have endeavored to “stand pat" with the inevitable result. The people have “gone off and left us."

My first point is then that we Doctors can't have these laws passed because the people are not enough in sympathy with us, and any attempt to pass mandatory laws brings out a thousand accusa-

Digitized by
466

tions that Doctors are trying to fill their purses, and these accusations do not all come from anti-medical sects as we so like to explain.

My second point, a corollary to the first, is that people do not want these laws.

They do not want these laws because the practice of medicine is not yet a science. Our Doctors are better trained today than ever before and are better able to cope with disease than ever before but even the best Doctors disagree, so much in fact that people are not deeply enough impressed to allow themselves to be forced into the acceptance of medicine as a science.

But the chief reason why people do not want mandatory laws is because as they have increased the power of thinking for themselves they have demanded means of exercising that power, and people hate mandatory laws of all kinds except those which have arisen out of needs plain to all, because the opportunities for deciding for one’s self are thereby lessened. We Americans cannot easily be coerced into anything because we are becoming more and more independent, more and more able to think for ourselves.

My third point is that even though we could have passed all the mandatory laws suggested, the result would be a lessened rather than an increased efficiency so far as our Medical Inspection Departments are concerned.

Our Medical Inspection Departments are growing into broader and broader fields of work. Those first organizations had to do only with prevention of contagion, then was added the physical examination to determine abnormalities and defects, then followed the correction of physical defects in order to bring the child up to normal (it is to this end that most mandatory laws are suggested) but now it is becoming of more importance than either of these two ends, to raise the standard of “normality.”

The junior office boy’s definition of health, “What was left after a sick spell left,” is not sufficient although we have allowed it to become accepted generally. We are now thinking of health as a state which can withstand the assault of all disease and which will allow of much greater effort than we can now exert without fatigue.

This state of health can not be attained alone by the use of scalpel, ophthalmoscope or dental instruments, in fact, only a small part is played in most cases by these tools. The instrument here best used is education and if this tool is to be used mandatory laws have no place. We cannot antagonize and lead, we cannot push and pull at tlie same time.

Sometimes .we will fail to bring about a desired result in the way of having “Jonnie’s tonsils removed.” In most cases, however, it is because we have been crude in the technique of persuasion and education which of course we must seriously consider and develop. But even, though we have done our part well and still fail, it is bet-

Digitized by
467

ter in the long run to let one individual suffer, even die than by using unsocial means antagonize a larger number of people and sacrifice the good to a great many which would come through sympathetic co-operation.

James A. was a boy seven years of age. The School Doctor recommended that J’s tonsils be removed because he had been having recurrent attacks of tonsillitis, necessitating his absence from school and causing him to become backward in his work. The parents refused to have the operation performed and were brought into Juvenile court by the Doctor to answer to the charge of neglect. The parents were people of some prominence in their district and all their friends sympathized with them. The Judge demanded that the operation be performed and it was done, but the Doctor lost his influence with the entire district and when he suggested care of teeth, something for which the Judge said he could not hold parents, he was hooted and those people gloried in showing they were not following his directions. What was the gain since the removing of tonsils is one of the least important functions of these new departments and the creating of higher ideals of living the most important. One pair of tonsils removed and a whole district antagonized.

In one of our nearby cities several reputable business men lined up with some parents who were being coerced in this way. Newspapers took side on the matter and did so much harm in shaking the confidence of the people in their Medical Inspection Department that it will take years to get it back to a place where it can have great influence in the educational field. These types of cases could be recounted in great number.

Another case which came to my attention although it did not occur in a Medical Inspection Department, illustrates the result of proceeding along the opposite lines.

An Italian mother brought her baby to the dispensary. It was very ill, so ill in fact that the dispensary Doctor feared for its life and told the mother that the only hope for the baby lay in leaving it in the hospital so that it could be best cared for. After much persuasion the baby was left and immediately began to improve; the mother kept asking to be allowed to take her baby home, but each time was persuaded to leave it; after two days however, she appeared at the dispensary accompanied by one of the influential men of her district and together they demanded the baby.

The Doctor pointed out the fact that the baby had improved, and both agreed, but the Doctor was told that the mother had cried during all of the two nights her baby had been away and that the baby’s improvement was probably due to providential care any way. The Doctor could have called up the court and taken the baby from them but he decided differently. He told the people that if they took the baby home it would probably die, that he wanted to keep
468

the baby at the dispensary and save it but he was going to put the responsibility on them. They took the baby home, it died; the friend came back to have the death certificate signed and in his talk with the Doctor said that he saw his mistake and that in the future he would use all his influence to get his people to follow the instructions of the Dispensary Doctor. He has lived up to his pledge. Was that too great a price to pay for the health of all the babies in that Italian settlement.

If our work consisted entirely in correcting defects, defects 1 mean which could be corrected by operative procedure, then it is within the bounds of reason to say that by dint of great labor we could work out mandatory laws which would cover all of our cases. With the emphasis being placed more and more, however, on the importance of right living, mandatory laws which would cover all our cases could not be suggested.

Because, then, of the psychological effect of mandatory laws on the people with whom we work, and because of our most important work being in a field which legislation cannot reach, I maintain that in order to be most efficient, Deoartments of Medical Inspection must work without authority that is without police power.

They must be only advisers, educators, child helping agencies.

By ALEXANDER A. HARWICK, Supervisor Physical Education, Reading, Pa.

CHILDREN IN SEVENTY CITIES GIVEN PLAYGROUNDS IN I913.

According to reports sent out by the Playground and Recreational Association of America seventy cities which never before conducted supervised recreation began this work during the year ending November i, 1913. In six of these cities the preliminary steps have been completed; in the remaining sixty-four foundations have been well laid through the appointment of a recreation secretary, the organization of an association, committee, or commission, the securing of land, raising of money, or issuing of bonds. Seventy cities newly awakened to a mighty municipal opportunity and responsibility!

Add to this thirty-one cities in which the question of municipal recreation has been agitated and an effort made to arouse interest, and the total, 101, gives some indication of the tide of enthusiasm which rolls in with ever increasing might.

Last year 285 cities reported recreation under paid supervision. This year 342 cities, an increase of 57, report paid supervision. In 1912, 33a cities were attempting to solve their recreation problem; in 1913, 642 cities are attacking it.

Sixty-six cities report 763 year-round workers. In the 342 cities, 6318 workers were employed, an increase of 18.5 per cent

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.
469

over last year. In 1912 the centers in 90 cities were supported by municipal funds. In 1913, the centers in 111 cities were supported by municipal funds. A total of $5,700,223.81 was expended.

One hundred and fifty-two cities reported 629 centers open evenings, besides 79 cities that use their schoolhouses as evening recreation centers, and schoolhouse recreation centers in 55 cities having no other recreation activities.

During July and August 313 cities reported an average daily attendance of 454,438. One hundred and one cities reported an average attendance of 62,224 at their evening recreation centers. And this indicates but a small part of those who have thrilled to fuller life through the activities of the playground and recreation movement in America.

THE EDUCATIONAL SIDE OF PLAY.

By H. A. HIGGINS, Editor Park and Recreation Bulletin, Boston, Mass.

Everywhere now the educational possibilities of play are understood by those in any way worthy of being entrusted with the function of teaching the young. It would be hard to find a person in educational circles who, though at this late date in the development of the philosophy of play was still unfamiliar with its pedagogical significance, would yet be unwilling to concede that directed play did help very materially in the higher development of the child. Live educators were quick to comprehend the values of play which were brought to view by the early thinkers and investigators on this subject. Others less live, or those who looked upon play with affirmative indifference, came in their turn to gather some if not all of the light with which the subject has become flooded.

And so it has come to be an accepted fact that the school room teaching is at best but half the education of the child—and by no means the more important half at that. For the teacher in the school room looks upon the child merely as a mental entity, whereas in reality he is much more largely a physical entity.

In the school room the child is as fixed as his desk. He is n merely receptive creature, being filled with mental formulas. He stands in unnatural relation to the other children surrounding him if you look upon the educative process as a preparation for life. For the dominating spell of the teacher fixes a dead level of equality upon all the children under her discipline. Each child instead of being an individual is a unit of discipline.

This domination by the teacher, and the complete occupation of the child with problems remote from its immediate personal desires, prevents the play and inter-play of the wills and the desires of the children upon one another.

It is only on the playground, in the enjoyment of his freedom to seek his pleasure and to exercise his own free will, that the child

Digitized by C-ooQte
470

gets his real preparation for life. It is there he learns of those fundamental moral obligations which society or the community entails upon the individual. In the playground the child learns for the first time the rules of conduct that other individuals will force upon him all his after life while he is in the pursuit of happiness. There in the playground he becomes an actual individual in a world with other individuals, and although all may be small individuals and the playground itself be a small world, the relation of one to all which is established there is identical to what it will be in the world at large during the full course of life.

And it is on those lower and elementary planes of life that boys and girls acquire the attributes of good or bad behavior which, when carried up to the higher planes of manhood and womanhood, distinguish them in maturity as either good or bad citizens.

SOCIAL SERVICE THROUGH PUBLIC RECREATION

BUILDINGS.

By J. LEONARD MASON, Secretary, Board of Playground Commissioners,

Newark, N. J.

What is a recreation building?

It is neither a library nor a schoolhouse. One of the mistakes to be avoided is the confusing of school buildings and recreation buildings. We may include a reading-room, gameroom and even a classroom for such occupations as drawing, clay modeling, music, etc., but the activities of the recreation centre should emphasize physical training.

We go to the library for mental growth, relaxation and research; we attend school primarily for systematic mental training. It is a mistake to crowd together too many forms of recreational and educational activity into one centre. Mind and body go together, the education of each is necessary to the fullest human development, but that does not mean that our schools and libraries should serve as recreation centres, as well as performing the uses for which they were intended.

The ideal recreation building contains a gymnasium, running track and gallery, lockers and dressing-rooms, shower baths, swimming pool and gallery, special exercise-room, handball courts, physical examination room, meeting-room and administration offices. The gymnasium may be used as a public hall for concerts and entertainments. The building should be well ventilated and lighted; the construction should be attractive and enduring, with appropriate statuary and pictures adorning the interior.

A recreation building, then, is a municipal gymnasium, public hall, swimming pool and public bath combined. Yes, and if such were placed in a central location its worth would soon be demonstrated by thousands of children, clerks, business and professional

Digitized by CjOOQle
471

men, policemen, firemen, letter-carriers, department store girls and many others who become fatigued from the daily grind.

Wholesome exercise under pleasant conditions gives renewed strength and fresh enthusiasm, the intoxication of perfect health, from which results only a clearer vision and a normal view-point.

True living does not mean how much can we get, but rather, how much can we give. Through giving we grow in character. What is trite of the individual is true of a city. A city filled with greed and selfishness must crumble, but a city .which builds for itself those institutions which make for human happiness and good citizenship, grows in character and adds strength to the nation.

The city of Boston publishes weekly a Park and Recreation Bulletin which should be of interest to all playground workers. Its object is to circulate such facts and information concerning every feature of the department’s service as will serve to stimulate a wider interest in the usefulness of the department’s agencies, and will arouse larger percentage of the community to profit by the department’s operations. Copies may be secured by addressing Henry A. Higgins, editor, 26 Talbot Avenue, Dorchester, Boston, Mass.

TACTICS AND FREE EXERCISES.

By HSNRY MEYER, [Fort Wayne, Ind.

Formation:	Line	of	front	ranks	of	fours.

exercise 1.

The line 12 steps forward...................

The individuals Yi turn left in four steps on place

The-ranks 4-4 wheel left forward............

Repeat all..................................

64

EXERCISE 2.

In the ranks form in front of the right....................... 4

In the ranks form in front by passing right.................   8

Four steps on place with Ya turn right on the first step. . .. 4

Four steps forward............................................ 4

The ranks Y wheel left forward............................... 12

Repeat all..................................................  32

64

EXERCISE 3.

The ranks Ya wheel right forward............................  4

Four steps on place with Ya turn left on the first step....   4

Eight steps forward........................................   8

Counts. ... 12 ...	4

... 16 ...32

Digitized by C-ooQle
472

yi turn left and eight steps forward.......................... 8

The ranks Y\ wheel left	backward............................. 4

Four steps on place........................................... 4

Repeat all................................................... 32

In the ranks form in front of the right by passing in rear.... 10

Ya. turn left in two steps on place............................. 2

Four steps forward...,.........................................  4

The ranks Y* wheel right forward with Y* turn left on the last

step........................................................ 8

The ranks Y* wheel	left forward................................. 8

In the ranks form in front of the left by passing in rear...... 10

Ya turn right in two steps on place............................. 2

Four steps forward..............................................|.

In the ranks form in rear of the left........................... 4

Four steps on place with Y\ turn left on the first step. . . ... 4

Open ranks to the left by marching forward...................... 8

64

FREE EXERCISES.

The exercises are given to the left only, but they must be executed two times left and right in alternation.

The return movements of the exercises of the first and second group pass through the positions of the starting movements.

The movements will be executed on the first of two counts except where otherwise indicated.

The knuckles should be directed backward where the arms are bent to strike.

FIRST GROUP.

Music:	“Fort	Wayne	With Might and Main.”

Introduction:	Four	measures or eight counts.

exercise 1.

Bend knees and raise arms forward..........................1-2

Straighten knees, raise left leg forward and arms upward...3-4

Return movements. .....................      »...........  5-8

exercise 2.

Rise on toes and raise arms fore-upward....................1-2

Large lunge left sideward, bend trunk left and lower arms side-

ward . . ...........................................   3-4

Return movements...................................        5-8

exercise 3.

Lunge left forward and raise arms fore-upward..............1-2

Digitized by Google
473

Place right foot forward with straightening and bending left knee and bend arms, elbows obliquely backward downward,

knuckles outward......................................... 3-4

Return movements..............................................5-8

EXERCISE 4.

Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward.................. [-2

Straighten left knee, bend trunk forward and swing arms upward ....................................................3-4

Return movements. . .............................	...........5-8

32 counts (16 measures) intermission. The band will continue to play 16 measures during the time pupils rest.

SECOND GROUP.

EXERCISE I.

Lunge left forward and raise arms fore-upward.............1-2

Straighten left knee, raise right leg backward and swing arms

fore-down- and backward.............................. 3-4

Return movements........'.................................5-8

exercise 2.

Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward...............1-2

Lhange knee bending, turn trunk left and bend right arm to

strike, hand over head. . ........................... 3-4

Return movements..........................................5-8

exercise 3.

Rend right knee, place left foot backward and raise arms backward ................................................ 1-2

Dlace left foot forward (right knee bent), bend trunk backward and swing arms fore-upward and lower them sideward,

palms upward .........................................3-4

Return movements..........................................5-8

exercise 4.

Raise left leg sideward and bend arms to strike, hands over the

head to the rear....................................  1-2

Send right knee, place left foot far backward, lower trunk forward and strike sideward. . ........................  3-4

Return movements..........................................5-8

2 counts (16 measures) intermission. The band will continue to play 16 measures during the time the pupils rest.

THIRD GROUP.

EXERCISE I.

^ turn left................................................... 1

{end knees and raise arms forward...........................   2

>unge left forward and	raise arms upward....................3-4

straighten left knee, raise right leg backward, lower trunk forward to an obtuse angle and swing arms fore-down- and backward ....................................................5-6

Digitized by C.ooQle
474'

Lower right leg, raise trunk and swing arms fore-upward...... 7

Lower arms side-downward..................................    8

exercise 2.

Rise on toes and raise arms fore-upward.....................1-2

Bend right knee, place left, foot sideward and lower arms sideward ...................................................3-4

Ya turn right, change knee bending, bend trunk backward and

fold arms in rear.......................................5-6

Va turn left,, close left leg to right, straighten trunk and straighten arms sideward and raise them upward................... 7

Lower arms fore-downward..................................... 8

EXERCISE 3.

>2 turn left..........  .	   1

Lunge left forward and raise arms fore-upward................ 2

V* turn right, kneel on left knee and lower arms sideward..3-4

Rise on right leg, raise left leg forward and lower arms backward downward...........................................5-6

Lower left leg and swing arms fore-upward.................... 7

Lower arms side-downward..................................... 8

exercise 4.

Lunge left sideward, bend left arm to strike and raise right arm

sideward ...............................................1-2

Stand on right leg, raise left leg sideward, straighten left arm

and raise right arm upward..............................3-4

Bend right knee, place left foot obliquely backward inward,

bend right arm to strike and lower left arm sideward...5-6

Straighten right knee, close left leg to right, raise left arm and

straighten right arm upward.............................. 7

Lower arms for-downward...................................... 8

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High School. 59th Street and 10th Ave., New York City

ATHLETIC CAMPS AT BERLIN.

The German Olympic Committee, in its efforts to solve the problems of quartering the hundreds of athletes who will compete there in 1916, has evolved the plan of offering private training camps to those nations which will bear a proportion of the expense necessary for the building of these quarters. In order that the teams of the various countries may reside in the desired seclusion, with their own cooks and training tables, and with an athletic field adjacent, the committee has secured a large plot of land in the Grunewald pine forest, almost at the doors of the Stadium, and is now approaching the participant nations with an offer to pay a portion of the cost of erecting and furnishing the houses and its help in disposing of them after the games.

Digitized by C.ooQle
475

It also offers to place at the disposal of such countries as do not care to incur the expense of building a special clubhouse portable barracks, in which the competitors can be housed during the games. Sweden has already decided to take advantage of the proposal and will erect a characteristic Swedish country house. A representative of the American committee, who for several months has been vainly looking for a good hotel, with a field for practice near by, outside of town and yet easily accessible, and with accommodations for from ioo to 150 athletes, which he was instructed to engage, has ceased his search, thinking that the committee’s plan may offer just the ac-:ommodations desired by the American committee.

The committee is rapidly arranging the many details incidental :o the games of 1916 and removing various causes of friction among ocal and international bodies. Disputes between the German Olvmp-c Committee and the German Turner Guild relative to the programme have been amicably adjusted and the guild is now an enthu-.iastic supporter of the games.

The draft programme for submission to the international com-nittee at Paris for track and field athletics follows closely that drawn p at the International Federation last Summer and will be favor* bly received in the United States. It includes all the standard vents practiced there, eliminates the “two-handed” weight event, nd adds only one walking event, the ioo-kilometer, (62^-mile) ,ralk.

The general rules contain a proviso aimed at migrating athletes. Jnder this an athlete competing at one set of games for a particular ountry cannot enter later games from another country, although he lay have become naturalized in the meantime.

The German committee has also adopted a new amateur defini-on, much shorter than that drafted by the International Federation.

differs from it and the accepted American rule by. professionaliz-or amateurs against professionals onlv if this occurs without the emission of the amateurs’ club federation. The German rule also -ofessionahzes athletes receiving money or other compensation for e use of their names to advertise or recommend sporting goods or meral wares, such as cigarettes or cigars.

In order to offset the possibility of a recurrence of the inclusion a number of contests at future Olympic games which were prac-*ally unknown outside of the country in which the world’s cham-anships may have been held, it has been decided to advocate a indard set of sports which will obtain in all future Olympic conits, as follows:

One hundred meters flat, 200 meters flat, 400 meters flat, 800 *ters flat, 1,500 meters flat, 5,000 meters flat, io,oco meters flat, arathon race, (40,200 meters, equal to about twenty-five miles;)

Digitized by V.ooQle
476

Steeplechase, 3,000 meters; hurdle race, no meters; hurdle race, 400 meters; walking race, 3,000 meters; walking race, 10,00c meters; running high jump, running broad jump, running hop, step and jump; pole jump, throwing the javelin, (with the javelin helc in the middle,) best hand; throwing the discus, best hand; putting the shot, 16 pounds, best hand; throwing the weight, fifty-six pounds throwing the hammer.

Pentathlon, comprising running broad jump, throwing the jave lin, (with the javelin held in the middle,) best hand; 200 meter: flat, throwing the discus, best hand; 1,500 meters flat.

Decathlon, comprising 100 meters flat, running broad jump putting the weight, best hand; running high jump, 400 meters flat 110-meter hurdle race, discus throw, best hand; pole jump, javelii throw, held in middle, best hand; 1,500 meters flat.

Relay race, 400 meters, teams of four, each man to run io< meters; relay race, 1,600 meters, teams of four, each man to run 4c* meters; team race, 3,000 meters, five to run, three to count.

Tug of war, teams of eight; cross-country race, 10,000 meters individual anl team race, and modern Pentathlon.

World’s records will only be considered hereafter as having been made in events covered in the following list:

Running—100 yards, 220 yards, 440 yards, 600 yards, 88( yards, 1,000 yards, 1,320 yards, one mile, and every half mile there after to ten miles, after which every mile will only be considered after the first hour, only every hour will be recorded.

Running—100 meters, 200 meters, 400 meters, 50c meters, 80c meters, 1,000 meters, 1,500 meters, 3,000 meters, 3,500 meters, 4,00c meters, and every additional thousand meters thereafter; at one houi and each hour thereafter; Marathon, 26 miles 385 yards.

Walking—880 yards and every half mile up to and inclusive oi 10 miles, 800 meters, 1,500 meters, 2,500 meters, 3,500 meters, 4,00c meters, and every thousand meters thereafter.

Hurdles—120 yards, 3 feet 6 inches; 220 yards, 2 feet 6 inches 440 yards, 3 feet; no meters, 3 feet 6 inches; 200 meters, 2 feet i inches; 400 meters, 3 feet.

Jumping—Standing high, running high, one standing broad three standing broad, running broad and running hop, step and jump all without weights; pole vault for height.

Hammer Throwing—12-pound hammer, 7-foot circle, 4-fooi handle; 16-pound hammer, 7-foot circle, 4-foot handle.

Shot Putting—12-pound, 16-pound, and 24-pound; 56-pounc weight for distance, 7-foot circle; 56-pound for height.

Javelin Throw—Best hand, held in the middle.

Discus Throw—7-foot circle, and for youths.

Relay Racing—880 yards, one mile, two miles, four miles, 40c meters, 800 meters, 1,600 meters, 3,000 meters.

Digitized by C-ooQle
477

Steeplechase—Two miles and every mile thereafter, 2,500 meters, 3,20c meters, 4,000 meters, and every thousand meters thereafter.

Pentathlon, Decathlon, and All Around, the latter consisting of 100 yards, one-mile run, 120-yard hurdle, 880-yard walk, running high jump, running broad jump, pole vault, 16-pound shot put, 16-pound hammer throw, and throwing 56-pound weight.

ATHLETICS AT ANNAPOLIS.

A radical change will be made in regard to athletics at the Naval Academy by Capt. J. H. Gibbons, the Superintendent. The major sports, such as football and baseball, will no longer be included as me of the co-efficients in determining the winner of the colors of he brigade of midshipmen. Supt. Gibbons will soon issue an order o this effect.

Athletics have heretofore played an important part in the nam-ng of the color company. The contests have been based upon the iward of points in professional duties, namely, in infantry, artillery, leamanship, target practice, sailing, rowing, and athletics. Here-ifter the major sports will play no part in selecting the winner of the ontest. A few minor sports, such as fencing, and wrestling, will te included.

Excellence in other branches of athletics will be made an entire-y separate competition among the several companies for a special rophy, which will be awarded by the Athletic Association.

BEST PERFORMANCES IN VARIOUS SPORTING COMPETITIONS DURING I913.

laseball:—World’s champions: Philadelphia Athletics.

:ootball:—Champion college team: Harvard.

Jockey:—Champion amateur league: Hockey Club of New York.

Champion college team: Princeton.

"cnnis:—National champion: Maurice E. McLoughlin.

National doubles: Maurice E. McLoughlin and T. C. Bundy. National woman’s: Miss Mary Browne.

*olf:—National amateur: Jerome D. Travers.

National woman’s: Miss Gladys Ravenscroft.

National open: Francis Ouimet.

'ozwng:—College eight: Syracuse

N. A. A. O. single sculler: R. Dibble. olo:—National senior: Cooperstown team.

National junior: Cooperstown team.

Open championship: Cooperstown. ourt Tennis:—National champion: Jav Gould.

National doubles: Jay Gculd and W. H. T. Huhn. ycling:—National amateur:—Donald McDougall.

National professional: Frank Kramer.

Digitized by UooQle
RUNNING.

65 yds. (Indoor) 7 sec. H. P. Drew, Springfield H. S.

75 yds. (Indoor) 7 3-5 sec. H. P. Drew, Springfield H. S.

220 yds. (Outdoor) 21 1-5 sec. D. F. Lippincott, U. of P.

440 yds. (Indoor) 49 3-5 sec. T. J. Halpin, Boston A. A!

600 yds. (Indoor) 1 min. 13 4-5 sec. J. E. Meredith, U. of P. 1320 yds. (Indoor) 3 min. 7 sec. J. P. Driscoll, Buffalo.

1 Mile (Indoor) 4 min. 18 1-5 sec. A. R. Kiviat, Irish Amer. A. C. 1 Mile (Outdoor) 4 min. 14 2-5 sec. J. P. Jones, Cornell.

5	Miles (Indoor) 24 min. 29 1-5 sec. H.	Kohlemainen,	I. A.	A.	C.

5 Miles (Outdoor) 25 min. 8 sec. H. Kohlemainen, I. A. A.	C.

10 Miles (Indoor) 51 min. 6 3-5 sec. H.	Kohlemainen,	I. A.	A.	C.

10 Miles (Outdoor) 51 min. 3 2-5 sec. H.	Kohlemainen,	I. A.	A.	C

HURDLE RACING.

60 yds. (Indoor) 5 hurdles, 2 ft. 6 in. high. 7 2-5 sec. J. Eller,

I.	A. A. C.

70 yds. (Indoor) 6 hurdles, 3 ft. 6 in. high. 9 2-5 sec. J. I.

Wendell, Wesleyan.

75 yds. (Indoor) 6 hurdles, 2 ft. 6 in. high. 9 sec. R. Templeton, San Francisco.

120 yds. (Outdoor) 3 ft. 6 in. 15 1-5 sec. F. W. Kelly, University of Southern California. too yds. (Outdoor) 8 hurdles 3 ft. 6 in. high. 13 1-5 sec. E. M. Pritchard, I. A. A. C.

STANDING HIGH JUMP.

Indoor. 5 ft. 4 1-8 in. Platt Adams, N. Y. A. C.

Outdoor. 5 ft. 5 3-4 in. Leo Koehring, Mohawk A. C.

PUTTING THE SHOT.

18 lb.	(Indoor) 45 ft. 5 3-4 in. Ralph Rose, Olympic Club.

2\ lb.	(Indoor) 39 ft. 3 1-4 in. P. J. McDonald, I. A.	A.	C.

THROWING THE WEIGHTS.

35 lb. for height:—21 ft. P. Ryan, I. A. A. C.

33 lb. for distance:—37 ft. 7-8 in. P. Ryan, I. A. A. C.

56 lb. for height:—16 ft. 9 1-4 in. P. Donovan, Pastime A. C.

42 lb. stone:—28 ft. 11 1-4 in. P. Ryan, I. A. A. C.

THROWING THE HAMMER.

12 lb. hammer (7 foot circle) 213 ft. 9 1-8 in. P. Ryan, I. A. A. G 16 lb.	hammer (7 foot circle) 189 ft. 2 in. P. Ryan, I.	A.	A.	C.

16 lb.	hammer (9 foot circle) 189 ft. 3 in. P. Ryan, I.	A.	A.	C.

RELAY RACES.

1560 yds. (Indoor) 4 men:—3 min. 7 sec. Boston A. A. team. 1200 yds. (Outdoor) 4 men:—2 min. 8 4-5 sec. I. A. A. C. teaii* 3120 yds. (Indoor) 4 men:—6 min. 59 sec. Boston A. A. team, n 4 Miles (Outdoor) 4 men:—17 min. 51 1-3 sec. Boston A. A. teami

ALL-AROUND TRACK AND FIELD RECORD.	4

7409 points:—F. C. Thompson, Princeton University.	^
479

SWIMMING.

5c yds. bath, 1 turn, 23 2-5 sec. Duke P. Kahanamoku, Honolulu. 50 yds. open, straightaway, 24 sec. Duke P. Kahanamoku, Honolulu, ico yds. bath, 1 turn, 54 3-5 sec. Duke P. Kahanamoku, Honolulu. 100 yds. open straightaway, 55 1-5 sec. Duke P. Kahanamoku, Honolulu.

500 yds. bath, 24 turns, 6 min. 15 3-5 sec. Perry McGillivray, II-| linois A. C.

500 yds. bath, 19 turns, 6 min. 20 3-5 sec. Perry McGillivray, II-t linois A. C.

1200 yds. open, 14 turns, 17 min. 4 sec. L. J. Goodwin, N. Y. A. C. 1 Mile open, 21 turns, 25 min. 18 2-5 sec. L. J. Goodwin, N.Y.A.C.

BOOK REVIEW.

. —“The Teacher's Health ” by Lewis M. Terman, Associate Professor of Education, Leland Stanford Jr. University. 137 pages ? by 7 inch.es, published by Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston. Mailing price 60 cents.

This is one of the best little books published on the subject of he teacher’s health. It should help greatly to make the average eicher realize that without health on her part (as well as on the >art of the pupil) her school work is certain to suffer. If the read-ng of this book by every teacher could be made obligatory the efforts f physical training teachers to interest the average class teacher in he health of her pupils would result not merely in a changed view-oint regarding physical training work in general, but in sustained fforts to let nothing interfere with body-building work.

—The Eurhythmies of Emil Laqucs-Dalcrozc ” with an intro-iiction by Professor M. E. Sadler. 65 pages 6bv 9 inches, ublished by Small, Maynard and Company, Boston. Mailing price 5 cents.

Teachers of physical training will be much interested in this ell illustrated book as it for the first time enables them to judge hat Dalcroze’s aims are.

The main features of Eurhythmies are two. Its primary object to create by the help of rhythm a rapid and regular current of com-unication between brain and boclv; that is, it is neuro-muscular edition having as its aim the development of rhythm as dictated by usic. The second stage consists of interpreting musical rhythms id eventually complete composition by a language of gesture and >clily movement, ordinary music being in this way given plastic ex-ession.

Teachers interested in dancing will find many ideas in the book lich will strengthen them in their endeavors to elevate this form of ythmic expression.

Digitized by Goog 1
“Dancing and Art Appreciation Should Be a Part of Every School'Lite.”

Dr. Montessori.

Elizabeth Burchenal, A. B., Organizer and first chairman of the Folk-Dance com-mittee of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, Inspector of Girls’ Athletics for the Board of Education of the City of New York, Executive Secretary of the Girls’ Brand of the Public Schools Athletic League of New York.

FOLK-DANCES AND SINGING GAMES

Containing 26 Folk-Dances of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Russia Bohemia, Hungary, England, Scotland and Ireland. With music directions for execution and illustrations.

Price, paper $1.50, cloth $2.50.

DANCES OF THE PEOPLE

Containing 27 Folk-Dances of England, Scotland, Ireland, Denmark Sweden, Germany and Switzerland. With music, directions for exe cution and illustrations.

Price, paper $1.50, cloth $2.50.

Elizabeth Burchenal, A. B., and C. Ward Crampton, Assistant

of Physical Training, Board of Education, New York.

FOLK-DANCE MUSIC

Containing 76 characteristic dances of the people of various nation! adapted for use in schools and playgrounds for physical educatior and play.

Price, paper $1.00, cloth $2.00.

Melvin B. Gilbert.

SCHOOL DANCES, edited by Susan H. Gilman.

With music and detailed instruction as to execution.

Price, paper $1.00, cloth $2.00.

GILBERT DANCES. Vols. I and II, edited by Susan

H.	Gilman.

With music and detailed instruction as to execution.

Price, paper $1.50, cloth $2.50.

(Catalogue giving contents sent gratis on request.)

G. SCHIRMER (INC)

3	EAST 43d STREET	NEW YORK

THE BOSTON MUSIC CO.	BOSTON