MIND AND BODY

Vol.33

JANUARY, 1927

No. 355

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, /p/<5, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 187Q.

James E. Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service.

"I found in university work that almost every man on the university faculty is against physical education; every one of them, and with good reasons, I will admit.” Report of the Chicago Health Education Conference pg. 47.

I believe that this is rather a sweeping general statement and yet as I travel over the country I often find a prejudice against physical education among school authorities. This antagonism to a fundamental and integral part of the educational system is ofttimes due to a misconception, unfortunate experiences or to the physical educators themselves. In order, that there

NOTE: We Bhould like to ask the readers of Mind and Body to place this article in the hands of those people who ought to read it, but who never expose themselves to such healthful ideas. (Editor),

RIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT^



PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN EDUCATION

Digitized by

Google
342

be no misapprehension as to the purpose of this paper, it is to

Elea the fact, that physical education is real education and should e carried thruout the school life of every boy and girl.

There is a real need for the education of the educators as to the real aim and scope of physical education. We must show them and then convince them that it is a real profession—a teaching profession that demands education, training, experience, ability and personality of the highest order. We must show the educatipnal, social and civic lessons that are learned in this branch of education as well as the health and physical achievement. We must stress the broadest program and show that it includes health service, hygiene, games, plays, athletics, social recreation and playgrounds. Physical Education is Health; it is Recreation; it is Education.

When Dr. Judd, of the University of Chicago, writes “there is too much physical training and too little physical education” there is certainly something wrong somewhere.

Dr. Judd is one of America’s leading educators and a power in determining educational plans and policies. Yet unfortunately his experience with physical educators has been a sad one to

{'udge from his article in the Chicago School Journal in which le says most people in the physical education field are trainers and not teachers. Certainly we must be teachers and not trainers. After all, Dr. Judd makes our plea for our profession when he demands that we develop a corps of teachers working for the welfare of the child, not to build big muscles, nor to win games, but thru a balanced program to develop the health and life of the child. So we can not quarrel with him but he has been unfortunate in the type of physical educators he has met. Yet, do we not at times, some of us, become coaches and trainers, working for the “star” the “winning team” the ‘'medal”? These all have their place, but if we wish to gain the respect of schoolmen we must show them we have other aims.

A national leader in our profession in answer to my request for some message I should take to members of our profession in the field, replied, ‘‘Tell them to forget fads and fancies”. What he meant was that we follow systems and “ism” and confuse our principals and superintendents of schools. We go off on tangents. Just now physical education’s name is being changed to health education and the title physical education is being dropped. We rush from one extreme to another. From ^formal to informal gymnastics and back again. Now the Danish system, yesterday the dozen others. As one superintendent said to me, “almost every person I had as head of my department taught a different system or stressed certain exercises depending upon the school from which they graduated.” No wonder the confusion among the school folk. No wonder one of our national leaders asks us to present a rational balanced program.

An important principal of a large metropolitan high school was critical the other day when he said to the director of the

Digitized by v^,ooQle
343

training school from which he got his teachers; “Something is wrong somewhere. Two years ago I got Mr. X. from you and he got me to expend five thousand dollars for apparatus and equipment, and he did fine work, and I was pleased. He was promoted and left me, and this last year you sent me a fine young man but he does not believe in apparatus work and does good work in games and sports, but he has scrapped toy splendid equipment. Isn’t there a happy medium?” Both men were wrong—they missed the balanced program. No wonder again that we cause misconceptions and misunderstandings.

I	saw a summary of a questionnaire which was sent over the country asking school people and others to define what they conceived should be included in a physical education program. Many of them excluded the health education program. Where and how did they get this wrong notion, because health education is an integral part of a complete physical education program. In that school the physical education people excluded health education and lost control of that indispensible part of our profession. Other answers excluded athletics from a physical education program. In universities, colleges and high schools there is a tendency to divorce athletics from the regular established physical education department. That is not only wrong, but promises to cause trouble in the future. Other answers stated that playgrounds and recreation centers were separate units; that physical education had nothing to do with play and recreation. How absurd!

Is it not plain what we must do to establish ourselves in the educational profession, where we chiefly belong? We must prove that the aim and scope of our programs are educational and that our program is inclusive and covers health service, hygiene, personal and community, play and recreation, athletics and sports. We must also stop pursuing fads, and fancies, and going off on tangents. We must give the balanced program. We must show we are teachers and not trainers. That we mean physical education and not physical training.

This frank statement is made because the writer feels keenly that our profession must gain the attention of the educational leaders. We must prove our worth and not confuse them. We have professional standards and training, and these are becoming higher and better. Our people are men and women with personality and ability and culture, and we must show Dr. Judd and others that this is the type and not the kind he has run across. In short, we alone can “get over” to the educators that we are a regular part of the teaching staff and that our work is a fundamental part of the school program, when we ourselves dignify our profession by always being students and keeping a well rounded program.

Digitized by Google
344

NEW STEPS IN THE PREVENTION OF DELINQUENCY THRU THE SCHOOLS*

Oliver P. Cornman, Associate Superintendent of the Board of Public Education, Philadelphia.

This year is the 20th anniversary of the re-organization of the Philadelphia school system under a modem system of control. During the brief period that the schools have enjoyed the benefit of operation under an enlightened and progressive Board of Eucation with undivided responsibility for their success or failure, more has been accomplished to make them effective instruments for the prevention and cure of delinquency in children than in all the previous years of their existence.

This is due to the fact that during this period there has been an ever increasing recognition of the physical and mental differences in children, a rapidly growing conviction that each child must be given the opportunity to develop to the highest degree his potential capacities, and a better and better adaptation and refinement of educational procedures adequately to minister to the abilities, the interests and the temperament of tto individual, to the end that he shall be adjusted as well .hs possible physically, mentally, morally to the time and society in which he must play his part. In other words, the schools are consciously and constantly endeavoring to develop socially competent individuals in the very best sense of. these words. To the extent in which they are succeeding in effecting such adjustments or preventing or correcting mal-adjustments they are agencies—indeed the most highly organized agencies in existence today—for the prevention and correction of delinquency.

“Happiness first—all else follows,” an educational slogan, made famous by a great institution for the training of children whose minds have not developed normally, might well be taken as descriptive of the ideal—an ideal finding expression in practice—of the public schools of this city.

The means that have been developed for the realization of these ends—the highest development of the potential capacities of each individual and life more abundantly and happily in the microcosm of the school that adjustments in the microcosm of the world out-of-school may be more nearly perfect— include:

(a)	A physical education, health instruction and health habit forming program, exceptionally fine in scope and character, supplemented by the able, devoted and enthusiastic work of the Division of Medical Inspection and nurse service.

(b)	A humanistic and practical instructional program differentiated to meet the varying interests and abilities of the elementary pupil.

♦Address delivered in March, 1926, at the All Philadelphia Conference pn Social Work.

Digitized by LjOOQle
345

(c)	An exploratory or try-out and highly socialized program for the early adolescents of the junior high schools.

(d)	A more definitely differentiated but still highly socialized self-government program of the senior high schools.

(e)	An educational and vocational guidance program through the medium of school counselors in the higher schools, supplemented in these and in all other schools by the work of the so-called Bureau of Compulsory Education, a Department which is in reality, both in spirit and in practice a child welfare agency of the highest order, an agency which has become one of the most important factors in the city today in the prevention and correction of delinquency.

(f)	An elaborate system of special schools and classes for the physically, mentally and environmentally handicapped pupil— a division of the work organized under a director who has on her staff well-trained clinicians and supervisors to select and classify the pupils and see that the methods of instruction are adapted to their peculiar needs.

As Joseph Conrad has expressed it in one of his pregnant sentences, ‘■‘Every sort of shouting is a transitory thing; the grim silence of the facts remains.” Lest this brief account of the means employed in the schools to adjust children to their environment and to prevent those mal-adjustments that constitute or lead to delinquency be regarded as merely a sort of shouting, a brief reference to certain significant facts should be made. Twenty-five years ago there were actually more pupils enrolled in the first grade of the public schools of this city than there are today, although the population of the city has increased approximately 50 per cent in that period. During the same period the 12th grades or graduating classes of the high .schools have increased more than 700 per cent. These facts constitute an index of the remarkable progress made by the schools. In the early years of this period the first and lower grades were made up largely of “’repeaters,” the numbers in these grades representing excess of retardation, leading later to elimination of children from school and the consequent paucity of numbers in the higher grades. Viewed from another angle we find that in this twenty-five year period the first six grades about keep pace with the growth of population; while grades 7 to 12 (junior and senior high school years) increased about 15 times as fast—again an index of the holding power of the schools since the compulsory education laws release their hold upon the children of these higher grades and the great increase in enrollment represents voluntary attendance.

Our summer schools, elementary and high, are filled also by voluntary attendants anxious to secure special advancement or make up deficiencies.

Along with the development of the enlightened school program, there goes of necessity a new orientation in connection with the serious school offender. As Yerkes reminds us, “All mental defects are not intellectual and affective deviates (as
346

he denominates certain of the exceptionally difficult behavior problem children) are peculiar in their inherent equipment quite irrespective of their intellectual capacity.” Pupils so handicapped are apt to labor under the additional burden of the instinctive reaction against them of their fellows, of society and even of some of their teachers. Physical or mental defects are easily recognized and receive due sympathy but it is hard to evoke real sympathy for the moral defective whose antisocial conduct, it is assumed, denotes deliberate intent which he could, if he would, control.

Now it is undoubtedly true that the making of the choice for right is woefully difficult for some and the handicaps we all suffer in this regard seem to be merely matters of degree.

The law with its age-old tenets assumes this age-old con- ' troversy to be settled. It concerns itself with “retributive justice” and punishes accordingly. Not so the modem penologist and the teacher. In their philosophy moral defect is recognized as a real handicap, not wilful perversity.

To treat the serious offender with the same sympathy and affection as one would the pupil of fine character and sunny disposition, who reacts favorably to every normal stimulus is, perhaps, a counsel of perfection—an ideal attainable only by a Pestalozzi or a Gandhi; but we may all agree that what is wanted in the case of the delinquent or near-delinquent is not retaliation but assistance, not retribution but treatment—treatment, as Cyril Burt has so well stated it, “not adapted to the nature of the offense but adapted to the nature of the factors provoking the offense.” This is the new orientation that is being developed with a real measure of success in the case of the serious behavior problems of the schoolroom.

It is the point-of-view that is emphasized in every clerical examination, in every reference to the school counselor, in every case treated by the modemly trained attendance officer.

The public schools are not only assisting fundamentally in the development of liberally-minded and economically useful citizens; but they are also aspiring to teach and in an ever increasing measure are succeeding in teaching what to love, what to enjoy, what to desire, what to admire, what to emulate, what to honor and what to obey. They make their effective appeal not only to the understanding, but to the emotional and volitional life of every pupil, proclaiming duty with persuasive voice.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
347

NOTES OF TRAVEL

A. Gertrude Jacob

4.	New Zealand’s Contribution to Child Health.

It was a bitter disappointment not be able to go to New Zealand and make a direct study of the Plunket System at its source, especially after braving the hardships of crossing the Indian Ocean on an emigrant vessel in order to have time to do so.

One little knows how far-reaching may be the effect of circumstances. Owing to the Australian strike, settled last December, all first class sailings from Cape Town had been cancelled for May. It was “Hobson’s Choice” but I took a chance on a third class-liner, little realizing what a horrible experience it would prove to be.

Fate however, seemed to have decreed that I should not visit New Zealand. Since I was travelling on an emigrant vessel I was an emigrant to all the intents and purposes of the law as interpreted by the customs officials at Fremantte our first Australian port. Not even my ticket back to New York nor the visible evidence of $200 in good American money could move them. My passport was demanded and had to be surrendered. The receipt had a pencilled note to the effect that J was a tourist bound for.New Zealand and full instructions about the method of claiming it in Sydney. That was all.

But even in going from one part of the British Empire to another passports are a necessity. Our steamer was delayed and there was a probability of making such close connections for • the last sailing for New Zealand for a week, that I wrote to Sydney, asking that my passport be sent to me as I might not have time to call for it.

A courteously worded reply reached me in Melbourne but no passport. I was instructed to call at the office of the United States Consul for that. Probability became certainty. Our vessel was two days late and my doom was sealed as we slowly steamed up the beautiful Sydney harbor. A small launch was sent out to take off New Zealanders to the waiting steamer. As I waved them good-by I waved away hope of visiting their country on this trip. Some day I shall look forward to seeing it starting from the American side where passports will be safe.

So	I must write of the Plunket System from what I have learned second hand so to speak, visiting centers both in Cape Town and Melbourne. Sir Truby, its founder, is the Director of Child Welfare for New Zealand with offices in the Government Building in Wellington. One would not have to stretch imagination very far to believe that, under his efficient guidance, children would be well cared for. Dr, King’s ideas have spread

Digitized by LaOOQle
348

far and wide—and it is to be hoped that like the advertisement of a certain brand of paint they will eventually “cover the earth”.

The aim of the System is to save mothers and babies, insure them good health and in so doing lay a strong foundation for tiie betterment of the race.

Expectant mothers may go to Plunket homes for instruction and if necessary for that pre-natal care which is so essential. If they have families provision is made for their other children so that a mother is assured of freedom from trouble.

An entire wing is given over to their lively little visitors and it is safe to assume that they are far better off than in their own homes. Certainly, regular hours, simple wholesome meals at stated times, the inculcation of habits of cleanliness, the outdoor life and the supervision of play insures them health while in the institution. Surely no mother could fail to practice in her own home what she learned, after feeling the benefits of the system herself and seeing its results upon her children.

Whatever a mother or a baby needs is given. Rooms are attractive and quiet. Massage or other simple remedial measures are used but natural laws for the maintainence of health are the foundation of this splendid work.

Mothers with delicate babies, who cannot leave home are encouraged to seek advice regularly. Their babies’ troubles are just as carefully investigated as are those of the little patients who are inmates of the babies’ department. No little specks of humanity are admitted unless they can be cared for by the permanent staff of graduate Plunket nurses aided by a training class. The central idea is an educational one, aiming to spread .information regarding rational methods of looking after mothers and babies.

The ideals of these institutions from actual instruction to mothers is splendid, but the opportunity afforded for intelligent study of infants by young women, appealed to me even more. Too long, even in wealthy homes, has the care of babies been turned over to untrained and often ignorant children’s nurses and nursemaids. Never before, so far as I know has there been an attempt to put that important work upon a professional basis by requiring professional training.

Primrose nurses as they are called have to devote a year to the course and for it a stiff fee is charged. They have fine opportunities to study the care of the mother, of the baby, of healthy normal little ones and of babies so weak and emaciated that it would seem as though doomed.

We saw them as received—Patients so tiny and wasted that they looked almost too weak to breathe. Their little cribs were placed out of doors where they could have quiet, sunshine and fresh a.ir. We also saw the effects of the System upon babies almost ready to be discharged. Clear of skin, bright of eye and
849

vibrant with life, they told by their own radiant personalities of what had been accomplished towards starting them right for the battle of existence.

The sites for the homes are carefully chosen, with quiet surroundings and ample grounds. Well laid out gardens filled with flowers add to their attractive and peaceful appearance. There is an air of home rather than of hospital about them. The houses are openly built. Australians, like South Africans, do not have to consider really cold weather. In fact the law requires that a sufficient number of ventilators shall be built into the outside walls of each room. These are not adjustable so that pure fresh air is never as completely shut out as it is in our houses.

There is a delightful atmosphere about the homes. , One feels it at once on entering. After all, cheerfulness has a lot to do with physical well-being.

Babies are such tiny, human sensitive plants that their caretakers should have natural qualifications for looking after them, as well as careful training.

So far as training itself goes—Primrose nurses have a good all round course in practice as well as in theory. They have to do everything for their charges—from bathing them in small model bath-tubs, built so high that nurses do not have to stoop, to massaging them and mixing their special dietaries after learning their formulas.

Food is prepared at one set time, labelled apd the bottles kept cold in separate compartments so that Johnnie never gets Marnies combination. This teaches the value of time saving methods and probably more care in diets. Few busy mothers could find time to stop and get babies’ particular mixtures ready four times a day.

.Bottle fed infants have a liberal allowance of vitamin foods. The youngest are given strained orange juice beginning with four or five drops at a time. Extract of carrot juice for delicate little stomachs has proved most beneficial too. It is made by pouring boiling water over grated carrots and letting it stand for an hour before straining it. Small particles of either orange pulp or carrots irritate the lining of a baby’s stomach.

There is no such thing as night feeding allowed. Dr. King does not believe in creating habits of wakefulness in either the mother or child by disturbing natural, life-giving sleep. The results of the System even with the worst cases testify to the efficamr of the methods employed.

New Zealand may be a young and small country but she has set the world an example in her methods for the conservation of child life. Because of the thinly populated stretches of land in both New Zealand and Australia every child becomes a national asset. Methods found to be efficient in either country should make a strong appeal to us. Weak babies make weak boys and girls and ultimately the burden is placed upon school. Teachers have to deal with stunted bodies and immature minds

Digitized by

Google
350

which^are too often traceable to remedial conditions during infancy.

Our child welfare centers are doing a fine work but so far as I know they have not yet tackled the problems of sending trained women to care for babies in the home.

By placing baby caretakers upon a higher basis and demanding a professional course of study for them New Zealand has blazed the trail for that progressive development which will do much to secure healthy babies and cut down the sufferings of helpless little mortals.

Primrose nurses deal with mother and child—sick or well. Their theoretcial courses are wisely planned. They cover enough to insure a thorough knowledge of the needs of every day life. The variety of practical experience which they acquire should stand them in good stead as they go out to establish their new profession and raise the standards for the care of babies.

Children properly fed and properly trained are seldom ill. It would be a fine thing for America were similar institutions to be started with us. There are hundreds of girls in our high schools who love children, and are endowed naturally with qualifications for this work. They would hesitate to enter homes if classified as servants.

The basis of Primrose nurses—standardizing the calling—yet not making it equal to the profession of graduate nurses should open up a new avenue of work for us too. Primrose nurses should have complete control of their changes in homes and be regarded as baby specialists. Young mothers could rely upon them. Infant mortality would doubtless be decreased in exact ratio to the spread of the idea and certainly children would have better health if started right as babies.

Fully trained Plunket nurses are in demand. They are ready to start centers and carry on where ever they are called, for they are enthusiasts.

For the sake of the sick and suffering innocents all over our land, for the sake of ignorant young mothers who want to care for their babies but do not know how, and for the sake of a better and stronger future generation, I hope that some one reading this meager description will have the courage and the means to set the ball rolling by establishing a Plunket home for training Primrose nurses, in the United States.

VENTILATION COSTS

By Thomas D. Wood, Columbia University, and Ethel M. Hendriksen, Authors of Ventilation and Health (D. Appelton and Co. 1926)

The purpose of the study of schoolroom ventilation made by the New York State Commission on Ventilation was to determine the effect of plenum fan ventilation as contrasted with window-gravity ventilation on the health of school children. It was found that under plenum fan ventilation of a design usually

Digitized by CjOOQle
351

found in schools and when operated in the best manner of which this system was capable of operating there were 18 per cent more absences due to colds among pupils and 70 per cent more absences due to colds among pupils in attendance than in the window ventilated rooms with gravity exhaust. The Commission therefore endorsed window-gravity ventilation as the most desirable and promising for schoolroom use.

The New York State Commission on Ventilation made no study of the cost of various systems of ventilation, but such a study has been made since by Professor John R. McLure,* Director of the school of Education of the University of Alabama. In his method of comparing the costs of installation Dr. McLure considers the cubic-foot contents of the building as the most reasonable accurate basis. One hundred representative school buildings were studied in as many different cities distributed in states where zero weather is found in winter. The majority of the buildings were contracted for and built since 1921.

Fan ventilation was the rule in the majority of the schools studied. But where window gravity ventilation was installed it was at a cost of 1 1-2 cents per cubic foot less than plenum fan ventilation with individual ducts, and more than 1 cent less per cubic foot than plenum fan ventilation with trunk ducts. The cubical contents of the average building studied in this group measured 1,361,783 cubic feet. Using this average-size building as an example, Dr. McLure points out that the installation of window-gravity ventilation could be expected to save $21,107.64 over individual duct split plenum fan ventilation and $16,613.75 over trunk duct split plenum fan ventilation.

While it is true that the New York State Commission on Ventilation stated that plenum fan ventilation when properly designed, installed and operated would give satisfaction, it was stated specifically that greater comfort was obtained with window gravity ventilation. And when plenum fan ventilation is used the Commission favored the individual ducts, as in this system windows can be opened in individual rooms without interfering with the operation of the system of ventilation. In the trunk duct system, windows cannot be opened.

McLure’s study shows that window-gravity ventilation costs 35 per cent less than split plenum fan ventilation with individual ducts; that the cost of window-gravity ventilation is 30 per cent less than that of split plenum fan ventilation with trunk ducts.

A study of the operation of mechanical ventilation systems is illuminating. McLure found that due to the high cost of operation the majority of schools did not use their mechanical systems after they were installed except as an adjunct to heating in the heating season.

•McLure, John R. The Ventilation of School Buildings, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1925.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
352

“The evidence brought out in this study warrants the conclusion that in certain cities of this country there is an idle investment of many millions of dollars in non-functioning split plenum fan ventilation.’’

The plenum fan system which is so deeply intrenched in the school systems of this country owes its adoption, to a considerable extent, to the law in nine states, and to a ruling with the effect of law in force in 19 other states, that the air supply to schoolrooms must be 30 cubic feet per minute per pupil. This greater air movement necessitates a higher temperature than is compatible with good health; otherwise it would create an unpleasant draft. Scientific experiments have demonstrated that an air flow of 15 cubic feet per minute per pupil, such as window-gravity ventilation is able to supply, is ample for health and comfort. Millions of dollars are wasted annually in the United States to meet the demands of the 30-feet-per-minute law which is now obsolete.

But the cost of mechanical ventilation is not confined to the wasted millions of dollars of the tax-payers. Mechanical ventilation takes its greatest toll in the lost health and vigor of the ten million or more school children who are compelled to sit hour after hour in over-heated schoolrooms. Colds, sore throats, the more obvious complaints derived from stuffy schoolrooms constitute only the minor ills. Permanent injury to the vaso-motor system; to the sympathetic nervous system which coordinates the work of the glands, blood-vessels and bowels; to the mucous linings of the nose and throat and to lung tissue are the greatest costs attributable to mechanical ventilation.

There is no more important health rule to be followed than that of living always in cool, moving air. Schoolroom temperatures should range between 64 and 68 degrees F. The danger point begins just above 68 degrees, and no schoolroom thermometer should be allowed to go above it. It was at a temperature of 68.5 degrees F. that the excess of colds was observed in the plenum fan ventilated rooms studied by the New York State Commission on Ventilation. The menace of mechanical ventilation is its tendency to overheat schoolrooms. The high cost of the installation and of the operation of mechanical ventilation cannot be compared to the higher cost of sickness and ill health among both pupils and teachers which it induces. Scientifically controlled experiments as well as actual practice have shown conclusively that window-gravity ventilation is the superior method of ventilating shoolrooms.

NOTE: The foregoing article was written in response to a letter by S. A. Challman which appeared in the September issue of Mind and Body. See Notes and Comments, this issue.

Digitized by t^.ooo le
858

WHITHER ARE WE BOUND?*

A Critical Study of the Woman Sport Movement

By Von Studienrat Walter Kuhn, Charlottenburg.

It is a truism that woman today, in the family, in business, in society, and in every day life generally, is playing a different role than she did before the war. The woman in the present day may, without arousing any astonishment, do much which

Kreviously was considered unfeminine. I am referring here main-j to the athletic activity of women.

Whereas sports for women in Ancient Greece had reached their fullest bloom during the 5th century B. C., they are just now budding in Germany. We have long esteemed the type of sport-loving Greek woman represented in “The Runner”. Previous to about twenty years ago there were but few of our women who had the courage to indulge in winter sports, tennis or hockey. The intellectual and professional women and even those engaged in physical work had at that time no thought and no time for participation in sports. That condition has today been changed.

The physical education of the woman now begins during the early school years. We see our young girls exercise and play out-of-doors in appropriate and airy athletic attire. They indulge in gymnastics, they test themselves in the easy and mild athletic events, they are active in rhythmic gymnastics, they swim,—yes, they are even taking up rowing, in order to keep their youthful bodies healthy and vigorous.

After leaving school, women have the opportunity to join clubs of all kinds. In addition to the independent women’s sport and rowing clubs, all large societies have ladies’ sections or divisions which in many cases are taught by women instructors. It is amazing to note how, in the short period which has elapsed since the war, the great sport and play movement has not only caught hold of woman but has actually carried her away with it. Already we are reading of great gymnastic and athletic meets in which the women participate; already, in wonder, we behold them active in contests and see them strive for the honors of victory, demonstrate exceptional ability, and even set up records.

But is this the purpose and the goal of the woman sport movement? It is certainly worth while to study this question more carefully in order to find the answer.

Already in the field of men’s sports complaints are being made against too much competition and extreme activity. Not even the schools have kept themselves free from these objections, and thoughtful educators are giving voice to strong complaints that the scholastic performance of their pupils, following strong

•Translated from the German "Wohin fuehrt der Weg?” an article which appeared in the April issue of Die Leibesuebungen.—Grover W. Mueller, Philadelphia.

Digitized by v^ooQle
354

effort in athletics, has become impoverished. The Vereinen (societies) indisputably are even greater sinners in this respect, and earnest sportsmen and trainers have already spoken a warning; but up to this time it has been of no avail.

Now, if admittedly there is considerable harm in competition for boys, then it becomes a downright crime to ask girls and women to indulge in that form of activity. What do bodily exercises signify for the woman? Does she wish to do what men do, to set up records in the 100 metre run and in the shot put?

How fundamentally different the male and female body are! Is it not therefore a mistake to demand that the principle of equality for man and woman which is found in political life be carried over into the realm of sport? In woman, to an even greater degree than in man, body and mind are closely bound together, the one thoroughly conditioning the other. Because of his muscularity, man’s body is much more strongly set up. He has firmer and less flexible joints: his whole structure bespeaks strength. The woman’s beauty lies in her slenderness, in the rhythm of her curved lines, in the delicacy of movement permitted in the joints, and in the tenderness of her skin. How can one adapt such an organism to contests and extreme performances, an organism which is subject, in addition to inherent structural qualities, to its own peculiar dispositions, desires, and disturbances? Dr. Ritter v. Holt, the well-known German decathlon champion, has expressed this thought very strikingly as follows: “The contest is the province of man; it is a stranger to the nature of woman. It shall not harden and spoil our German girls, it shall not make musculine bodies out of them. Therefore, away with women’s competitive sports, away with the dreadful registering of records in women’s activities! The physical fitness of woman is a necessity, she must be guided along an entirely different path.”

Before the war the participation of our women in athletics was practically nil; now we have gone to the other extreme and encourage tasks which women never will be able to master without harming themselves. When the German Tumerschaft so energetically refuses Turn and Sport insignia to our youth on the one hand, it should on the other continue to follow the ideals of Jahn and prescribe no competition for women such as it did in the last big Tumfest in Munich.

If woman has turned so zealously to sports during the postwar years and indulges in all sorts of physical activities, she has done so with deliberation. She has, in a manner, undertaken the revision of her own peculiar self. She must come to a realization that she, as well as man, possesses the right fully and completely to perfect her own personality, wherein mind and body most closely and happily unite. She too, must first understand and then traslate into action the prophetic words of Niet-sche: “Your body is a great mind.”

Digitized by kjOOQle
355

Woman’s ambition should be greeted most enthusiastically: but to the same degree must woman be warned of the possible outgrowth of her sports. It is not the physical exercises, when they are rationally indulged in, that alter and injure the woman and make her over into a muscular masculine form: it is the participation in contests, in extreme performances, and in record-breaking attempts that brings this to pass. The women themselves should energetically oppose such efforts. How repelling are the distorted face and the protruding neck muscles of an athlete during extreme effort! A lengthy discourse on this subject is useless. The sound instinct of the well-formed woman, which has so often directed her along the right road, must help in this situation to a greater degree.

Happily there exist several branches of women’s athletics which have kept themselves free from the danger of developing masculinity: this will readily be granted. Such is the case, for example, in the winter sports; but, above all in rowing. The German "Women’s Rowing Society’’ extends over the entire country and embraces more than thirty Rowing Clubs. It has adopted as its task the improvement of its members in the rowing-shell. Long and short trips, followed by tests and rowing in “form” make possible and enhance this improvement. No races are conducted! Similarly, in the higher schools, girls' rowing clubs have been organized. These are especially well-developed in Berlin. One need but see the young girls on the water to conclude, even • as a layman, that in this sport the proper activity for girls has been found. Traveling along in the shell, with symmetrical movements, with rhythmic co-operative effort, with easy and graceful handling of the boat on the turns—it is as though created for the youthful body which, thereby, develops a symmetrical and not too vigorous body-structure.

What activities, then, should girls and women participate in? This question can only be answered from the following point of view.

If sports are to contribute toward the development of the girl into womanhood, it is of first importance to demand that activities be selected which are suited to the peculiarities of the female body, and which permit the utmost development and improvement of the finest qualities of woman. These qualities are beauty, grace, slenderness of lines, suppleness, and soft, flowing muscles. It must be clear, from this point of view, that strenuous athletics such as wrestling and weight-lifting are out of question. For the same reason jiu-jitsu and boxing are rejected. As strongly as I recommend running for women, just so little can I bear to look upon a woman at the end of a 100 metre race: strained, livid and sweat-streaked face; these are the visible signs. And could such a woman see herself in the mirror, I believe she would consider very carefully whether or not she would continue such activities, because Qne cannot but agree that

Digitized by AaOOQle
356

participation in contests results in a loss of femininity and therewith the finest that one esteems in her.

And still another thought. The man is disposed toward an abundance of physical power. This is fundamental to his physical nature. Women, on the contrary, are more slightly built. Many of them are often actively employed and will therefore be taxed to a relatively greater degree. Consequently, in the selection of activities' for $ie woman we must take into careful consideration the work she does in her daily employment. Under these physiological and economical hypotheses the following activities are to be recommended for the girl during her school life: Free exercises of the kind evolved by Neils Bukh; the rhythmical gymnastics of Bode or the Model School of Carl Loges,—to name but one type; the easier activities of mild athletics; and a small amount of apparatus exercises. In the summer, with light gymnastic costume, running and many games, especially during the advent of puberty; and, whenever possible swimming and rowing. In winter, skating, sledding and snow-shoe hiking are valuable. In the- Verein all of these activities are offered in still greater variety, and every woman may select and practice those particular activities which her predisposition and her tastes dictate. I would like, furthermore, to add the various forms of water sports, as canoeing, sailing, and so on, not to forget hiking and mountain climbing, also. Finally should be added such activities as tennis, horseback riding, fencing and gunning.

I	am well aware that in this discussion I have touched but briefly upon many important questions of the Woman Sport Movement. Especially from the medical point of view there is still much of importance to be said and done.

Now the women have the floor! They are the ones who should evolve, out of themselves, a specific German program of women’s gymnastics. Man cannot lead: he can but advise.

WAYS OF FINANCING AN ATHLETIC PROGRAM

Henry S. Curtis, Jefferson City, Mo.

Where Physical Education is chiefly through athletics, the supplies essential to such a program should be furnished by the school board. These should include playground baseballs and bats, volley balls and nets, and basketballs, though basket-ball is an extra curricular activity.

In cases where the school board has not been willing or able to furnish these supplies, they have often been furnished by the Parent-Teachers, the Rotary, or some other organization. There are, however, a number of methods whereby schools have, themselves, been able to secure the needed equipment. Some of the most successful are the following:

Digitized by kjOOQle
S57

The immemorial method is the athletic contest. Most of the supplies and equipment at universities and colleges are furnished in this way.

In a number of cases, schools have given an exhibition of the work in Physical Education, which has included nearly all activities. Where the children are brought into this exhibition, the parents can be guaranteed to attend, and the proceeds may be considerable. But far mov important than the financial returns will be the interest aroused in the parents and the new incentives to effort given to the children. A very successful exhibition of this kind was held in Lebanon last spring.

Another good method is holding a field day toward the close of school in the spring. The field day at Cape Girardeau last spring brought out some four thousand people. Superintendent Whiteford writes as follows about it:

“The events at the Fair Grounds were preceded on the day before by a parade through the downtown district. The high school band led the parade, followed by floats from various schools and children marching in groups. Patrons furnished automobiles for floats.

'	The Mayor declared a holiday for the day of the

festival.

Exhibits of all types of school work were placed in Floral Hall and teachers explained to patrons work done by pupils.

The noon hour was given up to picnic parties for all who brought lunch. Parent-Teacher Association served refreshments. Business men contributed prizes.

The proceeds from refreshment stands went for the the benefit of school equipment and netted $500.00 from the two events.

The results from the affair were honest competition and generous rivalry developed among the schools. Parents including business men enjoyed the occasion. Teachers pronounced the affair decidedly worth while in every way.

One of the most entertaining forms of exhibition is a circus, in which there are various clowns and animals. Children always enjoy dressing up in this way, and the parade is of interest to all.

Nearly all the larger high schools have dramatic associations, and especially in the southeastern section there are dramatic contests between many of them. The plays being given are comparable to anything that can be seen in town, and often yield a substantial return. The class play at Cape Girardeau brought in six hundred dollars last year, and about an equal amount was netted in Jefferson City.

The high school now has, through its extra curricular program, training in many activities which go to make an entertainment, which the public is glad tq and hear. Certain

Digitized by

Google
358

glee club or oratorical numbers, with one or two solos, two or three folk dances, and a short play or a matched game, will make a fine program. It is good for the students to help in the financing of the activities in which they are interested.

In a number of cities of northeast Missouri, they have been holding a Work Day at some time in the fall, usually in October. At this time, the high school pupils accept such jobs as they can get, as cutting lawns, cleaning windows, washing automobiles, and even shining shoes on the street. Those who do not find anything to do come to the school and assist in a thorough renovation, including washing the windows and general cleaning up. The class which earns the largest amount of money is given a half holiday at some time during the year. In Macon last spring, Work Day yielded about $250.00. It is usually held on Wednesday or Thursday.

PHYSICAL FITNESS, ONE OF THE ESSENTIALS TO SAFETY FROM ACCIDENT*

It is easy to establish the above title because no one can deny the real truth which it contains. The next question is to try to establish the meaning of "physically fit” when applied to the individual. Is a man’s work or his looks the best index of his fitness? How much work must a man do every day without inconvenience or fatigue before he can rate himself "physically fit”?

At first these questions may sound absurd; why not ask how many matches can one make from a table,—and yet when one considers the various standards of fitness, these questions are not so unreasonable.

During the late World War, the pale, thin, perhaps sickly looking young men of the indoor and white collar type from the cities withstood the din, cannon fire, confusion and hardships of trench life better than the robust, pink cheek country lads. The same held true with respect to the great influenza epidemic. The husky, hearty looking country boys, not so immune to the various infections of the cities and camps, fared generally speaking much worse than the city boys.

In a discussion of this question at a recent meeting of a medical association the following views were expressed:

"What a man can do is no standarized accomplishment. It varies with every individual, it even varies within quite wide limits in the same individual. Thus at the end of his summer holidays many a man can perform feats of endurance which a month earlier would have been impossible. He has become more fit, but it would not be correct then to say that when his holiday began he was unfit. At that time he was merely unfit for strenuous exertion—a very different matter.”

*Reprint: Industrial Hygiene.

Digitized by

Google
359

The first thing to be done, with the individual worker, if he is engaged in the handling of complex or dangerous machinery is to establish within his own mind "the will to fitness.” Those persons who do not possess the ambition or pride to progress in the world will never be able to establish within themselves “the will to fitness,” but almost anything can be done with a man or woman who possesses it. Physical strength in itself is not an essential—“a will to fitness” is needed.

Bodily weakness supported by courage and hope is stronger than bodily strength or muscular strength unsupported by those mental and moral qualities. This is another way of saying that it is difficult if not impossible to lay down a law concerning individual fitness, or to give a complete definition of it.

All of us know of one or more persons who have lived and worked by sheer dogged will power, while we have known of other persons who although apparently healthy have really died of the fear of dying.

Now let every worker establish within his own mind his physical fitness with respect to the machine that he is operating. Let every worker determine just how long a period throughout the day he is able to keep his mind fixed on his work without being mentally tired or mentally bored as a result, and let him carry in his mind this formula, that so long as a man is able to carry on from day to day without being reminded of some physical shortcoming, whether it be headache, backache or muscular fatigue, he is entitled certainly for practical purposes to regard himself as physically fit, and as possessing an important status for the prevention of accidents.

If the worker is impressed with the fact that he is experiencing physical inconvenience, it is advised that he consult a physician—and what is important the type of physician who is possessed of the knowledge of men, and with this physician arrive on a basis of common sense at some conclusion as to whether it is wisest for the interest of the worker himself and for the interest of the employer to continue in the operation of the piece of machinery in question.

There is always some machine at which any man may serve during an accepted working day without inconvenience or fatigue. It is probable that under no other circumstances will the earning power and physical welfare of the worker be maintained at so high a standard.

The worker will have stabilized his physical fitness, one of the essentials to safety from accident.

And let us not forget (adds the editor) that rational physical education is the best means for even a weakling to arrive at physical fitness.

Digitized by LjOOQle
360

PSYCHOTHERAPEUTIC FADS—PAST AND PRESENT

Samuel P. Gardy, M. D., Philadelphia Hoepital for Mental Diseases

Fillet of a fenny snake In tiie cauldron boil and bake Eye of newt, and toe of frog Wool of bat, and tongue of dog;

Adder's fork, and blind worm's sting Lizard’s leg, and owlet’s wing For a charm of powerful trouble Like a hell-broth boil and bubble. (Macbeth—Act IV) Popular notions concerning mental disease and fallacious doctrines associated therewith have a long and interesting history. A brief account of some of the salient points especially pertaining to nostrums, quackery and superstition in mental medicine may be of interest.

As far back as there is written record, man seems to have been interested in his “soul,” “mind,” “ego,” or whatever name he has in his poetic or religious fancy given to the seat or re-positorium of his sensations, emotions, memories and will. Departures from the normal or usual ways of thinking, feeling and acting were always noted with interest, frequently feared, and until comparatively recent time their alleged causes like those of physical illness were referred to the supernatural. The sick man was the victim of sorcery or “possessed” by one or more of the hordes of evil spirits, gnomes and sprites invented by the prolific imagination of the primitive or peasant mind. Displeasure of the gods, the evil eye, the anger of the dead, all played their parts in the production of disease. The cure involved the frightening away of the particular evil spirit, the placation of the gods or the diversion of their anger to some animal or plant. The witch doctors assumed supervision of the patient and treated him by an elaborate exhibition of “hocus-pocus” in the form of yelling, shaking, dancing or hideously disguising themselves with paint or animal skins to frighten the demon away. The medicine man had to work for his money. He did a little business on the side by selling fetiches and talismans as prophylaxis for the future.

In comparatively civilized ancient Greece and Egypt, the business became an organized one, with temples of healing, under the aegis of divinities whose specialty was health, and whose managing directors were the priests of the temples, each group whooping up the exceptional curative powers of its divinity. It seems that these health resorts did a land-office business, despite the fact that they did not have the manifest advantages of modern high-pressure scientific salesmanship. Remarkable cures were reported: A son of Hermione was blind in both eyes. A

'Reprint from Monthly Bulletin, Dept. Public Health, Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by L^ooQle
861

dog of the temple licked him and immediately his sight was regained. Another had no hair on his head. He prayed for its reappearance and Aesculapius applied an ointment, and next morning, lo! and behold! there was a thick growth of hair. No one apparently besought the courts for an injunction to restrain the healer from practiced encroaching upon those of the tonsorial art.

Spiritualism also has a venerable past. In the First Book

of Samuel, Chapter XXVIII we read"...........And Saul had put

away those that had familiar spirits, and the wizards out of the land.” But with characteristic human and royal weakness, Saul, frightened by the power of the Philistines, and dismayed by the desertion of the Lord, betakes himself in disguise to a woman at Endor, whose practices he himself had put under the ban, to have her summon for him the spirit of the dead prophet Samuel for advice and a forecast of the future.

Faith Healing in the Middle Ages

Coming to the middle ages there is much of the same thing— the same faith healing with the aid of sacred relics. Physicians of any note were usually of the clergy who possessed whatever education could then be gotten and many attained skill in practical treatment, especially certain parts of surgical technique. They were burdened however with the useless baggage of the bizarre humoral pathology and distorted notions of Aristotelian and Galenical physiology filtered through Byzantine and Arabian commentary. Black bile was still believed to be the cause of melancholia.

The Arabians, however, seemed to have had a more humane conception of mental illness and great hospitals were founded at Damascus and at Cairo in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. The Mohammedans viewed the insane with a more kindly eye because they believed them to be favored of heaven. Nowhere in Europe is there any record of even an approach to these humanitarian concepts in the erection of hospitals or insane asylums.

Despite the breaking of the scholastic chains by the humanists of tiie Renaissance and the beginnings of modern scientific concepts by Da Vinci, Servetus, Harvey, Galileo and Newton, no glimmer of the newer light broke through the narrow circle of tiie illuminati. The times were rife with medical quackery. There were wandering lithotomists, hemiotomists, amulet peddlers, and all sorts of sleight-of-hand men. The reputable physicians of the times believed in astrology, had knowledge of the lore of amulets and often compiled fortune tellers’ almanacs. Palmistry was in its heyday. Catherine De Medici had Rene, the Florentine, poisoner, astrologer, horoscopist, palmist, possessor of secret formulae of antidotes, sleeping potions, elixirs of love and hate. Rudolph the Second of Germany was the great patron of alchemists, spiritualists, clairvoyants, astrologers and crystal-gazers, who reaped a rich harvest from the coffers of the

Google
362

credulous emperor. The great astronomer Kepler is said to have cast a horoscope for General Wallenstein. Camille Rou-zeaud has dubbed the sixteenth century as the “century of hypnotism.”

In “Le Manage Force,” Moliere, whose pet diversion and indoor sport was holding the medical profession of the times up tp ridicule, gives us a glimpse of what the doctor thinks of

himself. “........I will prove to you at this time, by the help

of demonstrative and convincing reasons, and by arguments in Barbara, that you are and never will be anything but a simpleton and that I am and ever will be, in utroque jure, The Doctor

Pancrace.......a man of sufficiency, a man of capacity, a man

finished in all the sciences natural, moral and political. A savant, savantissime, per omnes modes et casus. A man who had superlative of fables, mythologies and histories, grammar, poetry, rhetoric, dialectics and sophistry, mathematics, arithmetic, optics, omicritics, physics and metaphysics, cosmometry, geometry, architecture, speculary and speculatory sciences, medicine, astronomy, astrology, physiognomy, meteposcopy, chromancy, geomancy.” In another play, “Monsieu De Pourceaugnac,” the hero is unjustly accused of being insane. The senior physician has just discoursed learnedly on the patient. The younger physician speaks: “You have discoursed too well on all the signs, symptoms and causes of this gentleman’s disease. The arguments you have used are so learned and so delicate that it is impossible that he is not insane and hypochondrically melancholic; or were he not so, that he ought to become so, because of the beauty of the things you have spoken and the justness of your reasoning. Yes, sir, you have graphically depicted, graphite depinxisti, everything that appertains to this disease

.......nothing remains but to congratulate this gentleman upon

falling into your hands. All I should like to add is to let his

bleedings and purgings be of an odd number.............to take the

whey before the bath and to make him a forehead plaster in the composition of which there should be salt—salt is the symbol of wisdom.”

In the seventeenth century, the age of Wiseman and the great Sydenham, we find the use of the sympathetic powder, whose efficacy was caused by the fact that the sun’s rays extracted the spirits of the blood and the green vitriol that went into its composition, while the heat of the wound attracted a current of air. The magnetic cure of wounds, the healing of disease by stroking, and the treatment of wounds caused by weapons by anointing the weapon with an unguent composed of the patient’s blood and human fat were therapeutic measures to which frequent resort was made. Royalty preserved its prerogative in the treatment of scrofula by the laying on of hands. The^school of Flemish and Dutch painters, famed for their canvases of daily life, depict some of the medical practices of the day, among which are shown the operation of “stone drawing,” practiced by wandering cutters who pretended to_remove from

Digitized by
363

the head stones that were believed to be the cause of insanity. While incising the scalp, they dropped into a basket, by sleight-of-hand, one or more stones concealed in the palm.

Animal Magnetism

In the latter decades of the eighteenth century, Frani Mes-mer and a number of others utilized the mysterious qualities of “animal magnetism” which came to be known as Mesmerism in the treatment of disease. He believed that the human hand had powers similar to the magnet and by analogy could draw away disease. He appeared at his seances wearing a lilac colored suit, playing the accordion, mysteriously waved hands, stared into his victim’s eyes, and went through various antics calculated to induce hypnosis. Alexandre Dumas, in the “Memoirs of a Physician,” gives an interesting pseudo-historical account of Cagliostro—mesmerist, alchemist, hypnotist and master of the black art, who reads in his crystal ball the unhappy future of the young Dauphiness Marie Antoinette. About the same time Elisha Perkins, a Connecticut Yankee, patented his metallic tractors—a device shaped like a pair of calipers, and made of a combination of metals—which were to be drawn over the diseased part to effect a cure. In “English Bards and Scotch Reviewers,” Byron satirizes the current fads:

What varied wonders tempt us as they pass!

The Cow-Pox, Tractors, Galvanism and Gas.

' The name “Bedlam,” with all that the word connotes, is derived from the vulgar corruption of the pronunciation of St. Mary of Bethlehem Monastery in London which was converted into a madhouse in 1547. The treatment of the insane remained the same in many places far into the nineteenth century. If harmless, they were permitted to run at large; if feared, they were chained, or caged in the various madhouses and subjected to purging, bleeding, emesis, blistering, sweating, the exhibition of opium, camphor and belladonna. If belladonna failed the case was homeless. In London and Vienna, notably, the insane were on exhibition to the public for the payment of an entrance fee; the same practice obtained in Philadelphia. It was not until the time of Tuke, Pinel and Reil that anyone ever dreamed of abolishing restraint of mental patients. Pinel was looked upon as a madman himself and his advocacy of the more rational treatment of the insane by abolishing drugging, venesection and restraint was medical heresy. William Tuke antedated Pinel's work when he established the Quaker Retreat for the insane at York in England in the last decade of the eighteenth century. His conception of the treatment of the insane was in accord with the gentle humanity of Quaker doctrine.

In the archives of the Pennsylvania Hospital there is a letter written in November, 1789, by Doctor Benjamin Rush to the managers of the hospital asking for more wholesome quarters for the insane. He writes of the cells in the hospital.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
364

“.......Few patients have ever been confined in these cells

who have not been affected by a cold in two or three weeks after their confinement, and several have died of consumption in consequence of this cold. These facts being clearly established, I can see the appropriating of the cells any longer for the reception of mad people will be dishonorable both to the science and humanity of the City of Philadelphia.”*

Humane Treatment of the Insane

These pioneers had but little influence in spreading their enlightened doctrines, and even the age of rationalism in social ideas, initiated by the Encyclopedists and brought to partial fruition by the French Revolution, did little to affect the general treatment of the insane or make them the object of more enlightened care.

Only within the last five decades have insane asylums been separated from alms houses and ceased to resemble prisons for the criminal. Even today many popular notions about mental disturbance and insanity are carried over as a residuum of the superstitions of the past.

The number of individuals who are judged by others as being “queer,” “nutty,” “daffy,” “coo-coo,” or of persons of affluence or influence dubbed more kindly “eccentric” or “temperamental,” is legion. The village crank and the Tom O’ Bedlams are historic personages along with the village blacksmith and the squire. As a variation on the herd instinct, advanced thinkers, enthusiastic reformers, leaders among men are often classed among the insane. Perhaps some were.

There is still a general reluctance to look upon the brain as an organ of the body, subject to malfunction ana disease. There is still a peculiar stigma attached to mental disease that seems to put it in a class by itself. To discover that someone whom we have known for some time, with whom we have talked politics or played tennis or poker has a delusion, gives us an indefinite sense of discomfort and we look askance at whatever he does in other ways that may be sane and sensible.

To add to these general misconceptions of the populace by and large who still touch wood and carry a rabbit's foot or a horse chestnut, our mental mechanisms in the light of recent psychologic studies are subject to frequent elucidation on the part of writers of the Sunday Supplement Specials with captions beginning with “SCIENCE SAYS,” in bold face type. Complexes, suppressed desires, intra-uterine psychic traumata, introvert and extravert are words used with all the abandon of the King’s English on the sporting page. It is presented on the same platter with fantastic geology, the Babylonian accounts of

‘This letter establishing Dr. Benjamin Rush’s early humanity towards the insane was read by Dr. Thomas G. Morton in an address to the resident physicians of the Pennsylvania Hospital in December, 1886.

Digitized by CaOOQle
865

ereation, advances in Egyptology, neo-astrology and the whole realm of the twilight zone between fact and fancy, called science —as juicy morsels of journalistic cookery. Science is no longer supposed to be caviar to the general but pie a la mode after the corned beef and cabbage of bank hold-ups, changes in the French Cabinet, cross-word puzzles, halitosis and “four out of five get pyorrhea.”

Modern Quackery

Some recent developments in quackery are of two general types. The one follows the scare method and the other invites us all to develop our minds to such a high pitch that if carried to their logical conclusions would require wholesale trephining to permit of the expansion of the cranial contents. To quote from one of the advertising leaflets. “STOP BEING NERVOUS!” "Everyone is more or less nervous—the mother who scolds her child is nervous, the employer who mistreats his employees is nervous, the wife who nags her husband is nervous and is starting her husband on the road whose end is nervous meek. Nervousness is more contagious than most germ diseases. Science cannot prevent its spread.” And so on. The system is the same as in the patent medicine game—scare all the boobs into believing that they have the symptoms enumerated and then magnify them in scope to include all the diseases in the category, and then unfold your plan of saving suffering humanity because you too “have suffered.” It ends up with “Send for this book for free examination—Send no money”—At the bottom of the page in small face type a little note—“When the book is delivered pay the postman $3.75 and a few pennies fpr postage.” The other side of the picture has a more gentle, cooing, persuasive theme. It is calculated to attract the more intelligent people, with a subtle appeal to their vanity. “Are you the man or woman you ought to be?” "Beneath the self of which you are conscious there is hidden an unsuspected self, a thing of sleeping strength and infinite possibilities. That self is the man or woman you ought to be. I)iscover yourself. Search through all the muddle and chaos of wrong thinking, of doubt and self-distrust and find those fine qualities, those powerful potentialities, all those slumbering talents which everyone of us possess. Our system will show you how.” We have a variation on the theme of how to get a college education and become acquainted with the world's art, literature, science, philosophy and history by five minutes reading in bed every night before sleep, or how to become Lionel Strongforts by ten minutes daily work with a dumb-bell patented by the aforesaid Strong-fort. We are all urged to tinker with our mental mechanisms by developing the MEMORY, to become VIGOROUS PERSONALITIES, to be metamorphosed into RIGHT THINKERS and be able to engage flappers in uplifting discussions as to the relative merits of Bergson and Santayana between the soup and fish.

Digitized by Google
366

William James divided people into two classes—the tough-minded and the tender-minded. The tough-minded are those who are naturally sceptics, doubters and have the legendary Missourian virtue of wanting to be shown. Whether they know it or not, their philosophy is that of Hume and their platform, “dubito, ergo sum”. The others, the tender-minded, are those standing with mouths agape ready to swallow these ready-made systems, and who are mentally polarized, to use a phrase of Dr. Henry Leffmann, to believe anything, (providing that it be pleasant and agreeable)—anything that reduces the prosaic, harsh, discordant, complex and oft too frequently difficult truth to a mellow, roseate, poetic, neat phrase, like “Liberty, Equality, Fraternity”; “Mind is superior to Matter”; “The eating of meat is the cause of all diseases”; “Money is the root of all evil.”

Many otherwise fairly intelligent people go in for mental telepathy, numerology and a variety of mystic conglomerates of metaphysics, religion, ethics and medicine. The ouija board had a brief period of popularity. Every now and then a new Moses arises to lead the Babbitts to the promised land. It may be a Mary Baker Eddy, A Coue or a tall, thin, longbearded, dark-skinned, dreamy-eyed Swami who recruits his apostles to a new faith from the afternoon tea clubs, becomes fashionable, and lectures to select audiences from the social registry. As long as we have the tender-minded, table tapping will experience periodic re-birth.

LAWS OF HEALTH EMPHASIZED BY THE “CASE-METHOD.”

(Supplementary to a Course of Study in Hygiene).

Instruction in physiology and hygiene until recently has consisted of assigned reading or study, class recitation and formal exposition illustrated by charts, models or simple exemplifications. The chief criticism of this method is that "It does not lead the pupil to think for himself.” This is even true in medical colleges, and it has been reported that a well known professor, after years of experience with medical students said, “You can tell students that A-X and B=Y, but the majority will never see that A plus B=X plus Y unless you tell them.” To obviate this parrot-like knowledge in as important a subject as the preservation of health, it is suggested to substitute the “case method” for the older didactic methods. By this system, a case, i. e. history or symptoms of a morbid process, is presented to the pupils and they deduce the physiologic principles, including diagnosis, prognosis, and perhaps, treat-

NOTE: During the next months a series of short articles will be printed that should be of considerable help to many of our readers who teach “Health Education.”

Digitized by v^.ooQle
367

ment. We believe this deduction is impossible without a clear - conception of the fundamental laws of nature, so we recommend the utilization of the case method as supplementary to our present didactic course to drive home facts already presented, and to develop the capability of the child to think for himself.

Each case is divided into three parts:—(a) the object and its reference to the course of study; (b) the method of presentation to the children; and (c) the logical questions by which the subject matter under (a) should be emphasized.

FIRST GRADE.

(a)	Object.

To teach habits of cleanliness and neatness.

(b)	Presentation.

Yesterday Patsy Brown was six years old, and this morning for the first time she came to school with her big brother. The Principal placed Patsy in the first grade with the other children. All the children liked Patsy from the very beginning and so did her teacher. They all called her the cleanest girl in school. Each morning she came in nice and tidy, her face and hands clean, her teeth white, and her hair nicely combed and brushed. Her dress was often mended but never soiled or dirty. Patsy’s teacher loved to correct her spelling papers, and the children always chose her drawings as the best because her papers were so very clean and never had dirty marks on them.

(c)	Deduction.

1	Why did the teacher and the children like Patsy so very much? (She was so neat and clean).

2	How and with what did Patsy keep clean? By washing (when) and with soap and water.

3	Do you think Patsy just washed her hands and face? No (speak of baths).

4	Why did Patsy’s hair look so nice each morning?

5	Why did her dresses look so nice and neat even when they were old dresses that she had had a long while?

6	Why were Patsy’s papers always clean?

THIRD GRADE.

(a)	Object.

To teach importance of caring for teeth.

(b)	Presentation.

One of my boys last year complained that cold water and sweet things, especially candy hurt his teeth. There was a green deposit on his teeth up near the gums. He often had pain when he ate his meals, and this pain was always on the same side of his mouth.

(c)	Deduction.

1	What was the trouble? (Toothache).

2	What can be done for toothache? (Go to dentist and have teeth cared for. Mention free treatment for any

. who cannot afford to pay).

Digitized by v^ooQle
3

368

Why did food and sweet things cause the teeth to ache? Because tooth was decayed, and there was a cavity; outside covering of the tooth (enamel) was worn or cracked by decay of food or biting of hard things like nuts, thread, etc. and the nerve of the tooth exposed.

4	Why was this deposit on the teeth?

5	How often, when and how should the teeth be cleaned? (Also dental floss).

6	Will this (cleaning) help to prevent decay?

7	When you have the first sign of a toothache what should you do? Why?

FIFTH GRADE

(a)	Object. To teach:-

1	That bones support weight of body.

2	That bones are more easily bent in children (adults never except by accident acquire bow-legs).

3	That bones for proper growth require good food, fresh air, etc.

4	That babies should not be stood on their feet. (They will walk themselves when the time comes).

(b)	Presentation.

On visiting friends last week I noticed that their little boy’s legs were crooked and were bent outward, which is called bow-legs. His mother told me that he was three years old, and that he had always been a good strong boy. They had taught him to walk before he was a year old. Before this his legs had been straight, but after he began to walk they became bent.

(c)	Deduction.

1 What made his legs crooked? (Bones bent).

2 What are bones for? (Support body weight).

3	What made bones bend? (Too much weight—bones weak).

4	Why don’t they bend in grown people? (Harder).

5	Why were bones not strong enough? (Probably because of insufficient quantity of food and proper hygiene).

6	Should not stand babies on feet too soon, etc.

FIFTH GRADE.

(a)	Object. To teach :-

1	Importance of correct posture..

2	Prevention of crooked spine.

3	That occupation may affect body.

4	That defective eyes may cause poor posture.

(b)	Presentation.

In one of our nearby schools they were planning to have an entertainment, at which the fifth grade boys were to give a gymnastic drill to music. All the boys stood in a line while the teacher selected those standing perfectly straight and erect. One boy who had just been transferred from a school in the South could not be chosen, and upon questioning it was found
369

that ever since he was eight years old he had sold newspapers, always carrying a heavy bundle of them under his left arm supported by a strap. His teacher noticed the following day that he leaned over his desk with his head turned to one side when writing or reading.

(c)	Deduction.

1	Why could not this boy be chosen for the drill? (He did not stand straight and erect).

2	Why do not boys stand erect and straight? (Sometimes weak muscles, deformity, fatigue or even laziness).

3	What was the matter with this boy? (Deformity— perhaps slight, with one shoulder very much lower and lateral curvature of spine).

4	Cause of this?

Carrying excessive weight—newspapers—on one side; Sometimes carrying lot of school books always under one arm may cause—should use arms alternately—defective vision as in this case will also help.

5	What should be done in such cases?

1 Correct eye conditions or other contributory cause.

2 Exercise the muscles that will straighten the defor-formity. Possibly take special work at gymnasium or from the assistants of physical training, which can be done at home.

(Continued in February Issue)

«> ■ ■ «>

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

O'	 ■-----------------------------------------

GRADED COURSE IN TUMBLING AND STUNTS FOR

GIRLS

Mathias H. Macherey, Newark, N. J.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 6	SECTION	ONE

Simple

1	Stand on mat. Kick right lower leg backward, catch right instep with right hand outergrasp. Raise left arm forward. Bend left knee. Stretch. (Bend knee deeper in each succeeding lesson, until finally the right knee touches the mat.) Opposite.

2	Kneel, hand on hips. Trunk circling, bend forward, sideward right, backward, sideward left and continue three times. Opposite. Kneejump.

NOTE:	This	is	the	second	installment	of	"The	Graded	Course in Tumb-

ling and Stunts for Girls”, the first lesson having appeared in the November issue of Mind and Body.

Digitized by Google
370

3	Roll forward to stand. Raise right knee outward and catch right heel with right hand from the inside. Stretch right leg diagonally forward as far as possible. Return. Opposite.

4	Sit. Bend trunk forward, touch toes with fingertips. Rock backward to lying position rearways with leg raising. Rock forward to sitting position and backward to lying position

LESSON TWO

GRADE 6	SECTION TWO

Medium

1 Roll forward to stand. Kick right lower leg backward, instep to rest in right hand, outergrasp, left arm forward. Bend left knee deep and stretch. Position. Opposite.

2	Roll forward to stand. Raise right leg forward and arms forward. Bend left knee and stretch. Position. Opposite (Each lesson try to bend deeper.)

3	Kneel on right knee, left leg extended sideward, foot on mat. Turn trunk to right, bend forward and with hands reach for left ankle. Return. Repeat. Opposite.

4	Roll forward to stand. Jump with 1-2 turn right to squat-stand, hands on mat. Jump feet backward to support lying frontways. Jump feet forward to stand.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 6	SECTION TWO

Advanced.

1	Roll forward to stand. Arms diagonally side downward. Bend trunk backward and return.

2	Jump with 1-2 turn right to squatstand, hands on mat. Keep body doubled up and roll backward to stand.

3	Headstand.

4	Fall forward to support lying frontways. Rear vault swing right to sit. Roll backward to stand.

5	Raise right knee outward. Grasp right heel with the right hand from the inside. Stretch right leg high to vertical position. Return. Opposite.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 7	SECTION ONE

Simple

1	Jump to straddle stand, arms extended upward. Bend trunk forward, grasp ankles with hands. Lower head as far down as possible. (Until it finally touches the mat). Return. Repeat.

2	Kneel on both knees, sit on heels. Bend trunk forward and reach both hands forward. Return. Hop forward on knees. Kneejump to stand.

3	Roll over forward to stand. Raise arms and right leg forward. Bend and stretch left knee. Position. Opposite.

4	Jump to straddle stand. Hands on hips. Bend trunk backward and return. Turn trunk to the right and with right
371

hand reach backward and touch the mat as far back as possible (without moving feet). Return. Opposite. Position.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 7	SECTION	TWO

Medium

1	Head stand. (With assistance)

2	Roll forward to stand. Fall forward to support lying position, turn right to sitting position. Rock backward to lying position rearways with raising legs. Rock forward to sitting position. Draw feet up close and rise to a stand without use of arms.

3	Jump to straddle stand. Bend trunk backward. Return. Place one foot ahead of the other, bend trunk forward, place hands on mat close to front foot and swing legs backward. Preliminary to handstand. Return.

4 Jump with 1-2 turn right to squat-stand, hands on mat. Roll backward to stand. Sit with right leg forward extended, left backward (may be bent.) Bend trunk forward and stretch several times. Position. Opposite.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 7	SECTION	THREE

Advanced

1	Roll forward. Head-stand. (With assistance)

2	Straddle stand. Arms upward. Bend trunk backward. (How many can “Bend the crab”) Return. Fall forward to support lying position. Jump forward between the arms. Roll backward to a stand.

3	Squatstand left, right leg extended backward, hands on floor. Full leg circle right forward underneath right hand, replace right hand and take weight, raise the left hand and swing right leg backward underneath left hand and left leg to support lying frontways. Jump legs apart to straddle seat and roll backward to a stand. Opposite.

4	Practice handstand.

5	Bend the crab. Return. Handstand. Return. Roll backward to a stand. Headstand. Return.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 8	SECTION	ONE

Simple

1	Roll over forward to a kneeling position. Cross the arms behind the back. Bend trunk forward until head touches mat. Return. Kneejump to stand.

2	Raise right leg backward, bend trunk forward, fingertips touch mat, left knee slightly bent. Raise arms sideward and return. Position. Opposite. (Horizontal balance)

3	Straddlestand. Bend trunk backward. Return. High kicking forward right and left. Raise right knee, grasp heel with right hand from inside, stretch right leg sideward. Return. Opposite leg.

Digitized by v^ooQle
372

4	Squatstand. Jump backward to support-lying position frontways. Jump to straddle-stand. Position.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 8	SECTION	TWO

Medium

1	Roll forward to sitting position, legs apart. Grasp legs below knees. Roll sideward right to sit. (Roll sideward, on back, raise legs and sit when coming up on the other side.) Repeat. Opposite.

2	Bend the crab. (If unable to lower backward until hands rest on floor, then go as far as possible.

3	Jump with 1-2 turn right to squatstand. Roll backward to a kneeling position. Bend trunk backward. Return. Knee-jump.

4	Practice handstand (with assistance)

5	Roll forward to stand. Horizontal balance, standing on right foot. Lower to kneel on left knee, arms upward. Arms diagonally side downward. Bend trunk backward. Return. Stand with left foot ahead of right. Handstand. Return.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 8	SECTION	THREE

Advanced.

1	Roll forward to squatstand. Roll backward to stand. Head-stand.

2	Squatstand left, right leg extended backward, hands on mat. Full leg circle right forward underneath right hand. Rest on right hand, raise the left, circle backward underneath left hand and left leg to support lying frontways. Squatstand right and full leg circle left.

3	Bend the crab. Return. Horizontal balance on right foot. Practice the handstand.

4 Raise right knee outward, grasp heel with right hand from inside and stretch right leg as high as possible. Return. Opposite. Handstand. Bend the crab. Return. Headstand. Return.

DAVENPORT TURNGEMEINDE, FREE EXERCISES AND GROUPING

By F. B. Ohm

Music, “Through Combat To Victory” by Franz Von Blon, Carl Fischer Publishing Company, Cooper Square, New York.

I

Women

Step left sideward and raise arms sideward 1-2. Place left foot back inward 3-4. Leap right sideward to bent knee position, arms upward and sideward 5-6. Jump to side stride

Google
373

stand, hands in rear of head 7-8. Bend trunk forward 9-10, straighten 11-12. Bend trunk forward again with straightening arms and swing them fore-downward and backward (elbows touching knees) 13-14. Position 15-16.

Men

Place left foot forward and raise arms fore-upward 1-2. Place left foot backward, swing arms fore-downward and backward 3-4. Leap forward to squat position, arms upward and sideward 5-6. Straighten left leg forward and face right about, placing both hands on the floor 7-8. Lunge left forward and arms sideward 9-10. Jump to side stride stand, hands in rear of head 11-12. Bend trunk forward and straighten arms and swing arms foredownward between knees 13-14. Jump with 1-2 turn left, facing about to stand, position 15-16.

(The women and men do their exercise to the left and right and then change exercises).

II

Couples

(A)	Lunge towards each other arms obliquely fore-upward and opposite looking at hands 1-2. Balance stand facing each other hands grasped 3-4. Woman steps backward and man steps foreward placing hands on foot of woman 5-6. Women bend upper trunk backward 7-8. Straighten 9-10. Return to Balance stand 11-12. Lunging position 13-14. Position 15-16.

(Repeat all, men doing the bending.)

(B)	Face each other bending knees deep and arms sideward 1-2. Straighten legs left sideward to side lying support 3-4. 1-4 turn to support-lying frontward 5-6. Another 1-4 turn to side lying support, lying sideward back to back 7-8. Return movements 9-16.

Ill

In three’s (Interlude of 4 measures in which they assume the position for the three’s.)

Women

(A) Outer women face inward and raise arms sideward. Inner women arms fore-upward 1-4. Outer women kneel on right knee, arms sideward and inner women place hands on their shoulders 5-8. Inner women jump on thighs and place hands on outer ones 9-12. Outer women rise to lunging position and inner ones arms sideward 13-16. (In kneeling and lunging position outer women grasp inner one’s thigh to steady position) Inner women jump to stand and immediately kneel and grasp outer ones around waist, while outer ones close to position and inner arms are placed on partner’s shoulders 1-4. Outer one’s raise outside leg sideward and arms sideward 5-8. Outer women lunge outward and outer arm obliquely side-upward and inner opposite, while inner ones come to knee bend position and arms sideward 9-12. All in position with raising arms upward 13-14 and lower 15-16. Repeat all.
374

(B) Begin as in A 1-4. All in squat position hands on floor 5-8. Outer ones straighten to support lying frontways and inner ones straighten trunk and arms sideward above partner’s heads 9-12. Outer ones return to squat position and grasp inner one’s knee, while inner ones straighten to stand and place hands on partner's shoulders 13-16. Outer ones straighten Imees carrying inner one 1-4. Outer ones straighten arms sideward

5-8. Inner women jump to bent knee position arms sideward, and outer ones layout backward and inner arm obliquely fore-upward and outer arm opposite 9-12. Return as (A) 13-16. Repeat all.

Men

(A)	Outer men face outward bend trunk and place fingers on floor. Inner one steps backward, places hands on back 1-4. Inner one jumps on outer one’s back and to stand and arms sideward 5-8. Inner one jumps to stand and outer one close to position and grasp inner one’s hands 9-12. Outer ones lower to fan 13-16. Outer ones come to kneeling position arms sideward and inner one step back placing hands on floor (preparation to hand stand) 1-4. Inner one kicks up to hand stand and outer ones grasp knee 5-8. Inner one return and outer ones straighten knees and arms fore-upward 9-12. All close arms upward 13-14, foredownward 15-16. Repeat all.

(B)	Outer ones raise leg placing hands on floor. Inner one grasping foot 1-4. Outer ones raise the other leg to hand stand, while inner holds feet 5-8. Outer ones jump to squat stand and face about grasping inner one’s knees who places hands on their shoulders 9-12. Outer ones straighten to stand while inner one is supporting on their shoulders 13-16. Inner one turns over to shoulder stand on outer one’s hands 1-8. Inner one turns over to stand, knees bend deep while outer ones layout with inner foot having hands grasped on inner one's upper arm 9-12. With a jump and lift inner ones return to position. All in position 13-16.

Repeat all.

IV

Interlude during which they form circle of sixes. In a circle of sixes repeat first part. Women begin with the left foot toward center which would make their leap outward from circle. Men would face center direct aud repeat their exercise as in the first part.

V

Forming letters “D” and “T”

Marching to positions 16 counts. All squat and hands on floor 1-2; then assume the prone lying position and hold 32 counts. All squat 2 counts, in position 2 counts, march to circle of 12 in 12 counts. This includes 8 counts of interlude.
375

VI

Circle of 12’s

Men place hands on neighbor’s shoulders and bend knees in stride stand. Women place left foot on men’s thigh and place hands on men’s shoulders 1-4. Women rise to stand on men’s thighs 5-8. Men straighten knees while women close foot and support from men’s shoulders 9-12. Women jump to bent knee position arms forward. Men lowering arms 13-16. Women lunge left forward and arms obliquely sideward. Men step left backward face left about, bend left knee, right leg straighten backward and place hands on floor (preparation to hand stand) 1-4. Men kick to hand stand and women grasp ankles. Men lower to standing position. Women take one step forward, lunge and place hands on floor and men step in rear of women. Men grasp women’s feet and assist women to hand stand. Return moves and all in position facing inward. (Take 16 counts to circle of 24’s.)

VII Circle of 24’s

Men place hands on neighbor’s shoulders. Women form two (2) circles facing outward. Men bend knees. Middle women’s circle place left foot on thighs as in Part 6 1-4. Women come to stand on thighs 4-8. Inner women circle, grasp foot and straighten their arms upward so that the others are in a support lying position 9-16. Marching left sideward in circle and return 16 counts. Lower women to position on floor while men face about on 5th count 1-8. Men face to support lying frontways. Middle circle women fall out forward, arms fore-upward. Inner circle face about, grasp hands and bend trunk backward 1-16 counts. All return to position in 4 counts. This leaves 12 counts with interlude to march to position forming A and T.

VIII Forming A-T

Squat hands on floor 2 counts. Lying 2 counts. Hold this position 24 counts. Squat 2 counts, position 2 counts, making 32 counts.

IX

Form into one flanjc line and the first (1st) twelve (12) a 1-4 turn in 4 steps to wheel about the center, making 16 counts. 1-4 wheel about center 12 counts. Same twelve (12) face left about in four (4) steps all close on 16 counts and dress right.

PUT AND TAKE RELAY

W. Ed Hoffman, West Chester, Pa.

Divide the class into several teams, as in any relay. Even numbers on each team preferred, but this is not necessary. Count each team off by two’s, i. e. 1-2—1-2, etc. In front of

Digitized by kjOOQle
376

each team place 2 Indian clubs at such a distance as the space will allow.

At the signal “Go” No. 1 of each team runs and brings one club back to No. 2, then returns and brings the second club back to No. 2. No. 1 then goes to the end of line while No. 2 immediately runs forward and replaces both clubs at the same time. No. 2 then touches the second No. 1 in line and goes to the foot of line. The performance is repeated until one team is finished, that team winning. If the relay is repeated No. l’s and 2’s should interchange so that each pupil will get an equal chance in running and placing.

NOTE: I have found this relay useful where the running space is limited.

News, notes and comments

Teachers College, Columbia University, New York.

My dear Mr. Stecher:

In a recent number of MIND AND BODY appeared a letter from Mr. Challman, of Minnesota, which I think had been copied from the Heating and Ventilating Journal.

I am enclosing with this an answer to this significant letter from Mr. Challman, which has been quite carefully prepared by my collaborator, Mrs. Hendriksen, and myself, and which I hope you may be willing to publish in an early number of MIND AND BODY.

Yours very sincerely,

Thomas D. Wood.

A NEW PHYSICAL EDUCATION PLAN

A Report by W. A. Stecher.

In Germany a plan was recently suggested by Dr. Rud. Gasch, that rearranges the time set aside for education and that gives more time for physical education. In outline, the plan is as follows:

Place. All public and private gymnasiums, all drill fields, and armories, all playgrounds, athletic fields and all swimming pools shall be at the disposal of the state daily, except Sundays, from 2 until 7 o’clock.

Time. Instruction in physical education shall be given on three afternoons a week, a period lasting from 2 to 3 hours. This times includes the time necessary for dressing, bathing and again putting the facilities in shape for the next group that is to use them.

Digitized by	Qie
377

Pupils. Every child from 6 to 17 years of age is obligated to attend the exercise center of its district. Excepting for the first few school years, classes shall be formed on the basis of physical efficiency.

Teachers. There shall be a director for each center who is assisted by as many men and women teachers as the enrollment calls for. These teachers shall be assisted by leaders chosen from the older boys and girls. A school physician shall be assigned to each center.

Method. The method employed shall be similar to that used in the Turner societies. The material shall consist of Free exercises, Apparatus work. Track and Field Work, Games, Hiking, Swimming and Fencing. Age requirements shall be used. At about 11 years of age swimming shall be stressed so that every child when it is 12 years old shall be a swimmer.

Relation to Mental Education. If three afternoons are set aside for the school for physical education, there remain three afternoons for the exercises and the scientific excursions of the school for mental education. The regular mental training is to take place during the six mornings. From 12 until 2 o’clock the pupils are to eat and rest. At 2 o’clock they would report to their district centers for the type of work presented for the day.

Dr. Gasch states that a reorganization of the school on the lines outlined will have a beautiful effect upon the whole state. The strict discipline to be maintained during the free exercise, the games and the hiking would do much to counteract the debilitating and demoralizing influences of the modem life of young people.

He believes that at present there would not be enough exercise centers to take care of the many pupils, and that the cities would be forced to erect more. These, then, could be used after 7 o'clock by societies and clubs, all resulting in a great increase in regulated muscular work, which in turn would result in increased health and vigor of all citizens.

PHYSICAL EDUCATORS CLUB OF CHICAGO

Dr. F. J. Gerty, Superintendent of the Chicago Psychopathic Hospital, speaking on the value of physical training in the treatment of • mental diseases, stated that physical training, especially the simpler exercises, were the best aid to physical approach in the treatment of mental cases.

“When a mental patient, who has lost all interest in his surroundings, sits all day, stares into vacancy and does not respond to normal processes, we find that by compelling the patient to walk, bend, or go through the simple forms of calis-thenic exercises, they regain sufficient mental poise to subscribe to the necessary mental treatment.”

Digitized by C^ooQle
378

“Physical training is the best means of developing co-ordination in the individual and co-ordination of the group. To teach people to live together is an essential requisite to society. Anyone who cannot adjust himself to co-ordinate with the group usually must be removed from society as a victim of mental disorder. Physical training is discipline and discipline is an important factor in the progress of society. You people in our educational system who are engaged in physical training work are making a valuable contribution to society, and if your work is so useful in the treatment of persons affected with mental disorders, how much more so must it be to those of sound minds”

“Most people have the conception that the physical body is something aside from the mind, and are inclined to view the two as separate things without considering the relationship. Mind and muscle are so closely interwoven that they cannot in any sense be treated as separate. The mind is dependent upon sensations received through the sensory organs, and it can be given expression only through muscular action. The value of* your work does not lie only in building muscle, but in teaching the mind to control muscular action.”

In conclusion, Dr. Gerty stated, “The medical profession is very much interested in your physical training work and stands ready to support it and co-operate with you at all times.”

A	brief	discussion	of the merits of the newly advanced

theory	of the	correct	fundamental position in standing	took

place.	Not	all	of the	members present subscribed to the	new

theory	that	in	correct	standing posture the feet should be	par-

allel, about two or three inches apart; many preferring to adhere to the previous custom of placing heels together with toes pointing outward at about a 45 degree angle.

Before taking a definite stand on this mooted question the Club decided to obtain more information on this subject and will make the perplexing question a matter of discussion at a later session.

At the October meeting, Mr. E. C. Delaporte, Director of Physical Education in the Chicago School System, gave a brief outline of the revised Physical Education curriculum contemplated by the Curriculum Committee who are working out a complete course of study for the schools.

“The tendency of the times has thrust into our civic and industrial life so many new ideas and departures from former customs that a complete revision of our grammar, Junior, and Senior High School curriculum was deemed advisable. Some subjects have become unimportant, or entirely obsolete while more time is needed for those studies that are more in keeping with the demands of the times. With this change will also come a revision in the physical education program,” said Mr. Delaporte.

“In keeping with the recommendations of Mr. McAndrews, Superintendent of Schools, that it is better to teach fewer subjects thoroughly than to teach a great number of subjects with-

Digitized by CjOOQle
379

out sufficient time devoted to each study to obtain satisfactory results, the new curriculum will be made up with regard to accomplishing definite results in each subject rather than assigning to the subject minimum or maximum time requirements.

The new physical education plan will be to accomplish certain standard physical and health requirements in each grade. Standard requirements and sample lessons will be worked out for each grade that will be flexible enough to meet the needs of each group involved. Mr. Delaporte explained.

Following the discussion hour, Mr. MacGowan gave a lecture on the fundamentals of soccer football, with a team of players demonstrating the rules and various plays. Mr. George Scheuchenplug then gave a practical demonstration in methods of life saving. These practical demonstrations are interesting and exceedingly educational, and are generally attended by the entire membership, who, on many occasions take active part in the class lessons, thereby obtaining first hand experience as well as receiving instruction on the theory of the subject.

Theo. A. Gross, Chairman Publicity Committee.

First Seven Years Most Crucial, Affect Whole Later Life, Child Specialists Agree.

The first seven years of life are the most crucial.

It is during this early period that the child forms the basic mental habits and acquires the characteristics that will most profoundly affect the later life.

This opinion of the enormous importance of the earlier years in influencing the entire later life of the individual is expressed by a distinguished group of child specialists, doctors, psychiatrists educators and ministers in a symposium on “Is a Child Made or Unmade by the Age of Seven?” published in the December issue of “Children, The Magazine for Parents.” The symposium presents the views of many child specialists. The following excerpts should be of interest to the readers of Mind and Body.

“If a child has been badly managed up to the age of seven years, it is impossible to correct completely the difficulties in the emotional slant of the child,” says Dr. John B. Watson.

“I think the worst deviations can be got rid of by systematic unconditioning (scientific readjustment). But I should expect a child even properly unconditioned at the age of seven to have a greater liability to emotional disturbance than one whose emotional life was properly looked after before that age.

“A horse that has been badly broken during the first two years is always an unsafe horse; it is doubtful if it can ever become a thoroughly satisfactory horse.”

“The years from two to seven are the most important years of trail blazing, years that establish the character traits,” says Dr. William Palmer Lucas.

Digitized by {^.ooQle
880

“Unconsidered and apparently trivial details in the behavior of the parents during the first five years of the child’s life make a far greater impression on its mind and have far more weight in the formation of its character than any other factors occur-ing later,” says Dr. Paul Bousfield, of London.

Dr. Douglas A. Thom, who has conducted research at the Boston Habit Clinic, stresses the importance of the first seven years, but believes that these are not necessarily the “determining years”. He says:

“Many of the ‘conduct patterns’ that are to be utilized during the life-time of the individual are formed during these vears, but some of these patterns will be discarded, others will be developed. One’s entire destiny is not fixed by the experience up to the age of seven.”

As to the influence of the first seven years on the physical well-being of the individual in later life, the doctors and dietary authorities quoted in the “Children” article are agreed as to its importance.

“The first seven years are the most critical—the baby may be made ill by a single unsuitable meal. We cannot make up later for dietary deficiencies which have produced poor teeth, or a contracted chest, or have caused permanent injuries to the digestive tract,” says Dr. Mary S. Rose, professor of Nutrition at Teachers College, Columbia University.

As to the importance of some type of religious training during the first seven years, Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick, nationally-known New York minister, writer and educator, says:

“Before the age of seven, many of the child’s fundamental attitudes are pretty thoroughly set—especially such attitudes as are concerned with trustfulness toward people or dread of them, the presence of fear as a motive, the habit of getting what it wants by selfish scheming or by confident request.

“These matters associate themselves with anything that is worth calling religion, and in that sense a child's fundamental religious attitudes ate pretty deeply channeled by the time he is seven. The early years are very significant.”

Although differences of opinion were expressed by the authorities contributing to the “Children” symposium, Dr. Bess V. Cunningham, of the Institute of Child Welfare Research of Teachers College, Columbia University, who compiled the symposium, points out that there is virtual agreement on the following seven points:

1.	That we are, as William James pointed out, “but a mass of habits.”

2.	That most of our important habits of everyday living are laid down in our very early years.

3.	That it is easier to lay down good habits than to change bad ones and

4.	That, therefore, the right environment and intelligent guidance of children under seven years is most essential.

Digitized by

Google
381

5.	That "all is not lost" after seven by any means. Even adults are subject to reform, but the older the person the more difficult the process.

6.	That, on the other hand, the child that has been safely brought through the first seven years is not guaranteed against future mishaps in character, behavior or physique. No parent can ever feel certain that all the good habits laid down will be a permanent acquisition, although they will be strongly rooted.

7.	That “every day is a day of growth" at any age of childhood, and that there is no beginning, no standstill, no end in character development.

Do you Play as Hard as you Work?

Play, and particularly out-of-door play, is one of the most important things in the world. When the happy spirit of play comes flitting in, worries, fretting cares, and the blues slouch sulkily away. Play is the safety exhaust for unhappiness, disappointments and troubles.

The person who works without seasoning his twenty-four hours with play is developing a one-sided character. The man who can play as hard as he works is the one who develops the characteristics—mental keenness, versatility and adaptability to do team work in the business world,—which are so essential to success.

It is the boy or girl in college who has learned to play with enthusiasm and zeal as well as capture the scholastic honors who will be the great success in professional and business spheres.

Play a third set of tennis, drive your golf ball into the eighteenth hole, swim until you have tested your endurance and the skill of your strokes. At the end of your play hour you will greet the world with a happy smile and the pep and spirit of the conqueror. Through play we get a heightened consciousness and an exaltation of emotions that lift us above the routine of everyday life. Play builds strong bodies and healthy minds. It is conducive to a happy disposition, a perfect digestion and uninterrupted sleep.

Too often grown-ups feel that when responsibility becomes part of their daily living the play hours of youth should be pigeon-holed. Play is undeniably the birthright of childhood, and it is a birthright that should be respected in some form throughout life. There is no age limit for play.—Physical Education, England.

Courage—

Language has a subtle art of exploration. The word courage, for example, could not have been invented. It means the same as core, and the lexicographer does not live who can tell why it did not stay core or coreage. But some instinct of the tongue far back down the ages, and back of the tongue some investigative subtlety of the imagination, discovered that there

Digitized by LjOOQle
382

was more than a central core or heart in man out of which flow so many valorous purposes. So the word was ballooned a bit and somehow invested with meanings and implications which make it seem entirely different from core.

But the. word also means heart—and there is another adventure of language which grows mysterious the longer it is examined. Why the heart? How do we know that the heart is the source of the best traits in man? How do we know that “out of the heart are the issues of life?” Even the physical organ we call heart is pretty much unknown. It is never seen, and the doctors say it is entirely stripped of every nervous equipment for communicating with consciousness—at least it is the hardiest and most rugged and insensate of all the organs.

Out of the heart are the issues of life. The dictionary says courage stands for. disposition, inclination, spirit, valor and so on—all of them strange products of still stranger ingredients. So strange that we don’t know how to get at them, train and shape them. We don’t know how to give courage to a person who has none.

It is-courage that moves to action. It takes a great deal of courage just to keep a man going through the motions of living, courage to keep him at his drudging tasks, courage to meet life's emergencies.

But although we know so little about it, how immediate i and generous is the recognition and praise of it wherever it appears! The Only trouble is that we are not keen enough always to recognize and. prize it in its everyday clothes.—Philadelphia Public Ledger.

BOILED WATER USED BY CYRUS THE GREAT

A Washington (D. C.) physician has called the attention of Health News to the fact that an error of about half a century was made in quoting the year during which Aristotle advised Alexander to boil the water he carried on his desert marches to prevent it- getting sour.

Our correspondent then calls attention to the statement in Herodotus- (Book I Chap. 189) to the effect that Cyrus the Great of Persia, on his military expeditions, carried with him boiled water from the Coaspes river in silver vessels on four wheeled wagons. As this ruler died about 530 B. C. it is apparent that for nearly twenty-five centuries military leaders failed to take advantage of this lesson which these ancient rulers had learned or to grasp its'significance. The sanitarian has now come into its own in military affairs.—Health News.

There appears to be an increasing use in Germany of films for physical education purposes. The U. F. A. Universal Film Association, has produced several films that are meeting with the general approval of teachers and coaches because the best

Digitized by v^ooQle
383

gymnasts and athletes were used to produce the pictures. Froip She available descriptions it appears that many of the more intricate movements were produced with the socalled slow motion camera.

Qn.October first the State Normal School for Physical Education for Prussia celebrated its 75th anniversary at Spandan where it h^s been located since it first was opened under the direction of Mdssmann.

J.	P. Mueller, the originator of the system of gymnastics named after him, celebrated his 60th birthday in Denmark. Unlike McFadden and other American originators, Mueller still has thousands of disciples who faithfully and daily perform the exercises originated by him.	,

Interscholastic competition among high school girls of Wisconsin has been banned as detrimental to their moral and physical welfare, by the Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association. The association, controlling body of all state high school athletics, cited evils accompanying interscholastic competition, stressing .improper chaperoning, lax moral discipline on trips to other cities and strain of excited competition.

As the first step towards a movement to curtail state and district tournaments for basketball and forensic teams and bands, the state principals association has appointed a committee to make a survey and report next year.

A recent issue of “Die Leibesuehungen” contained a lengthy illustrated article by Prof. Bruna Schroeder, Dresden, on gymnastics and art. Dr. Schroeder pointed to the fact that so far as he knows no modem artist has tried to reproduce a gymnast performing an exercise on a piece of apparatus, but that track and field performers are often to be found. He wonders if the modem ideal of “perfect work on apparatus” with stiff knees, pointed toes, etc etc. appeals to artists, if this is really artistic? In the illustrations he reproduces older drawings where the artists show apparatus work, but the figures do not show anything like what now is known as “good form”. Are we on the wrong track, are we over-emphasizing form at the expense of the natural and easiest way to accomplish a stunt?

“The following circular letter relating to athletics in the higher schools was recently sent to the principals and teachers in the higher schools of Philadelphia.

The opening of many new higher schools appears to be an opportune time to make a statement relative to what is termed "athletics in the higher schools.

Digitized by Google
384

“At the present time, the Board of Education is doing its best to provide suitable facilities and also a sufficient number of teachers to give to every boy and girl at least one hour of vigorous muscular play-work per day, either within school time or after school. With this object in view the number of gymnasiums in every new school has been increased. In buying new school sites, the need of adequate play facilities for all pupils is a consideration of prime importance. The number of' teachers of physical education has been increased so as to allow for the supervision of after school play-work for all pupils. AU this goes to show that the Board is making every effort to put into effect its resolution of June 13, 1916 to raise the physical fitness of all pupils.

“What appears to be necessary is a clearer conception on the part of some principals and teachers of the vital part they play in putting into effect a comprehensive plan of physical education. Traditions in some of the older schools affecting the play life of pupils, appear to be preventing them from viewing the athletic problem from newer angles.

“The modem trend, even in colleges, is to place the greatest weight upon the play life of. all students. So far as public schools are concerned, where no teacher's tenure of position depends upon his ability to turn out winning teams, the policy should be “Athletics for All”.

“The function of athletics in public schools should be as follows:

1)	To give all pupils an opportunity to learn and to play standard games.

2)	To so organize this play-life that the pupils gladly will stay after school to play inter-class games. These games should lead to the determination of the champion team in every scheduled sport.

3)	To allow this champion team to play one or more games with teams of neighboring schools that were chosen by a similar process. This type of competition, however, should always be the outcome of the former.”

BOOK REVIEWS

“Rhythms and Dances for Elementary Schools,” compiled by Dorothy La Salle. 168 pages, 9” x 11”, cloth bound—

A.	S. Barnes and Company, Publishers, New York. Price, $4.00.

This book contains a number of dances, both familiar and new, so graded as to be very useful to the teacher. Miss La Salle has included in her book natural, clog and folk dances. She has divided the book into three main divisions:

Digitized by (^.ooQle
385

1.	Fundamental and Pantomimic Rhythms, for all eight grades;

2.	Dance Rhythms, for the three lower grades;

3.	Dances and Singing Games, for grades one to eight. Most of the material is given in a convenient form with

descriptions and music for each dance. In some instances dances are recommended in the different grades with information as to where to obtain the music and description.

The dances are well graded and of such variety as to give the teacher a wealth of material in one book.—Janet B. Walter.

“1000 and One” (Fourth Edition), by The Educational Screen.

The Blue Book of Non-Theatrical Films. Published by The Educational Screen, Inc., 5 South Wabash Avenue, Chicago, 111. Paper cover, 128 pages. Price 75 cents.

A compact booklet giving a brief description of innumerable Non-Theatrical as well as Theatrical Films. All who make use of the cinema for educational or recreational purposes will find this book of inestimable value in the selection of suitable films. The names and addresses of the various producers and distributors are conveniently arranged.—Grover W. Mueller.

“Athletic Dances and Simple Clogs” by Hillas and Knighton. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, 1926. 54pp. Price $2.00.

An excellent book of athletic dances and clogs; not too difficult for the average class but filled with activity and spirit. The definition of terms, the arrangement of material, and the generous number of illustrations will all be found helpful.

Grover W. Mueller.

"Tennis for Women” by Lou Eastwood Anderson, Department of Physical Education and Hygiene for Women, University of Washington. Published by A. S. Barnes & Co., New York, 1926. Cloth, 7 1-2” x 5”, price $1.60.

This little book provides an excellent, though brief, analysis of the fundamentals, history, development, teaching points, and recreational value of tennis as adapted to the physical ability of women. One can detect the wide experience, tolerance, and sympathy of the author in teaching this game to novices of all ages. Aside from the excellent physical value of tennis, its character building potentialities are stressed in the introductory chapter “To the Coach”.

All the fundamental strokes are described, with thorough mimetic drills for perfecting the correct form of these strokes. A sensible note is struck regarding the balance of drill and competition and a warning not to “lose sight of the main objectives of physical education” is given. This book should prove

Digitized by Google
386

interesting and helpful to male beginners as well as female, and doubtless be of great value to women physical instructors and coaches.—Howard L. Conrad.

"Concerning Parent*”. A symposium on present day parenthood.

New Republic, Inc., 1926. Paper, 278 pp. $1.00. t. Thjp book contains a keen analysis and an interesting interpretation of the subject suggested by its title. It has been published “in the interest of all those who are seeking to make their parenthood more intelligent.”

... The contents of the book is the material which was presented at the Conference on Modern Parenthood held last autumn under the auspices of the Child Study Association of America. This* material has been contributed by such noted educators and scientists as Prof. Elton G. Mayo, Prof. William Kilpatrick, Dr. Beatrice Hunkle, Dr. Frankwood E. Williams, and others of equal prominence.

The whole range of family relationships is covered in a thorough and interesting manner under such Topics as “The Family of To-Day,” “The Family and the Community,” “Parents and the New Psychology,” “Leisure and Recreatiog,” and “The Parents’ Outlook on Life.”

Each of these topics is considered from several angles in such a' way as to cover the whole field. For example, the topic on “The Family and the Community” includes the following subjects:

The Nursery School: A Response to New Needs.

Getting Away from the Family: The Adolescent and His Life Plans.

The Family as Co-ordinator of Community Forces.

Parents, teachers, social workers, indeed every adult, should read this very stimulating and thought provoking treatise on modern family life and what it means to society. .

—Grover W. Mueller.

Price $50

LITTLE TOTS LOVE

JUNGLEGYM, JUNIOR.

He makes them happy......he

builds their muscles...he gives

them muscle-control, courage and self-reliance.

Every child should have the educational advantages of Jung leg ym.

CHICOPEE, MASS.

Digitized by

Google