MIND AND BODY

Vol. 38	FEBRUARY, 1932	No.	402

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NKW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECFER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

«----------------------------------------------

PSYCHOLOGY TO THE AID OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Some of the Principles of Psychology Involved in the Teaching of Physical and Health Education.

W. P. Maclean J. Sterling Morton High School Cicero, Illinois.

Every curriculum expert from Herbert Spencer to Franklin Bobbitt has placed health at the top, or near the top, of the list of aims and objectives in education. For the most part, we have left it in this position of honor and done little else about it. Psychologies of education are especially barren of material for the health educationist save by implication.

The more thoughtful educators will readily agree with the statement of Winslow and Williamson [1] that, “No advantage which the school can possibly give to the child can make up for the harm it has worked in inculcating sedentary habits during school life.”

1.	C. E. Winslow and P. B. Williamson, The of Heallh and How to Teach Them, Merrill, 1925. pp. 7*8.

Digitized by LjOOQle
766

It should, then, be seriously impressed upon the minds of school administrators that, [a] in training for full functioning citizenship, health is of far more importance than highly problematical college entrance requirements, [b] “Health” must cease to be an imaginary and highly illusory aim included to make the program appear complete and ideal, but rather a debt to the present and the future that must be recognized and paid in full; and [cl, health education, to be effective, must demand and accept much more help from the psychologist than heretofore.

A careful examination of a score of books on the psychology of high school subjects reveals no book or chapter devoted to the psychology of teaching health. This must lead us to one of two conclusions: [al Either “health” is not recognized as a high school subject by tne psychologists, or [b] the close relationship between physical and mental states are considered to be so obvious as to need little exposition.

Cabot[2] in hi? essays states, “Psychology is one half of medicine. No man can be cured in spite of himself. The vast majority of diseases get well without any help from anybody.” “Seek health first, and all things else will be added unto you, or their absence will count with you but a little thing. As Nietzsche puts it, ‘The first requisite of a gentleman is to be a perfect animal.’ ”[3]

“Better play one piece of music than listen to a hundred; better strike out on the corner lots than see a world series game,” says Durant.[4]

Herbert Spencer[51 thus defines education: “[a] That which - prepares for direct self-preservation; [bl That which prepares for indirect self-preservation; [cl That which prepares for parenthood; [dj That which prepares for citizenship in the narrower sense of the word; [e] That which prepares for the miscellaenous refinements of life.”

Bobbitt[6] quotes Dr. Woods Hutchinson as follows: “ ‘Which is the life of man—his work or his play? It is his play;' ” and Schiller to this effect: ‘“Man plays only when he is a human being in the fullest sense of the word, and he has reached full humanity, only when he plays. This proposition will acquire great and deep significance when we shall learn to refer to it the doubly serious ideas of duty and destiny. It will then sustain the entire superstructure of aesthetic art and of the yet more difficult art of life.’ ”

2.	Dr. Richard C. Cabot, The Meeting Ground of Doctor and Social Worker,” pp. 10-15 Houghton Mifflin, 1914.

3.	Will Durant, The Mansions of Philosophy, New York: 1929, Smim and Shuster, pp. 272.

4.	Will Durant, Ibid., pp. 295.

5.	Herbert Spencer, Education, Intellectual, Moral and	Appleton,

1896.

6.	Franklin Bobbitt, The Curriculum, p. 207, Houghton Mifflin, 1918.

Digitized by LjOOQle
767

Bobbittr7], himself, says: “A major advantage of the play

exercise is tnat it can fix habits for life”.........Good	physical

training can result but from one thing; namely, right

He devotes a .chapter to the “Fundamental Task of Physical Training”, which is to so educate that the “resevoir of energy” will be continuously kept at its maximum level in those educated.

Bobbitt[8] shows how this level of energy is related to vocational efficiency, morality, civic control, leisure occupation, health, etc.

In How to Make a Curriculum, Bobbitt[9] states the objectives for physical education as follows: “109. Ability to make one’s various mental and emotional states and activities contribute in maximum degree to one’s physical well-being.”

“110. Ability to make one’s sleep contribute in maximum measure to the development and maintenance of a high level of physical vitality.”

“111. Ability to relax physically and mentally at proper times and in proper ways.”

“117. Ability and disposition to maintain personal cleanliness.”

And, under “Guiding Principles and Assumptions:”[10]. “17. In the formation of habits of exercises, full regard should be had to the matter of interest and pleasure and favorable attitudes.”

“26. If physical play is to be the exercise of adults, then interests, habits and skills are to be formed during adolescence.” “38. The major training in proper habits of ventilation, diet, sleep, eliminations, cleanliness, posture, protection from micro-organisms, and every other matter of personal hygiene is that which results from the pupil’s self watchfulness over his individual activities. Preliminary training is needed for awakening necessary interests and attitudes, and for securing necessary information.”

“40. Out of concrete readings will grow generalizations; and through problem-solving these generalizations will be used, assimilated, and made functional in one’s thinking and judgments.’ “41. The principles of physical development and maintenance, and of hygiene and sanitation, are to be intellectual results of the labors of this department as fully as principles and generalizations are the result of the labors of other departments.”

“42” So far as practicable the pupils should have associations and live within an atmosphere that stimulates healthy, well-balanced, and sufficiently vigorous hygienic thinking.”

7.	Ibid., 181-88.

8.	Ibid. 172-79.

9.	Franklin Bobbitt, How to Make a Curriculum, Houghton Mifflin, 1924. pp. 165-176.

10.	Ibid.

Digitized by kjOOQle
768

The psychological implications of the above quotations are obvious enough to make it apparent that psychology is as important an element in the make-up or preparation of the modern physical educator as football ability.

■Where shall he get his psychology of physical education? It remains for a Judd to write a book. Meanwhile much has been done and said here and there in the general field that may be directly applied to our department of the teaching profession.

In the table of contents of the book “The Play of Man”,[ll] we find that for education there are more activities on the play level than on the work level; e. g., to quote:

“ I. 1. Experimentation with sensory apparatus.

II.	2. Playful use of motor apparatus.

3.	Destructive movement.

4.	Analytic movement.

5.	Constructive movement.

6.	Synthetic plays.

7.	Operative movement.

8.	Plays of endurance.

9.	Throwing plays.

10.	Catching plays.

III.	Social plays

1.	Fighting plays.

2.	Love plays.

3.	Imitative plays

4.	Social play proper.

Conversation Processions Clubs, etc.

IV.	Imitative play

V.	Aesthetic and Intellectual play”.

These are “Nature’s impulsion to activities which educate”.

In regard to Groos’ theories of play we quote Carr:[12] “Groos in his first work, “The Play of Animals”, in upholding the instinctive origin of all plays, commits himself to the doctrine upheld by James, Baldwin, Spencer, et al., that imitation is an instinct, and hence imitative plays may be classed as instinctive. This argument is absolutely essential to the validity of Groos’ instinct theory, as he himself would admit.

“There are many activities, as playing store, keeping school, etc., whose only claim to be instinctive is based upon the fact that they are imitative. If imitation be not an instinct, then it is doubly certain that every play reaction is not instinctive.”

Whether all play is instinctive, or imitative, or both, is a question for theorists. The health educationist must concern

11.	Karl Groos, The Play of Man, Part I, Appleton, 1901.

12.	Harvey A. Carr, The Survival Values of Play. Investigations of the Dept, of Psychology and Education, The Uni. of Colorado. V. 1-No. 2. November 1902. P 6-7.

Digitized by L^OOQle
769

himself with both probabilities and employ both the child’s instinctive tendency to physical activity and his tendency to imitate in providing helpful activities and the right things to imitate.

Carr[13] gives us assistance of greater value further on:

“The

1.	Diversional

2.	Kathartic

3.	Alleviating

4.	Recuperative

5.	Practising

and further :[14]

General Utilities of Play

6. Educative

a.	Exercising

b.	Organizing of:

1.	Instincts

2.	Habits

3.	DeNovo habits.

c.	Transmission of Social Heritage.

d.	Sociological.”

Special Utilities of Play:

1.	Ease of Reaction.

2.	Greater Amount of Activity.

3.	Greater Intensity of Reaction.

4.	Greater Stimulus to Growth and Development.

5.	Variability of Reaction.

Carr, so far as we are concerned, arrives at about the same conclusions as Groos, i. e., “Play was certainly the natural and

primary educational reaction.............“The	work	spirit was an

artificial and secondary reaction.”

Judd[15] points out that what we will make of the child depends on heredity and natural impulses—conditioned environment.

Judd[16] says further, “The function of school administration is to bring teachers and pupils together under the best possible conditions for instruction.”

This has psychological implications for the health education department not only in reference to its own “conditioned environment,” but in reference to the effect their activities may or may not have on the work of other departments.

The general implication will be treated later at greater length, but may be sufficiently emphasized here by a quotation from Gates dl7]

“It is commonly believed that the excitement, worry, fear, anger and irritations of life hasten the breakdown of the disceral

18.	Ibid. 7-10.

14.	Ibid. 18-20.

15.	Charles H. Judd The Psychology Social Institutions, MacMillan, 1926 pp. 846

16.	Charles H. Judd, An Introduction to the Scientific Study of Education, Ginn & Co. 1915. P. 265.

17.	A. I. Gates, Psychology for Students Education, MacMillan, 1928, pp. 169-71.

Digitized by L^ooQle
770

functions and it is well known that diseases or deficiencies of these functions are greatly aggravated by emotional disturbances.” [18] “All nervous disorders are from lack of harmony within. When disharmony is great enough, the organism refuses to be an organism. Things split off. Thus we have the phenomenon of a dual personality.

In this regard, Starch[191 tells us in his chapter on “Mental Hygiene”, “The primary school years, 1-8, are of outstanding importance in the acquisition of habits, tastes and emotionally toned attitudes which fundamentally influence the personality make-up of the individual throughout life.”

Dr. Thom[20] issues a lengthy series of “Don’ts” which* being negative are less valuable than Burnham’s, “Children should be given opportunity to express their instincts and emotions in wholesome ways through play and rest. Many of the behavior difficulties of children are found here.”

Dr. J. B. Morgan tells us how a teacher, [it will do for the teacher of physical education] may influence character formation.

“Be calm and friendly, not censorious. The appeal is to the child’s loyalty. Loyalty must be won. It cannot be coerced. Such punishment as may be involved should be remedial, not revengeful. Use substitution, sublimation, rationalization.”[21]

Of ten helps for personality evaluation, Femald[22] lists the physical examination as an important one.

Three of Bobbitt's[23] guiding principles for which we may find psychological objections are as follows:

“18. Physical exercises that are not enjoyed by the children are relatively unprofitable.

“19. A varied play program takes care of the entire musculature in a sufficiently balanced way.

“20. For normal children, a varied play program takes care in a human way of all the desirable objectives of formal gymnastics; and of many others besides.

“21. Habits of physical exercise should be formed during adolesence in ways and under conditions in which they are later to function during adulthood.”

As to 18, no one has yet discovered a class of even twenty high school boys who all desired to do the same thing at the

18.	Frank N. Freeman, Class Lectures on Educational Psychology, Aug. 10th 1928, Speaking of Sherrington’s, “The Inle.grative Action of the Nirvous System, and E. V. Holt’s, The Freudian Wish, in regard to the general subject of Integration.

19.	Daniel Starch, Educational Psychology, MacMillan, 1928, pp. 200-215.

20.	D. A. Thom, Child Management, Children’s Bureau Pub. No. 148, TJ. S. Dept, of Labor, 1924.

21.	J. B. Morgan, The Psychology of the Unadjusted School Child, MacMillan, 1924, pp. 800.

22.	Fernald, Walter, Personality Evaluation, Waverly, 1921.

28. Bobbitt, Op. Cit. 172.

Digitized by CjOOQle
771

same time. Some will always be forced to play what they least prefer. Furthermore some will always be forced to play positions that they least prefer, or on sides, or v1th teams that they little like. The child must learn early that “the individual’s own best interests are conserved by subordinating them to the best interest of the group.” This is continually in process of exemplification in the school yard, and there is as yet no scientific evidence that the b°y who plays a game he does not like, or in a position or on a side he does not choose, profits physically less than his teammates.

The very words “enjoyed” and “varied” are often opposed to each other by the will of the child. The writer has dealt with hundreds of boys who would choose to play basket ball, indoors, on every day of the school year for four years.

19 and 20 have never been proved by experimental evidence. In fact, recent athletic reverses experienced by our best athletes at the hands of smaller European countries who make a fetich of formal gymnastics-may be taken as evidence , to the contrary. At any rate, arbitrary judgments emperically arrived at are faltering guides.

Just how far would Bobbitt be inclined to extend the principles involved in 21? It may be accepted that “habits of physical exercise should be formed during “kindergarten days” in ways and under conditions in which they are later to function during” high school days. But it must be kept in mind that for each age there are activities which are appropriate to it alone.

Physical Education does not attempt to graft upon children a definite set of activities and skills that will be available and usable in identical form all through life, but rather to prepare them to enter upon adulthood physically and socially integrated and adjusted to successfully cope with all the problems with which life will confront them, a well tuned reactive mechanism habituated to act favorably to the individual.

As Judd[24] has claimed for the other manual skills, theory and practice must be mixed. Every child does not know how to play. Coordination of muscular movement is at the bottom of all manual skill. The lack of it would embarrass some children in group games on the playground. The gymnasium must furnish preliminary, accessory and complementary training for the playground just as the classroom must furnish them for the other activities of high grade living.

Dewey[25] says in this connection, “For an hour the school is outdoors in a field the children call the ‘gym’. Bars, horses, etc., are scattered about and there is someone there to help them try new things and see that the work is well balanced, but formal gymnastics, in the accepted meaning of the term, do not exist. Mrs. Johnson believes that the distaste of the

24. Charles H. Judd, The Psychology of High School Subjects, Ginn & Co. 1916.

26.	Evelyn Dewey and John Dewey, Schools of .Tomorrow, Dutton, 1916.

Digitized by LjOOQle
772

children is sufficient reason for doing away with them, and that, since the growing child is always seeking of his own accord opportunities for stretching and exercising his muscles, all the school needs to do is to supply the opportunity, seeing to it that this is not indulged in to the point of harming the child.

“The children fall naturally into groups: those who want to swing on the bars and rings, those who want to climb, to jump, to run, or throw, etc. Running usually takes the form of races, a tree is used as a target in the stone throwing contests.

“The children themselves have invented games to use on the apparatus, and the hour in the ‘gym’ is one of the busiest of the day. It leaves the children eager and stimulated for their mental work, since it has meant no overworking of one set of muscles, no dull repetition of meaningless movements at some on else’s command.

“There is some one there to help them try new things and keep the exercises well balanced.”

There are many good suggestions for the physical educationist in the above, but it carries certain inconsistencies.

Suppose that in order to “keep the exercises well balanced”, one must be made to run when he prefers to throw stones? Suppose that the school supplied “the opportunity” for physical exercise that would leave “the children eager and stimulated for their mental work” and some preferred to side step the opportunity, as so often happens in actual practice, and do nothing at all?

To the boy who prefers to throw stones or the group who merely desires to do nothing at all for an hour, would not running races be “meaningless movements at some one else’s command?”

Dewey, Bobbitt, et al, with the small, selected groups that are gathered into laboratory schools do not fully apprehend all the problems to be faced by the physical director who must supply recreational and health opportunities to a cosmopolitan group of 4,000 to 6,000 pupils with limited time, space and equipment.

Parker[26] has the following in his chapter, Habits of Harmless Enjoyment:

“Participation in sports and games, chances for all.

The organization in high schools of training for enjoyable participation in sports and games is important both from the standpoint of the present life of high school students and from the standpoint of future adult habits.

“In most large high schools the common practice is to require formal gymnastics of all students, while a few students with special physical qualifications or special interests in contests become members of the various athletic teams. Usually this situation does not develop in many students the habit of enjoying

26. S. C. Parker, Method* of Teaching w High School*, Ginn ft Co. 1916.

pp. 216-86.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
773

the participation in such activities. In a few exceptional high schools the principle is adopted that the development of a few expert teams for inter-school contests is relatively unimportant as compared with the organization of opportunities for nearly all students to be participants in sports and games, just as most students would be given similar training in the enjoyment of literature and music.

“In order to achieve this result, the extreme emphasis on formal gymnastics disappears and much attention is given to games, and gymnastic and folk dancing. By this means supervised recreation is provided which not only brings into the lives of the students, at the present time, harmless and healthful enjoyment, but lays the basis for the continuation of such activities after graduation.”

Such a Anew is more acceptable and feasible. The emphasis should not be placed on formal gymnastics, but theory and practice should be mixed. The program must be well balanced in terms of all the functions of the body. The exercises should be organized so that group spirit, the general desire for cooperative association and participation for a common, more or less, social end will lead tne timid, lazy, egotistic and obstinate pupils out of themselves to higher endeavor.

Participation must be intelligent. The child, must know what he is doing to himself and why he does it.

Dewey’s child of the schools of tomorrow, turned loose to follow his own unguided impulses on the playground, unhampered by intelligent direction and organization will acquire no useful or lasting habit, will arrive at no attitudes of present or future social value.

The coordination, cooperation, intelligent participation of which Judd speaks may be bought only by conscious effort, trial and error, perseverance, analysis and generalization with an occasional exact definition of the total situation.

Pechstein[27] subscribes to the following logical view: “Sound health is so essential to the welfare of an individual at every stage of his career that health education is now a recognized part of all school programs.

Guidance in the health field involves:

1.	Health inspection and follow-up;

2.	Physical training, and

3.	Habituation in right living.

“Physical training includes gymnastics, games, rhythm work and swimming. The chief need at present is more corrective work with small groups to overcome defects.”

These things cannot be accomplished by “happy go lucky picknicking,” aimless wandering into the fields to throw stones at a tree for an hour.

27.	L. A. Pechstein, and Laura A. McGregor, Psychology of the Junior High School Pupil, Houghton, Mifflin, 1924. pp. 160-70.

Digitized by L,ooQle
774

Games are imitations of the natural activities carried on by primitive man for his preservation. Primitive man must have been almost continuously physically active in a natural environment.

Our socialized imitations are pursued spasmodically. We pass our lives in an artificial environment wearing constrictive clothing, living in houses, eating too much, breathing smoke, walking, standing and running on hard surfaces.

Games grew. They were not logically developed. In them, symmetrical exercise is not an end. It comes, if at all, as an afterthought, a by-product. Oftener than not, the total physical result is harmful to some organs. [E. g. indoor basketball].

There is no one perfect exercise any more than there is one perfect food. A wise choice, variety is required in both. We prescribe, supervise and inculcate proper food habits despite the universally possessed urge to eat. Why then, this demand for absolute lack of direction in the matter of exercise?

[To Be Continued.]

MATERNAL MORTALITY IN RELATION TO THE SHAPE OF THE FEMALE PELVIS.

By Kathleen Vaughan, M. B.

That the figures for maternal mortality remain a disquieting feature of public health, both throughout Europe and America, is scarcely open to dispute. The United States has a higher death rate from child-birth than any of the twenty other countries from which statistics are available. According to Dr. Haggard, of Yale University, of the 16,000 mothers who die annually,. 10,000 die unnecessarily because the means of preventing the deaths are not available to the mothers who need them, and this happen? in a country where the specialists in obstetrics are as skilled as any elsewhere in the world. The intervention of a specialist, however, is nothing but an eleventh hour attempt to make good the ill consequences of wrong conditions set up in the woman’s own childhood, for it is the faulty shape and inclination of the pelvis in women which bring about difficult births.

A valuable contribution to tnis point of view was made recently by Kathleen Vaughan, M.B., before the Royal Society of Medicine [R.S.M. Vcl... xxiii, No. 1], when she showed clearly that the solution of the maternal mortality problem should be looked for less in an elaborate provision for abnormal child-birth, than in trying to regain the lost heritage of natural, easy birth. For this it is necessary to begin with the new-born female child [both boy and girl babies are born with circular pelvic inlet] and provide her with such conditions of light, food and exercise as shall ensure proper development of the pelvis to enable childbirth in her own maturity to become safe and easy.

Digitized by ooQle
775

Below is a full abstract of Dr. Vaughan’s paper on maternal mortality in relation to the shape of the female pelvis and particularly to the mobility of the sacro-iliac joints. Her observation of child-birth among purdah women and nomadic tribes, and her subsequent study of the capacity of the pelvic inlet in primitive woman, throw fresh light on a problem which has a very definite school and gymnastic bearing.

The statement by the Ministry of Health that in spite of more ante-natal care and better midwifery, the maternal mortality rate in England and Wales shows no improvement on the returns made twenty years ago, makes one think we have not got to the bottom of the problem. Maternity, for some reason, becomes more and more dangerous for the mother, and some factor is at work which is evidently untouched by the provision of skilled obstetricians and midwives. I venture to suggest that it is civilisation itself that is at fault, and that is bringing itself to an end by creating conditions of life that so deform the pelvis of the race that the woman’s pelvis is no longer capable of allowing the child’s head to pass without risk to the mother and perhaps death to the child. Those that are safely bom are the premature, the children with smaller heads, and consequently, the females, who have a better chance of surviving the ordeal of birth.

I began to study the problem in Kashmir, where Caesarean sections are as common as they seem to be in China. The women with contracted pelves all come from the better and more civilised classes, who, owing to social custom, are imprisoned with little light and without the food factors necessary to compensate for this deficiency—hence imperfect calcification of their bones leading to gross changes in the skeletal anatomy. I noted that in the same town the boat-women, living in the open air, with but one garment, engaged in heavy work with the men, eating a coarse but sufficient diet, consisting of milk, eggs, cheese, rice, mustard oil and abundance of raw fruit and vegetables, had their children with no trouble and never came to hospital on account of difficult labour.

All over India the upper-class women, e.g., those living in a seclusion and known as ‘'purdah women,” are the ones who have obstetric complications, whilst the field workers, such as the tea-garden coolies, women working in rice fields, knee deep in water, women who cut grass for the horses, the boat-women and the women of nomadic tribes, such as live on the North-West Frontier in tents—these have their children with hardly any trouble, and therefore no skilled attendance at birth is needed. Furthermore, the very women who, when living in natural open-air conditions have easy and natural confinements, when transplanted to the city, or shut up in ‘'purdah,” have difficult and dangerous ones with their younger children. Outside Bombay the weaver-caste women living in their own villages, tending cattle, and engaged in the ordinary tasks, such as drawing water, fetching wood, preparing the usual cow-dung cakes for fuel, and other

Digitized by Google
776

tasks which fall to their lot, have no trouble in parturition and have large families, but when brought into the city and obliged to live in narrow dark streets on the ground floor behind the husband's loom, they become deformed, and the Cama Hospital for Women in Bombay reports that were it not for the constant influx of fresh workers from the country, this caste would die out.

In China, Maxwell, Miles and Feng report that their Caesarean cases occur chiefly among those women who bind the feet {the superior class of Chinese], who live much indoors and are incapable of taking any exercise. Many travellers have described the African negress living in her kraal, going out daily to her .work of tending cattle, etc. She has her child in a few minutes and takes it up in her arms at birth and goes on with her work, but skilled observation of the negress living in New York, or in any of America’s big cities, reveals another state of things. Whit-ridge Williams, of Baltimore, says: "Were it not for the greater compressibility of the negro infant’s head there would be more Caesarean sections needed among them for deformed pelvis than among any other class of the community.” He also says: “The fact that the usual types of contracted pelvis occur four or five times more frequently in coloured women, renders it highly probable that the explanation of the difference must be sought in certain conditions peculiar to that race,, and, from the study of coloured woman as seen in my service, these would appear to consist in imperfect general development and rachitis which may be regarded as resulting from the imperfect nutrition and poor hygienic conditions under which the coloured women live in large cities.”

Nearer home, the Carnegie Trust Report, 1917, gives interesting examples of islands such as Shetland and Skye where the women, until recently, were delivered without midwife or doctor and had large families of healthy children—nine, ten, twelve or more were not uncommon—and they did not die in childbirth—yet those women were working barefoot with the men, hauling in the nets and the boats, and doing laborious field work such as drawing the plough while the men guided it. The same report notes that in crowded areas and towns in Scotland, notably Glasgow, the women have rickets and every possible obstetric complication, and the maternal mortality is very high.

Thus evidence from all over the world indicates that a natural life with hard work and exercise in the open air is good for women and ensures natural, easy, and safe labour, whilst civilisation with its crowded cities, indoor life at school and at home, exclusion of sunlight and air, and the impossiblity of obtaining fresh and natural food, produces new and dangerous complications for both the mothers and the infants of the race.

The fundamental cause of difficulty is obvious—that for some reason the child’s head and the mother’s pelvis do not fit, and delayed and difficult labour is the result; bruising of soft parts, exhaustion of the mother, the risk of sepsis, all follow on this primary failure of adaptation.
777

Which is at fault? Is the foetal head too big, or the maternal pelvis too small?

By the kindness of Sir Arthur Keith I was enabled to measure some pelves at the Royal College of Surgeons. To measure the inlet of the pelvis I used a piece of stiing, carrying it along the ilio-pectineal lines, across tne inner side of the pubes and across the sacrum just below the promontory. After all, it is the capacity of the pelvis that matters, and I tried to get an idea of this by pinning out the measuring string on paper. It was abvious that, arranged as a circle, it contained a larger area than when it was arranged in any other form, and that the least deviation from the circle diminished the available space for the child's head. Therefore the capacity of the pelvic inlet depends more upon its shape than its size.

I	then studied the variations in shape in a number of female pelves in different races, and measured the tranverse and anteroposterior diameters of the brim to get an idea of the variation from the perfectly circular form. The European, Englishwoman, Frenchwoman, Russian and Egyptian pelves were flattened from before backwards, having the longest diameter transverse. Then I came upon some pelves whose inlet approached the circle, and finally the Andaman Island female specimens 1216, 1212, 1213, the Sikh woman 631 b, Peruvian f. 1013, S. Australian f. 1068. 15, and Negress No. 1256.51. whose transverse and antero-pos-terior diameters are of equal length, and consequently the pelvic inlet or brim is a perfect circle.

I	also examined some innominate bones, notably one from Ur of the Chaldees, one from Salisbury Plain [Ancient British] and an Anglo-Saxon specimen where the great roundness of the ilio-pectineal lines is marked, and was led to the conclusion that the more untouched by civilisation and modem habits of life, the more clearly circular the pelvis. All these people must have borne their children in primitive conditions without doctor or skilled midwife.

Can there be any racial cause for these differences in form? I think not, for it was at once apparent that the round-headed race, such as the European, is bom of the oblong pelvis, and the long-headed race, such as the Bushman, of the round pelvis, so that the shape of the female pelvis does not vary to accommodate the varying shapes of the head in the human race.

Again, the foetal head is circular and is made to mould into a perfect circle by means of three sutures, and a larger foetal head can be bom through a circular inlet than through any other form of inlet having the same boundary measure. To illustrate this we have only to think of a cup and ball; any slight deviation from the circular in the cup will prevent the ball entering;

Lynch conclusively proved by X-ray studies that the pelvic inlet stretched at the three pelvic joints. His studies are also interesting as showing that the ends of the oval pelvis are not occupied by the child’s head as it passes through.
778

I found there were two types of female pelvis amongst those I had measured:

[1]	The perfectly circular, in which the whole of the body of the first sacral vertebra is outside the inlet.

[2]	The transversely contracted or rickety, in which not only the upper part of the sacrum falls forwards and downwards and bulges into the cavity, but there is also a descent of the fourth and fifth lumbar vetebrae with it—all helping to block up the available space.

If there is the slightest departure from the circular form, trouble follows with the foetal head, because the area available for its accommodation is lessened. Again, in the European pelvis the head descends, during birth, in a screw-like manner, because the three largest diameters of the pelvis are in different pelvic planes.

In the round pelvis all is simple, quick, easy and safe, and it will accommodate the largest head which the circumference can enclose. All the diameters in all the three planes are equal [or speedily become so in labour] with movable sacro-iliac joints. The sacrum swings back as on hinges, the ilio-sacral ligaments are flexible and elastic as in the perineum, the head is kept to the front by the posture of the mother [squatting], and birth is rapid and easy.

In handling the pelves at the College of Surgeons, I noticed how differently the sacro-iliac joints were developed.

The auricular surface of the sacrum extends over the first three sacral vertebrae, and this surface is much more extensive in native races, so that there is a larger surface covered with cartilage to influence bone growth. The second sacral vertebra has a depression into which a projection of the os ilium fits. This projection is situated at the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the articular surface, and it acts as a pivot on which the sacrum moves backwards and forwards, the range of movement being greater above this projection than below. We thus, see how movement of the sacrum backwards, as it swings between these two pivots, brings the concave surface of the first sacral vertebra [the part just below the promontory] into line with the ilio-pectineal line and, in the circular pelvis, completes the circular form of the inlet. All circular pelves have this joint well developed. In those examined the knob or boss on the auricular surface of the ilium was well marked and the auricular surface extensive.

Havelock Charles, in 1894, showed how the influence of function has modified the Punjabi sacro-iliac joints: producing a larger articular surface which, he says, is common to all Oriental races and is similar to those found in prehistoric man.

It seems to me that there should be in all men and women, as in Orientals, a mobility of tnis joint and a constant change of pelvic inclination as the subject walks, runs, sits, stands or crouches, and that the immobility of the joint leads to serious changes
779

in the shape of the pelvis, and of its inclination. The sauatting posture used while sitting, and also when attending to the calls of nature, was, of course, also employed by primitive man for the same purpose.

Observe now the habits of the Indian woman, of the Shetland woman, in fact, of all those who live natural lives and exercise their sacro-iliac joints, by hard manual labour: digging, weeding, hauling in nets, carrying and lifting heavy weignts, and—more important than all—the daily crouching posture for defecation and urination. This posture is really the natural one and all these people are without the modem closet, and many are without chairs.

Amongst modem civilised peoples the sacro-iliac joints are never used except in games or gymnastics. Our chairs get higher and are made to avoid stooping—our agricultural implements the same. Our first care in educating the young is to teach them to “sit quiet,” and they are made to sit up oh their still soft and cartilaginous pelves for hours at a time, while we prevent them playing the games natural to them—crawling and rolling and crouching. They are taught to pass their motions in an utterly unnatural position sitting up with their legs dangling. Later on, heels on the shoes tilt the body forward and are compensated for by more curving of the spine in the lumbar region, or by tilting up the fore part of the pelvis and thus exposing the pelvic floor to increased strain.

At birth the pelvis is almost entirely of cartilage and the inlet circular in both boys and girls. The two most rapid periods of pelvic growth are noted in girls, from birth till five or six; again, from eleven till fourteen or fifteen. Confinement indoors with absence of light and poor food, in which vitamin D is deficient, initiates rickets in early life. Before and at puberty the same causes operate even more strongly, and long-continued sitting and an indoor life induce the changes we are accustomed ta consider normal, and the kidney-shaped pelvis is the result, in which the space intended by nature to accommodate the foetal head is diminished by one-third or even one-half.—School Hygiene and Physical Education.

THE BODY AS A PERFECT MACHINE.

Dr. Robert Bayley Osgocd, Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, Harvard University Medical School, in reporting for the Subcommittee on Orthopedics and Body Mechanics, said that they had secured information which indicates that three-fourths of the young people of the United States exhibit poor posture or bad body mechanics.

The first physician to pay serious attention to this problem was Dr. Andry, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Paris, nearly 200 years ago. The word “orthopedics” originated with him, derived from two Greek words meaning “straight” and “little

Digitized by UjOOQle
780

child." At eighty years of age, out of the maturity of his experience, he maintained that most of the maladjustments of childhood and many of the ills of later life could be attributed to the wrong use of the body and to faulty body mechanics.

The tendency, so far in this country, has been to leave to the orthopedic surgeon the question of the mechanical correlation of the varioup systems of the body, a correlation which promotes better functioning. This has been a mistake because the pediatrician and the general practitioner are in a position, with adequate knowledge of the problem, to do even more for the good of American children as a whole.

What Is Good Posture?

There are many variations of what constitutes good alignment, posture or body mechanics, between the extremes of the stockilv and slenderly built child. However, with the aid of the silhouetteograph it is possible to grade the individual approximately—A, B. C or D in body mechanics. Since physicians now generally admit that there is a definite relation between good body mechanics and good health, this grading of the child’s posture should be part of every regular physical examination. Some public schools, the more progressive private schools and the leading colleges and universities do this. Records kept by them over a period of years and compared with those kept by the colleges to which these students go later, together with the findings of the army physicians during the war and the results of a special survey conducted by the United States Children’s Bureau in the public schools of Chelsea, Mass., indicate that about 80 per cent of the children in the United States suffer from poor body mechanics.

Posture and Internal Disorders.

The clinical experience of physicians seems to show that many digestive, intestinal and abdominal disorders are cured by corrected body mechanics. Dr. John B. Camett of the Graduate School of Medicine of the University of Pennsylvania, a well-known surgeon, stated that operations had often failed to relieve abdominal pain, that this pain was often due to functional rather than organic disturbance, that methods of diagnosis with the abdomen taut instead of relaxed were often misleading, and that many cases which had not been cured by operations had been cured by proper body mechanics.

Toward Better Body Mechanics.

The subcommittee made a careful study of what is being done in the United States to promote better body mechanics among the children. The first requisite is so to train the child that he can assume a correct posture when reminded of it. The next and more difficult requisite is to stimulate him to maintain it. Where there is no silhouetteograph to determine whether the child’s posture is good, a rough estimate of it may be secured by having the child stand up against the wall with his
781

feet a few inches out from the wall. If there is space between the lower part of his back and the wall, his body is not in good alignment.

The Chelsea survey was carried out during an entire school year in order to judge whether children could be trained in good body mechanics without disturbing the regular school curriculum and whether this training would show results in better health, nutrition and morale than existed among control groups who received the regular calisthenic exercises without any postural training. The health and attendance records of the cnildren who had postural training improved steadily through the year and were best in the spring. Studies of school children’s absences for illness in other parts of the country and the records of the control groups in Chelsea who did not have the postural training, showed that the physical conditioii of school children is as a rule less satisfactory in the spring than in the autumn.

Of the 36 states which have passed legislation bearing on physical education, only three, California, Delaware, and Utah, give training in posture and body mechanics as a regular part of the school health and physical education program. Thirteen of the states feel that the problem is important but they have worked out no coordinated state program for meeting it. Of the separate localities which include body mechanics in their physical education work Los Angeles, Calif., and Boston, Mass., are two excellent illustrations of what can be achieved. In Los Angeles instruction in body mechanics and postural work begin in the kindergarten. The program is handled by a physician and a special worker who give instructions to the teachers. “The story of corrective physical education for the children of Ins Angeles is almost unbelievable. It has gone turough an evolution of years of struggle and has finally become accepted and praised not only by the parents but by tne medical profession and all creeds.” In Boston the Department of Physical Education in the public schools in consultation with orthopedic surgeons has prepared “A Course in Physical Education for the Day Elementary and Day Intermediate Schools.” This is nothing less than an illustrated manual of body mechanics with carefully worked out descriptions of games and detailed exercises for the maintenance of gocd posture and the correction of poor posture. Such a course is now required in the public schools in Boston.

Physicians and Good Body Mechanics.

The general practitioner has been insufficiently informed on how to promote good body mechanics tend has consequently / not been vitally interested in the problem. However, pediatricians generally recognize body mechanics as important. Of over nine hundred who were questioned about it, practically 40 per cent felt able to give instruction for correcting posture. The remainder referred their cases largely to orthopedic surgeons, Occasionally to physical therapists and postural workers. Some

Digitized by LjOOQle
782

lived in communities where there was no competent person to whom they could refer their patients. Orthopedic surgeons, naturally, pay serious attention to correcting body mechanics, much of the detailed work with their patients being handled by physical therapists serving as their assistants.

Schools and Posture.

Directors and teachers of physical education for the most part underestimate the problem, since in only 17 per cent of their training schools are they themselves required to attain a passing rank in their own body mechanics before they are entitled to their diploma. This probably accounts for the fact that it is only in the most progressive private schools and colleges and in a limited number of public school systems that young Americans receive the benefit of adequate postural training. In these institutions records kept throughout secondary school and college years indicate that the improvement made in body mechanics is usually maintained through later years. Studies made at places like Groton, Harvard, Yale and Smith show most encouraging results.

Hospitals, including those with departments of orthopedic surgery have been slow to recognize the need for clinics to improve posture. Most schools do not provide satisfactory seats, and too many parents fail to set a good example in their own posture.

Recommendations.

The subcommittee recommends that the public be informed of the importance of good body mechanics to the health and well being of children; that good body mechanics be made a part of the now compulsory instruction in physical education and all children who now exhibit poor posture receive instruction in how to attain good body mechanics. “If we can remove the handicap of poor body mechanics from the children of the United States, we can leave with you the vision of a race whose road to physical perfection has been cleared of a serious obstruction, and since body and soul are inextricably bound together during life, the vision of a race whose intellect and spirit have been released from the trammeling chains of much physical inefficiency; a race not only more capable of physical defense, but more prepared to meet with squared shoulders and clear eyes its social obligations to the world.”—Child Health News.

MAJOR ISSUES IN AMERICAN EDUCATION.

The Representative Assembly of the National Education Association is a highly selected body of educational leaders. In the first place the delegates had to win their way into institutions for the education of teachers. Upon graduation they had to win their way past the standards and requirements of school-boards representing the people. In the third place they had to win their way among their fellows to a point where they had

Digitized by t^.OOQLe
783

been selected for the most representative body of educational workers in the world. At Los Angeles this Representative Assembly adopted a body of resolutions. These resolutions represent principles and purposes that have been before the profession for many years.

Wishing an even more specific indication of the problems that are immediately pressing, the JOURNAL of the National Education Association sent to each member of the Representative Assembly at Los Angeles a copy of the resolutions asking him to indicate those which he considered of first importance. The reports from that inquiry because of their highly representative character are therefore most significant. The five resolutions that were ranked of greatest importance in the order given were:

[1]	Taxes and school support—Financing the public schools requires a system of taxation which is equitable, wide in its application, and which establishes a fair balance between direct and indirect taxes. Better support of progressive education is largely dependent upon the study and revision of our present tax systems. Continued research should be made to find the best sources of support for schools. The National Education Association commends the study of school finance now being undertaken by the Office of Education under the authorization of Congress. Legislation initiating and revising systems of taxation which will provide adequate support for public schools should follow such findings.

[2]	Character education—Character formation should be a major objective in education. The activities of the school should be fully utilized for character training and in securing law observance and intelligent participation in public affairs.

[3]	Rural education—The National Education Association recognizes the necessity of providing educational opportunities for children in the rural communities equal to those provided for children in urban centers and the pressing need for a revision of the rural-school curriculum to meet the needs of rural life today. The Association urges the government to make, thru the Office of Education, a thoro study of rural education thru-out the nation.

[4]	Health education—Adequate provision should be made for physical and mental health in accordance with the conclusions of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection, to the end that habits of clean and wholesome living may be developed in childhood and youth. Schools should continue to emphasize the evil effects on the human organism of alcohol and of tobacco and other narcotics.

[5j Law observance—The National Education Association reaffirms its stand in favor of the Eighteenth Amendment and of the laws enacted thereunder. It urges their vigorous and impartial enforcement and pledges its support to an active educational campaign in the schools in behalf of habits of living for which the Eighteenth Amendment stands.—J’l. N. E. A.
784

EAT AND STAY THIN*

Many features about the body weijht are far from being adequately understood. One frequently hears it stated that the body weight is primarily the result of a sort of physiologic bookkeeping, representing the balance between the intake and the outgo of matter. This is determined in turn by the body's need and use of energy-yielding material. Certain functions by which we live and work call for food fuel; others require suitable substances for the replacement of effete matter—the wear-and-tear quota of the body; and when growth also is involved, nutrients must be retained to meet its demands. Intake of food fuel beyond these requirements almost always results, so we have been told, in deposition of the excess. There are exceptions attributable to the effect of the “whipping up” of metabolism by the foodstuffs, notably the proteins. This is currently spoken of as the “specific dynamic action” of foods. It represents a minor factor under the usual conditions of living. Accordingly, as Wil-der[l] has recently remarked in an examination of the conventional point of view, if one’s energy exchange each day was 2,000 calories and if one should eat in excess of this amount as little as 90 calories of fat or carbohydrate, this would “stick to the ribs,” so to speak, and this amount [10 Gm. of fat] accumulating day after day would mean in the course of ten years not less than 36,500 Gm., or 80 pounds, of extra weight. The 90 calories of excess food, causing this monstrous result, would be contained in a small pat of butter or a single chocolate cream of one of the more luxurious varieties.

Many persons do grow fat. The struggle against obesity is brought vividly to the attention of almost every physician by the complaints of patients who demand to be relieved of the consequences of excessive eating. Investigators have searched for evidence of some abnormality in the metabolism of the obese, but without success. The metabolism of rest, or the basal metabolism, when measured as calories for each square meter cf body surface, has been found to be no different in fat and in thin subjects. In simple obesity there is no abnormality of the basal metabolic rate.

Perhaps even more surprising than the widespread occurrence of obesity is the failure of many persons to grow fat under conditions of eating and activity that would lead one to expect the nutritional balance to be favorable to gains in weight. Eating has become, to quote Mrs. Rose, the favorite indoor sport of Americans. Overeating has become a habit with thousands, yet they escape adiposity. Wilder has presented this situation by the remark that there must be some device other than appetite to regulate body wTeight, because we continue to be protected against obesity, most of us, even though we hoodwink our appetite by

1. Wilder, R. M.: The Management of Obesity, J. Am. Dietet. A. 6:91 [Sept.] 1930.

Digitized by Google
785

various tricks, such as cocktails and wines with our meals. The whole artistry of cookery, in fact, is developed with the prime object, he adds, of inducing us to eat more than we ought. Why, then, do we not all grow fat?

The answer is not easily formulated. In accord with several other modem investigators, Wilder believes that the older physiologists overlooked something important, and that food in excess of what may be called the actual requirements is not deposited by people who stay thin. This brings a return of the old theory of luxus consumption, the burning up of food to rid the body of an undesired excess. It is well known that hyperthyroidism leads to increased metabolism and in many instances to loss of weight. Also epinephrine, secreted by the suprarenals, has a calorigenic action. Its effect is more rapid and sooner over than that of the secretion of the thyroid, but, like thyroxine, it accelerates metabolism. Thin persons are likely to be “nervous" and temperamental, in contrast with the phlegmatic disposition that so often goes with obesity. Emotional stress may lead to liberation of epinephrine; hence the heat production and food fuel waste may be accelerated. According to Wilder there is considerable evidence that this is true and that the individual who gains weight readily reacts to stimuli less intensively, that is, with the liberation of less epinephrine, than one who has no such tendencies. Obesity, he remarks, may not be just a matter of excessive eating. Some abnormality, possibly an inadequacy of the mechanism of luxus consumption, must be present to account for the inability to rid the body effectively of excesses of food.

These facts do not alter the fundamental features of the treatment of obesity. These consist in restricting the intake to below the calorific requirement of the individual. A good working rule is to regard the values of the actuarial tables as minimal optional values for persons under 30 and maximal optimal values for persons over this age. The guiding principle is to reduce the total calories of the intake and at the same time provide adequately of vitamins and proteins. It is wise, perhaps, to overdo, or at least supply the vitamins abundantly and, except in cases complicated with nephritis and hypertension, to supply protein liberally; that is, in amounts approximating 100 Gm. a day. This is important in order to provide against loss of body protoplasm, also because of the satiety value of meat, and because of the desired high specific dynamic action of meats which are rich in protein. The dicta of Wilder deserve repetition:

The intake must be curtailed and the chief problem, then, is how to accomplish this with a minimum of discomfort and without injury. The technic of the procedure is exactly like that which is followed in the management of diabetes. The patient must be trained. Without his intelligent cooperation, nothing happens. He also must want to reduce, and he must understand how to do it. It is usually wiser, the ultimate results being better, if weight is lost very gradually. A too rapid reduction may impair
786

strength of heart or nervous system—the patient feels uncomfortable, loses confidence, and stops the treatment. A reduction which requires more time results in establishing new food habits, so that afterward the patient finds himself able to hold his new weight without conscious effort. In some cases, it seems as though prolonged dieting restores to normal the ability to metabolize food in excess of requirements, that is, the luxus consumption referred to above, so that previously forbidden sweets and fats can be indulged in again without gaining. A weight loss of two pounds a week is as much as should be sought, and one pound is quite enough after the first ten or twenty pounds have vanished.

37TH ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

Philadelphia is making elaborate plans for the American Physical Education Association Convention, April 19-23, 1932 and is looking for a larger attendance than ever. The Convention program giving detailed information of all activities starting Tuesday morning and ending Saturday at noon will be published later.

All day Tuesday and on Wednesday morning, April 19 and 20, visits to schools and other places of interest in and around Philadelphia will be conducted by the local committee.

The committee has set aside Thursday noon, April 21, from 12:00 to 1:45 P. M. for class and school reunions. Each group will make their own arrangements which may include speeches, discussion and airing of school problems, or just plain eating mixed with timely gossip. The Social Committee will be glad to furnish the names of desirable places at or near the Convention Headquarters for your reunion.

A special feature will be the Student Section Meeting on Saturday morning. General problems of the embryo teacher will be discussed in this open meeting. The meeting was so popular last year that a need for continuing it was felt.

The Convention officially starts Wednesday noon and ends Friday night, thus giving a full week-end to visit historic Philadelphia and points nearby. The Valley Forge trip Saturday morning should attract many as it will be a sight-seeing tour of historic Valley Forge and surrounding country. The Philadelphia Teachers’ Association have asked all those attending the Convention to be their guests on this trip. If you have never seen Memorial Chapel, Washington’s Headquarters, and Valley Forge in the Spring, you will find the trip well worth while.

For those wishing to leave the city, Atlantic City is one hour by train, New York two hours, and Washington three hours. Excursion rates to these cities are very reasonable: for example, the daily round trip excursions to Atlantic City cost only one dollar and afford the privilege of returning on several different trains. A fitting climax for the Convention would be a week-end at the

Digitized by kjOOQle
787

“Playground of the World.” Also the month of April is “Cherry Blossom” time in Washington.

A number of discussional demonstrations and a monster demonstration of activities by public school and college students will provide much that is interesting and valuable to teachers in the field.

The Convention is only two months off and it is time for teachers to make plans now. Make your real Spring Vacation a trip to the Convention in Philadelphia, April 19-23, 1932. Hotel reservations may be made at any time.

Make a note on your calendar now that you have a physical education date in Philadelphia, April 19-32, 1932.

WHAT Convention of the American Physical Education Association.

WHEN April 19-23, 1932.

WHERE Benjamin Franklin Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa.

CONSTANTLY CHANGING FOOD HABITS SHOW INTERESTING STATISTICS.

There are many people who imagine that we eat now much the same as we always did, and that all of us eat much the same kind of food. A little investigation, however, discloses the fact that this is not the truth. One of the greatest obstacles to proper nutrition is the fact that so many of us form peculiar food habits.

The seriousness of this state of affa'rs may not be very great if the aversion is limited to one specific food, but when green vegetables, milk products, or fruit® are omitted entirely, then proper nutrition becomes difficult if not impossible. The remedy for this difficulty lies in teaching children to like all kinds of foods.

Not only individuals, but also different communities show great differences in food habits. For example, in large portions of the South and Middle West cereals and meats make up the greater portion of the diet. Here large quantities of corn meal products are consumed, while the East and West Coastal sections: use practically no corn at all except as a breakfast cereal. Local food habits are natural and are largely a matter of the most available food supply.

Taking the country as a whole the question arises as to whether we are making any advances in applied nutrition. It may be that each adult has his food habits more or less firmly fixed, but does the younger generation follow the same habits that the older generation has become addicted to?

Statistics published by the United States Department of Agriculture show that the consumption of fruits and green vegetables has increased enormously in the last few years. Between 1918 and 1928 the acreage devoted to raising asparagus increased from 30,500 acres to 93,930 acres. Carload lots of fruits and

Digitized by booQle
788

vegetables that were carried by the railroads increased from 691,-941 in 1920 to 1,074,069 in 1929.

Spinach has played an important part in the arguments of nutritionists because of its high alkalinity, iron and vitamin A content. The statistics show an increase from 3,089 to 10,317 carloads between 1920 and 1929. Carrots, which have been urged upon us almost as strongly as spinach, have done even better, advancing from 1,630 to 12,028 carloads a year. Strawberries increased from 7,207 to 18,732; lettuce from 13,788 to 53,234 and string beans arose from 1,473 to 9,560 carloads. The increases in the consumption of citrus and other fruits as well as tomatoes has also been considerable. The root vegetables and cereals, on the other hand, have fallen off correspondingly.

That our food habits are changing is well established. Why they are, is less clear. There are undoubtedly several factors that affect the change. Of course, many of us would like to feel that the more widespread knowledge of nutrition is the main factor. Perhaps it is. Parents have insisted on children eating such foods as are considered “good for them” and so new food habits have been formed. In many cases parents have changed their own food habits in order to encourage proper eating on the part of their children. But this argument cannot explain all of the change. Strawberries have not come in for any special attention by dietitians but their production has more than doubled in the last ten years.

The nutritional characteristics of fruits and vegetables undoubtedly have an effect on the trend of food consumption, but palatability likewise has been a big factor, especially in the case of fruits, and our greater prosperity has enabled more people to choose the foods they like.

Improved methods of transportation, refrigeration and marketing have also been big factors in the distribution of fresh foods both over the world and over the various seasons of the year.

Large scale refrigeration has probably done as much to bring about proper nutrition as any other commercial or scientific factor. At first, natural ice was used, then artificial ice took its place and now mechanical refrigeration is apparently about to replace ice altogether.

Freight cars, the holds of ships, storage warehouses, retail stores, and now the domestic kitchens are equipped to keep fresh food cool and thereby keep it wholesome. Food can be transported long distances and so cities can have foods that were available only in the country just a few years ago. Eggs and meat can be kept for months and milk for days; and so the price to the consumer is lower in seasons of low production while the producer can get a profitable price for his foods in seasons which produce so much food that it would be unsalable if it could not be preserved until consumption catches up with production. The numerous merits of mechanical refrigeration constitute a long story, but its convenience is well known to anybody who has ever used one of these machines.—Nutrition News.

Digitized by kjOOQle
789

FINISH THE JOB-

By Kendal] Emerson, M. D., Managing Director, National Tuberculosis

Association.

The battle against tuberculosis is not half won because the death rate among the general population has been cut in two, for the disease still leads all other fatal causes between the ages of 15 and 45.

It is unnecessary to enlarge on the significance of this fact. When a preventable disease which stands seventh among the population as a whole remains first among those at the most useful and productive period of life, the problem cannot be considered half-solved from any rational viewpoint whatsoever.

Certain types of tuberculosis among children have yielded with little difficulty to control of the milk supply; the erection of more than 600 sanatoria has prevented thousands of patients from spreading disease among relatives and associates—these and other factors have cotispired to achieve a notable reduction in the death rate—much of which can be traced definitely to organized tuberculosis work.

But let us not beguile ourselves with the illusion that the conquest of tuberculosis is in sight. Progress against a disease so well protected in the human body and in the social body is bound to be slow.

A serious arraignment of Man’s capacity to control his environment is seen in the fact that he knows how to find more than half the tuberculous cases of tomorrow among the children of today, and yet fails to find them. Further, he knows what to do today with the children found to be in danger, to protect them against becoming future victims. But Man, the Aggregate Man, possesses two “I’s” which see not—Ignorance and Indifference. Co-operation of multitudes is needed, and this is difficult to obtain. Indeed the problem is abstruse for easy general understanding; we must iterate and re-iterate the fact that a condition in children observable only on the X-tay plate is often the precursor of adult tuberculosis, and that these children may be saved by a carefully observed regimen of rest and fresh air, applied even if they show no outward symptoms of disease. The next step to determine is just how these children become infected, for “every case comes from another.” The job of organized tuberculosis work is also to help protect these other cases—probably wholly unknown ones—from further progress in the disease, and also from infecting more children. In this we are sure to meet the opposition which family affection and personal pride will always present, and such opposition will require the continuous exercise of those most inspired of virtues, kindliness, good humor and tact.

But there is certainly no cause to be disheartened. What has been achieved in the past is a token of what can be done in the future, armed with increasing knowledge gained by research and experience.

Digitized by v^ooQle
- ------------- -- ■ —+

Gymnasium and playground

EXERCISES WITH DUMB-BELLS AND WANDS

Model Exercises for the Buffalo Tumfest, Turn Verein Vorwaerts,

Elizabeth, N. J.

By Karl R. Berndt.

The class consists of eight women with dumb-bells and 8 men with wands. The exercises are accompanied by music—“The Whip” by Abe Holzmann. The women form a circle of 16 steps in diameter, facing inward, the men form a circle two steps back of the inner circle and in the open spaces between the women, facing inward.

Women cany dumb-bells crosswise in left hand, men carry wands at right shoulder. The music has an introduction of four measures, eight counts, which is used to carry the dumb-bells to the starting position as following: Arms sideward on 1-2, Arms forward taking a dumb-bell in each hand on 3-4, Arms sideward on 5-6, Arms downward on 7-8.

The men raise left arm sideward on 1-2 grasp wand over right shoulder on 3-4, raise arms upward on 5-6 and lower downward on 7-8.

The women perform on a line towards the center of the circle.

Women, Exercise 1-A

1-4 Four steps forward to center of circle with arms swinging [starting left].

5-6 One quarter turn left and step-hop left sideward with right leg raised in rear, arms swing left sideward.

7-8 lunge right sideward, arms obliquely, right side upward, left arm opposite.

9-10 change knee bending with one quarter turn left and lower trunk forward, strike dumb-bells under left knee and again obliquely foreupward.

11-12 return to position [7-8].

13-14 Repeat the striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position [7-8].

Women, Exercise 1-B

1-4 Four steps backward to starting position, starting right, arms bent to thrust on 1, thrust sideward on 2, bend to thrust on 3, thrust upward on 4.

5-6 Step-hop right backward with left knee raised in front, lower trunk forward, arms down and backward.

7-8 Lunge left forward, arms obliquely fore-upward.

Digitizec G.OOQle
791

9-10 Change knee bending with lowering trunk forward and strike dumb-bells under right and left knee.

11-12 Return to position 7-8 with arms sideward.

13-14 Repeat striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10],

15-16 Return to position [11-12].

1-16 Repeat exercise 1-A starting right.

1-16 Repeat exercise 2-B starting right.

Men, Exercise 1

1-	Step left forward, swing arms upward.

2-	One half turn right, bend arms and lower wand against chest.

3-	Return to position 1.

4-	Starting Position.

5-	Swing left leg backward, arms upward.

6-	Raise left knee forward, bend arms, wand against chest.

7-	8 Lunge left forward, swing arms upward.

9-10 Straighten left knee, bobbing trunk forward twice with wand in rear of shoulders.

11-12 Position [7-8].

13-14 Repeat 9-10.

15-16 Starting Position.

17-32 Repeat the exercise right and finish with one half turn left.

1-32 Repeat all, left and right.

Women, Exercise 2-A

1-2 Step left sideward and cross step right in rear [to center of circle], arms sideward and bend arms to thrust.

3-4 Step left sideward and one quarter turn left with lunging right forward, arms sideward and obliquely, right fore-upward, left opposite.

5-6 Swing left leg forward, hop right with one half turn right, arms upward.

7-8 Layout left backward, swing arms fore-downward and backward.

9-10 Change knee bending, strike dumb-bells under left and right knee.

11-12 Return to position [7-8] with right arm bent over head. 13-14 Repeat striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position [11-12J.

Women, Exercise 2-B

1-	one quarter turn left and step left sideward, arms sideward.

2-	one half turn left and step right sideward, arms bent to thrust.

3-	one half turn left and step left sideward, arms upward.

4-	one half turn left and lunge right sideward, circle arms right to obliquely left downward, bending trunk right.

5-	6 Hop right with swinging left in front, swing arms to right. 7-8 one quarter turn left and lunge left forward, arms obliquely

fore-upward.

Digitized by L^OOQle
792

9-10 Swing rhht leg forward, strike dumb-bells under right knee, swing rignt leg backward, strike dumb-bells in back of left knee.

11-12 Return to position [7-8] with arms sideward.

13-14 Repeat striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position [11-12].

1-16 Repeat exercise 2-A starting right.

1-16 Repeat exercise 2-B starting right.

Men, Exercise 2

1-	Step left sideward, wands left sideward.

2-	Wands upward.

3-	Wands right sideward.

4-	Close-step left to starting position.

5-	Swing left leg sideward, wands left sideward.

6-	Swing left leg across in rear, wands vertical in front of right shoulder, right arm upward.

7-	8 Lunge left forward, wands vertical in front of left shoulder,

left arm upward.

9-10 Straighten left knee with one quarter turn right, bobbing trunk twice left sideward, wands vertical in front of right shoulder, right arm upward.

11-12 Position [7-8],

13-14 Repeat 9-10.

15-16 Starting Position.

17-32 Repeat the exercise right and finish with one half turn left.

1-32 Repeat all, left and right.

Women, Exercise 3-A

1-2 Step left forward with knee-dipping, swing arms fore-upward.

3-4 Knee-dipping and raise left knee forward, swing arms down and sideward.

5-6 Step-hop left forward raising right knee, four quarter arm circle outward.

7-8 Lunge right forward, arms obliquely side-downward.

9-10 one half turn left, strike dumb-bells low in front, bend trunk backward with striking dumb-bells over head.

11-12 Return to position 7-8.

13-14 Repeat striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position 7-8.

Women, Exercise 3-B

1-2 one quarter turn left with knee-dipping, swing arms left side-upward.

3-4 one half turn right with knee-dipping and raise left leg backward, swing arms fore-upward.

5-6 Three step turn left, back to original position, arms circle right to arms upward.

7-8 Layout right backward, dumb-bells rest on floor.

Digitized by CjOOQle
793

9-10 Strike dumb-bells in back of left ankle, one quarter turn right and strike dumb-bells in rear.

11-12 Bend trunk left, swing left arm in rear, right arm side-upward. 13-14 Repeat 9-10.

15-16 Return to position 11-12.

1-16 Repeat exercise 3-A, starting right.

1-16 Repeat exercise 3-B, starting right.

Men, Exercise 3

1-	Slight knee dip, swing arms forward/

2-	Slight knee dip, swing arms left backward

3-	Slight knee dip, swing arms forward.

4-	Slight knee dip, swing arms right backward.

5-	6 Swing left leg forward, hop right with one half turn right,

swing arms upward.

7-8 Layout left backward, bend arms, wand against chest. 9-10 Straighten right knee, bobbing trunk backward twice, arms upward, hands together in center of wand.

11-12 Position 7-8.

13-14 Repeat 9-10.

15-16 Starting position.

17-32 Repeat the exercise right and finish with one half turn left.

1-32 Repeat all, left and right.

Introduction 2

Women:- Place dumb-bells on floor and swing to handstand, resting legs against the wands of the men.

Men:- Two steps forward and raise arms sidewards, wand in right hand and grasp neighbor's wand with left hand. On 7-8 all back to starting position.

Women, Exercise 4-A

1- Step left sideward to stride stand, swing arms sideward.

2-	Bend trunk forward, swing arms down and cross them in front.

3-	Straighten trunk, swing arms side-upward.

4-	one quarter turn right and lunge right sideward, left arm side-upward, right to thrust [Shot Put Position],

5-	6 One quarter turn left ahd step-hop right forward, raising

left leg backward, arms obliquely, right fore-upward, left opposite.

7-8 One quarter turn left and step left sideward to stride stand, bend arms to thrust.

9-10 Close left to right foot, bend knees, strike dumb-bells in rear and shoulder high in front.

11-12 Return to Position 7-8.

13-14 Repeat striking dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position 7-8.

Women, Exercise 4-B

1-2 Bend left knee and trunk forward.

Swing arms from right to left sideward.

Digitized by
794

3-4 Change knee bending, swing arms right sideward.

5-6 Step-hop left [to center of circle] with four-quarter turn left, raising nght knee, swing arms fore-upward.

7-8 Layout right across in rear of left, place right hand on left knee, swing left arm side-upward, turn head left. [Discus].

9-10 Straighten knee, one half turn right, strike dumb-bells in rear and over head.

11-12 Return to position 7-8.

13-14 Repeat striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position 7-8.

1-16 Repeat exercise 4-A right.

1-16 Repeat exercise 4-B right.

Men, Exercise 4

1-	Step left backward, swing arms upward.

2-	one half turn left, kneel right, wands on shoulders.

3-	Return to position 1.

4-	Starting Position.

5-	Jump to side stride stand, swing arms upward.

6-	Jump to close-stand, bend arms, wand against chest.

7-	8 Bend knees, arms forward.

9-10 Extend left leg forward, wand obliquely left backward, the left end rests on the floor, right head against the left shoulder.

11-12 Position 7-8.

13-14 Repeat 9-10, reverse.

15-16 Starting Position.

17-32 Repeat the exercise right and finish with one half turn left.

1-32 Repeat all, left and right.

Women, Exercise 5-A

1-2 Step left and right forward, swinging arms*

3-4 Swing left leg forward and backward, swing arms—left fore-upward right opposite and reverse.

5-6 Step-hop left backward, raising right knee, swing arms upward, dumb-bells together.

7-	8 Lunge right forward, swing arms down, the left arm circles

forward to obliquely fore-upward, the right hand rests on right knee [Throwing the ball].

9-10 Change knee bending, strike dumb-bells in front of chest, bend trunk forward with 1-8 turn left and strike dumbbells low in front.

11-12 Return to position 7-8.

13-14 Repeat striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position 7-8.

Women, Exercise 5-B

1-2 Step right and left backward, bend arms to thrust and thrust upward.

8-	4 Swing right leg backward and forward, swing arms down

backward and fore-upward.

Digitized by t^ooQle
795

5-6 Step-hop right forward, with left leg raised backward, lower trunk forward, swing arms down and sideward.

7-8 Lunge left backward, swing arms, the left down and backward, the right bent over head.

9-10 Change knee bending, bend trunk forward, strike dumbbells in rear and down in front.

11-12 Return to position 7-8.

13-14 Repeat striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position 7-8.

1-16 Repeat exercise 5-A right.

1-16 Repeat exercise 5-B right.

Men, Exercise No. 5

1-	Lunge left forward, bend arms, wands against chest.

2-	One half turn right, straighten knee, arms upward.

3-	Bend trunk forward, circle wand down and to left upward, with one half turn left.

4-	Starting position.

5-	6 Step-hop left backward with right knee raised, arms upward.

7-8 Layout right backward, wand horizontal on the right side,

the right arm backward the left arm forward.

9-10 Lower trunk forward, rest wand obliquely forward on floor, the left hand down, the right arm obliquely side down-ward [both hands take under grip] straighten left leg in front of right with one quarter turn right, to a side lying support.

11-12 One quarter turn left, bring left leg from under the right and place it left sideward, swing right arm forward, the wand is now in a vertical position [Lying support frontways].

13-14 Position 9-10.

15-16 Step across left with right and starting position.

17-32 Repeat the exercise right and finish with one half turn left.

1-32 Repeat all, left and right.

Women, Exercise 6-A

1-2 Step left sideward and cross step right in rear [to center of circle] arms sideward, and bend to thrust.

3-4 Swing left leg sideward and forward, swing arms sideward and forward.

5-6 Step-hop left sideward with right leg raised in rear, swing arms left sideward.

7-8 Layout right sideward, bend trunk left, swing right arm side-upward, left hand on hip.

9-10 Change knee bending, strike with right dumb-bell in rear and in front against the left [which remains on the hip].

11-12 Return to position 7-8.

13-14 Repeat striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position 7-8.

Digitized by v^ooQle
796

Women, Exercise 6-B

1-2 Step right sideward and 1-2 turn right with step left sideward. Arms sideward and bend to thrust.

3-4 One fourth turn right and swing right leg backward with bending trunk forward. Arms swing down and backward, raise right knee forward with straightening trunk, swing arms fore-upward.

5-6 One fourth turn right and step-hop right sideward with left leg raised in rear, Arms right sideward.

7-8 Layout left sideward, lower trunk right sideward, arms left obliquely downward.

9-10 Change knee bending, strike dumb-bells down in front and shoulder-high in front.

11-12 Return to position 7-8.

13-14 Repeat striking of dumb-bells [as 9-10].

15-16 Return to position 7-8.

1-16 Repeat exercise 6 A right.

1-16 Repeat exercise, 6 B right.

1-	one quarter turn left and lunge left sideward, arms left sideward.

2-	. Change knee bending, bend trunk left, wands vertical in

front of- right shoulder, right arm upward.

3-	One quarter turn right, close right to left foot and rise on tees, swing arms upward.

4-	Starting Position.

5-	6 Jump with left foot over right and one half turn right, cross

arms, left over right, wapds in front of chest, arms upward. 7-8 Layout left backward, wands rest on floor vertical, the right hand downward with under grip, the left end of the wand under the left armpit, straighten right leg backward to lying support frontways.

9-10 Place left foot forward, knee bent, change knee, bending with one half turn right, arms bent, wand against chest. 11-12 One half turn left to a balance stand left, wands vertical on floor, the right hand downward, the left hand under right arm.

13-	Closing step right to left with one half turn right and rise on toes, arms upward,

14-	Bend knees, arms downward, wands against the ankles.

15-	16 Step left forward and close right. Arms upward and start-

ing position.

17-32 Repeat the exercise right and finish wth one half turn left.

1-32 Repeat all, left and right.

Men, Exercise 6

Digitized by
797

— >— "	■——	' •>>

Foreign items of interest

Lord Dawson speaks out. In an address delivered at Epsom College early last month, Lord Dawson of Penn urged that the duties of medical officers should not be limited to the care of boys who are sick: the doctor ought to study physical education and ought to co-operate in its application. The correspondence this and his other remarks evoked in newspapers, especially in The Times, shows how little modern thought in physical education and its application is understood by those not professionally interested.

Lord Dawson said: “I am afraid that we must own that in too many schools physical education just stumbles along, and, if I may say so with respect, there are some headmasters who have not even begun to understand what physical education stands for. Instead of a few hours grudgingly conceded, physical culture should occupy a definite place in the ordinary curriculum. Far from diminishing the importance of games and sports, it would enhance the value and enjoyment of both.”

A further claim of Lord Dawson was that the doctor should be concerned, not with day-to-day performance, but with general reactions. Exercise is a test of physical fitness and endurance, as well as a means of increasing both. The school doctor has a duty to know the results in each individual case so that he may, for example, remove burdens which are too heavy or modify the character of burdens which are failing to achieve their purpose. As there are quick brains and slow, so there are bodies which react sharply and bodies whose reactions are delayed. It is evident that the doctor who knows his boys can serve them handsomely by making his knowledge effective in their daily lives. The trained eye would detect in an early stage and without formal examination defects of frame and function. Many of these defects can be remedied without difficulty if their presence is recognised before they have had time to develop.

The Morning Post remarked: “We fear that it is all a counsel of perfection. Schools, after all, cannot be expected to cater for individual vagaries. The regime in gymnasium and on drill ground may often appear perfunctory and ‘standardised,’ but it has its advantages. We do not believe with Lord Dawson that the old-fashioned and corporate drill is ‘mechanical and soul-destroying.’ It still provides one of the best examples of concerted action and an opportunity of teaching the discipline needed in all good team work.” These comments clearly.show how little Lord Dawson was understood and the lack of appreciation, not merely of modem thought but of actual practice in physical education to-day. The ‘team-work value’ of compulsory simultaneous and concerted movements is relatively small: it is in-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
798

dividuality, and the individual’s desire to bring himself into conformity or to unity of purpose with his fellows, that is so much more important. To some it may be difficult to appreciate the difference, but group-work is not necessarily team-work. The teacher’s personality and technique cannot profitably be dissociated from the matter, for the ‘mechanical and soul-destroying’ elements may find their origin here.— Hygiene and Physical Education.

Physique and Performance. An interesting article on an “Enquiry and Investigation into Physique and Performance in Boys and Girls participating in National Contests” is given by Dr. Federhan, Zeit. f. Schulgesundheitspfiege u. Sociale Hygiene [July, 1931, p. 36°]. The average age of the pupils participating in these national contests was 14-15 years. At the contests there were children who, whilst retarded in their physical development, showed better results than more sturdily developed pupils. Because of these observations, a special investigation was carried out with the object of determining whether a more accurate assessment could be obtained that would show whether these empirical results were of value. Three definite athletic contests were chosen for this purpose, namely: [1] 100 metres run; [2] long jump; and [3] ball throwing. In all 108 boys and 97 girls were specially tested.

The number of observations carried out is relatively small, but sufficient to indicate the usefulness for more of these tests, and is of practical interest for medical men who have to do with athletics. The observations go to show that children with subnormal physical development do not necessarily give sub-normal results when competing in athletic contests. These ‘performance’ tests would in such cases give a better indication of a child’s physical capabilities. Even from the school-medical standpoint, it is claimed that these tests are of definite value as they tend to emphasise the relationship between ordinary school work and school hygiene.

The conclusions reached further qualify the special inclusion of ‘performance’ exercises—as distinct from those where gymnastic ‘form’ is desirecl—in the modem Swedish gymnastic table. —School Hygiene and Phys. Edu.

THE “HARDENING” OF PHARAOH’S HEART

Lecturing at Leeds on “Surgery Ancient and Modem,” Lord Moynihan shoved some remarkable photographic sections made from the heart cf the Pharcah of the Oppression. The heart of this monarch was found by the late Mr. S. G. Shattc ck, pathologic curator of the Royal College of Surgeons, to have been so well preserved that he v as able to make sections from the aorta and compare them with those of a man recently dead. They were so similar that no pathologist could tell which was the ancient

Digitized by LjOOQLe
799

and which was the modem one. Both were atheromatous. Mental changes accompanied that rigid arterial system. There was narrowness and rigidity of outlook, less of enthusiasm, dread of new adventure and restriction of enterprise. There was clear proof that these mental defects were shown by Menephtah, for the Book of Exodus said, “And the Lcrd hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not unto them.” It was interesting to have an ocular demonstration of the truth of the Old Testament.

In a letter to the Times, Prof. Elliot Smith tells for the first time the story of this most interesting visceral discovery. The wrappings were removed from the mummy of the Pharoah Menephtah on July 8, 1907. The mummy had been found in the tomb of Amenophis II in the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings at Thebes and its identity was proved by the hieratic writing on the shroud. Several years before some excitement was aroused by the discovery at Thebes of a stele of Menephtah’s reign, which was supposed to contain a reference to Israel. While Professor Smith was unrolling the mummy, M. Gaston Maspero, director-general of the Antiquities Services of Egypt, was telling missionaries who had been invited to be present cf a tradition of the Alexandrian epoch that Menephtah was the Pharaoh of the Exodus who perished in the Red Sea. Hence when the mummy was exposed and Professor Smith called attention to the unique phenomenon of the incrustation of the body with crystals of common salt, M. Maspero turned to the missionaries and said: “There you see the confirmation of the Red Sea episode.” Then when Professor Smith found calcified patches on the aorta, M. Maspero at once added, “and his heart was hardened.” One of the broken pieces of damaged aorta was sent to the Royal College of Surgeons and examined by Pro* fessor Shattock, as already stated.

The Children’s Protective League in Italy.—The Opera nazirnale per la difesa della matemita e dei fanciulli, with a view to inducing the mothers of illegitimate children to nurse their offspring, has worked out a special application of the law pertaining to the aid given this class cf new-born infants. It has established “marriage prizes” or marriage rewards for those who will consent to marry such a mother, thereby making the offspring legitimate, the reward being larger the earlier the marriage takes place. More than 300 marriages have been brought about in thi£ manner.

First Physical Training Celebration in Japan. Under the auspices of the Japan Physical Training Union, the first celebration was held in Tokyo, Nov. 2,1930, during health week. The ceremony was held in the parks of Hibiya and Ueno, and the minister of education attended the latter, which was begun at 9 o’clock in the morning. During health week the educational ministry planned to braodcast lectures on physical training: an address by Baron Yamakav a, chief of the physical culture section of the educational ministry; “General Survey of Land Sports,” by Mr.

Digitized by t^ooQle
800

Hiranuma, chief of the Japan Physical Training Union; “Water Sports,” by Mr. Suehiro, professor at the Tokyo Imperial University; “Baseball Matches,” by Mr. Ashida, chief of the Japan Baseball Union and other addresses.

The Marriage of Defectives.—The board of control in England finds the marriage of defectives one of the most difficult problems of community control. Higher grade defectives show no obvious sign of physical defect. They are neither more nor less attractive than the average of the class to which they belong, and in some cases a certain docility, probably more apparent than real, seems to be regarded as an added charm. Whatever the cause, there is unfortunately no doubt that, in the absence of aij educated public opinion, higher grade defectives are not less likely to be sought in marriage than normal persons. Society cannot segregate those who are in other repects fit for community care merely to prevent them from marrying. Ethically or legally it would be difficult to defend such a course. Yet such marriages are almost certain to be socially disastrous. The board again recommends that the marriage of defectives should be prohibited by law and believes that this step would have a value far beyond the actual cases to which it would apply. Whether the state should go further and limit the danger by sterilization is a far more difficult question. The board hopes that this question will receive close scientific study. In the present state of knowledge it does not feel justified in recommending the government to introduce legislation even of the most cautious and limited character, which would inevitably provoke strong opposition from many bodies, on religious or other grounds, for the sake of advantages which may be arguable in theory but which have not been demonstrated in practice.

Law Pertaining to the Protection of Society Against Abnormal Persons.—Addressing the Societe de medecine men-tale, Belgium, Mr. Vervaeck discussed recently the law pertaining to the protection of society against abnormal subjects. The law as drafted consisted of three parts: the first concerning abnormal subjects in general, the second concerning recidivists, and the third pertaining to delinquent children. Only parts one and two were adopted by the legislature. Part three, concerning delinquent children, gave rise to much controversy because the draft provided for indeterminate sentences and the application of a system of educative instruction. The timid among the legislators feared lest the application of a penalty of indeterminate duration should lead to abuse, and the minister of justice preferred to withdraw the thira part of the drafted law in order not to compromise the vote on the draft as a whole.

The Crossing of Races in Java.—In recent years much attention has been given to the study of the problem of toe crossing of races in connection witn researches on anthropology. Dr. E. Fischer nas published the results of his studies on the Kehobother
801

half-breeds of southern Africa, which have resulted from a crossing of the native men with Hottentot women. Radenwaldt has likewise made studies on the offspring resulting from crossings of Europeans and Javanese. The children have a peculiar color of the eyes and the hair, and a special form of the nose. As to the eyes, the brown dominates over the blue. Roes t has made a study on forty families of European soldiers who married Javanese women, and points out the characteristics that the children have inherited from one or the other of the parents. As regards the color of the eyes the form of the nose, and the cephalic and facial indexes, it seems that the children take more after the mother.

—————— - ■ -----------------------♦

Health education notes

«» ■ ——————

Intestinal Obstruction from Eating Bran.—Reported by Murray B. Davis, M.D., Nashville, Tenn. It is fashionable to treat constipation by the addition to the diet of bran, rough fruits, vegetables and other indigestible substances. The use of bran as a laxative food has become so popularized that the public has come to believe that it is harmless. Alvarez says that it is one of the most indigestible foods to be found in nature and that it was especially designed to carry seed unchanged through the intestinal tract of herbivores. He goes on to say that those who, except for constipation, have perfect digestions, may be greatly helped by the addition of roughage to the diet; but others who have short, inefficient and irritable bowels may get into trouble. He reports the case of a woman who for ten years had kept herself in fair health by sticking to a smooth diet, one that she had worked out herself by trial and error. A physician prescribed bran. In a few weeks she was operated on for intestinal obstruction; the bran had balled up in the small intestine near an old postoperative adhesion.

The Adult Child.—Discipline consists in producing and maintaining habits of thoughtful behavior. If this is done, control has been established. Intrinsically it has no relation to punishment. Probably the great majority of psychoneurotics owe their lack of mental balance to the absence of discipline, as we have defined it, during childhood. Maladjustment to the environment is one of the chief characteristics of nervous disorders. Such persons have real or imaginary physical discomfort or woes. The present misery is compared unfavorably with childhood periods when one’s own wishes were attained by the various methods known to children. A psychoneurotic can often carry on quite well in a simple, uniform environment but finds it impossible to make satisfactory adjustments to novel, difficult and complicated situations. He fails to hold his own in perplexing conditions without the support of his mother or father. In other words.

Digitized by t^ooQle
802

the psychoneurotic is an adult child. He has not developed emotionally.—Seift, E. J.: The Psychology of Childhood, New York, D. Appleton & Co., 1930.

The Most Nearly Perfect Food.—From the evidence at hand to day, it would seem that the explanation of the long lives observed by Metchnikoff in the Balkans and elsewhere could be attributed not so much to the bacillus which sours milk as to the beneficial effects of the milk itself. Soured milk still retains the important vitamins, the necessary minerals, and the other elements which perform the physiological miracles resulting in improvement in the physical welfare of man. Milk has been called by its enthusiastic proponents the modem elixir of life. Without dealing in superlatives, it can indeed be said that milk is the most nearly perfect of human foods for it is the only single article of diet which contains practically all of the elements necessary to sustain and nourish the human system.—Crum bine, S. J., and Tobey, J. A.: The Most Nearly Perfect Food, Baltimore, Williams and Wilkins Company, 1929.

Deaths from Cancer and Diabetes Increase.-Mortality rates for cancer and diabetes, as wTell as for heart disease and cerebral hemorrhage, show appreciable increases in the mortality report of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for the first six months of 1931. The rate for cancer among policyholders of this company was 83 per hundred thousand, as compared w ith 76.9 for the same period in 1930; for diabetes, 22.3, compared with 19.4; for heart disease, the principal cause of death, 149.5, compared with 142.7 for 1930, and for cerebral nemorrhage, 56.2, compared with 54. These rates were considerably influenced by the widespread outbreak of influenza in the first quarter of the year, as the deaths of many persons suffering from chronic diseases were hastened by attacks of influenza. The unfavorable experience of the early part of the year, how ever, was largely overcome during the second quarter. Two noteworthy favorable trends were observed in these statistics, one a continued drop in mortality from tuberculosis, which is considered especially encouraging in view of the influenza outbreak and the severe unemployment situation; the other, a striking decrease in the diphtheria death rate, amounting to a decline of 35 per cent within a year.

Dr. Elliott P. Joslin. of Boston speaking of Diabetes says Our new diabetic clinic will have a playground for the children on its roof and a combined solarium, playroom and gymnasium for cold or rainy days. Almost a generation ago a physician told me that when camping in the woods and taking long hikes he could eat more freely and yet show less glycosuria. Disuse of muscles, whether from rheumatism or from confinement in bea, makes a mild diabetes seem severe. The dangers attending operations on diabetic patients formerly were due more to the lack of exercise

Digitized by Google
803

involved than to the disease, and it might be added parenthetically that the other danger was the lack of carbohydrate after operation which the nausea and vomiting of the anesthetic precluded. Every one knows that the diabetic patient should be the cleanest citizen in the community on account of his vulnerable skin, but it is not equally well knov n that his murcles should be stimulated by exercise. In truth, he snould adopt for his body the training of a Roman gentleman, a? he dees that of a Spartan for his soul.

The Measurement of Noise.—It is now held by some authorities that increased noises of modem civilization, particularly those due to automobile traffic, have injurious effects, particularly in the production of nervous disease. In the new buildings of the National Physics Laboratory, London, apparatus has been devised for the measurement of noise. Its loudness is determined by varying the strength of a standard sound until it is just “drowned" by the noise or judged to be equally loud. Measured on a scale of loudness with zero at the threshold of hearing, sounds become painful at about 130 degrees above the threshold, where each degree, knov n as a “-decibel,” is approximately the least change in loudness perceptible to the ear. The level of conversational speech is from 50 to 60 decibels above the threshold. Eighty decibels corresponds to the noise in a tube train, and in 110 decibles of noise it is almost impossible to converse, even by shouting. In street traffic and in ordinary trains the noise ranges from 50 to 70 decibels above the threshold.

Vitamins in Fish Oils.—That cod-liver oil is a rich source of vitamins A and D is now as well known as any fact about food or nutrition. This fact taken alcne leads to the natural query as to why the liver of the cod should be so especially favored. The facts are that it has not been granted a special favor. Various fish oil such as tuna, sardine, salmcn and menhaden are all rich sources of these vitamins. The properties of cod-liver oil are much better known than those of the other oils because it has been produced and sold as a medicinal oil for many years. The United States produces only 10 per cent of the ccd-liver oil it consumes and, while it produces considerable quantities of other fish oils, very little is produced in a suitable form for food. One company on the Pacific Coast is now marketing a sardine oil for poultry feeding.

The use of an unbeaten raw white of egg as part of the liquid makes it possible to prepare one hundred per cent fine whole w heat flour pie crust which is both short and tender; yet it can be handled as readily as the more common pastry flour pie crust.

Revive Lost Art.—Ride and the world rides with you; walk and you walk alcne. The lene walker sees and hears what the rider misses—so says Ines Steams Macauley in her article “Walk, Don’t Ride” in Hygeia.

Digitized by Google
804

Walking remains the cheapest, most delightful and most healthful form of exercise. Many people have allowed themselves to get car bound. It is so much easier to step into a car and it saves so much time. Even the children are being brought up as helpless cripples, she tells us. They ride to school, to the music lesson and to the theater. The tempo of their life is so swift that they have no time for walking.

Sleep after a day’s arduous climbing in the hills is better than sleep after a day’s driving. There is a strain about driving that is supplanted by the rest and relaxation in the rhythm of walking.

Walk to work or walk in the evening. Every man, woman and child in the land can find time to walk at least a mile a day and they will profit from it.

When Do We Weep?—To put it briefly, it is with the realization that the clouds have a silver lining, with the consciousness of a new hope stirring within us, with the realization that the depressing and cheerless situation has a redeeming feature, and that the elements which would depress our spirits are offset by those that would lift us, it is then that we-weep.—Lund, F. H.: Emotions of Men, New York, McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc., 1930.

Treatment for Athletic Foot:—1 Wash feet carefully twice daily.

2	Be sure to dry them thoroughly, especially between toes.

3	Apply Ammoniated Mercury at night.

4	Sprinkle boracic powder or Aristo powder on the affected parts in the morning.

5	Put on clean stockings every morning.

6	Expose affected parts to a lighted electric bulb or to the sun for 15 minutes at least daily.

Another Treatment for Athlete’s Foot —In the many years that I was in general practice at Salina, Kan., I saw the average number of dermatoses, and treated them in the usual methods with the usual good results. However, during the past summer I had my first personal experience with so-called athlete’s foot, which became progressively worse under treatment. Finally, realizing that gasoline is a most active fungicide, in desperation I immersed my feet for six to eight seconds in ordinary commercial ‘'gas.” with practically instantaneous relief. While I repeated this foot bath the next day, the irritation had in no way recurred, nor has it to date.

Because I have no way of carrying this observation further, since I am on the retired list, and because I believe this observation might be of interest to others, I am asking you to include this in your correspondence column. I should be pleased to hear from any physicians who may elect to use this simple therapy, as to their results.—J. R. CRAWFORD, M.D., Los Angeles.

Digitized by kjOOQle
805

News, notes and con

The adoption of an athletic code, emphasizing faculty control of sports and favoring the elimination of free training tables and the practice of soliciting and paying athletes, was one of the features of the annual meeting of the Middle Atlantic States Collegiate Athletic Association, held at the University Club in December.

Delegates to the conclave were addressed by William Mather Lewis, president of Lafayette College, who advocated the elimination of breather games in football, more intensified promotion of tennis, golf, handball and similar sports which are followed after graduation, and the formation of leagues to increase interest in college baseball.

School Accidents: One-seventh of all accidents to students occur ip school buildings and another one-fifth on school grounds, according to records of schools reporting to the National Safety Council. The frequency of these accidents is highest in the sixth and seventh grades, but it is in the eleventh grade they are most significant. Fifty per cent of all accidents recorded take place in this grade.

Gymnasium accidents occur more frequently than other types of school-building accidents. Classroom and stairs accidents are about equal in frequency. Athletic accidents come most frequently in the high-school grades and accidents on school-ground apparatus are almost entirely an elementary-school problem.—-School Life, December, 1931.

Dr. George E. Dawson of Springfield, Mass., in a study on the results of physical education states that in tactile sensitiveness, that is, touch discrimination of the index finger, a trained physical education group was 25% more sensitive than an average college group. In kinesthetic sensitiveness for space these men were 15% superior to the general average of male adults, and for . weight discrimination 45% superior. In tests involving visual, auditory and tactile stimuli these students made better records than the average by 22% for sight, 12% for touch and 22% for hearing. In rate of speed of movements they made 379 movements per minute as compared with the general average of 352 or an increase above the average of 8%. The average college student makes three times as many errors as these men made, or 18 errors as against 6 errors.

Ultraviolet Absurdities. One might have thought that the apostheosis of the extension of the ultraviolet concept to daily life had been reached with the irradiation of cereals, bread, ice cream and cigarets. Whenever a new discovery is made in science, the prophets of advertising begin to exploit the discovery

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
806

far beyond its actual merit in relationship to the prevention of disease. Now comes a laundry in the city of Chicago which promises healthful cleanliness to every home through the application of ultraviolet and ozone to linens, towels, sheets and pillow cases. The slogan is "Year ’Round Sunshine with Fresh Mountain Air." Apparently the application of ultraviolet rays and ozone confers longer wear on the sheets and pillow cases which are “sun-drenched with such healthful cleanliness." Moreover, the advertiser asserts, “You’ll like the friendly feel you’ll get between fresh, crisply clean, sunsweet sheets at bedtime.” One is tempted to cogitate as to whether or not such nocturnal enjoyment might not lead to insomnia. Perhaps the Ideal Wet Wash Laundry which “puts sunshine in the laundry bundle when it rains” will make scientific studies necessary to establish the truth or falsity of this theory.—Journal

A.	Med. A.

Increase in Mental Disease.—An increasing number of persons with mental disorders are seeking aid in public institutions, according to a recent statement by Surg. Gen. Hugh S. Cumin ing, U. S. Public Health Service. From 1880 to 1930, the rate of persons under care in state insane hospitals alone has increased from 81 to more than 220 per hundred thousand of general population. The rate had trebled, but the actual number of cases under care had increased to almost six times the number under care in 1880. Studies made by the public health service indicate that the mentally defective or feebleminded are found in the proportion of about five to each thousand of the general population. It is estimated therefore that there are at least 500,000 feebleminded persons in the United States.

First Aid for Drowned Persons.—Thiel is of the opinion that the usual methods that are employed to remove water from the lungs are useless and may even be harmful in that valuable time is lost. After the nose and the mouth have been cleaned, the respiratory passages should be cleared by means of WitzePs suspension position of the head and by drawing out the tongue. Then the restorative methods should be begun. The author recommends that artificial respiration should be done according to the method? of Silvester and Howard and heart massage according to Konig-Maass. Cutaneous stimulants are likewise advisable and the heart action should be stimulated by intravenous or intracardiac injection of suitable medicaments. The water in the lungs can be removed only by way of the circulation. But since in cases of drowning the circulatory system is usually overburdened with water, venesection might be helpful.

Rupture of Muscle.—Pause describes an observation that he made on himself. On a slippery road he lost foothold with his left foot at the same moment in which he had lifted the right leg to step over a low fence. He felt an intense pain in the left thigh and thought at first that the femur had been fractured. However,.

Digitized by LjOOQle
807

this was not the case and the subsequent manifestations indicated a transverse rupture of a part of the quadriceps muscle; namely, of the rectus femoris. The author explains the rupture as follows: When he slipped, the rectus femoris was suddenly contracted in order to maintain the balance. The backward movement of the body caused a sudden extension of the contracted muscle, and these opposing forces caused the rupture.

Move to Eliminate Food Faddists from Indiana.—The

Indiana State Medical Association has requested the cooperation of members to eliminate food faddists from the state. It is the custom of some of these -faddists to appropriate the title of “doctor” or “professor” to carry on a flaring publicity campaign in various cities, which includes free lectures attacking the medical profession. Particular attention is directed to the following: Paul Sampson, National Health League; Bemarr Macfad-den and his agent [ Physical	Culture]; Frank McCoy, chiropractor;

Prof. Paul C. Bragg, “scientific health specialist”; R. A. Richardson, oculist and lecturer, and J. D. Levine, “The Health Messenger.”

THE COST OF SOCIAL SERVICES

In a pessimistic article the Times, London, England, calls attention to the rising cost of social services. The major extensions of social services effected since the war have been financed by a fund to which the beneficiaries have made some contribution and are therefore founded on the principle of insurance. The insurance system now covers some 17 million people—the bulk of the working class population—in respect of unemployment, health, widows’, orphans’ and old age insurance. There has been constant addition to the taxpayers’ burden in respect to unemployment insurance, because of the persistent and unprecedented unemployment. Though not long in office, the present labor government has added $17,500,000 a year to meet this need and $40,000,000 by extension of widows’ pensions. Further, the labor party is teaching that the contributory system has little if any virtue and that the beneficiaries have a right to such services without paying for them. The cost of social services described as insurance for the year 1926-1927 was $675,000,000, toward which the beneficiaries contributed only $130,000,000. the difference being made up by employers [$145,000,000] and taxpayers [$400,000,000]. Other social services not covered by insurance cost $1,235,000,000, to which the beneficiaries contribute nothing except what they find as ratepayers or taxpayers [among which they are much the lowest class of contributors] . The total cost of all the social services therefore amounted to $1,915,000,000—six times as much as in 1910-1911. After allowance has been made for the self-supporting services of the postoffice and the road fund, this total is equal to 43 per cent of the total tax and rate borne expenditure. Moreover, increases must be expected in educatioh, health, services and housing. As the

Digitized by LjOOQle
808

labor chancellor of the exchequer says, increases in these are auto> matic. To the original duties of the state to provide for defense and the maintenance of order has been added nothing less than the large scale redistribution of wealth. When and if the labor party realizes its ambition to “increase the purchasing power of the masses,” this function will become even more prominent. A labor minister of the previous government proposes to institute a general subsidy to wages, but even short of this the policy of “maintenance” [of those out of workf, which is one of the labor demands, is estimated to cost $1,145,000,000. Of course the fallacy of the whole scheme says the Times, is that the taxpayer has not a boundless capacity for paying and that taxation beyond a certain point will dry up the sources and produce unemployment, of which this country now furnishes an object lesson which the labor party is most unwilling to learn.

High pressure Breakdowns—A noted physician in commenting on breakdowns which are occurring in large numbers during middle life lists the following factors as contributing to this result:

[1]	General physical fatigue, due to hard work, loss of sleep, and the like.

2]	Working when suffering from illness.

3]	Playing when you should be resting.

4]	Auditory fatigue, due to noise.

5]	Optical fatigue, due to overuse of .the eyes or to seeing too many moving objects in one’s environment.

6]	Living or working in bad air.

7]	Overindulgence in tobacco and alcohol.

8]	Peristaltic fatigue, due to incorrect diet.

[9] Chronic carbon-monoxide poisoning from automobile exhaust.

110] Repercussions from the World War.

11] Rundown states still existing in those who had influenza during the epidemics.

[12] Chronic focal infections, teeth, tonsils, sinuses, intestinal tract.

[13] Marital-incompatibility fatigue.—J’l. N. E. A.

Personal.—Dr. Harry D. Lees, assistant director of student health at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, since 1924, has been appointed director of student health at the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Lees was graduated from the University of Toronto Faculty of Medicine in 1910.

The junior high schools of Wichita, Kansas have abolished interschool competition in athletics and devote their efforts to a play program of intramural activities.

Digitized by

Google
809

Influence of Red and Blue Rays on Growth.—The experiments of Ludwig and von Ries in Germany consisted in the following: Pregnant rats were placed in cages in which only red or blue rays of daylight could penetrate. [The details of the specially constructed cages are given). Thus offspring born in the cages were exposed to a monochromatic light. It appeared that the size and the weight jby 80 Gm.; were more considerable in the young exposed to red light than in the controls; they developed more rapidly and their general condition remained good. The size and the weight of the young exposed to blue light were greater than those of the controls but never reached those of the young exposed to red light. Analogous experiments were conducted, among others, on plants, lettuce and wheat; the bottom of the cages were then removed and the cages placed over the plant bed. The results were similar. Surprisingly, an ant hill appeared in a cage provided with a red glass while not a single ant was found in those with a blue glass. Thereupon a blue cage was placed over the ants, and the red cage nearby; the next morning, all the ants had moved to the red cage. Instinctively the ants found the life conditions to be better under red light than under blue light or daylight. The authors presume that an increased growth occurring under the action of red light is connected with an activation of the growth vitamins.

A Study of Dysmenorrhea at the Home Office of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company—Author’s summary:

1.	Severe cases of dysmenorrhea (congestive and infantile type) can be improved, and about 50 per cent can be cured.

2.	The best results are obtained by using daily both the Mosher and setting - up exercises.

3.	Constipation plays a large part in causing dysmenorrhea and necessitates careful regulation of diet.

4.	Psychologic factors, such as self-discipline, also play a part in treatment for dysmenorrhea.

5.	There has been a considerable saving in time lost, both from absences from work because of dysmenorrhea and from visits to the rest rooms at the Home Office of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, through the treatment of severe dysmenorrhea and through watchful supervision of the milder cases. —Ruth E. Ewing, J. Indust. Hyg. 13, 7 : 244-251 (Sept.), 1931.

Disposal of City Wastes.—The disposal of city wastes has come to be an engineerng rather than a health problem. Even the expense of garbage disposal is no longer saddled on the health department budget. Various attempts are still being made to recover the more valuable ingredients of ashes, refuse, garbage and even sewage. In a recent series of articles, Butterfield maintains that these wastes can be disposed of most economically by using them as fuel for the production of steam. This applies particularly to refuse and garbage, since in this country municipal

Digitized by t^ooQle
810

ashes are used chiefly'as fill, and sewage sludge is not universally available. It is estimated that the fuel value of rubbish is about $5,000,000 a year. Although this is an extremely small proportion of the country’s yearly fuel bill, it is too large a sum to neglect. The main difficulty involved is that rubbish requires specially constructed furnaces. Garbage represents a somewhat different problem. Hog feeding as a means of disposal is not always to be recommended. Recovery of grease together with the production of a fertilizer base has not proved to be practical in many instances. Incineration appears to be the most logical method. The average quantity of this material collected each day is about .8 pound per person, with a nutritive content of about .15 pound. Using these figures, Butterfield is convinced that steam can be produced profitably by incineration in urban communities. There is no doubt about that the disposal of all types of wastes has been a financial burden to both small and large communities. If the engineering difficulties can be surmounted and financial considerations adjusted so that such disposal can at least pay for itself, city taxpayers will be quite satisfied.

The Davis Escape Apparatus for Submarine Disasters.—

The story of the escape of petty officer Willis and his companions from the disaster to the submarine	by	means of the

Davis apparatus has sent a thrill through the country. This is the first case of the successful use of the apparatus, which consists of a bag strapped to the chest and containing oxygen, which is inhaled through a mouthpiece. Men are taught to use it under conditions that approximate as nearly as possible those of a submarine disaster. In a tank 15 feet high and 15 feet in diameter is placed the conning tower hatch and the engine-room hatch taken from a submarine. This is filled with water. Built on the side of the tank is a replica of a compartment of a submarine. This is dry when the men under instruction enter it. They are taught there how to adjust the Davis dress correctly. Water is then admitted and as it rises they are shown how to place themselves in the air lock, breathe their oxygen supply, open the conning tower hatch when the air pressure is equalized, and escape through the hatch. As they emerge from the conning tower as far as their hips they bring their hands down to their wides and shoot to the surface at a speed of 5 feet per second. When they reach the surface the escape dress acts as a lifebuoy, and if a man becomes unconscious it holds his head in such a position that he does not drown. The dress can be put on in nine seconds and a man wearing it can live under water from one and a half to two hours. All men in the submarine service will go through this course of instruction, which is giving satisfactory results.

Cutaneous Respiration in Man.—Students of biology have long recognized that certain species, such as the frog, cap secure a modicum of the indispensable oxygen through the skin. For man, such an exchange of the respiratory gases has not receiv-

Digitized by <^.ooQle
811

ed any serious consideration until comparatively recently. Investigators at the Harvard School of Public Health, in Boston, have observed that under normal conditions the skin excretes carbon dioxide into and absorbs oxygen from the air, the rate depending chiefly on the temperature and relative humidity of the air. The most recent' studies of Shaw and Messer seem to indicate that the skin is impermeable to the outward passage cf oxygen. . They shQw that the oxygen that passes inward is utilized in the metabolism of the skin, and that the rate at which oxygen is absorbed from the air will depend on the relative tensions of oxygen in the blood and in the air. With a constant oxygen tension of the blood, the rate of oxygen absorption from air will vary directly with the oxygen tension of the air; and with a constant oxygen tension of the air, the rate of absorption will vary inversely with the oxygen tension of the blood. The functions of the skin are apparently more diverse than was formerly conjectured.

Preventable Dental Deformities.—McKeag, England, calls attention to the fact that mouth breathing, whatever its cause, can often be noted and steps taken to cure it by the physician,, but this must be done at an early stage. Similarly, thumb sucking, lip biting and tongue biting can be investigated by the physician and the parents warned of the probable consequences. There is no need to emphasize the necessity for care in the feeding of the mother and young child. Milk and cod liver oil help to produce well calcified teeth. Hard food develops the jaws and allows room for the full complement of thirty-two teeth. Apples and other fruit cleanse the teeth from acid-producing carbohydrates. Should decay occur, whether in deciduous or in permanent teeth, the sooner the child is brought to the dentist the better. It is far easier for the medical profession than for the dentists to educate the public and stamp out the fallacy that the first teeth do not matter much. There are many opportunities in which a few timely words from the doctor could save his patients from many of the deformities of malocclusion, which are real and none the less serious because they are so common.

Epilepsy might be considered a symptom of a disease rather than a disease, in the opinion of Dr. William G. Lennox, author of an article on epilepsy in Hygeia. The underlying causes seem to differ in various cases.

Though it is generally believed that heredity is the most important factor, Dr. Lennox states that heredity has long been overemphasized. He asserts that epilepsy is hereditary in the same manner as are other morbid conditions, including cancer and kidney disease, that is, that the tendency or susceptibility is inherited.

The most important causes are injuries to the central nervous system, which may occur at birth or later in life. A third cause is found in abnormalities outside the brain which produce

Digitized by v^ooQle
812

strain on the brain. Among these are constipation, poor posture, eyestrain, foci of infection and defective circulation.

The first and best treatment is in removing these last straws that often break the camel’s back, writes Dr. Lennox. The physical defects should be remedied; the diet should be varied and marriage of epileptics should be discouraged for those persons who come from deteriorated physical or mental stock.

BOTTLED BEVERAGES

To the Editor:—Will you tell me if the different kinds of “pop” are injurious? In starch indigestion and acid stomach. I find that a mixture of pop and milk, half and half, makes a nutritious and digestable meal, but I do not know whether there is anything in the pop that would limit its use.

In his answer to the above, the editor of the Journal of the Am. Medical Association says:

It is assumed that under the designation “pop” our correspondent refers to one of the numerous varieties of carbonated, sweetened and otherwise flavored bottled drinks that have attained considerable popularity in this country. The quality of these products has been greatly improved in recent years—particularly as a result of the “pure food movement” initiated by the passage of the federal Food and Drugs Act in 1906 and of corresponding legislation by many of the states. The use of chemical preservatives has largely been abandoned. A few preparations use gluside as a sweetener, but this should be indicated on the label. Artificial coloring matter and food flavors of a comparatively harmless sort are also still used to some extent; and they, too, should be declared. Organic acids are employed to give suitable “tartness” to some of the “bottled goods.” These acids, are in most instances the same as, or comparable to, the acids present in familiar fruit juices. Careful reading of the labels should enable the user to avoid undesired ingredients. There is no excuse for the substitution of gluside for sugar [except for specific dietotherapeutic purposes]. Preservatives are not needed when cleanliness and sterilization by heat are properly employed. Under ordinary conditions of health the consumption of flavored carbonated sugar solutions in reasonable amounts cannot be objected to from a physiologic standpoint. Cooled drinks of this sort are particularly refreshing in hot weather. Mixtures of milk and such beverages are nutritious—not, of course, to the same extent as whole milk is. One can scarcely designate such mixtures as a "meal,” though they may find an acceptable place in the diet. Milk is “modified” and flavored or carbonated in various ways to make it more palatable to some, persons. The use of real fruit juices in drinks is preferable to tne substitution of artificial imitations that are devoid of the vitamin components of good fruits.

Digitized by CjOOQle