Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools. Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. V.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Mueggc Institute, St.Louis, Mo. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Plister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the FreidenWfcr Publishing Co., c. o. Heroic! Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

UNIVERSAL EXPOSITION SAINT LOUIS, 1904-

PRELIMINARY PROGRAM OF PHYSICAL Cl'LTl'RK, OLYMPIC GAMES AND WORLD’S CHAMPIONSHIP CONTESTS.

(Concluded A

JUNE 29, 30—Commencing at 1:30 p. m. Each Day.

INTERSCHOLASTIC CHAMPIONSHIPS.

AUGUST 5—Handicap Events.

100 yards run; 220 yards run; 440 Yards run; SSO yards run; one mile run; 120 yard hurdle, 10 hurdles 3 feet 0 inches in height; 220 yard hurdle, 10 hurdles 2 feet 0 inches in height; running broad jump; running high jump; pole vault; putting 12 pound shot; throwing 12 pound hammer.

AUGUST 3—Championship Events.

100 yards run; 220 yards run; 4-40 yards run; sso yards run; one mile run; 120 yard hurdle, 10 hurdles 3 feet inches in height; 220 yard hurdle race, 10 hurdles 2 feet 0 inches in height; running broad

Digitized by
jump; running high jump; pole vault for height; putting the 12 pound shot; throwing the 12 pound hammer.

HANDICAP EVENTS

Gold medals to the winners in each event, silver to the second and bronze to the third.

CHAMPIONSHIP EVENTS.

A gold medal emblematic of the championship to the winner in each event, silver to second and bronze to third.

On the championship day a banner will be given to the sehonl scoring the greatest number of points. The right to reject any entry is reserved. An entrance fee of fifty cents for each event will be charged and no entry will be accepted unless accompanied by a fee and a certificate front the proper official of the school certifying that the athlete is a student at the school and eligible to represent it.

Entries close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., July, 1, 1904.

JULY 2, 2—Commencing at 1 p. m.

TURNERS’ INTERNATIONAL, INDIVIDUAL AND TEAM CONTEST.

Parallel bar; horse; horizontal bar; running 100 yards; putting lti pound shot; running broad jump.

This contest is open only for Turners. Societies and clubs of that order are eligible to enter teams. The contest will be for teams of six, representing some one society or club, and will be under the rules governing the North American Gymnastic Union. Three trials will be allowed in each event, except the 100 yards.

Handsome gold medals will be given the winner in each event, silver to second and bronze to third.* Suitable team trophies will be presented to the society or club whose team finishes first, second, ot third. An entrance fee of fifty cents per man will be charged.

Entries close with James A. Sullivan, Chief of the Department o Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., June 4, 1904. The right to reject any entry is reserved.

JULY 4—Commencing at 1 p. m.

ALL AROUND CHAMPIONSHIP.

Rules of the Amateur Athletic Union to govern, and open to anm teurs of the world.

100 yards run; putting 16 pound shot; running high jump; W yard walk; throwing the 16 pound hammer; pole vault for height; 12«j yard hurdle; throwing the 56 pound weight; running broad jump; uni mile run.

Entries close June, 11. 1904, with James E. Snllivan, Chief of tin Department of Phvsical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis. M

An entrance fee of $2.00 per man will be charged and a fee mn>l accompany the entry. The right to reject any entry is reserved

The rule in force for the All Around Championship is as follows In scoring a man receives a percentage for his performance in each -I the ten events. In each event the world’s best amateur record is take:

Digitized by ^.ooQle
• -27-

as a maximum for which 1.000 points are allowed. Then a standard’ or limit is established and the performances equal to or worse than the standards score nothing. For performances between the maximum and the limit points are allowed according to a graded scale. Extra points are also allowed beyond the 1,000 limit when a r.ecord is broken.

A gold medal emblematic of the championship of the United States will be given to the winner, silver to second and bron/e to third.

Open to the amateur clubs of the world. Competitors must be members of good standing with the club they represent. Clubs having professionals among its membership will be barred from competition. The United States’ Lacrosse rules will govern all competitions.

Gold medals will be presented to the members of the winning team, also a handsome silk banner.

An entry fee of $5.00 per team will be charged. No entry fee will be received unless the list of competitors is given and signed by the club’s secretary. A schedule will be arranged beforehand and teams not ready to play at the time designated will forfeit match.

Entries close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., June 6, 1004. The right to reject any entry is reserved.

100 yards; 220 yards; 440 yards; half mile; one mile; plunge for distance; fancy diving.

HANDICAP EVENTS.

100 yards; 220 yards; 440 yards; half mile; one mile.

WATER POLO CHAMPIONSHIPS.

Open to amateur teams, clubs, schools and colleges.

An entrance fee of $1 per man will be charged for the Championship events, 50 cents per man for the Handicap events and 50 cents per nan for the members of the water polo team.

A gold medal emblematic of the championship of the United States A'ill be given to the winner in each of the event, a silver to second ind a bronze to third. In handicap events gold medals will be given :o first, silver to second and bronze to third. In the water polo cham-rio'jship suitable gold medals emblematic of the Championship of the United States will be given to the winning team, silver medals to the second and a banner to the club winning the championship.

Entries close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., June 4, 1904. The right to reject any entry is reserved.

JULY 5, 6, 7. LACROSSE.

JULY 8, 9—Commencing at I p. m. Each Day.

SWIMMING CHAMPIONSHIPS.
— 28— ■

JULY 11, 12.

BASKETBALL.

INTERSCHOLASTIC.

Open to teams representing some one school. The entry of the tea must be accompanied by the certificate of the proper official of tl school to the effect that the members of the team arc eligible 1 represent the school in competition.

JULY 13, 14.

BASKETBALL.

Y. M. C. A. CHAMPIONSHIPS.

Open to teams, members of the Young Men’s Christian Associatio Rules of the Athletic League of the Young Men’s Christian Associate of North America to govern.

JULY 15, 16.

BASKETBALL. world’s championship.

Open to all registered teams. A. A. U. rules to govern.

JULY 18, 19.

BASKETBALL. college championship.

Open to teams representing an educational institution.

All games will be played under the rules as adopted bv the Amatei Athletic Union and the Athletic League of the Young Men’s Christie Association of North America.

Gold medals will be presented to the members of the winning tear silver medals to the individual players of the second team ind banner to each of the winning teams.

An entrance fee of fifty cents per man will be charged. Entri close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physic Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., May, 28, 1904. The rigl to reject any entry is reserved.

JULY 20, 21, 22, 23 —Commencing at 1 p. m. Each Day

IRISH SPORTS.

Hurling-International team competition. Rules of the Gaelic At Ictic Association to govern. Trials each day if necessary. Final to I played July 23.

Gaelic Football— International team competition.Rules of the Gad Athletic Association to govern. Trials each day if necessary. Final I be played July 23.

Athletic events under the rules of the Amateur Athletic Union the United States.

Events first day—100 yards run; putting 42 pound stone; runnin two ln>ps and a jump; 440 yard hurdle race; Irish jig competition.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—29—

Events second day—220 yards run; three standing jumps; throwing ;be 14 pound winding weight; half mile run; Irish hornpipe competition.

Events third day—One mile run; running high jump; putting 16 HHind shot; throwing 56 pound weight, unlimited run and follow; •ising and striking hurling ball.

Events fourth day—120 yards hurdle, 10 hurdles 3 feet 6 inches; tinning long jump; throwing 16 pound hammer, unlimited run and ollow; throwing the javelin; throwing the 56 pound weight for height >ver bar.

An entrance fee of fifty' cents per man will be charged for each event ind must accompany the entry. The right to reject any entry s reserved. An entrance fee of $5.00 per team will be charged for lurling and football contests.

For the athletic events gold medals will be given to the winners, silver medals to second, and bronze to third.

In the hurling and football competitions, gold medals will be given o the members of the winning team, silver medals to meml>ers of second :eam, and a handsome banner to the team winning the hurling and ootball contests.

In the odd events, the rules of the Gaelic Athletic Association will govern. In the dancing, jig and hornpipe competitions three minutes will be allowed.

Entries close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., July 2, 1904.

JULY 29.

Open Athletic Club Handicap Meeting of the Western Association A. V. U. Events to be arranged.

JULY 30.

Championships of the Western Association A. A. V. Events to be irranged.

AUGUST 1. 2,3, 4, 5, 6. BICYCLING-AMATEUR EVENTS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS

OF AMERICA.

Quarter mile; one-third mile; one-half mile; one mile; five miles; two miles; middle-distance championship, twenty-five miles, unpaced; middle-distance championship, twenty miles, paced ; motor bicycle championship. ten miles; half mile handicap; one mile handicap; five miles; one mile novice race.

Prizes—Handsome gold, silver and bronze medals to the first, second and third in each event.

PROFESSIONAL EVENTS.

World’s Fair Championship, one mile—Purse............ $200.00

World’s Fair Middle Distance Championship, one hour, Purse 500.00

Twentv:five Mile National Championship—Purse.......... 200.00

Grand Circuit Championship, one-hall mile—Purse......  150.00

Louisiana Purchase Handicap, two miles—Purse.......... 150.00

One mile Handicap—Purse .............................  100	00

Half mile Handicap—Purse.............................. 100.00

Motor Bicycle Championship ot America—Purse........... 100.00

Digitized by L^OOQle
This program of amateur and professional races will !>e run off during the week, the number of entries being taken into consideration in scheduling the events for the various days. It might become ncces-cary to change the program in several particulars, but the revision will be to the advantage of the entrants.

Rules of the National Cycling Association will govern. An entrance fee of 50 cents per man for each event must be paid. Entries will close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis Mo., July 1, 1004.

AUGUST 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13.

TENNIS.

Events to be arranged.

AUGUST 18.

Y. M. C A. GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIP.

The competition shall be open to teams of eight men. Each team to compete in free-work, calisthenics, heavy apparatus work and a one mile relay race (each man to run 220 yards). Basketball (five men). High jump.

There shall be in each state a preliminary state championship meeting: the winning teams to compete for the Olympic Championship on this date. Competing of the best eight men from each state rather than the repiesentatives from an individual branch. An entrance fee of $5 per team shall be charged. The prizes to be: each member of the winning team shall receive a gold medal, second team silver medals and bronze medals for third team, and a handsome banner to the winning team. Entries will close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, same days as other Y. M. C. A. events. Rules of the Y. M. C. A. Athletic League to govern competition.

AUGUST ig, 20 — Commencing at 2 p. m.

Y. M. C. A. CHAMPIONSHIPS.

August 19—Handicap Day.

100 yards run; 220 yards run; 440 yards run; half mile run; one mile run; two mile run; 120 yard hurdle, 10 hurdles 3 feet 6 inches in height; 220 yard hurdle 10 hurdles 2 feet 0 inches in height; running high jump; running broad jump; pole vault; putting the 10 pound shot; throwing the 10 pound hammer; throwing the discus.

August 20—Championship Events.

100 yards run; 220 yards run; 440 yards run; half mile run; one mile run; two mile run; 120 yard hurdle, 10 hurdles 3 feet inches in height; 220 yard hurdle race, 10 hurdles 2 feet 6 inches in height; running high jump; running broad jump; pole vault; putting the 10 pound shot; throwing the 10 pound hammer; throwing discus.

Rules of the Athletic League of the Young Men’s Christian Association of North America will govern and the events are open only to athletes who are members of the League.

A gold medal, emblematic to the Young Men’s Christian Association

Digitized by CjOOQle
-31-

championship, will be given to the winner in each event, silver to second and bronze to third. The right to reject any entry is reserved. An entrance fee of fifty cents per man will be charged for each event, and fee must accompany each entry. Entries close July 30, 1904, with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo.

SEPTEMBER S, p, 10—Commencing at I: JO p ///., each day.

FENCING.

Rules of the Amateur Fencers* League of America to govern.

The following championships will be contested:	Foil,	duelling

swords, sabre, single stick.

Prizes, a handsome gold medal, emblematic to the World’s Olympic Championship to the winner, silver medal to second, bronze medal to third in each event.

An entrance fee of $3.00 will be charged for each event, and must accompany the entry.

JUNIOR CLASS.

Foils.—Gold medal to first, silver to second, and bronze to third.

An entrance fee of $3.00 must accompany each entry.

INTERCOLLEGIATE TEAM COMPETITION.

Intercollegiate team competition of three men from each college. Gold medal to each member of the winning team, silver to members of seeond team, and bronze to members of third team.

A handsome banner will be given to the college sending the winning team. Entrance fee $9.00 for each team.

INTERNATIONAL TEAM—THREE MEN.

Foils.—A gold medal to each member of the winning team, silver to second, bronze to third.

Entries close with James E. Sullivan. Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., August 13. No entry will be accpted unless from an amateur fencer as defined by the American Fencers’ League. A junior is a fencer who has neither won a first prize in either an open competition, save in a novice class, nor a place in a National Championship.

SE/TEA/BER i2y ij, 14, 13.

CRICKET CHAMPIONSHIP.

1

Events to be arranged.

SEPTEM BER /p, 20, 2/, 22. 23, 24.

GOI F.

Amateur Golf Championship. Driving Contest. * Putting Contest over a nine hole putting course at night, illuminated bv electricity. Prizes in individual Golf Championship: handsome gold medal to winner, silver medal to second and to each loser in the semi-final rounds a bronze medal. Driving contest: gold medal to the winner. Putting contest, gold medal to the winner.

Digitized by C.ooQle
Team competition for the World’s Championship; open to teams of ten men each, representing any association in the world. Gold medals to each member of the winning team and silver medals to members of the second team. Also a handsome cup to the winning team. An entrance fee of $5 per man will be charged; no charge for the team competition. Entries close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Cnlture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., August 19, 1904. The rules of the United States Golf Association will govern. Details and arrangements of the games to be in the hands of the Olympic Golf Committee.

Events to be arranged.

SEPTEMBER 26, 27, 28, 29, 30.

MILITARY CARNIVAL.

Events to be arranged.

OCTOBER 14, 13.

A. A. U. WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP.

Under the rules of the Amateur Athletic Union.

105 pounds; 115 pounds; 125 pounds; 185 pounds; 145 pounds; 158 pounds; heavy weight class.

An entrance fee of $2 per man will be charged in each event. A gold medal, emblematic to the championship, will be presented to the winner, silver to second and bronze to third in each event. Entries close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture. Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., September 19, 1904. The right to reject any entry is reserved.

OCTOBER 27.

TURNERS* MASS EXHIBITION.

Events to be arranged.

OCTOBER 28, 2<p — Commencing at 1 p. ///., each day.

GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIPS.

Parallel bars; long horse; side horse; swinging Indian clubs; rope climbing, 25 feet; tumbling, individual; horizontal bars; flying rings.

All around standing apparatus championship, which includes: Parallel bars; long horse; side horse; horizontal bars.

Rules of the Amateur Athletic Union will govern. A medal, emblematic of the championship of the United States, will be awarded to the winning gymnast, silver to second and bronze to third. A separate set of medals will be given for the all around standing apparatus championship. An entrance fee of $1 per man will be charged for each event, and $1 entrance fee for the standing apparatus championship. Entries close with James E Sullivan. Chief of the Department of Physical Culture. Universal Exposition. St. Louis, Mo.. August 6, 1904. The right to reject any entry is reserved.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
—33—

NOVEMBER 10, n — Commencing at i\jo p. meach day.

RELAY CARNIVAL.

Grammar Schools. Open to Grammar schools of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Territory.

Half mile relay race. Teams of four boys each, each boy to run 220 yards.

Athletic Clubs. Open to teams representing the athletic clubs of America. One mile relay. Teams of four men, each man to run 440 yards. Four mile relay. Teamsof four men each,each man to run onemile.

College Relay Races. Open to colleges of America: One mile. Teams of four men, each man to run 440 yard. Two mile relay. Teams of four men, each man to run 880 yards.

Young Men’s Christian Association. Open to members of the Athletic League: One mile relay. Teams of four men, each man to run 440 yards.

Missouri State Relay Races. Open to athletic, college and other organizations of the State of Missouri:	One	mile	relay	race.	Teams

of four men, each man to run 440 yards.

Interscholastic Race. Open to schools of the United States: One mile. Teams of four men, each man to run 440 yards. Two miles. Teams of for men. each man to run 880 yards.

An entrance fee of 50 cents per man will be charged to all members of the competing teams, and a fee must accompany each entry. The right to reject any entry is reserved.

The members of the winning teams will receive handsome gold medals, members of the second team silver medals, and members of the third team bronze medals. A banner, emblematic of the championship, will be given the team winning each race.

In the Grammar School race the entry must be made by an official of the school, with a certificate to the effect that the members of the team represent the school and are eligible to compete. No registration is required for scholastic events.

Athletic Club Race. All teams competing must be registered and represent an athletic club or member of some association of the A. A. A. Amateur Athletic Rules to govern.

College Race. Members of the team must be bona fida students of a college and eligible to eompete according to the college athletic organization.

Young Men’s Christian Association. The rules of the Athletic League of the Y. M. C. A. of North America will govern.

Interscholastic Race. No registration will be required for the inter-scholastic race. The team must be entered by a proper official of a school and a statement accompanying the entry that the members competing are amateurs, students of the school and eligible to compete.

NOVEMBER 12.

COLLEGE FOOTBALL.

Events to be arranged.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-84—

NOVEMBER 15, 16, ij —Commencing at 1 p. m.

ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL.

Open to all teams. The schedule of games to be played will be arranged after the entries close.

Gold medals will be presented to each member of the winning team, silver medals to the members of the second team, and a banner to the team winning the championship. An entrance fee of $5 per team will be charged and must accompany the entry. The right to reject any entry is reserved. Entries close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, Mo.. November 1, 1904.

NOVEMBER 17—Commencing at 2 p. m.

CROSS COUNTRY CHAMPIONSHIP.

Including the individual championship and the team championship. Open to all registered amateurs. The distance will be 8 miles, 1 mile on the track, in the arena, 6 miles across country, and the final mile on the track. Each club, college or school to start an unlimited number of men. The first five at the finish to score for the team prize.

Gold medal, emblematic of the championship of the United States, to the winner of the race, silver to second, and bronze to third. The five men on the winning team will receive gold medals, emblematic of the championship of the United States, silver medals to the members of the team finishing second, and bronze medals to the members of the team finishing third.

An entrance fee of fifty cents per man must accompany the entry. Entries close with James E. Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture, Universal Exposition, St. Louis, October 15. 1904. The right to reject any entries is reserved.

NOVEMBER 18, 19.

ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL.

Events to be arranged.

NOVEMBER 24.

COLLEGE FOOTBALL AND LOCAL CROSS COUNTRY CHAPPIONSHIPS—

EAST VS. WEST.

Events to be arranged.

AUTOMOBILING.

Automobiling will be substantially recognized in the Department of Physical Culture at the World’s Fair, and every adequate provision will be made for motor driven vehicles. The program will include speed trials, hill climbing, and other contests wherein the worth of the machine and the skill of operators can be demonstrated. It is not unlikely that the annual endurance run of the National Association of Automobile Manufacturers will terminate at St. Louis during the week when Automobiles will be made a feature of the fair. The subject is now in the hands of a special committee, and after its report is made and

Digitized by v^ooQle
approved,, a complete announcement will be made in the Automobile Journals and the Daily Press.

PHYSICAL TRAINING* PROGRAM.

This section of the Olympic Games will be arranged on a broad plane so as to gover the educational and scientific phases of the subject as adequately as the competitive part. The practical side of physical training will be demonstrated by a comprehensive display of exhibits, comprising:

1.	School gymnastics by classes from the various grades of public schools, showing the German, Swedish and other methods.

2.	School games as conducted in the school room by grades, school games practiced in school yards, and the various gymnastic games practiced in the many gymnasiums of this and other countries for persons of all ages.

3.	Gymnastics as applied to the training of soldiers.

4.	The methods pursued by the great gymnastic organizations or the country, the North American Gymnastic Union, Young Men’s Christian Associations and similar institutions, will fully be set forth. There will also be an exhibit of popular Swedish Gymnastics, and a representative collection of photographs, charts, diagrams, catalogues, circulars, programs, etc.

Exhibits of this nature are being invited from those nations where physical training in the schools is under Government supervision. American cities where physical training is conducted as a part of the school system are also being invited to contribute exhibits. Associations making a specialty of and institutions giving attention to physical training will be asked to co-operate, including the Amateur Athletic Union, the Canadian Amateur Athletic Union, the North American Gymnastic Union, Young Men’s Christian Associations, Colleges, Preparatory Schools, Grammar Schools, High Schools, Churches, Social Settlement Organizations, Young Women’s Christian Associations, Hebrew Young Men’s Associations, and the athletic organizations of foreign countries. The playground movement in this and other countries will be illustrated. There will be a complete collection of physical training text books, scientific apparatus for use in examining the body, anthropometrical material, charts, photographs, etc., plans of gymnasiums, playgrounds and athletic fields. Normal schools of this and other countries will demonstrate their work, courses, equipments and publications by comprehensive exhibits.

An entirely new feature will be the holding of Physical Training Conventions, lectures and popular addresses. Arrangements are being made with the following and other institutions to hold Conventions at St. Louis during the Exposition: The American Physical Educational Association, Physical Directors Society- of the Young Men’s Christian Association, College Physical Directors Society, Society of Secondary Schools Physical Directors, North American Gymnastic Union Physical Directors, Public School Physical Directors and the American School Hygiene Association.

The unique feature of this series, however, will be the World’s Otym-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-36-

pic Lecture Course, during which the following topics will be treated, and lectures given by the greatest authorities on Physical Training in the world :

History of Physical Training.

Psychologic and Sociologic Aspects of Physical Training.

Physical Training of Truants, Defectives and Delinquents.

The Physiology of Exercise.

Gymnastic Therapeutics.

The Management of Athletic contests.

Dancing for Schools.

Theory and Practice of School Gymnastics.

Theory and Practice of School Games.

Anthropometry Methods.

School Hygiene, Pedagogy of Physical Training.

The Adaptation of Physical Exercise to the Conditions of Modern Life. Organization and Administration of Physical Training.

Divergent Effects of Uniform Physical Training upon Different In-divuals.

It is also proposed to have a course of popular addresses which will include the following topics:

The Influence of Manly Sports on People.

The Moral Phase of Athletics.

The Place of Physical Training in Education.

The Development of the City as Related to the Health of Children. The Play of City Children.

New Conditions of Civilization which make Physical Training Necessary.

EXTRACT FROM THE OFFICIAL CLASSIFICATION OF THE EXPOSITION.

PHYSICAL CULTURE.

Department P.—Group 142.

TRAINING OF THE CHILD AND ADULT-THEORY AND PRACTICE.

Class 802. Simple ealisthenic exercises, setting up drills; school exercises: special apparatus for school gymnasiums; out-door training systems. Class 803. Gymnasiums. Apparatus for special forms of physical development.

athletic training, various forms of exercise, walking, running; rowing, swimming, vaulting, fencing, etc.

Class 804. Anthropometry; various methods; its relation #to physical culture; data, statistics, charts, appliances and instruments.

Group 143.

GAMES AND SPORTS FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS.

Class 805. Bowls, lawn tennis, skittles, croquet, grace hoops, quoits, golf, basket ball, curling.

Class 806. Baseball, football, rowing, cricket, la crosse, polo, track athletics.

Group 144.

EQUIPMENT FOR GAMES AND SPORTS.

Class 807. Material, dress and equipment for games and sports. Sporting goods and supplies; track paraphernalia.

James E. Sullivan,

Chief, Department of Physical Culture.

Approved:

Frederick Skiff, Director of Exhibits.

Digitized by

Google
—37—

THE TRAINING OF THE BODY.

By PROF. W. E. DAY.

THE NEED.

THE training of the body should keep pace with the training of the mind. The ancient Greeks, whose renown needs no comment here, thought that the body should receive the same care and attention that the mind did, but in these latter days the body is not only neglected, but abused by sins of omniission as well as sins of commission.

Until recently a young man was sent to college for the training of the mind only and no suggestion whatever was held out to him regarding the training of the body, consequently he received neither instruction as how to take care for the body, nor how to improve it. Witness now the large sums expended, and wisely too^ by the colleges and universities for gymnasiums, athletic fields, boat houses, etc.

“The impressive appeals for university funds invested in athletic equipment during the present year make the outlay for developing the “sound body” rival the endowment of classical chairs and foundations. In several of America’s foremost universities the outlay on athletics is more than on the dead languages which two generations ago were held to be the cornerstone of a campus education. The University of Pennsylvania is completing an athletic field and a gymnasium in one magnificent quadrangle at a cost of nearly half a million dollars. Harvard has just thrown open a new field called the ‘Stadium,” at a cost of two hundred thousand dollars.

A movement is under way at the University of Chicago to endow athletics in order to remove certain objectionable features of an admis-sionfee system to struggles for college honors, and a half million dollars is the amount needed to provide sufficient capital to maintain the varied sporting interests of the institution. Columbia has recently purchased real estate valued at two million dollars, a part of which will be used for an athletic field, according to present plans. Princeton is building a gymnasium which will rival in cost and elaborate equipment any of her collegiate halls. There are several preparatory schools whose gymnasiums and fields added an outlay of fifty thousand dollars each.

After a thorough medical and physical examination every Student is given special instruction upon the care and improvement of the body by proper courses of exercises, baths, diet and hygiene. Now a student is expected to graduate with a first class body as well as a first class mind. President Eliot, of Harvard University, writes that he would rather prefer to see his son graduate from college with a sound body and a few holes in his Latin or Greek than to see him leave college at the head of his class with a weak body that would unfit him for the strenuous life now demanded in an}' of the trades or professions. When William Blaikie, the gifted author of “How to Get Strong, and How to Stay So,” attended Yale University, he said that he never allowed his studies to interfere with his athletics, but now that state of affairs could not long exist, as every athlete must have a high grade in his studies ar lose his position on a team.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
Our forefathers did not need this bodily training, true, because of the open air life which they led and the various manual occupations in which they engaged. Then some men knew four or five different trades, but now if a man works in a factory he is usually part of a machine and will probably know about one sixty-fourth of a trade.

The need is further emphasized by the many labor saving devices of the present day, by the use of which a business man, without leaving his desk, may accomplish as much in one day as was formerly done in four.

We are becoming an industrial people and the inhabitants are leaving the small towns and congregating in the larger cities, so that the proportion of the population now in the larger cities is something appalling, and as the people are huddled together without the necessary exercise, sunshine and good air, there is an alarming decrease in physical vigor. Statistics show to us that there is a marked deterioration of country stock in the cities, rarely lasting four or five generations.

Machinery is now doing the the bulk of the muscular work of the world, which was formerly done by men and animals, and while there is a decrease in the muscular work there is almost a corresponding increase in neural expenditure, consequently'the average young city man lacks organic capacity and vigor for hard mental or physical worrk.

THE BEST PERIOD.

The most important period of life is in the “teens,” for ’tis then that the foundations should be laid for good minds and healthy bodies. This is the plastic age of the youth, and if the principles of right living and proper thinking can then be inculcated into his grey matter the teacher can render to the scholar an invaluable service that will surely be of lasting benefit. Parents rarely attend to these matters, and the city or state should see to it that when pupils graduate from either a grade or high school they should not only have a diploma certifying to the fact that they go forth with well-trained minds, but should have a phycician’s certificate testifying to the fact that they have sound bodies also.

TRAINING OF THE BODY AND AID TO THE TRAINING OF THE MIND.

“There is nothing so important, nothing so significant, nothing so vital in the whole scheme of education as the development of the proper self-control, self-direction and co-ordination of muscular activity. Our whole purpose in our work is to make the child’s organism intelligent in its every activity. It is not necessary to more than indicate that physical training accomplishes more than any other educational force for the desired ends in this direction. Through physical training of the right sort, and physical training only, is it possible for the child in his education to gain absolute control of his muscular system. The result of this systematic training of the body is a well-ordered, well-balanced brain life. In all my experience and observation I (Dr. W. 0. Krohn} have never seen a single case of brain disorderliness, of brain slowlincss that was not benefited by physical training.

The problem before us is to educate the entire brain of the child—

Digitized by v^ooQle
—39 —

for a given brain cell that does not grow is dead. A brain cell cannot grow save through exercise and use. All the brain cells can be made to grow only when the home and school enviroments are such as to appeal to in every possible way and with sufficient energy the child’s many-sided activity.

We believe, then, that physical training should be a factor woven into the warp and woof of every school curriculum because of its great assistance in building in an orderly manner the brains of the children so fortunately circumstanced as to have well arranged and carefully planned physical exercise through the school grades. In addition to this broader result there are certain specific advantages to which we should allude. Physical training, in developing the capacity of self-direction and self-control in the pupil, of necessity develops the will. The child who is so educated physically as to discover that he has gained complete command of what would have remained an awkward and uncouth body, soon learns from the masterly control of a well-knit physique to overcome all obstacles.

As to the moral effects I.need only allude to the fact that since athletics have gained such wide influence on the mass of students in the schools and-colleges there is less of vice, less of depravity and a great falling off in the number of cases calling for vigorous discipline from the faculty. The moral tone has been greatly elevated as a result .of athletic and ^gymnastic instruction.

All of these advantages are in addition to the one great advantage in the mental development—the real brain-building resulting from true physical education. Physical training contributes almost as much to mental alertness as it does to physical alertness; contributes almost as much to mental dexterity as it does to physical dexterity. In other words, physical training is education—not education of the body alone, but the mind and morals as well. It is because of these excellent results that we cannot help to hold that in the grades below the high school at least the teachers of the physical and manual training should be almost as numerous as the teachers of the three R’s. And you cannot depend upon calisthenics alone. To give a child calistenics alone is like feeding a boy on nothing but charlotte russe; there must be exercises for muscular ease, grace, rhythm, and there must also be a generous provision for playgrounds and outdoor sports.”

THE RESPONSIBILITY.

The old idea, as has already been stated, that a young man should be sent to school merely to have his mind trained, is quickly becoming obsolete, and either the city fathers or the Board of Education should see to it, if Dayton is to keep pace with the times, that ample facilities are provided in every school house for the training of the body. Modem school buildings not only contain well equipped gymnasiums but bath rooms also, and these bath rooms and gymnasiums should not only be used by the school children during the day but should be kept open in the evening as well, so that any citizen of the municipality might have the privilege of using them. In addition more public parks and play grounds should be provided, so that when the weather is too

Digitized by booQle
—40 —

warm for indoor work the exercise would not be abandoned but be continued throughout the summer months. The responsility of the Board of Education does not rest here, for with all this equipment it would not mean much if the work in this department of physical education was not wisely directed. A superintendent of physical training should be appointed and under his direction several physical directors could not only supervise the class exercises but teach the scholars how to take care of the body in every way, how to exercise, how to b.athe, what to eat, to care for the eyes, etc. The physical directors could render valuable service to the teachers also by instructing them how to guide and direct the recess plays of the scholars, as very few children have a proper conception of how to play and get the most out of it.

THE PHYSICAL DIRECTOR.

The improper conception unfortunately has been spread abroad that a physical director should be an acrobate, a gymnast, a wrestler, a prize fighter or some other kind of a performer, but this is erroneous,, as he is in reality what his name implies, a director. Back of any skill that he may have as an athlete or gymnast he must have the ability to teach. A good performer is not always a good instructor. Because of any particular system that is advocated success is not assured, for b^ck of systems, methods, etc., lies the brain power of the man who should be the man for the place and the condition.

THE LATER PERIOD.

Beyond the question of a doubt the time to reap the most benefit from exercise is during the adolescent period, but a large number of the indiscretions of youth may be atoned for by the proper care of the body later in life. Exercises suitable to the age, temperament, etc., of the individual must be given to reap the best results. If appropriate exercise is pursued under skilled direction a man will be aided in retaining his robustness, and those who have not been blessed by nature with a vigorous body will be assisted jn making the most of his opportunities, while those who are ill may be restored to good health, and a man in good physical condition is worth more to himself and is a better citizen than the man of ills and unsound body.

It pays to keep well. “Health is not the mere freedom from pain or sickness but an entire soundness, a wholeness or holiness, an intregitv of every structure embracing in its true extent both mind and body, demanding, therefore, a perfect harmony in the play of every function of the living organism.”

Let no man deceive himself. The absence of aches and pains, the possession of a good appetite, and ability to sleep well, to work hard and enjoy life without physical activity is not a state that exists fore-ever. A large inherited bank account that receives no deposits, but is constantly subject to draft, may stand considerable overdrawing, but some day'' the check returns, with this cabalistic phrase accross its back, “No funds.”

TIME NEEDED.

Gladstone said that all the time and money spent in the care of the body was well invested. If the individual is compensated in looking

Digitized by O.OOQle
-41-

after the retention of his health through physical training, would it not pay the city or state to establish public gymnasiums and bath rooms to keep the citizens well rather than to spend vast sums of money in keeping them while sick and in attempting to restore them to health? The old man saw that the “ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure” could be applied here.

Gladstone, while Prime Minister of Great Britain, then the most responsible position in the whole world, thought it wise to give two whole hours each day, out of his very busy life, to good, wholesome exercise. The usual reply that the average business man of today gives when his attention is called to the fact that the body needs to be cared for, is, “I am too busy,” or “I have not the time to spare.” If he then waits until the latter period arrives, there will be no need of bodily erxercise. Some even go as far as to take the “course” of some of the quacks whose advertisements are disappearing slowly from the magazines. The credulity of the public is worked upon in various ways, particularly by the special inducements in the matter of saving time by-taking a “course” at home instead of going to the gymnasium. Of these courses one man writes:	“We	pledge

ourselves to exercise one-half hour before going to bed and one-half hour before breakfast; the strongest willed of us kept that pledge for one month. The spirit is willing but the the fLsh is weak.” Exercising alone is work, it is not sociable, there is no recreation in it, and there is what the physical nature of man demands.

“Recreation is intended to the mind as whetting is to to the scythe, to sharpen the edge of it, which otherwise would grow dull and blunt. He, therefore, who spends his whole time in recreation is ever whetting, never mowing; his grass may grow and his steed starve; as, contrarily, he that always toils and never recreates, is ever mowing, never whetting—laboring much to little purpose. As good no scythe as no edge. Then only let the work go forward when the scythe is so seasonably and moderately whetted that it may cut, and so cut that it may have the help of sharpening.”

We are all cretures of habit, and if one can “|get the habit” of attending a jolly gymnasium class two or three times a week the rest is easy.

There are additional advantages that a good lively gymnasium class has over the man taking his exercise alone. A man working on “course” does not get the all-round exercise that the class member does on account of the greater variety of the exercises given. The “course ’ man receives no personal supervision and he is liable to “gang aglee” in the work prepared for him. The class member does not have to continually force himself to attend class, knowing that when he gets to the gymnasium he will find others there for the same purpose. In his class exercises he will learn how to properly control his body, which is a daily advantage over his fellow man. In a well conducted class “a man forgets that he owes anyone and also that anyone owes him.”

WHAT PHYSICAL TRAINING IS.

The popular mind has gone crazy over big muscles, thinking that they were the end and aim of physical training, which means neither big nor hard muscles but firm muscles, good digestion, respiration and circulation, in other words, HEALTH, or putting a man in the best possible physical condition. Big muscles are of no advantage to a business man; what he needs most is to be in that degree of health that will enable him to accomplish the most business in the least time.

Digitized by Google
Misp ftND BODY. -*•

Sufacriptlon Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

MV

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

2w£H-we.\xlce«, '^XTI top aln.

Addrew all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

LUNG DISEASES AND EXERCISE.

• ------------------------------------

IN this age where so-called physical culture so often is announced as a panacea for all ills mankind is heir to, and all sorts of plausible and impossible theories are advanced to support such claims, the danger of overdoing must necessarily be great. There are two kinds of such enthusiasts. First the professional advertiser, whose whole interest is governed by the greed for money, and the second, who, without a correct understanding of cause and effect, although perfectly honest in his motives, in his teachings is equally as dangerous to those entrusted to him as is the former.

As a typical example of such harmful methods we mention exercise and especially designed gymnastics for the development of weak lungs.

Under the term “weak lungs” these people include every degree from a rhachitic thorax'to an advanced tuberculos lung.

Since in most cases it is impossible for any person without a thorough medical knowledge to distinguish between the two conditions, the pathology and treatment remain the same in their mind, the difference seeming to be in the degree of severity only. The further advanced the case is, the greater, they think, is the indication for such exercise.

The theory is that a lung in order to be healthy or to become so must in all its parts be supplied with air, which in so many cases can be done by such gymnastics.

In all those cases where there is a state of underdevelopment of structure, postural correction and appropriate exercise will do much good. But where we have to deal with an inflammatory or destructive process of the lung substance or its surrounding membranes nothing worse can be done than vigorous exercising.

It is an old rule, known to every sensible person, that inflammatory conditions will heal best and quickest if allowed to enjoy physiological rest and that nothing will spread an inflammation as rapidly as motion.

Clinical experience has proven this to be true also’in regard to the lungs.

In late years nitrogen gas has been injected into the pleural cavity with the intention of compressing the corresponding lung and thereby putting it completely to rest.

The results have been very gratifying indeed.

Such noted surgeons as John B. Murphy of Chicago have reported unqualified success in all such cases not too far advanced.

If, therefore, we find ourselevs prescribing lung gymnastics we must

Digitized by
-43-

have our pupils’ welfare at heart and ascertain first of all, if necessary from the family physician’s own testimony, whether or not our pupil is suffering from any pulmonary affection where physiological rest is of vital importance.

Don’t say, deep inhalation is good for weak lungs!

WORLD’S FAIR GYMNASTIC EXHIBITION.

SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 18, 1904.

ONE of the many large exhibitions to take place at St. Louis during the World's Fair which will be of more than ordinary interest to teachers of gymnastics will be the first one given by the United Gymnastic (Turner) Societies of St. Louis in the Stadium on Saturday afternoon, June 18.

In arranging the program for the exhibition it was the intention of the Technical Committee to show the great variety of exercises used in the gymnastic schools of the turner societies, and also, at the same time, to show the careful grading of the work according to age, sex and capabilities of the participants. The youngest scholars of these schools will not take part, as it was deemed imprudent to take children under 10 years of age out into the Fair grounds at a time when enormous crowds may be expected. Even without these at least 4000 participants are to take part. As will be seen this exhibition will be a great object lesson for teachers who wish 10 see excellent mass work and at the same time to study the methods of handling large crowds of scholars.

The program is as follows: Entrance and Grand March of all participants around the oval of the Stadiuiri.

1. Games by all classes. The characteristic games of the different ages and of both sexes will be shown. The participants will be divided into 8 columns, and each column will again be sub-divided into 10 to 15 groups of playerThese games will be under the direction of Messrs. A. Nathan and

E.	Woemer.

2.	Calisthenics by boys and girls, 10 to 12 years of age, under the direction of Mr. L. Kittlaus.

3. Exercises with dumbbells by boys, 12 to 14 years of age, under the direction of Mr. O Koenig.

4 Exercises with open grace hoops by girL, 12 to 16 years of age, under the direction of Mr. K. Heckrich.

5. Exercises on 24 parallel bars by “juniors,” 14 to 18 years of age, under the direcuon of Mr. H. Osterheld.

6. Exercises with barbells by ladies over 16 years of age, under the direction of Mr. A. Kindervater.

7. Exercises with iron wands by “seniors” over 35 years of age, under the direction of Mr. O. Boettger.

8. Apparatus work and field sports by “actives,” 18 to 35 years of age, under the direction of Messrs. H. Lehrmann and J. Huchting.

All the exercises will be accompanied by music. Another exhibition of mass work, but of an entirely diffeient character, will be given by the same societies on Saturday, October 27, also smaller exhibitions during the conventions of she N. E. A. and the A. F. E. S.-Wm. A. Stecher.

Digitized by CjOOQle
THE WORLD S FAIR EXHIBIT OF THE NORTH AMERI CAN GYMNASTIC UNION (TURNERBUND).

THE St. Louis exhibit of the North American Gymnastic Union will be of more than passing interest, and a short description may be the means of calling the attention of teachers to it.

The exhibit, which will be housed in one of the large rooms of the gymnasium adjoining the stadium, will consist of three parts.

The first part consists of photographs. The Union’s societies having the largest and best equiped gymnasia have been requested to send photographs both of the exteriors and interiors.

Supplementary there will be hundreds of pictures showing floor and apparatus work. The national executive selected the exercises to be shown and designated to the societies, giving each a different subject. This collection will show classes of all ages and both sexes engaged in work with dumbbells, wands, barbells, etc., also on ladders, bars, horses, poles, etc.

Part second will be a historical collection. All societies existing over 50 years have been requested to contribute such objects of half a century ago that show the conditions of gymnastics in the early 50’s and 60 s. Old battle flags of the Civil War, paintings, monuments in honor of members who fell in the war, photographs of members who have received the Union’s diploma for a membership ot over 50 years, plans of old gymnasia and outdoor playgrounds, old apparatus, lencing utensils, wreaths old gymnastic books, etc., will help to make this part of great interest to students of gymnastics.

Part three will be an exhibit of a modern gymnasium. Believing that often members of school boards or other influential cit'zens are in favor of gymnastics, but have no idea of what, for instance, a gymnasium for a public school should look like, what it costs to erect and equip one, etc., the Executive of the North American Gymnastic Union decided to build a model gymnasium en miniature and give them all details.

After the architects, Messrs. Vonnegut and Bohn of Indianapolis, had arranged the plans, Mr. Fred. Medart, the well-known manufacturer of apparatus, and himself an old gymnast, was selected to construct this building. It will be about 4 by 6 feet. This model will contain all the hanging and stationary apparatus necessary for class work in a gymnasinm for schools, also all the hand apparatus, as clubs, wands, dumbbells, all made in correct proportion to the size of the building. In order that visitors may easily see the construction of the building, the best manner of arranging hanging apparatus so as 10 have the largest clear space for classes, the laying of the floor, where to put stands for hand apparatus, how such halls ought to be heated and ventilated, where and how high the windows ought to be, etc., etc., the roof and two sides of the model will be covered with class.

Cards attached to the building will give further information as to what a building of a certain size will cost if constructed of wood, or of brick, how many pieces of apparatus are necessary for classes of 50 to 75 scholars, what the stationary and hand apparatus will cost, etc., etc. It is hoped that by thus showing what a model gymnasium is, and that the cost of erection need not be excessive, an impetus will be given to budd some even in small cities and towns.

The foregoing will show that the exhibit of the N. A. G. U. will be out of the ordinary and that it will be interesting not only to teachers of gymnastics but to others as well —Wm. A. Stecher.

Digitized by t^ooQle
—45— •

PHYSICAL TRAINING AT THE ST. LOUIS FAIR.

DURING August 25th to 31st inclusive, there will be held in connection with the Louisiana Purchase Exposition the next meeting of the American Physical Education Association.

The Exposition authorities have offered six gold medals to be awarded for articles on physical training in accordance with the following report:

The National Council of the Physical Education Association has accepted in behalf of the Association, six gold medals offered by Mr. James E Sullivan, Chief of the Department of Physical Culture of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, to be distributed by the Association in accordance with its own arrangements and rules and by its own jury for the six most valuable articles on such physical training subjects -as the Association may designate.

The committee appointed by Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick, the president of the Association, has formulated the following explanations and regulations for the awarding of these medals.

The jury to be nominated by the committee and approved bv the National Council shall be free to award medals for papers on widely different or on closely related subjects according to the merits of the papers, as also to withhold any or all of the medals if a sufficient number of papers possessing undoubted value be not offered.

The subjects will not be designated by the committee, but will be the free selection of the authors, and the papers may deal with any subject directly or indirectly connected with physical training as long as the problem treated is definite, limited, and conforms to the general purpose of furthering accurate thought and spreading knowlege on physical training. Their value will be considered enhanced if they contain a presentation of facts which have come under the writer’s own observation.

The following branches are suggested as containing suitable subjects for articles:

1.	The scientific foundation of physical training. .

a)	The mechanics of motor-activity,

b)	The physiology of exercise,

c)	The psychology and pedagogy of motor-activity.

2.	The principles of physical training as based on mechanics, physiology, psychology aud pedagogy.

3.	Individual differences, physical diagnosis and prescription.

4.	The technical aspect of physical training; selection, organization; classfication of exercises; construction, equipment, etc; organization and administration.

5.	The history of bibliography of physical training, aims and present status.

6.	The sociological relation of physical training: its ethics.

Articles submitted shall be typewritten in English, French or German on paper 9 or 9inches by ioj4 or 11 inches in size and stapled at the side.

They shall be delivered sealed on or before the first day of August, 1904, to Dr. Lusher Halsey Gulick, 286 Willoughby Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y., for transmission to the jury.

The cover enclosing the articles shall be marked “A. P. E. A., Scientific Section/' and shall contain, besides the article, a sealed envelope containing the name and address of the author and marked with a motto or pseudonym corresponding to the signature of the article.

Digitized by	5le
—46—

The committee reserves for the American Physical Education Association the right to publish any or all of the papers submitted either in the memoirs of the Exposition or in the American Physical Education Review.

The awarding of the medals shall constitute a part of the program of the convention of the Association to be held in St. Louis in August, 1904.

Inquiries should be addressed to the chairman of the committee:	Jacob

Bolin, 645 Madison Ave., New Yo'k City; Clark VV. Hetherington, University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.; R. Tait McKenzie, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

It is hoped that many of the members of the socie y will present papers in accordance with the terms above stated.

The Physical Directors Society of the North American Gymnastic Union will meet on July 1, 2 and 3. The physical directors of the Y. M. C. A. will meet August 22, 23 and 24. It is also expected that the College Physical Directors Society will meet on the*e latter dates.

During the first four weeks of August, beginning on the 1st and ending on the 26th, there will be courses of lectures on various phases of physical training. The courses and speakers are as follows :

Dr. E. H. Arnold, “Organization and Conduct of School Games.”

G. W. Ehler, “Adaptation of Physical Exercises to the Modem Conditions of Life.”

Dr. C. W. Crampton, “Some Recent Advances in the Science of Physical Training.”

Dr. F. A. Schmidt, of Bonn, Germany. “Physiology of Exercises."

Dr. R. T. McKenzie, “Artistic Anatomy from the Standpoint of Physical Training.”

Dr. H. S. Curtis, “History of the Playground Movement in Europe and America.”

C. H. Watson, “The History of Muscular Movement in its Relation to the Human Evolution.”

G. Stanley Hall, “Civilization as Relating to Health, Paxticulary the Health of Children.''

W. C. Anderson, Dancing in its Relation to a Physical Training Curriculum.”

Mr. Jacob Bolin, “The Theory of Developmental Gymnastics.”

Dr. J. Raycroft, “The Organization and Administration of Physical Training.”

Prof. C. M. Woodward, “History and Ethics of Physical Training.”

Prof. C. W. Hetherington, “Divergent Defects of Uniform Physical Training Upon Different Individuals.' Supt. G. N. Johnson, “Play in Relation to Education.”

Dr. D. F. Lincoln, “The Treatment of the Feeble Minded with Special Reference to their Education in a Public School System.

With the exception of Prof. Woodward, each lecturer will give ten lectures.

Tickets for each course of lectures will be $3.06. Matriculation fee $5.00.

During the month there will be various athletic competitions of note, the Olympic Games being held August 29th to September 3d.

JAPANESE PHYSICAL TRAINING.

At the outset it might be stated that its claim as a system of physical training is a misnomer as it is no more a “system” than the American boxing, wrestling or many of the so-called systems of to-day. The author takes one of six systms of Jai jitsu and part of another and calls it the Japanese system. It is not a system of gymnastics nor athletics, neither is it a science as is claimed for it; it is a system of pugnacious tricks of attack and defence and as no fouls are recognized there are some things advocated that even the toughest bruiser would consider “dirty work.” Some strange claims are made in this book, i. e. the “resistance” system is the best known and most successful system ot to-day. If success is to be measured by the amount of money the originator can hoodwink from the gullible public, then it surely is successful, but there are other standards. Breathing exercises with clenched fists and firm muscles are given; exercises that are quoted for the arms are mainly developers of the pectorals and deltoid; bumps of muscle are deprecated but exercises are given to devolop them; the worst of heart troubles disappear under this system and the patient too, it is supposed. One careful not to think would jump at the conclusion that the Japanese obtained their endurance from Jai Jitsu rather than from wrestling.

Digitized by Google
running, jumping, good living, outdoor life, etc. The caution about overdoing is good and some very excellent suggestions regarding diet and bathing may be gleaned if the reader can distinguish the wheat from tne chaff. The author is unfortunate in dedicating his book to one who is recognized as an expert ignoramus on physical training. The book contains nothing technical but is written for the popular mind. It is published by G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York.

WAND EXERCISES.

(WINDING MOVEMENTS, FANCY STEPS AND POSING.)

LEADVILLE HIGH SCHOOL, Louis Lepper, Physical Director.

Music, “New Flower Song.”

Introduction 16 counts. Each exercise 8 counts.

GROUP I.

1.	Wind with left and right hand, raise wand forward and place left and right foot forward.

2.	Wind with left and right hand, raise wand sideward left and right and place left and right foot sideward.

3.	Wind with left and right hand, raise wand vertical and bend trunk left and right.

4.	Wind with left and right hand, lower wand downward and bend trunk forward.

GROUP II.

Music, “A Tale of a Kangaroo.”

Each exercise 16 counts.

1.	Wind with left hand, raise wand forward, left arm downward and right arm upward, and kneel on left knee—1, 2! Rewind, bend trunk forward and lower wand downward—3, 4! Return—5, 6! (Rewind.) Close heels, rewind and lower wand, 7, 8!

2.	The same as ex. No. 1, only right.

3.	Wind with left hand, raise wand forward, left arm downward and right arm upward and place left foot forward—1, 2! Rewind, move wand sideward left and lunge sideward left—3, 4! Return —5, 6! (Rewind.) Close heels, rewind lower wand—7, 81

4.	The same as ex. No. 3, only right.

GROUP III.

Music, Chorus, “A Tale of a Kangaroo.”

1.	Wind left hand, raise wand sidewnrd left, step-position sideward left and cross right foot forward—1, 2! Rewind and wdnd with right, raise wand sideward left, step-position right and cross left foot forward—3. 4! Repeat this exercise to 16 counts.

2.	Change step forward left and right, count—1 to 4! Rest 4 counts. Lunge backward left, wind with left hand, raise wand vertical to the left, right hand in front of left shoulder and left arm downward, count—9 to 12. Rewind and close heels—13 to 16!

3.	The same as ex. No. 1, only right.

4.	Change step backward left and right, count—1 to 4! Rest 4 counts. Lunge backward, wind with right hand, raise wand vertical to the right, left hand in front of right shoulder and right arm downward, count—9 to 12! Rewind and close heels—13 to 16!

Digitized by v^-ooQle
00^0501^00*01-*

-48-

GROUP IV.

Music, “New Flower Song.”

(No introduction). Each exercise 16 counts.

1.	Wind with left hand and raise wand upward. Place left foot for* wurd—1, 2! Lunge sideward left, bend trunk forward, rewind, lower wand—3, 4! Return—5, 6! Rewind, lower wand and close heels—7, 8!

2.	The same as ex. No. 1, only right.

3.	Wind with left hand, raise wand vertical, left arm down and place left foot backward—1, 2! Rewind, right arm downward, turn trunk right and cross left foot forward—3, 4! Return—5, 6! Rewind, close heels and lower wand—7, 8!

4.	The same as ex. No. 3, only right.

group v.

Music, “Last Rose of Summer.”

Posing.

Each exercise 16 counts.

Double Wand Exercises.

Each exercise 16 counts.

PART I.

1.	Raise arms forward and place left and right foot forward.

2.	Raise arms sideward and place left and right foot sideward.

3.	Raise arms sideward upward and <yoss left and right foot forward.

4.	Place hands on shoulders and bend knees.

5.	Place left hand on hip, raise right arm upward to a semi-circle and lunge sideward left.

6.	Place right hand on hip, raise left arm upward to a semi-circle

and lunge sideward right.

7.	Raise arms sideward obliquely upward and place left and right foot backward.

8.	Place hands on hips and bend trunk forward.

PART II.

Change hands, knuckles inward. Left hand—1 to 4! Right hand—5 to 8; Rest 8 counts.

1. Right—face and raise arms upward—1, 2! Return—3, 4!

2. Left—face and raise upward—1, 2! Return—3, 4!

3. Right—face and raise arms upward—1, 2! Lunge forward right and bend trunk forward—3, 4! Return—5, 6! Front—face and arms down—7, 8!

4.	The same as ex. No. 3, only left.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-49-

5.	Right—face and raise arms sideward—1, 2! Return—4!

6.	Left—face and raise arms sideward—1, 2! Return—3, 4!

7.	Right—face and raise arms sideward—1, 2! Lunge sideward right

and bend trunk sideward—3, 4! Return—5, 6!	Front—face and

arms down—7, 8!

8.	The same as ex. No. 7, only left—face.

9.	Right—face and raise arms sideward—1, 2! Face inward and cross arms—3, 4! Raise arms upward and rise on toes—5, 6! Return— 7, 81 Bend knees and raise arms upward—9, 10! Return—11, 12! Face outward and raise arms^sideward—13, 14! Front—face and arms down—15, 16!

10.	The same as ex. No. 9, only left—face.

Dumbbell Exercises.

Each exercise 16 counts.

GROUP I.

1.	Raise bells forward and step-position forward left—1, 2! Move bells sideward and lunge sideward left—3, 4! Return—5,6! Lower bells and close heels—7, 8.

2.	The same as ex. No. 1, only right.

3.	Raise bells sideward and step-position sideward left—1, 2! Turn trunk right, cross left foot forward and place bells on shoulders— 3, 4! Return—5, 6! Lower bells and close heels—7, 8!

4.	The same as ex. No. 3, only right.

GROUP II.

5.	Raise bells upward and lunge sideward left—1, 2! Bend trunk forward and place bells on hips—3, 4! Return—5, 6! Lower bells and close heels—7, 8!

6.	The same as ex. No. 5, only right.

7.	Place bells on shoulders and lunge sideward left—1, 2! Straighten left and bend right knee, turn trunk left and straighten arms forward—3, 4! Return—5, 6! Lower bells and close heels—7, 8!

8.	The same as ex. No. 7, only right.

group m.

9.	Cross-step position backward left, bend right knee and raise bells sideward—1, 2! Straighten right knee, place left foot forward, bend trunk backward, swing arms sideward upward and click—3, 4! Return—5, 6! Lower bells and close heels—7, 8!

10.	The same as ex. No. 9, only right.

11.	Raise bells sideward upward and click, lunge sideward left—1, 2! Straighten left and bend right knee, lower right arm down, place left hand on hip and bend trunk sideward right—3, 4! Return— 5, 6! Lower bells and close heels—7, 8!

12.	The same as ex. No. 11, only lunge sideward right.

—Thf office of the secretary of the Amateur Athletic Union, Mr. J. E. Sullivan, of New York City, has been destroyed by fire and most of the valuable records are lost. We sympathize with Mr. Sullivan over his loss, but are confident that such a set-back as a fire cannot for any length of time discomfit this enthusiatic and faithful worker.

Digitized by L^ooQie
—50—

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools. ^Continued, l

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Knapsack Contest” (see explanation below). As a preliminary a short run and hold the arms in various positions any number of counts as the respective director-considers sufficient. Gymnastic tactics.

Form a front line, count off by fours or sixes and open order forw. to two steps distance. (One step distance will do if the enclosure is too small for a large class.

CALISTHENICS.

1.	Raise heels and raise arms forw. overh.—1! Pos.—2 ! Squat rest r., extend 1. leg sidew. (toe-touching) and hands resting on the floor —3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately, 1—8*

2.	a) Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Raise 1. leg backw. and move arms overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately, 1—8 ! b) Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise arms outw.—1! Raise 1. leg inw. and move arms overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately, 1—81

3.	Jump to stride pos. outw. arid raise arms forw. overh.—1! Bend trunk forw. and move arms downw. and between legs—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

Arms to thrust—bend !

4.	a) Lunge forw. 1. and r. alternately and thrust arms forw. upw. obi., 1-4!

bj Lunge sidew. 1. and thrust 1. arm sidew. upw. obi., the r. sidew. downw. obi.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3 ! Pos.—4!

5.	Jump to cross stride pos. (1. forw., r. backw.), and raise arms forw.—1! Bend trunk backw. and move arms overh. (arms in line with upper part of the trunk)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same with r. foot forw. and 1. backw., 5—8!

<*». a) Raise 1. knee forw. and forearms upw. (elbows at the sides, hands in front and width of shoulders, palms inw.)—1! Extend

1.	leg and arms forw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.. 1—4! Alternately, 1—8 ! b) Start as a, but extend leg and arms sidew.

In place—rest! Or gymnastic tactics.

7.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise arms forw.—1 ! Turn trunk to the 1. and move arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 5—8!

8.	a) Lunge forw. 1., bend trunk forw. and place bands on the floor —1! Extend 1. leg backw. upw. obi.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 5—8!

b) Lunge sidew. I., bend trunk sidew. 1., rest 1. hand on floor and r. hand on r. lrp—1! Extend 1. leg in front of r. (crosswise) and r. arm sidew. (in upw. direction)- 2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 5—8! Slowly.

D. Stride pos. sidew. 1 and raise arms outw.—1! Bend trunk sidew.

1.	and place hands behind head—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4!

Digitized by

Google
-51-

In front leaning rest.

10.	Bend and extend arms as often as possible.

11.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and extend arms outw. oyerh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms inw. in one count. Repeat 4 to 6 times.

Close order forw. to a front line, then turn 1. or r. face and march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: High parallel bars and high jump.

Second	“	High jump and high parallel	bars.

Third	“	Side horse and flying rings.

Fourth	14	Flying rings and side horse.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—High Parallel Bars.

In front cross-stand, inside grasp at end.

1.	Jump upw., V4 turn backw.. thighs flexed over body, kip to straight arm rest and backw. swing; dip-swing forw. and move both hands forw. simultaneously to straight arm rest; swing backw. and repeat; then at the next backw. swing front vault 1. or r.

2.	As ex. 1, but instead of front vault lower backw. to upper arms, swing forw. and roll over backw. with extended hips and again forw. to flexing thighs over body, then kip to straight arm rest and front vault 1. with V2 turn r.

3.	Straddle vault forw. over end of both bars to straight arm rest and hold legs at right angle; drop kip; dip-swing forw. and front scissors mount; place hands in rear of thighs; roll over backw. to upper arm balance, then roll over sidew. 1. (or r.) to cross-stand.

4.	Kip as in ex. 1 to straight arm rest, but with legs held at right angle momentarily, then straddle vault backw. over both bars to front cross-stand, immediate!}’ straddle vault forw. over both bars to straight arm rest and swing backw. with V2 turn over forw. to shoulder balance; roll over forw. with extended hips and pull up at backw. swing, swing forw. to rear vault r. and Y2 turn r.

In front leaning rest.

5.	Pull up to straight arm rest; raise both legs forw. to r. angle; V2 turn 1. by traveling with r. hand to 1. bar, then the 1. hand backw. to r. bar; lower backw. to upper arms with thighs flexed over body; continue the turn backw. and extend hips to upper arm balance; lower backw. to straight arm rest and raise legs forw. to r. angle; V2 turn forw., extend hips and arms to hand balance; turn over 1. or r. sidew. to cross-stand.

A. An exercise free for all.

Change with second division for high jump.

First Division.—High Jump.

Practice a few preliminary jumps with Vi and V2 turn 1. (r ) to warm up for the final jump as well as for variety. Practice for height.

Second Division.—High Jump.

Same as first division.

Changt with first division on high parallel bars. •

Digitized by Google
Second Division.—High Parallel Bars.

A short run precedes the first five movements.

1.	Jump to upper arm hang in the center of the bars, intermediate swing and flex thighs over body, then kip to straddle seat in front of hands; rear vault dismount sidew. 1. (or r.).

2.	As ex. 1. but kip to outside cross-seat in front of right hand; raise legs forw., dip-swing backw. to back scissors mount; rear vault dismount with V2 turn 1. (or r.).

3.	Jump to upper arm hang in the center of the bars and at second forw. swing roll over backw. to straddle seat (hands in front); roll over forw. to straddle seat; raise legs forw., swing backw. and front vault 1. (or r.).

4.	Swing twice forw. and backw. in upper arm hang and pull up at second backw. swing to straight arm rest; swing forw.; circle 1. leg in front of r. hand and screw dismount 1. with V2 turn 1. to cross-stand.

5.	Swing in upper arm hang and at second front swing flex thighs over body, then kip to bent arm rest (dip-rest), at backw. swing extend arms; swing forw.; circle r. leg in front of 1. hand and screw dismount r. with V2 turn r. to cross-stand.

At end of bars in front cross-stand, ordinary grasp.

6.	Lower to front leaning hang; pull up to straight arm rest; raise legs forw.; turn over forw. to r. shoulder balance; continue turn and bend hips to outside cross-seat; place r. hand in front and raise body to r. elbow lever; front vault 1.

7.	An exercise free for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third division to begin on the side horse and the fourth on the flying rings.

Side Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to front vault mount on neck; backw. scissors (V2 tnrn 1.); swing legs backw. to front leaning rest; straddle dismount forw.

2.	Rear vault mount on neck; front scissors (V& turn 1.); straddle dismount backw. with Vi turn 1.

3.	Screw mount backw. r. on neck; front scissors (Y2 turn 1.); feint with 1. leg and circle backw. (circle 1.) to front stand (knees bent! and flank vault r.

4. Junfp to front rest and feint with 1. leg; circle 1. with 1. leg to front rest, then V2 circle 1. with r. leg to cross-rest; scissors sidew. 1.; screw dismount 1. with Vi turn 1.

5.	Repeat ex. 4, but without any intervals (i. e. the exercise is to be continuous from start to finish.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Note—Execute all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Flying Rings (height of shoulders).

1.	Jump upw. and immediately lower to front leaning rest; return to starting pos. and repeat twice.

Note—The feet are moved forw.

2.	As ex. 1, but lower feet backw. to backw. leaning rest; return to starting pos. and repeat twice.

Digitized by CjOOQle
3.	As ex. 1, but lower sitlew. 1. and r. alternately to side leaning rest. Repeat once.

4.	Lower backw. to front leaning hang and circle body r.

5.	As ex. 4, to the 1.

6.	Bend knees; turn backw. with knees bent and thighs well flexed on body to back hang, and return. Repeat.

7.	Bend knees; turn backw. with insteps resting in rings to bird’s, nest, and return. Repeat.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and form a front line for the game “Knapsack Contest.” (See explanation below.)

Four members lorin one set. Two act as ponies, the other two as riders. The riders, after mounting their ponies, grasp right hands and with the assistance of their ponies endeaver to pull off one another from the back of the opponent’s pony. This is continued until one of the riders succeeds

If the class is very large two or three sets may start simultaneously. After all have had their turn repeat the contest by the riders and ponies exchanging positions.

Dismiss by taking one step forw. at one, close heels with the r. foot, clap hands and break rank at two.	(To be continued.)

BATBALL.

OUT of simply batting a soft rubber ball around in the gymnasium we have developed the following game. Jt is recommended to all colleagues who use games employing many, if not all, of their scholars at the same time. The game gives the participants lots of exercise in a short time. Team-work, if you can call one-half of a class a team, is easily developed. Give it a fair trial and let me know what you think of it.	Wm.	A.	Stecher.

Grand Ave. and Hickory, St. Louis, Mo.

A GAME FOR ADULTS AND LARGE BOVS.

Your gymnasium is the court. Mark oft two end lines 20 feet from the wall. It makes no difference how large the other field is. Any number of scholars that does not crowd the court can play.

The pla}*ers of each side are divided into three equal divisions, designated the forwards, centres and backs, each occupying their respective fields, the backs being the guards, and stationed behind the 20 foot line.

The object of the game is to bat the ball with the hand against the opponent’s wall. Each touch of the wall counts one point. The ball may be passed (thrown) from one partner to another, but only batted halls score a point. The ball is a light, soft, rather erratic red rubber ball, 7 inches in diameter. It is tossed up in the center of the court at the beginning of the game, also afeer each point made.

In playing, the forwards have the right to run up to the 20 foot line when attempting to bat the ball against the wail. Running across the line constitutes a foul. Tackling is not allowed and also counts ns

Digitized by CjOOQle
-54-

a foul, but opponents have the right to place themselves in front of an intending batter in order to stop the ball. Fouls give the opposite side a trial bat from the center. Play two halves of from 5 to 10 min. each.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Mrs. Frances W. Leiter, the well-known nnd tireless worker for physical education, sends us the following letter which will be of interest to many of our readers:

PHYSICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT, NATIONAL WOMAN S CHRISTIAN

TEMPERANCE UNION.

MRS. FRANCES W. LEITER, Superintendent.

Mansfield. Ohio. Feb. 15, 1904. Dr. F. Pfister, Managing Editor of “Mind and Body,” Milwaukee, Wis.

Dear Sir:—I desire to thank you for including me in your complimentary list of subscribers to your valuable magazine. It is read with interest always, and is ol sevrice to me in my work. In fact, there is no other periodical that, in any wav, takes its place. My work in our organization is wholly along this educational line, as I was for years an educator. We are still working away hoping to get compulsory physical culture laws of the right kind. Such laws should specify a competent paid specialist for all cities of and above a certain number of inhabitants. The Ohio law concerns between 60 and 70 cities and is too largely inoperative because Boards generally do not realize the necessity for supervisors. Some of our Ohio cities are doing good work, others very indifferent work, if at all. Am now in correspondence with some Turners o? the state, considering whether we can gain any foothold in the new school code bill now pending in the General Assembly. I think, however, it is not practicable, though we wish it could be.

The “Physical Educational Quarterly” has been discontinued. When I have anything that will likely be of interest to you, will mail the same. The enclosed leaflet will give yon some idea of mv work which is among educators at large, and in the home as well as the school.

It has cost considerable work and expense to get literature of the kind and in the shape suitable foi free distribution among the people.

Again expressing my thanks, I am	Yours	respectiullv

_ _____________ Frances	W. Leiter.

CORRESPONDENCE.

DAPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL TRAINING, STATE NORMAL SCHOOL.

Trenton, N. J., Feb. 13., 1904

Editor “Mind and Body.”

Dear Sir:—V problem that has caused me no end of trouble is the fact that our gymnasium floor is very slippery. It is of maple wood and is in use six days in the week, from 9 a. m. until 5:30 p. m. Resin seems to be the only thing I can find which will prevent slipping, vet it looks, and is, dirty and is objected to bv the principal of the institution. Can any ol your contributors suggest a remedy ?

This condition, I may add, is entirely due to the polishing of the hard wood by many feet and not due to any preparation.	Yours	truly

H. B. Boice.

Chicago, Jan. 17, 1904.

Editor of “Mind and Body.”

Dear Sir:—In one of the European gymnastic journals I have read some verv interesting statistics about the Swedish gymnastic societies. By glancing over it I have come to an apparently paradox, but I think only natural conclusion. In Sweden, where the so-called Swedish gymnastics are taught in all schools and private institutes, where gymnastics is an obligatory subject ol instruction in every school curriculum and where that system has been taught and advocated for almost a century—they have only 35 gymnastic societies, at the ratio «»l

Digitized by v^ooQle
—55—

one gymnast to every 3300 inhabitants—while in Bohemia, a much smaller country, the ratio is one gymnast to every 189 inhabitants. Bohemian “Sokols’' practice quasi the German system.

Upon thinking this over we are almost forced to the conclusion that Swedish youths practice gymnastics mainly because they have to, but that after leaving school they do not feel like joining gymnastic societies, they being probably tired of gymnastics, while in Bohemia—where the German system mainly was adopted—the youths after leaving school feel the desire for more gymnastics and consequently join societies. Can anything speak more emphatically in favor of the German system?	Respectfully	yours	Tos.	Cermak.

~Wm. A. H., G. L.. [. H. We appreciate very much your kind words and congratulations to our 10th anniversary.

—C. J. K. Do your “Union” duties still interfere with your obligations to "Mind and Body?”

—Dr. C. Z., Cincinnati. Thanks for suggestions. Will make use of them. One of the articles has been published in “Mind and Body.”

—H. G. If you inform us by letter what you expect of the teacher we might be able to recommend you a suitable candidate.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenkcr Publ. Co._. Milwaukee.)

—A New School Management. By Levy Seeley. Pii. D. Hinds & Nobler Publishers, New York City.

Dr. Seeley has dared to be simple both in his selection of topics and in his treatment of the same. He has avoided the besetting sin of too many writers on educational topics—an attempt at profundity—and handled in a sensible manner the real, the live problems that face the inexperienced teacher. He has thus placed some of the results of his ripe scholarship and rich experience in form that cannot fail to be very helpful to the great army of these worth young people. At the same time the work is full of interest and suggestiveness to older ones-

What the author and hosts of others of the older teachers of the day have had to learn through expense and oftentimes sad experience. Dr. Seeley has here made so plain as to be easily grasped and applied by the merest tyro, if the book can only be brought to the notice of those who need it, it will certainly have a very wide range of usefulness.

—The Man Who Pleases and the Woman Who Charms. Hinds & Noble, Publishers, New York City.

This is a unique literarv production. It will be found of incalculable value to that great class of intelligent people who enjoy what is good in analysis of character, as well as to the many who, by environment, may have been kep tout of touch with the amenities.

—Report of the Annual Meeting of the Amateur Athletic Union, held at New York City, Nov. 16, 1903.

This pamphlet contains all the transactions of the meeting and also the records of the different championship meetings.

—Bacteria. Yeasts, and Molds in the Home. By H. W. Conn, Prof, of Biology, Middleton. Conn. Published by Ginn & Co., Boston. 12mo. Cloth. 293 pages. List price, $1.00.

The book contains an important summary of the facts which have rapidly accumulated in recent years concerning the relation of microorganisms to all matters connected with the home. The work is a popular and not a scientific discussion, free from many technical terms, and admirably adapted to the needs of tlie housewife, the student of domestic science, and all others interested in home economics.

Molds, which are the cause of mildew, the spoiling of many foods and the decay of fruits ; veasts, which are the foundation of fermentation in the raising of bread ; and bacteria, which cause food to spoil, meat to decay, and contagions diseases to spread,—all these phenomena which are of the most vital importance are presented in an interesting and helpful manner. The author explains the

Digitized by Google
---- G--ya2a.3a.etstic

Appaiatus.

X-ocIrers-

^la-ygrrovLTLd.

^ -A-PPSirsitULS-DBoyrliELg: -A-lley -A-rLt!b.xoponQ.etiio 't~	Appaiatias.

1	\	WRITE FOR CATALOG'S.

Dr. Savage Physical Development Institute, LI

308-310 West 59th St., New York City.

A two years’ course in physical training designed to give a thorou and practical preparation for men and women desiring to become teach Teaching scholarships awarded to 2nd year pupils each year.

For circulars address

ituuimiimiumiimmiiaumuuuuuMi

Mind and Body.

nrrrnirrmiimiTrmr

PROVIDENCE, R. L, U. S.

THE

AT THE

W. L. SAVAGE, A. M., M. D., President

Digitized by

Google