Civ^ci

-7nc

^050

Vol. 3.

MARCH, 1896.

No. 25

Editorial Committee : KaRL KroH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM. STECHER, Sec’y. of the technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, cor. 3rd 4 Chestnut 8t., St.Loui8,Mo. HANS BaLLIN, managing editor, southern Illinois S^ate Normal University, CARBONDALE, III.

SYMMETRY IN EDUCATION.

By HANS BALLIN, Carbondale, Ills.

I.

IN INFANCY.

THE heart is to the animal body the spring of life. Fresh food comes from it to all parts of the body, and those which are more favored than others, will grow more and are stronger. We know that from mechanical causes the supply of new blood is not carried equally in all directions. The pressure of blood is not the same in all the arteries. Those nearer to the heart and more directly connected with the largest ■channel, the aorta, receive a larger amount of blood pressure, which means a larger share of new blood and new food. This distribution is not alike in man and animal. It is not even the same in different persons. Near the heart the blood from the aorta surges through several large arteries to different parts of the body. The one nearest the heart beat receives the blood with the greatest pressure ; the one farther away receives it with less. If the division of these arteries to the head be quite symmetrical, as in some animals, the horse for instance, the movements of the animal are harmonious, and the blood of such animals ■can easily be congested in the brain ; they become easily frightened and bewildered.

There are still more differences in the canalization of the arteries, arising directly from the aorta, to be noticed in animals. Each difference may explain a difference in the behavior and temperament of the animal.

Digitized by
arteries...aji^.jn. m?n,..

••nefer.ther f# ffotn{t??; • right one, the arteria anonyrnh; Vdoh* • j V bifurchtfe^&e/idiiig>»jie artery, the sub-claviatf,	side	and arm, ^

the other to the neck*and head of this side. This canalization places man among the mammalia in an exceptional position, somewhat of a combination of the different forms.

The nutrition carried by these arteries is by no means altogether symmetrical, it is asymmetric in a sufficient degree to cause man to be one-sided in his movements.

But, while thus the right side of the body in most instances receives the strongest blood-pressure, the left side of the brain is more favored in this respect than is the right. If the subclavian artery to the right side is receiving a greater blood pressure than the one to the left, this one

being farther from the heart beat, the Diagram showing canalization. S. S. Subclavian! carotid artery going to the left side arteries. C. C. Carotid arteries. A. Aorta.

is closer than the one to the right side of the brain. Thus, re-establishing a sort of symmetrical distribution of building material in our body,, we find in these physiological-anatomical explanations the facts upon which we may establish some truth, conducive to pedagogical advice.

We are well acquainted with the fact that most persons are more skillful with their right hand, they are also as a rule, more developed on their right side. The difference of development of the right arm from the left varies somewhat, but is often more than seven per cent. The arms differ in length from four to six millimeters.

Since we understand the difference of blood pressure, we are enabled to explain why most persons are right-handed, and some left-handed. We find that two of every hundred persons are left-handed. With these it can be proven that the left subclavian artery has an abnormal position, being nearer the heart than its right companion.*

We also observe as an original inclination that infants prefer to lie on their right side. This is not from mere caprice, but is the sequel of the anatomical construction of canalization just described. These facts have been known for some time; but the extent and role which they play in the general make-up of man; how from the differences of the circulatory system arise many abnormalities in children and adults as to-their physical and mental conditions, that is not well enough known, in those quarters where it should and would do the most good: in the

* Dr. Louis Jobert states in his work on “Left-handedness” that about 70 per cent of the inhabitants of Punjab, India, are left-handed; and also, that most Hottentots and Zulus prefer the use of the left hand to-the right.

Digitized by kjOOQle
nurseries, to the mothers. We also have demonstrated in the most scientific manner by physiological and psychological investigations that the interference by training of the distribution of building material in our body enables us in a certain measure to stimulate growth. But we have not yet demonstrated in a sufficiently weighty manner the importance that this interference should begin at an earlier period than it usually does, if at all ; and again, we have not made it clear and plain, enough, if at all, in those quarters where it is most needed : in the nurseries, to the mothers. And who can be blind or deaf to the truth that a wise and cautious education in this direction would result in great good ! It would mean the training of a better man in all walks of life ; that he would be better fitted by harmonious activities ; that his perceiving and apperceiving powers would be more acute ; that he would be of a kinder nature, more amiably disposed in temperament.^ This may all be effected, if we begin to train—to draw—educate—to lead forth—the materials of our body in such a manner that they penetrate all parts in necessary quantities to bring about a symmetrical growth-

In many good books, by no means sufficiently read, and their good instruction too little observed, advice is given about the physical and mental care of children. We find also minute descriptions of dress, good counsel as to food, sleep, and bathing of infants ; some also treat upon what sort of physical exercise is suitable at this age, and advise that the left and right side should receive equal attention, and that carrying the baby on one arm only is detrimental to its development.

But, what is not emphasized strongly enough, is> that most abnormalities of growth have their primordial origin in our circulatory system, that its symmetrical action should be made explicit beyond a doubt that much can be done in this direction from the first day of the child’s life, and that it is important enough to receive constant and often attention. It is cruel and absurd to force a child that has become left-sided and left-handed to do work with the right hand ; just as absurd it would appear to some to force a right-handed child to write with its left hand. And still, when we begin at the right time to train the child, there is all possible reason to assume that we can educate it to be as skillful with one hand and side, as with the other. We must bear in mind, however, that in ninety-eight cases out of a hundred, children at the age of six have already established, well working mechanical systems of circulation which destine them to be right-handed,, the two remaining children left-handed. Where improvement is most needed is not for the two left-handed children, though they should not be neglected, but for the ninety-eight right-handed ones. They should have been trained in the use of both sides in a more equalized and symmetrical manner.

Infants that prefer to lie on their right sides should be carefully and systematically watched. Their position should be changed arbitrarily. All activities of the young child should be so guided that both sides receive at least equal attention. If carried on the arm by its nurse, it should be as often on one arm as on the other. As nurses are generally *

* Dr. Marro has found that 14 to 22 per cent of criminals were left-handed.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
one-sided in actions themselves, it should be made one of their duties to fulfill.

If by these precautions we will not be enabled to cause a perfect symmetrical nutrition, we surely will succeed in warding off any abnormalities, or, at least, diminish their extent. On the other hand, if we succeed in improving the equal distribution of nourishment to both sides of our body, it will be the foundation upon which we may more easily build for the future.

Hand in hand with these general precautions those must not be forgotten which aim at a symmetrical development of the senses. They also can only do equal work. i. e., one eye see as well as the other, one «ar hear as well as the other, one side be as sensitive to touch as the other, if these organs receive an equal amount of nutrition. Trivial as this may sound, it is not so to those who are fully aware of the physiological truth that “The demand creates the supply”; and as the demand would indicate new blood, new building material, and as an equal demand for both sides would infer an equal distribution of it, it would also mean working organs, each of equal efficiency, instead of one of less.

The blessing of this symmetrical physiological training is by no means overrated. It would be the greatest economy, if carried out in all its conclusions, that this age could achieve. Many ailments, now hardlj' accounted for, because so far removed from their origin, would be unknown. The physical capacity of the left side being equal to the right, would not only imply an enormous force allied to the one of the right side, it would also lessen the burden and undue fatigue of one side.

This is not all. The greater activity of the left side necessarily involves a greater activity of the right hemisphere of the brain. It is not altogether a good joke of a comedian who traced his sagacity and wisdom to the left side of his brain only, and who did not need the co-operation of the right. “Just think of it,” he exclaims, “what a still wiser man I should be, if I cared to employ both sides.” And here again we can predict from physiological reasoning that a co-operation of both hemispheres would not cause, as it now must at times, an uncommon amount of work for one side. It would be equalized and both would be capable of superior work.

Adds Dr. E. Seguin to the same discourse, “And, moreover, by this even education of the two side-circulations which would follow, the human temper and passions would be harmonized and subdued to a point, which the mind cannot reach to-day, but whose social consequences cannot be over-estimated.”

These physiological considerations for a symmetrical education well heeded at the proper time, the kindergarten and the school would but need to continue in training. However, neglected at the most critical period of life, the school can, even the best modes ot instruction granted, not do the most good any more. The most potent factor in this education will be physical training, though other instructions must do much correlated work. We shall treat in another article the manner in which physical training helps to educate symmetry.

Digitized by taOOQle
-5—

MILITARISM.

By HANS BALLIN, Carbondale, 111.

TACTICS AND ITS PLACE IN PHYSICAL TRAINING.

IN my article “Militarism” I have stated that tactics is of little or no* value for the bodily development of the pupil. The soldierly position which is required in rank, is, strictly speaking, not an exercise belonging to tactics, but to free-gymnastics. If this position, heels locked, shoulders drawn back, head well back, chest active, is demanded of children of tender age for any length of time, even during free-gymnastics, it becomes wearisome to them, fatigues, and if insisted upon during instruction will cause injuries to their system. Young children are in need of frequent relaxations, and though a moderate amount of adroitness is required of them in all work, a wise and careful teacher will understand to arrange his material in such a manner, as not to cause an overtaxation of muscular effort in one and the same position or exercise. For older pupils this erect and stiff standing position and position in marching will result in no bodily improvement, and all claims to that effect are either delusions, or wrong conclusions, the effects being the result of other causes. Especially boys in parade uniforms and during strained bodily position while parading, their apparent good appearance, enhanced! by simultaneous action, should not deceive the observant bystander.. “During the drill the clothing is buttoned close around the chest, and' natural respiration is hindered. The muscles are not alternately contracted and relaxed, but are tetanized or kept in a state of prolonged tension.”* This tension is certainly not of so much harm, if required in regular instruction in a gymnasium, the boys adjusting themselves by frequent relaxations to the muscular inconvenience of fcuch a forced attitnde, as it is of injury to boys who come under strict military-‘discipline,’ and are exposed to the gaze of an admiring audience.

Notwithstanding, tactics has found a prominent place in gymnastic instruction, not on account of direct beneficial results to the development of the body, but for indirect gain achieved by it. The direct result which may be claimed for tactics, and which is claimed most earnestly by many lovers of military drill, solidarity, is beyond any doubt well cultured by tactics, but being more efficiently, and psychologically more strikingly, taught by other forms of physical training, the gymnastic play, the gymnastic combat, the work of classes on apparatus, it seems as if we could dispense with tactics in gymnastic instruction on this account. The love for solidary action, the virtue arising from mutual responsibities of one for all, and all for one, this quality so often quoted as the result of military drill, is erroneously, in a wrong spirit, called ‘discipline’. Cause and effect are sadly confounded. Men do like to work in masses and long for concerted work. The child, seeking the company of grown persons, gives vent to his first religious awakening. If discipline is identical with love for our fellow creatures, and our longing for their company, then we will grant the aptness of the word discipline.

* The Effects of Military Drill on Boys, with Hints on Exercise, by Dudley A. Sargent, M. D., Harvard,. Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Sept. 16th, 1886.

Digitized by CjOOQle
But discipline should not, as it is so erroneously used, be the means by which the pupils are subdued to a superior will, which is obedience; it should be a moral force by which higher moral qualities can be reached. The solidarity, as the emanation of tactics, should be the means, a discipline, by which the pupil is led on, and thus becomes moral instruction pure and simple.

We lack, or make, at least, so very little use of means which train solidarity that many educators have on this account attributed to tactics its great merit. But, besides those forms of gymnastics already mentioned—gymnastic play, gymnastic combat, the work in common on apparatus and in free-exercises—there are school-disciplines which may train solidarity. Music, singing in unison, any concerted action of a class, or the school, belongs to this category. I do not wish to argue on this account the omission of tactics because we have other instructions which accomplish the same good results of solidarity. It was the eminent Adolf Spiess, whose great work is by no means fully understood, who worked out the philosophy of tactics for gymnastic instruction. Those who cannot see the correlation of physical training with the school-curriculum, but who always lay stress on direct bodily improvements flby physical exersises, cannot grant that his elaborate system of tactics do form a part of education. Happily, of late, his fancy movements, his roundels, his musical-gymnastic roundels, have found their disciples in thoughtful teachers. If it has been proven that their direct physiological effects, are naught, their psychological value is undisputed. The training for rhythm and for rhythmic action of the single pupil and of the many, finds nowhere such a school which combined with song and poetry -offers an opportunity for culture as we cannot overlook.

While thus assigning to tactic evolutions, not simply to military drill m^ts limited and technical form, a place in education, we must weigh the importance of tactics to find for it a just assignment in gymnastic instruction. School gymnastics is only a branch of the school •curriculum, tactics again a form of school gymnastics, to which cannot be given more prominence than is due to it. Play is a powerful educational discipline, and we should grant it a place, more prominent, indeed, than is given to it at present. But play also forms a part of physical training, and we are obliged to compare the merits of each form of gymnastics with each other in accordance with its respective value to one and another for gymnastic instruction. Then, we may find a deporable neglect of its practice in our common schools. But we must also admit that of all the forms of physical training, tactics, have found in many schools a too prominent position as compared with other inodes of gymnastics. Especially is this a fact in the mode of military •drill.

The direct educational value of tactics, solidarity, and rhythm, attained through the practice of tactics, can, as we may re-assure, also be trained through other forms of gymnastic instruction. It is not for direct results, then, that tactics holds a place, but for indirect. These may be enumerated as, firstly, tactics is a powerful help in the routine instruction, keeping classes and large masses in good order; secondly, it affords means to cause changes between more or less exerting activ-

Digitized by C^ooQle
ities; lastly, tactics is well utilized in arranging special forms of exercises which enhance endurance, quickness and agility of exercise, and incite .greater bodily activity.

Even in the Kindergarten, tactic movement? in their simplest forms must be relied upon to keep the little ones in some kind ot order. In fact, all the rhythmical movements in concert are based upon tactics in combination with free-movements of the body. All the more is tactics necessary with older pupils, to assemble them in order and to move them about, as it is' found practicable, from one exercise to another, from one apparatus to another, to separate the classes, and to place the pupils at all times in such convenient positions as are required for the work. This is the reason that tactics has found its origin and its introduction into school gymnastics by Adolf Spiess. He considered it absolutely nece&sary to have the means to move masses, being the first educator who dealt with gymnastics for the masses, boys, as well, as girls. It would appear as if for this purpose a limited amount of tactic movements would suffice, as is the case with military drill for the army. Still, the gymnastic teacher is compelled to make use of a vast amount more than is found in military tactics. There is more for him to consider than a theoretical interest. He is obliged to grade his work; each new and higher class has other demands. He must employ with the increasing and changing aims other means, and so as not to be forced to employ forms of tactics which have been in use from six to -eight years which would be wearisome, monotonous, and against the spirit of instruction, he will look for new evolutions of a graded and progressive system.

The second consideration of an indirect value of tactics is not generally as highly appreciated as it* deserves to be. Tactics may be well employed as a recreation between fatiguing exercises. Especially are tactic evolutions useful between such exercises which call for considerable •effort in a short time and which need tor effectiveness a prolonged practice. Then tactic evolutions come in very conveniently, a few move ments will rest the pupils, after that the teacher may continue the •exercise. There are certain exercises, in free gymnastics particularly, that call for considerable muscular exertion, more so, than is commonly believed. The prolonged practice of one of these exercises will cause temporary fatigue of the organs mostly involved, heart and lungs, and also of those muscles which had do the most labor. "Now, the common practice of taking a rest in place is a very unwise plan. Various reasons speak against it, and many for taking up tactic evolutions in its stead. These changes between fatiguing exercises and tactics are ©ftener to be used with smaller pupils than with adults. In exercising at apparatus the pauses do not need to be filled by tactics, because the whole class is not participating at the same time. The introduction of tactic movements between each exercise may only serve here to keep good order among the pupils.

Lastly, tactics are conducive to a greater endurance, if such is aimed at. Especially is this the case in running which is such a good exercise. All teachers will agree that if pupils had to run single file in one direction all the time that they flag more readily, than if the course be

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-8-

changed by tactic evolutions. This course may be altered in hundred different ways; the skillfull teacher will find no difficulty. And he will know that the running in rank exhances the pleasure of running; or running in a spiral line, and so forth. Also for other exercises, as jumping, for instance, tactic movements will increase the pleasure for it and the endurance. Agility is much trained; if pupils must keep during exercises in good order with each other. This may be practiced in all forms of gymnastics.

These points all well considered, it will be seen that tactics has a well founded place in physical training. There have been some teachers, and especially the medically trained teachers who have disputed its place in gymnastic instruction. It was no less an authority than Du Bois-Reymond who considered it a waste of time, and a convenient measure lor lazy and careless teachers. Such an extravagant judgment can never be justified, and is all the more unjust, if tactics is practiced for the reason as we have quoted. There is no doubt that there has been, and is, much time uselessly spent in tactics. It will be the experienced teacher who will arrange his time in accordance with the need and value of each discipline. It will then be admitted that tactics occupies but very little time, and if taught systematically and progressively, will save time.

ANSWERS TO MIND AND BODY’S INQUIRIES.

(Concluded.)

Answers from Superintendents of Schools.

1.	To a limited extent I do.

2.	I would much prefer training under a graded system (limited.)—I. W. PRATT, Portland, Ore.

1.	No.

2.	Yes.—WM. ROGERS CLAY, Supt. of Schools, Lexington, Ky.

1.	Yes.

2.	Yes.—GEO. W. WAITE, Supt. of Schools, 193 E. College St., Oberlin, Ohio.

1.	Not in all respects.

2.	Yes.—E. J. BEARDSLEY, Supt. of Schools, Elmira, N. Y.

1.	No.

2.	Yes.—R. H. HALSEY, Oshkosh, Wis.

1.	I do not favor military drills for schools.

2.	Yes.—JOHN E. MORRIS, Supt. Public Schools, Alliance, Ohio.

1. I do not know enough about military drills in schools to justify me in expressing an opinion. I am in favor ofr some form of systematic physical exercise. We have gymnastics in our schools under the supervision of a trained teacher and I like them very much.—J. B. YOUNG, Supt., Davenport, la.

1.	In a measure, yes.	*

2.	Yes.—A. B. BLODGETT, Supt. of Schools, Syracuse, N. Y.

2. I would.—CHAS. M. JORDAN, Supt., Minneapolis, Minn.

1.	Yes. I am perfectly well aware of the objection to military drill on the part of my brother educators, and aware of the objection to it in certain papers, “The Advocate of Peace,” of course, being the most prominent.

I had the advantage in my boyhood of a thorough military drill. We were drilled in the schools of New York a great deal, and during the Civil War a regiment of public school boys was formed and we were put through a complete course excepting the manual of arms. I believe I am the better for it, especially as regards ray conception of prompt and rapid obedience and submission to those who have a right to command. I do not think I am a bit the more warlike for it, “The Advocate of Peace” to the contrary notwithstanding, for I am opposed to war with England on account of the trouble with Venezuela.

2.	1 do not like the form of question. I believe in military drill as an addition to a system of gymnastics. We are using the Swedish system, and I would not give it up on any account, but I would add military drill with the utmost avidity.—B. C. GREGORY, Supt. of Schools, Trenton, N. J.

1.	It does not seem to me that the military drill is so much inconsistent with pedagogy as it is with the spirit of the ^Master. I do not like those exercises that suggest preparation for war.

2.	I much prefer a graded system of gymnastics to the military drill.—FRANK H\ HALL, Waukegan, 111.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-S-

t. Under a skilled teacher they could be made useful, but they are liable to degenerate into mere mechanical exercises and not at all helpful to the real development of the pupil. My greatest objection is that they appeal to a wrong motive for discipline—fear of punishment rather than reason. The tendency is rather to dull the moral sense and to strengthen the idea in the pupil’s mind “that anything at which I am not caught is all right.”

2. I would.—WM. F. FOX, Supt. Public Schools, Richmond, Va.

1.	Whether or not consistent with pedagogy may be doubtful; but for many practical reasons, I should deprecate the teaching of the science of war in our common and high schools.

2.	Should very much prefer graded system of gymnastics.—J. F. MILLSPAUGH, Supt. Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah.

1.	No.

2.	Yes.—C. F. LOUIS SOLD AN, St. Louis, Mo.

1.	No.

2.	Yes.—C. F. FOSTER, Supt. of Schools, Chester, Pa.

1.	Military drill and pedagogy are not incompatible. Our principal cities have military drill in their High Schools, The abuse of the drill is what harms the school.

2.	I would. Military drill is not an ideal system of health gymnastics.—FRED GOWING, State Supt. of N. H.

1.	I do not believe that military drills should become a part of the curriculum of the public schools. I believe in any kind of physical culture that will include both sexes.

2.	I would most decidedly. I believe in the introduction of physical culture into the Public Schools. Our teachers are being instructed now, and it will become apart of the Course of Study in another year.—D. E. RUE, Hoboken, N. J.

1.	T do.

2. I think a combination of both ^vould be desirable.—HORACE S. TARBELL, Providence, R. I.

1.	To introduce military drills into high schools is, in my opinion, of very doubtful propriety. Where high schools consist of boys only there may not be so much objection to military drills, but where you have boys and girls in the same school, this kind of training is not desirable. There can be no doubt, that instruction in the manual of arms and all that belongs to it, fosters a military spirit, and as a Pennsylvanian whose commonwealth was founded by those who sought to conquer the world by the humane principles of peace and good will to men, I do not believe in introducing military drills into the public schools. If once introduced, it would not stop with the high schools, but work its way down into the lower grades, and turn the minds of pupils from their studies to something that cannot be of permanent individual advantage. Public schools were certainly not originally founded for this purpose. What may be of great advantage to college students whose age at graduation is from twenty-two to twenty-five vears, may be detrimental in the highest degree to the intellectual and moral life of boys whose age when they leave school is only eighteen or nineteen years.

2.	I believe in training children under a graded system of gymnastics as given in No. 2, and I believe that such training will be of permanent value and is all that public schools should be asked to do outside of a good course of study preparing its pupil for admission to college or university, and including a system of manual training. Here boys and ^irls can all engage and be so far as bodily development is concerned equally benefited. Yes, this kind of training we need in our schools, much more than military drills.—S. TRANSEAU, Williamsport, Pa.

1.	I believe there is no better discipline young men and boys can have. I see nothing in it inconsistent with the principles of pedagogy.

2.	I believe in both. Light gymnastics in the school room for boys and girls in place of the old recess plan. Then the military drills would come separately for the boys. The boys of to-day will soon be the men of the nation. We are not looking for a fight; but, if fight we must, ihen let us be prepared. Yours truly—S. S. BEGGS, Supt. of Schools, Escanaba, Mich.

1,	Yes.

2.	I think so.—WM. E. BUCK, Supt. of Schools, Manchester, N. H.

2. Yes.—OSCAR H. COOPER, Supt. of Schools, Galveston, Texas.

1.	Yes.

2.	Yes.—H. W. FOSTER, Supt. of Schools, Ithaca, N. Y.

1.	No.

2.	Some simple system of Physical Training that will answer all practical purposes without apparatus and appliances.—L. O. FOOSE, Harrisburg, Pa.

1.	Yes. But there would be strong opposition among many very good people.

2.	All things considered, yes.—S. D. SANOR, Supt. Public Schools, East Liverpool, Ohio.

1.	I believe that a moderate amount of military drill properly conducted is not inconsistent with Pedagogy. If boys have no other gymnastic or athletic training except what comes in connection with the drill, I should be opposed to it entirely, but using it as we do as one factor in a work to which we give considerable attention, I believe it to be beneficial. We only have drill once a week, during about half of the school year, in our High School.

2.	If I had to choose between military drill and the diversified course of gymnastics wh'ch you suggest, I should choose the latter without hesitation. Military drill does not develop the whole organism, while it is possible with gymnastics, applied to individual needs, to greatly benefit the health and wellbeing of the individual.— S. T. DUTTON, Supt, of Schools, Brookline, Mass.

1.	Yes.

2. Think the two methods of training should be used. If only one, would prefer the gymnastics.—J. S. LOWE, Supt. City Schools, Ashtabula, Ohio.

1.	Entirely so, but all things consistent with pedagogy, are not of the most importance to teach.

2.	I would prefer free natural exercise for pupils to military drill.—H. C. MISSIMER, Supt. of Schools, Erie, Pa.

1.	Yes.

2.	I think both methods might be used, the former for all the pupils, the latter for pupils in secondary grades. —BENJ. BAKER, Newport, R. I.

±>ot necessarily inconsistent. But do not think militarism should be engrafted on the public school system.

/

Digitized by
-10-

The human race is all too ready to fight. It should be taught to keep the peace and the military spirit should not be encouraged.

2. Yes, by all means.—H. W. COMPTON, Supt. of Schools, Toledo, Ohio.

1.	I see no inconsistency with pedagogy in having military drills in the high school. On the contrary, many boys who are full of animal spirits have an opportunity to work off their surplus energy in legitimate ways and are brought into closer harmony and sympathy with their school. In fact I think that a school-pride may thus be developed that will hold many restless boys who would otherwise be lost. The boy is all right, if we know what to do with him.

2.	Below the hi^h school there is no doubt but that gymnastics are preferable to military drills. In fact, such drills would, in my judgment, be entirely out of place, with mere children. In the high school it is different. Other points are to be considered aside from the mere matter of exercise. In brief, I believe that military drills would be valuable in the high school, but useless, if not injurious, below.—J. A. SHAWAN, Supt. of Schools, Columbus, Ohio.

1.	I am opposed to all wars and everything tending to encourage militarism. It is unchristian and unworthy o the civilization of the ioth century and of the American people.

Yes, decidedly.—R. K. BUEHRLE, Lancaster, Pa.

2.	Yes.—ADDISON JONES, West Chester, Pa.

1.	Yes. I think it is still more consistent with patriotism. When any organization, either political or religious, or politico-religious, offers to furnish the U. S. authorities with 100,000 men, armed, drilled and equipped on 24 hours notice to fight a nation with which the U. S. is at peace ; when these armed organizations outside the U. S. Army and State Militia exist, it is about time that something were done to prepare our young men to adequately meet a condition which threatens our domestic and foreign peace.

2.	I would for girls but not for boys.—C. W. MERR1MAN, City Supt., Beloit, Wis.

1.	I fail to see why military drill is inconsistent with pedagogy, except in so far as it aims to fit people to kill each other whilst good pedagogy requires that a feeling of brotherhood, of mutual love and of peace, should be developed in children. I have not yet reached a positive conclusion in regard to the question. Many considerations enter into it; but thus far I have not been able to convince myself that, taking all things together, military drill is desirable in public schools.

2.	Yes, on the whole, I should. It is not difficult to devise a system of gymnastics which will give physical training more in harmony with physiological laws than military training ; though probably none can be found which will be so interesting to pupils.—THOMAS M. BALLIET, Springfield, Mass.

1.	I am very desirous of seeing military drill established in this and the other high schools of our great cities (1) for the sake of the boys’ health and (2) to elevate the character of our discipline.

2.	While neither undervaluing graded gymnastics, nor regarding drill as a substiute, I think the latter has a moral-social value which the former lacks. I do not see why we should not have both.—ROBT. ELLIS THOMPSON, Pres. Central High School, Philadelphia.

1.	Yes. Pedagogy has—or ought to have—to do with body as well as mind, and military drills have much to do with both.

2.	I can easily conceive of a “graded system of gymnastics” which would be better adapted to secure an all round physical development than military drills are, but such an ideal system is very difficult to reach. The drills are easily available, and with us work well, though by no means perfectly. Shall keep them as long as we have nothing better to offer the boys.—A. K. WHITCOMB, Supt. of Schools, Lowell, Mass.

2. I do not favor military drill in the public schools.—FRANCIS COGSWELL, Supt. of Schools, Cambridge> Mass.

1.	Yes. In some departments of my schools I have had an officer of the state militia assist us in teaching our pupils certain drills. This drill will do much to cultivate attention.

2.	If it were possible I would have military drills in every school under the supervision of an officer.—C. O. HOYT, Lansing, Mich.

1.	I do not believe that military drills with reference to army service are consistent with pedagogy. Children need training in principles of peace and away from the idea of war. Our education should tend to the advancement not to the retardation of civilization.

2.	Most decidedly. I believe it possible to secure all the advantages of military training, including erectness of carriage, dignity, self-control, mental and physical alertness and good health by the use of any one of several good systems of gymnastics.—C. B. GILBERT, Supt., St. Paul, Minn.

1.	I see nothing inconsistent.

2.	We have a special instructor in Physical Culture and am well pleased with the work.—MC. HENRY RHOADS, Supt. City Schools, Frankfort, Ky.

1.	Military Schools may do well in connection with college athletic-work. But a military school has but little, if anything, to do with Normal Schools.

2.	I would decidedly prefer the calisthenics or light gymnastics to the military drill. I do not approve, however, of any heavy gymnastics being taught in connection with a normal school. My own conviction is that the normal schools are going too far in die general desire for proper physical training and introducing too much of apparatus, requiring too great physical exactions. Overlooking the fact that only such should be used and taught thereof as can be introduced in the work of the teacher of the public schools.*—S. M. INGLIS, Supt. of State, Springfield, 111.

1.	I do, but have not found it convenient here to work in that direction.

2.	We have had, for several years, a special teacher of calisthenics, who goes into all grades, from the lowest primary to the senior class of the high school. We have had no military drills. Yours truly—EDWIN L. K.IRTLAND, Supt. of Schools, Holyoke, Mass.

1. Most certainly.

* Normal schools should in this, as in all other instruction, teach more to the prospective teacher, than he is required to teach. The one who is to teach history in the primary school is supposed to know more of history than he is expected to teach. Why should it be different in physical training ? If we were to teach on that principle we might well teach in our Normals no more of geography, arithmetic, litterature, or any other branch than the teacher requires for his school. This would not be normal training, but a return to the time of the drill master. Physical Training is not physical drilling.—Editor.

Digitized by
2. Would like both. If only one is possible would prefer military drill. Very truly—W. W. STETSON, State Supt., Common Schools, Augusta, Maine.

1.	I believe that they might be made consistent with pedagogy and then I should approve, but I have never seen them when I considered them consistent, I do not fear them, as do many, if they can be conducted in the right way. They are at least physiological in cultivating a habit of attention and instantaneous obedience.

I think hygienic principles are apt to be overlooked in military drills—as they are nearly always carried to excess and thus defeat one of the prime ends desired.

2.	I should prefer the above for all below a high grammar grade or high school, but in my observatian light gymnastics etc. are uninteresting to the older boys. Even if there could be a well equipped gymnasium it seems to me there would not be the mental training in it that there is in military drills. The Swedish system with its military method of giving directions approaches the nearest to military drills, but that—so far as I have observed, fails upon high school boys. If first class directors of military drill could be assured I should prefer it for high school boys.—MRS. JULIA M. DEWEY, North Adams, Mass.

1.	I do not think that military drills favor sentiments of kindness and peace, and regard for highest human welfare*

I do not favor their introduction into public schools.

2.	Most emphatically.—J. A. REINHART, City Supt. of Schools, Paterson, N. J.

1.	Not entirely.

2.	I should.—R. B. DUDGEON, Madison, Wis.

1.	Not with American Christian pedagogy, if I may thus modify the word pedagogy. The primary object of the school is to prepare citizens for the duties and offices of peace, but as a secure peace rests upon the ability to defend ourselves if attacked, there appears yet to be a place for the study of military matters. But not, I think, as a part of the course of every high school.

2.	Yes.—H. N. MERTZ, Supt. of Schools, Steubenville, Ohio.

1.	My opinion is that the omtrduction of military drill would be detrimental to the work for which the public school system was established. To undertake too much will break the system from its own weighty I fear.

2.	Yes. Training under gymnastics is my preference to military drills.—T. B. JOHNSTON, City Supt., Johnstown, Pa.

1.	Yes. But only such as are consistent with school exercises—viz— the merest elements of the drill, as position facing, marching etc. The best health exercises are the extension exercises of the soldier. These developed into a system suited for school purposes make the best system of Physical Culture.

2.	I would prefer calisthemcs for lower grades, based on military science or tactics. In higher grades only apparatus and military movements, but no regular arms.—SAM’L. A. BAER, City Supt. of Schools, Reading, Pa.

1.	In a free self-governing country like ours, and in these closing years of the 19th century in which the advanced thought of all civilized nations is looking to “arbitration” instead of to war to settle disputes between nations,

I do not think that military drills ought to be mixed with the pedagogy of our public schools.

2. Yes, by far. The former cultivates the whole physical being without endangering the moral and ethical nature. The latter*is too likely to sink the moral and ethical to the end that military glory and renown may take front place —JAMES W. KNOTT, Mansfield, Ohio.

1.	With my present light on this subject I am not in favor of military drill in high schools. It is not in my judgment the best kind of exercise for boys, and may cultivate the warlike or “jingo” spirit to such an extent as to find an object to exercise it on.

2.	I do prefer such exercises.—ALBERT HARDY, La Crosse, Wis.

1.	Yes.

2.	Each has its special advantages.—WM. F. KING, Mount Vernon, la.

1.	As ordinarily conducted, no. They can, however, be made so.

2.	Yes. A systematic thorough course of physical instruction may, however, include military drills,—HENRY SNYDER, Jersey City, N. J.

1.	Essential to sound bodies and the discipline of obedience, both necessary to mental development.

2.	No. Not for boys over 12 years of age. Gymnastics for all girls and for boys 5 to 12.—W. NOYES, Supt. of Schools, Rochester, N, Y.

1.	No.

2.	Very much.— HY. M. PARKER, Elyria, Ohio.

1.	I do, if not made too prominent.

2.	I should not. I know of no system of gymnastics that covers the beneficial features of military drill.—B. B. SNOW, Supt., Auburn, N. Y.

1.	I do most emphatically.

2.	I am not fully able to answer this question but from my knowledge, at present, I should say that daily military drill with settings up at every drill would be better than gymnastics.—S. G. BURDICK, County Supt., Marion Co., 111.

1.	Your question cannot be answered in a word. I recognize that there are many advantages to be secured from military drills, such as erect carnage, well trained muscles, self-control etc., etc , but where I hesitate is over the matter of fostering the military spirit. The average young American does not need the fighting spirit increased. Jingoism is too common under our present conditions. If introduction of military drills into our high schools will increase that spirit then I cannot favor them.

2.	Yes, if the influence referred to above is a necessary or inseparable result of the introduction of military drills.* —H. E. KRATZ, Supt. of City Schools, Sioux City, Iowa.

1. I have not given very much thought to this question. I cannot see the truth of-the above quotation, i it be true, without “argument.”—I do not think military drill is desirable in High Schools. While I cannot assert that military drill is pedagogically inconsistent, I think it undesirable to attach another department that must be under a separate management and requiring a specialist.

2.	I should much prefer the graded system of gymnastics, because 1. more harmonious in development> 2. more invigorating in its effects on the mind.—Maybe managed more successfully by the regular teach' ers in the corps.—Better moral forces may be gotten out of the latter than of the former.—J. H. GLOT-FELTER, Atchison, Kans,

Digitized by C.ooqle
-12-

1.	I do.

2.	Should be glad to try the military drills in High School.—J. E. KLOCK, Sup. Schools, Leavenworth, Kansas.

1.	I do not believe in them as part of public school work.

2.	I prefer the second (No. 2) to the first (No. 1) about ten thousand times, or in that ratio.—O. T. BRIGHT, County Supt., Cook Co., 111.

1.	I do not. The belligerent spirit is much to prevalent now. Each child now seems to think that it is its duty to resent every insult, real or imagined, with a blow, and I believe that military drills would but cultivate that disposition already too prominent.

2.	I would. There is but one argument, to my mind, for military drills in connection with public schools and that is the erect and proper position of the body. But those two items and more can be accomplished by the proper training in gymnastics.—GEO. O. MCBROWN, Supt., Paducah, Ky.

1.	I do not believe it is best to introduce army drills into our public schools. We are teaching patriotism by various methods. When war comes our young men will be ready to meet the responsibility of the hour. I do not believe military drills in our schools are favorable to the best interests of our children. We should teach peace rather than war.

2.	I should much prefer training under a graded system of gymnastics including light gymnastics with hand apparatus designed for school use, together with regulated games and plays. Our children in cities need exercise and free gymnastics furnish the means.—P. R. WALKER, Supt. of Schools, Rockford, 111.

1.	Psychologically military drill may very profitably be made a part of the physical training and of the school. If that alone, or some other work that could be active were to be choosen I would choose the latter.

2.	Certainly.—W. B. POWELL, Washington, D. C.

1.	Yes.

2.	We have at present physical culture under a special teacher for all grades from lowest primary to the High School inclusive. This work has proved very beneficial to our pupils. I have not considered the comparative merits between what we have and regular military drills.—WM. H. WILEY, Supt. Schools, Terre Haute, Ind.

1.	I am not able to see that military drills are inconsistent with pedagogy.

2.	I should prefer the former:	1. This is possible in all grades beginning at the lowest and being contin-

uous throughout as much of the child’s school life as is desirable—to the close if desired.—2. The purposes of military drill are effected by the former.—3. Those who leave school before entering the High Schocl have received some benefit; if military drill is limited to the higher grades the great body of pupils remain unbenefited.—A. K. GOUDY, Ex-State Supt. Pub. Iustr., Nebraska.

1.	I do.

2.	I should greatly desire both. Each has a value the other does not.—CHAS. E. SHELTON, Supt.,

Burlington, la.	•

1.	No.

2.	Yes.—CHAS. W. COLE, Supt. Schools, Albany, N. Y,

1.	Most assuredly, if carried on in a pedagogical manner, and within reasonable restraints.

2.	I do not believe military drill will supply the need for a graded system of gymnastic training; neither I do believe the latter will be able to take the place of military training. Both are desirable.—LESLIE C. PIERSON, Supt., Trenton, N. J.

1.	There are some excellent results from military drills in Schools—physical vigor, gentlemanly carriage, etc. But if these good things can be secured in ways that do not suggest war, and hate, let us by all means choose such “ways” for our schools.

2.	Yes.—W. S. PERRY, Supt. City Schools, Ann Arbor, Mich.

1.	I do not see that they are inconsistent with pedagogy. They may be with the proper ends of education for the masses.

2.	Yes.—EUGENE BOUTON, Supt., Pittsfield, Mass.

1.	Not in our public schools—for the reason that there is no time for it.

2.	Yes.—CHARLES R. SKINNER, State Superintendent, Albany, N. Y.

1.	Yes.

2.	No—not for boys in a high school.—EDWIN P. SEAVER, Supt. Puhlic Schools, Boston, Mass.

1.	The movement of the brain are in harmony with those of the heart and lungs. Calisthenic exercises should conserve the integiity of these—their rythm and sanity. The spirit of peace should dominate all. War is not a normal state even of savages. Pedagogical insight and counsel should not be darkened by jingoism.

2.	Military drills foster war sentiments and the boastfulness, bluster, and vanities that pertain thereto. Let the physical exercises of “educational” institutions be such as shall help to keep military vainglory at the circumference of human activities.—HOMER BEVANS.

1.	No.

2.	Yes.—A. G. LANE, Supt. of Schools, Chicago, 111.

1.	I do not. The soldiers of this country, i. e. the “West Pointers,” are looking out for future occupation. That is all there is of it.

2.	Indeed, I would! For every reason that can be made: 1. Complete training. 2. Moral training. 3. Healthful training, etc. etc.—T. C. CLENDENEN, Supt., Cairo, 111.

Answers from Teachers in Normal Schools.

1. I do not for the following reasons: 1. The military drill is for men, not for women and children ; such drill reaches but a small part of those who need it. 2. It is too meager and superficial to be of any use in a preparation for war. 3. It is too monotonous; boys soon tire of it. 4. It is wrong and immoral to cultivate the war spirit. 5. It is too costly to be of general practice.

%

.Digitized by C.ooQle
-13-

2. Most certainly, as the above statements indicate.—H. W. Everest, President of the Southern Illinois Normal U mversity.

1.	Military drills have a double purpose, namely, development of the individual, and a definite preparation for a specific kind of defense. The former may be, and generally is, as pedagogical as any gymnastics that covers the same ground. The spirit of the times is against war which very much weakens the latter purpose mentioned above.

2,	I should prefer a carefully regulated set of gymnastic exercises to military drills, i. Because their general and immediate utility is more apparent to the pupils. 2. They furnish a greater range of exercise than I ever got out of military drill. 3. Because the army officers detailed as instructors are frequently bad characters. They usually dnnk more or less and I think always swear entirely too promiscuously for school teachers. They are never trained teachers which should be enough to debar them from teaching.—WILBUR S. JACK-MAN, Cook Co. Normal School, Chicago, 111.

1.	I haven’t given enough study to the matter to decide.—One of the favorite plays of children is marching to the orders of a captain, with the accompaniment of various musical instruments.—Marching, also, as a rest exercise at school is the favorite recreation. Further than this my experience does not go.

2.	Yes.—Mrs. LIDA B. MCMURRY, Normal, 111.

1.	In so far as military drill fosters the war spirit, I am opposed. These exercises are decidedly distasteful to many persons. I believe the elegance of carriage that military drill especially develops, can be just as well secured by dancing and other gymnastics.

2.	Yes.—DAVID FELMLEY.

1.	Yes.

2.	Yes.—JOHN W. COOK, Normal, 111.

1. Yes, so far as building up the body goes. The motive, however, back of tlj^ drills, I question. At the World’s Fair I saw a company of soldiers drill, and the sight was a grand one marred only by the thought of blood shed and suffering which it suggested might be the outcome of such skill.

2.	Yes. Just as good work was seen a few days after, on the same ground, by three thousand* men whose only arms were wands. Here there was no thought of blood but the up-building of the human race was the all prevailing thought.—WM. M. GIFFIN, Cook County Normal.

1.	I see nothing in military drills that is not consistent with pedagogy. Indeed, for young people of a certain age it seems to me that military drills may serve a very good purpose in establishing certain traits of physical character that are essential to every well educated person. I refer especially to the physical phenomena and concomitants of attention and the quick subordination and control of motor activities to external suggestions.

2.	I should dislike to have military drills the only feature in a system of gymnastics. It seems to me that an ideal system of gymnastics would combine a graded course of exercises, including and giving special prominence to free outdoor games and plays, especially such games and plays as those in which the element of contest is present to a healthful extent. And I can conceive that such a course might well include military drills. Of course there is a great deal that is already recognized in the active and free exe cises of light gymnastics that furnish the essential benefits of military drill.—C. C. VAN LIEW, Normal, 111.

1.	Military drill, i. e., imitation of regular military service, has proven an utter failure m all countries wherever it has been tried. I think I am in harmony with the best authorities in Pedagogy if I pronounce military drill as being against all good sense in the training of the young. In our country we need citizens,—not soldiers.

2.	Decidedly. My long experience (35 years) in the educational profession has convinced me that nothing promotes so well the spirit of freshness, cheerfulness and promptness in the fulfilment of daily duties as a proper interpolation of well conducted physical exercises with the mental school work.—J. TOENSFEI.DT, Educational Institute, St. Louis, Mo.

R. I. DISTRICT A. A. A. P. E.

PURSUANT to a call issued by several of the leading teachers in Providence and persons interested in Physical Training, there was held at the Manual Training High School during the sessions of the R. I. Teachers' Institute, November 1 and 2, a meeting of all persons interested in forming a State League. Mr. George Weston, Principal of the Manual Training High School, presided. After stating the purpose of the meeting, Mr. Weston called for votes for temporary president and secretary, Mr. Weston was elected the former and Mr. John Howland secretary. Dr. E. M. Hartwell of Boston was called upon and at some length he explained the decision of the National Association for state

* Three thousand gymnasts performed at a mass exhibition in the Arena. They came from the National Festival at Milwaukee. They had left Milwaukee at 4 o’clock, A. M., after five consecutive days of gymnastic work previous to their going to Chicago, gave proof of endurance and discipline, without any army officer, by being on their feet all day. It was not before 3 o’clock in the afternoon that they finally came into the Arena, and without resting, took position for work. They remained in the Arena till late at night and some did not reach their quarters before 3 o’clock in the morning.—Editor.

A

Digitized by C.ooQle
-14-

societies, their objects and desires. He was listened to intently by an enthusiastic audience, much larger in number than it was expected the state would show. Dr. Hartwell brought with him copies of the announcement and appeal by the National Council and the general constitution, and stated that should the Rhode Island Association vote to adopt this it would be the first state body to do so. Those present then voted to adopt the general constitution and by-laws provided bv the National Council, and proceeded to elect officers according to its provisions.

The election of officers resulted in Mr. H. S. Tarbell, Superintendent of Public Schools, being elected President. Mr. F. W. Parker of Brown University and Mr. John Doldt of the Providence Athletic Club were made Vice Presidents. For Secretary-Treasurer, Miss M. L. Earle, Providence Public Schools, was chosen. An Executive Committee was formed of Mr. Geo. Weston, Miss May Taylor of the Pawtucket Public Schools and Miss Le Garde of the Providence Schools. The association adjourned to meet at an early date for more formal discussion of topics relating directly to Physical Training.

This meeting is to be held May 8th. The afternoon will be devoted to the discussion of the following program:

1.	What is Physical Education? by John C. Doldt, Instructor of Providence Athletic Club.—Discussion opened by Mr. H. S. Tarbell, Miss Morrill of the High School.

2.	What Constitutes an Ideal Teacher of Gymnastics? by Miss Le Garde, Director of Providence Schools.—Discussion opened by Wm. L. Coop, Miss M. L. Earle.

3.	The Value of Measurements as Applied to Physical Work, by F. W. Parker, Instructor in Brown University,—Discussion opeped by Miss May L. Taylor of Pawtucket Schools, Mr. 0. L. Hibbert of the Providence V. M. C. A., Mr. Geo. Weston of Manual Training High School.

4.	Military Drill, by Dr. D. A. Sargent.—Discussion opened by the late Adjutant Gen. Elisha Dyer, Frank Cook, late of West Point, and others.

In the evening there will be a display of all kinds of gymnastic work.

CLEVELAND BRANCH OF THE A. A. A. P. E.

THE first meeting of the Cleveland branch of the A. A. A. P. E. was held March 16th, in the lecture room of the Y. M. C. A. The meeting was addressed by Dr. F. E. Leonard, Director of Gymnastics at Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio. Dr. Karl Zapp was chosen Chairman and Miss Weltha A. Darby Secretary pro tern. After the aim of the National A. A. A. P. E. had been discussed, those present were given an opportunity to become members of the branch organization, and the result was 14 active and 15 associate members. The constitution was adopted. A committee was then formed by the chairman to nominate the officers. Those nominated were : President, Dr. Karl Zapp ; 1st Vice President, M. W. H. Kinnicutt; 2d Vice President, Miss R. Anna Morris; Secretary, Miss Weltha Alice Darby ; Treasurer, H. S. Anderson. These were elected, and the meeting adjourned. The next meeting will be early in April.	Weltha	Alice Darby.

■v

Digitized by CjOOQle
-15-

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

xv.

Fixed Poles.—Exercises on Two Poles.

(‘Uprights.’ ‘Chest Bars.’)

Apparatus.—Eight (or more) poles, firmly set above and below, 16 to 18 inches apart. Height, 8 to 16 feet; diameter: according to height, from 2 to 3 inches. (Apparatus is generally placed at a distance of about two feet from the wall.)

Class Formation.—Four files of six to ten pupils each at a distance from and facing the apparatus in flank order. (Two ‘uprights’ to each file.)

Marching Order.—Pupils leave head of files to approach apparatus and return to rear of files, passing left or right flanks, the files moving a step forward with each succession.

Preliminary exei rises, without apparatus. Full distance in files.

Arm extensions upward in ordinary and half-stride standing positions. Crossstepping positions forward and backward, left and right. Thigh flexions, leg extensions. Deep knee-bending positions. Etc., etc.

I.

(Preliminary Movements: Arms in pos. forward, on tip-toe—1! Arms in pos. backward, deep knee-bending pos.—2! Jump to position (swing arms upward)—3 ! Pupils jump to grasp two poles.)

Jump to hang-support position, arms extended—1, 2, 3! Down—1, 2. Repeat.

Same, with foot-grasp around left pole (left foot rear, right foot front of pole, and vice-versa). Foot-grasp around right pole—change ! Down.

Jump to hang-sup. pos., arms bent. Down. Repeat.

Same, with foot-grasp around right and left poles alternately.

Jump to hang-sup. pos., arms extended, with foot-grasp around left pole, knees raised. Foot-grasp around right pole—change! Down.

Jump to hang-support position with foot-grasp around left pole, arms bent and knees raised. Down. Repeat, with foot-grasp around right pole.

In stretch-hang-support position between two poles, without foot-grasp.

Raise knees, or legs, forward alternately. Raise knees and stretch legs forward, left and right alternately. Raise both knees and stretch legs forward. Short swinging. Same, lifting hands alternately or simultaneously, end of backward (forward) swings. Same, side- or cross-striding end of swings, etc.

II.

Hands grasp upward simultaneously.

Climb upward with foot-grasp around left (right) pole.

Same, changing foot-grasp from pole to pole with each upward grasp of the hands.

Climb upward with knees placed against poles from the inside (foot-grasp). (Raise knees alternately and simultaneously—‘frogging.’)

Same, but knees placed around poles from the outside (foot-grasp).

Same, one knee inside (left pole) and one knee outside (right pole).

Digitized by CaOOQle
—16-

Same, reversed order (right knee inside, left knee outside).

Same, alternate order.

The descent can be made in stretch hang-support (legs closed) by alternately grasping downward, left and right, or by grasping downward with both hands simultaneously, or by gliding downward with foot-grasp around one or both poles, or by reversing order of movements executed in climbing upward.

From stretch-hang-support position, without foot-grasp.

Grasp upward left and right alternately. Down, same way.

Same, with short sideward swinging.

Grasp upward with both hands simultaneously.

Same, with short forward and backward swinging, grasping upward end of forward (backward) swings.

Same in connection with leg exercises (side-striding etc. end of swings).

Repeat exercises with leg positions—one, or both knees, or legs, raised forward, etc.

Repeat exercises with arms bent.

III.

In drop-hang-position—feet overhead. (From stretch-hang-support pos.)

Circle backward (one-half circle about horizontal axis) to drop-hang position with knees bent toward chest. Circle forward to first position. Down.

Same ; stretch legs upward to foot-grasp around left (right) pole.

Climb upward in drop-hang position with knees bent, by grasping left and right alternately. Turn forward to first position. Down (grasp left and right alternately).

Same, but grasp upward with both hands simultaneously.

Repeat upward climbing with foot-grasp around one or both poles (as above), grasping left and right alternately, or with both hands simultaneously.

Circle backward (full circle, feet under head); add leg exercises in position. Circle forward, or drop to deep knee-bending position.

Jump to stem-support position, (poles grasped from the inside). Execute leg exercises. Lift hands alternately. Lift both hands.

Repeat ex., swinging (end of backward swing). Travel upward.

Pupils of a rank may place themselves behind the first pole on the left or right and climb upward diagonally across the eight poles—from pole to pole, with or without foot-grasp—in successive order, gliding downward on the last pole. Or, diagonally upward from pole to pole to the centre, and diagonally downward from pole to pole from the centre.

CHEST BARS.

(Position in front of poles, arms sharply bent—feet under shoulders, or between

the poles.)

Stretch arms (leaning backward) and bend arms sharply (leaning forward). Begin! 1-2. (To stretch arms, the hands take full grasp

Digitized by LjOOQle
-17-

around the poles ; to bend arms, the hands are stemmed against the poles—to push. The pushing as well as pulling is executed vigorously.)

Same, grasp low to stretch arms (backward movement), bending the trunk forward (at hips); push forward (body straight), hand-grasp chest-height. 1-2.

Same, swing body obliquely backward left and right alternately, bending trunk forward (downward) to^backward movement. (One arm only is fully extended, i. e., to sink backward obliquely left, the right arm is fully stretched, the left arm remaining more or less bent, to maintain position.)

Repeat last exercise, omitting forward pushing—from side to side.

Repeat exercises with forward and backward swinging of legs, (left and right alternately.)

Repeat exercises, standing on tip-toe.

Repeat, changing depth of grasp to backward movement.

(Legs remain fully extended in all exercices.)

ftGAMES AND PLAYS.fi

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Nos. 74—76.

Fox and Hens.

Two goals are chosen, between which lurks the fox. The other players, the hens, are on one of the goals. The fox calls :

The fox cries once, the fox cries twice,

A sack full of wheat, a basket of rice ! All you hens, flee ! fleet *

The one that I catch, 77/ take home with me.

The hens now flock forward and attempt to reach the opposite goal. The one caught by the fox in this attempt must carry him either to the centre of the play-field or to the goal upon which the other players are standing. After dismounting (players ride astride on the backs of the plajrers caught) another player is selected to stand between the goals, or the player caught may now assume the role of the fox.

Battering Bam.

The players join hands and form a circle, one of their number being on the outside and one on the inside of the same. The centre player, or prisoner, attempts to escape from within the circle by jumping over or by passing quick-

ly under the arms of the players, or by breaking through the barriers by forcing himself against them and forcing the players to release their grasp, the player on the outside assisting him in any way he can. Upon his escape, the player who is most responsible takes his place within the circle.

Cross-Tag.

This game can be played by any number of persons in- or out-doors. Out-doors there should be no goal or limit to the play-ground, all players promiscuously participating in the game, as opportunity offers, without any special order. In-doors a large circle or square, formed by the players may indicate the space in which the game shall be played. Three players selected, one acts as runner or catcher. The runner, A, attempts to catch or tap one of the other two players, B,— the player not sought, C, endeavoring to cross the path between A and C. As soon as C has crossed the path, A abandons B and attempts to catch C. B may return to the line and practice ‘deep-breathing,’ while D seeks to relieve C, and so on, the game continuing without interruption.

Out-doors the game can be started by simply crying ‘cross-tag,’ any player endeavoring to catch another, or crossing player. The player caught acts as runner or ‘catcher’ without halting the game.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—18—

MIND I AND* BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

1 waukee,	*Wl*c©aajslaa.-

SabMcriptlon Price, %	$1.00	per	Year.

OST Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State ■Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

We shall mail to each person who sends us the name of a new subscriber, together with one dollar for his own subscription, a copy of Dr. F. A. Schmidt’s “Physiology of Exercise of the German System of Physical Training.”

“Militarism” is concluded in this issue. A perusal of the answers to our inquiries will convince that there is a majority of teachers opposed to military drill, and an overwhelming majority prefers a graded system of physical training to military drill. It can also be observed that in cities and schools where German physical training is in use, the educators are strongly in favor of it, and opposed to the drill, while, on the other hand, in schools where Swedish physical training is ‘claimed’ to be in vogue, a sentiment for military drill is predominant, as in Boston. The article “Militarism,” and the replies from prominent educators, will be published in pamphlet form by direction of the Executive of the North American Gymnastic Union. It will be helpful for a propaganda

against the encroachments of military drill and the war spirit.

“Mind and Body” enters with this number upon its third year. Being the only Journal which treats Physical Training in the broad sense of a national need in this country, it will be granted by all adherents to this cause that its mission has just begun. We have not yet realized that popular awakening of all the people to physical activity, nor have we succeeded in arousing a full comprehension of the meaning of educational gymnastics.

Nor do we believe that this upheaval can come from any other source than from that whence all enlightenment must come—the common school of the people. We are not deceived by the interest exhibited for physical activity in other quarters, the gymnastic clubs and societies, in the college and university circles, so long as it is absent in the common school. The interest manifested for Physical Training bears too much a selfish aspect to influence the people. Our political management of schools is so little affected by real pedagogical demands, the educational profession suffers so much under political pressure, that we have no reason to be sanguine.

But this condition of affairs does not discourage us. It means greater effort, it demands the united efforts of all who love Physical Training. It also requires a distinct program for the future. We must know what we want, and establish our ideals. We are not satisfied with what is done; makeshifts will never do in education. “For our children the best is good enough,” says* Goethe. This age, which asks so’



;



Digitized by kjOOQLe
—19—

much energy, surely ought not to be scanty in the means to provide for the tools and weapons for the struggle of life.

'• Our Normal Schools should acknowledge more fully the ec^ual importance of Physical Training With the other branches taught. They should in a more pronounced manner be leading educational thought, and not yield to the prevalent legal requirements. Their pupils should carry the best educational thought into every school district, and should they be enthused by it, fight for it, and carry it to recognition.

Each Normal School should be provided with a school gymnasium, .and in it such instruction should be given, as can be taught to all •children of the land. It should be made plain beyond a doubt, that teaching ‘physical training’ between the aisles by a few free exercises is -not a proper care of the body. Those opportunists should be called down who proclaimed to have imported a system of physical training which is cheapest and most adaptable, because it does not require any apparatus.*

What we want, because we are in need of it, is a gymnasium attached to every school, and ample play-grounds which offer such opportunities that the children can play in them to advantage. And then, of not the least importance, we want teachers of gymnastics who are fully prepared to teach physical training. Those who pro-

* We made mention of a movement in Cincinnati to extend the instruction of Physical Training in the •common schools. Recently, several Turn-Vereine of the city of Milwaukee have followed the example and •explained in petitions to the schoolboard the inefficiency •6f the instruction now in vogue. They asked for gymnasiums for the children of the common schools.

claimed from their opportunistic point of view, that their system can be taught by every school teacher, must know, once for all times, that we do not consider them promoters, but retarders, of our ideal of physical training. They know little of the art, if they presume that every teacher is capable of teaching it. It is impossible for us to believe that they have ever been under instruction of a good teacher of physical training, still less have instructed themselves and experienced the physical hardships of such instruction i

Then we expect for the realization of our program that those organizations who do not foster Physical Training for selfish purposes only : for the attraction of members and for its social features; but that are also in the field to promote it for its noble cause, that they do not fail to direct all their energy to its introduction into the public schools. The North American Gymnastic Union had this distinctly pronounced in its platform for the last half century ; the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education has taken of recent date a new departure by a re-organization, using the Gymnastic Union as a model, which will greatly enhance the influence of this association.

“A study of the history of physical training in this country,” writes Mr. James C. Boykin in his treatise on Physical Training, vol. I, chapter XIII of the Report of the Commissioner of Education for 1891— 1892, (p. 523), “shows very clearly that the American people have never been unmindful of the demands of the body. One form of training after another has been

Digitized by CaOOQle
pur sued and tested until it has developed elements which have failed to harmonize with American ideas, and then it has been abandoned and another taken up.” We beg to differ with this statement. Neither the German, nor the Swedish system of physical training has ever been tested in this country. In its logical conclusions neither of the two systems have found in the common schools of this country anywhere a test. In colleges and universities and normal schools, where the ‘American people’ are represented, we suppose, German physical training has never been tried in its completeness, without standing the test. What is practiced in these schools, as a rule, however, is not the German system. It is a conglomerate of ideas, but not a system. At West Point and Annapolis, freed from political or other influences, the German system could be subjected to a test, it has found universal approval, and is not abandoned. In the Turn-Ver-eine, by bad or good teachers, it has brought about the maintenance and growth of the greatest and most powerful of all gymnastic unions of this country. The American people, it is true, have experimented with this or the other notion of different persons who were vain enough to think, or were made to think, that they had contrived a system, by contriving some form of exercise. The truth is, the American people have not as yet placed physical training into such a practice, nor have they allowed sufficient time to insure a test.

In his ‘Conclusions,’ Mr. Boykin in another place asserts, “The progress of the evolution toward an American system even in the last

few years, may be distinctly seen, especially in school gymnastics ; for, have not the Germans begun to adopt the Swedish ideas of the day’s orders and systematic progression, and have not the Swedes aimed to make their gymnastics more attractive, even going so far in one case as to use the German bars, and in another to advocate the use of a combination of systems for older pupils . . .” What some teachers have claimed as an adaptation to the Swedish day’s order and systematic progression as applied to German gymnastics, we do not know. German Physical Training is based upon too sound pedagogical thought to be void of pedagogical progression, and only those ignorant of its literature can be of different opinion.* Swedish advocates have claimed to be the only patentees of a rational progression, and simply because they claimed it, to assume that the German system lacks it, is a rash and unjust statement. It would signify that German pedagogy is without pedagogical progression.

“And do not they all utilize much that comes from the old English sports, from calisthenics, from Dio Lewis, and Dr. Sargent ?” Calisthenics ? ! We confess, we do not comprehend. Dio Lewis ? ! Why not go ahead and add Delsarte?... “And is not all this found side by side and in harmony with military institutes after the plan, of Col. Partridge . . . and military drill in high schools after the war time ideas ?” No ! It is an experimenting with all sorts of notions ; no harmony anywhere.

* See “The Instruction Should be Developing,” by Dr. Moritz Zettler, translated by Dr. F. E. Leonard,. Oberlin College. “Mind and Body,” vol. II, p. 103.



Digitized by C.ooQLe
—21—

This report is undoubtddly prepared in the best spirit. The author has endeavored to give a comprehensive status of physical training. Much information may be gathered from it. But, we are inclined to believe that one more at home on the subject could have brought it out in a more tangible form, and would have avoided assertions, as those mentioned above.

The Report of the Commissioner of Education for the year 1892— 1893, vol. I, is just received. It ■contains, like its predecessors, good and valuable instructions. Part II is devoted to ‘Education and the World’s Columbian Exposition.’ We missed in this chapter any mention of physical training and its representation at the World’s Fair. The North American Gymnastic Union has expended more than $10,000 for the maintenance of the gymnasium in the Children’s Building, for its exhibition, for the distribution of 200,000 pamphlets on physical training, and for its performance of 3000 gymnasts in the Arena on Turner’s Day. The late Baron Posse has given daily exhibitions of Swedish gymnastics by his class in his pavilion, a sacrifice which cannot be highly enough commended, Dr. Sargent had his, and the “Boston Normal School of Gymnastics’’ its exhibit in the Anthropometric Building. Of all this no mention. If we are mistaken, we should like to be corrected.

Carl Betz is editing ‘♦Loose Leaves/’ a Magazine devoted to Child Culture. Number 2 is of very attractive appearance. Each number is to contain five leaflets, loosely laid together, each leaflet is devoted to a special branch of child

life. That Mr. Betz would not omit physical training, will be readily understood by all who know of his great zeal to promote its cause. We have no doubt, “Loose Leaves’’ will meet with success.

In the “Deutsche Turnzeitung ' of February 20th, Dr. Partsch, Professor of Surgery in the Breslau University, answers Dr. Angelo Mosso’s objection to German gymnastics from a scientific point of view.—We received a letter a few days ago from a teacher of physical training in Germany, who informs us • f the fact that Dr. Mosso, as a student, roomed opposite one of the Leipzig Tum-Vereine for fully two years. After his own confession, he has never been inside the hall of this society, and regret* it very much. This is of the fashion of a good many in our own land. They would not be so rash in their statements, if they had visited our gymnastic halls, or, better, taken an active part

At an exhibition of the Y. M. C. A. of Providence, R. I., Febr. 19th, two hundred school children filled two interesting numbers of the program. Physical Training, under the supervision of Miss Le Garde, has come to stay in Providence.

Newcomb and Basquette are two games for the gymnasium by Clara Gregory Baer. Newcomb first appeared as a short sketch in the Posse Gymnasium Journal. Later, at the request of Dr. Jay W. Seaver, Miss Baer elaborated it into a paper to be read at the meeting of the A.A.A P.E. which was held at New York in April 1895. During this meeting, the game was illustrated by the students of Trinity College, and at once pronounced a success. Since then, it has gained wide spread popularity. The most conspicuous points in Newcomb are : Very little preparation is neces-



Digitized by LaOOQle
sary; any number can take part in comparatively little space; no apparatus is required beyond a light foot-bad and a few chalk-marks or painted lines upon the floor; the interest in the play is without interval, as each player may have a chance at the ball every time it is thrown. It is a safe game as well as an exciting one, and we unhesitatingly recommend it to schools and clubs of both sexes. It can be successfully' played in the open air and in the gymnasium.— Basquette is a modification of basketball, the essential difference being the division of the floor in spaces called “bases.” Two players occupy each base and play as opponents. As Miss Baer explaines in the preface, the division of the floor into spaces and the consequent addition to the rules of the game, is for the purpose of lessening the danger of collision in the gymnasium where apparatus is a necessary adjunct; it also prevents the rush of many players after the ball. As great stress is laid upon learning to play without falling upon the ball or upon the floor, the game produces that necessary balance and control which are needed in character as well as in play. It is also a safeguard in the game, as the gymnasium floor is harder than the field, and these precautions are a necessity.—We bespeak for both of these games a hearty welcome, and we feel that Miss Baer is to be congratulated upon her contribution to the literature*on gymnastic games.

Possibly, indeed, there is little necessity at this day to preach the gospel of athletics. Athletic associations crop up everywhere, and the newspapers are full of base-ball and rowing. Nevertheless, an idealist might still find something to wish for. The peril of all muscular cultivation is professionalism. Of all unproductive industries, professional athleticism seems to me the

least reasonable. What reasonable motive is there for getting strong muscles if not to aid a man in rendering himself useful to society? Whether he avail himself of them directly to hew timber, or indirectly to counteract the exhaustion of brain-work, matters not ; but he can have no justification for getting them and then putting them up for sale. Our college boys, no doubt, have no idea of doing that; but they had better neither be that ill-odored rose nor be near it. We used to train ourselves in my day, and were often absurdly mistaken in our methods, no doubt, and now and again lost a race by it possibly; but men who do not row for money are not afraid to lose a race if they have done their best. And it is wonderful how soon vulgarity and uncleanness creep in when boys begin to think more of winning than of the means by which they win. I wish, for my part, that our college and intercollegiate contests were more varied, and that so much was not made to depend on any particular event. Our gymnasiums have become schools of specialists ; they seldom graduate a finished athlete such as they might easily make in four years out of any average man. Let us take a lesson from the Isthmian Games, and try to evolve champions who shall be best in all points. And as for society, perhaps it will reflect that it can hardly, as a body, do anything better for the rising generation than to raise these boyish sports into something really dignified and respectable. Blackguards are always ready to rush in where angels will not take the trouble to be present; and brutality can be banished from our palaestrae just as easily as from our drawing rooms, and by precisely the same means.—From Julian Hawthorne’s “The Building of the Muscle.”

Digitized by c^ooQle
-23-

ATHLETICS * AND * SPORTS.

The “Turner” reports in vol. XI, 2, the best records in high-jumping. According to its statement, Turner W. H. Page holds the best amateur record. He jumped .1,93 m (6 feet, 4 inches), in 1887. His other records at other occasions were

1,75 m in	1886	1,91	in	1887

1,63 m in	1884	1,89	in	1887

1,78 m in	1878	1,93	in	1887

The highest professional record is held by Joe Daily 1,95 m, which is only % inch higher than the one of Turner Page. At the different festivals the highest records in high-jumping of German Turners were:

1,86 m, Turner Huepper (now Profes-for of Hygiene in Prague) in 1883.

1,95 m, a Turner in 1888, but there are no exact data.

1.90	m, Turner Kottling at the Breslau Turnfest in 1894.

1.90	m, Turner Michael Meller.

1.85	m, the same.

1.85	m, Fritz Hoffmann, in 1894.

1.80	m, the same, in 1894.

1,87V2 m, Turner Steinfeld and Maly, 1891.

1,77^ m, Turner Korger, 1889.

1.80	m, Turner Otto, 1885.

The American Turner F. Friedrich and Stammitz both hold a record of 1,80 m. These records do not seem to indicate a degeneration of legs among Turners.

August Johnson and Louis Cyr, the two strong men, whose challenges and counter-challenges have appeared in these columns, met lately in the office of Theodore Proulx. A three hours’ session resulted in an agreement, which will be clinched by the signing of articles. The match will be for $1,000 a side.

Each man has submitted six tests, and from the combined twelve the winner must successfully execute enough to give him a victory. The men will come together some time in April at a place yet to be decided.

The following are the tests submitted:

AUGUST W. JOHNSON.

1.	Lifting heaviest barbell with two (2) hands from floor above head at arm’s length.

2.	Lifting heaviest barbell or short-bell, right and left hand, jerked from shoulder.

3.	Lifting heaviest bar or short bell

from floor above head with one swing from the ground with one hand.

4.	Lifting one (1) dumbbell in each hand from ground above head, both hands at the same time.

5.	Lifting dumbbell in each hand from the ground and above head with slow push from the shoulder, then pick up-from the ground a dumbbell with right hand to arm’s length above head.

6.	Heaviest back lift with or without harness.

LOUIS CYR.

1.	Holding out straight from the shoulder the heaviest dumbbell.

2.	Lifting the heaviest dumbbell from the floor with both hands, then with one hand without artificial ajd.

3.	Lifting with both hands from the floor the heaviest barbell at arm’s; length above head with slow push from* shoulder.

4.	Lifting two (2) dumbbells, one (1)’ in each hand, above head from the shoulder with steady push, both bells at the same time.

5.	Put up with right hand the heaviest dumbbell with steady push, while at the same time putting straight out at right angle from the body the heaviest dumbbell.

6.	Heaviest back lift with or without harness.

Johnson is about half the size of Cyr. He is not deterred by a question of size and argues that his absence of fat requires him to lift less weight than his competitor.

New Haven. Conn., March 6.—The students of Yale University to-night emphatically indorsed the programme of the management of the navy for the coming season, and, by the decisive vote of 460 to 16, decided in favor of allowing the crew to go to England to take part in the Henley regatta in June. The meeting, which was held in Alumni Hall, was harmonious in every particular, not a single speech being made against the project. .Some opposition was expected to the Henley programme, as it was known there was a large number of men in favor of having the crew enter the big race on the Hudson, but they gave way to the will of the majority. There were over 600 present at the meeting, although only 470 voted. Anson Phelps Stokes of New York presided, and, after announcing the object of the meeting, invited dis-

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-24-

•cussion. There was no response, and, after waiting a few minutes, Manager Sibour of the navy, asked the students to indorse the action of the management, or to express disapproval while there was yet time. The vote was then taken, and the result was received with great satisfaction by the great majority of students. As the academic and scientific faculties have given their consent, all obstacles except that of ■finances have been removed. It is believed, however, that large sums of money will be subcribed in a few days. The crew will leave for England June 6.

New York, February 28th.—The men who make rules for the college track athletes will hold their annual meeting at the Fifth Avenue Hotel. Many changes will be submitted. A meeting of the Executive Committee of the association was held at the Fifth Avenue Hotel to-night. The following •delegates were present:

S.	Murdock Kendrick, University of Pennsylvania; C. T. Kirby, Columbia, George A. Crompton, Harvard ; J. W. Walscheid, University of New York ; H.

B.	Turner, Princeton, and J. Hamilton, of Cornell. After a session of three hours the committee reported favorabty on the following resolutions :

Resolved, That inasmuch as this association is the intercollegiate association of amateur athletics of America, and is always ready and willing to admit to membership any college which show the desire to foster athletics and develop athletic teams, we deem it injudicious to enter into competition with any other intercollegiate association.

The report of the Graduate Committee in regard to the alliance with the Amateur Athletic Union was unanimously in favor of the following resolutions:

1.	At all meetings of the A. A. II. the I. C. A. A. A. shall be entitled to representation by not more than four delegates, having collectively one vote.

2.	One of these delegates shall be chosen a member of the Board of Governors of the A. A. U.

3.	All the members of the A. A. U. clubs entering into collegiate or intercollegiate games shall be governed by the rules of the I. C. A. A. A. ; but members of associate colleges entering A. A. U. games shall be governed by the rules of the A. A. U.

4.	These articles of alliance shall be

terminable by either party on thirty days’ notice by letter to the other.

All the resonant bravos at the command of Chicago’s resident French were sent up in salvos of applause when Louis Cyr, the champion strong man of the world, Friday tilted, with comparative ease, a platform on which fourteen sons of Napoleon, with an aggregate weight of 2,784 pounds, were perched. It was the most extraordinary performance ever witnessed on the West Side, though Cyr, in a private performance before the Chicago Athletic Association, had beaten his feat of last night by nigh on to 1,000 pounds.

The brothers Cyr came on to Chicago from Montreal to give a performance for the benefit of Father Brosseau’s little French parish in Pullman. Apollo Hall, on Blue Island avenue, was secured, and there before 1,500 of the best French residents that Chicago can boast of the Cyrs gave their exhibition. While Louis is the stronger of the two by long odds, his brother Peter, weighing 200 pounds less than the elder Cyr, is a remarkable man. Peter flirts about with 100 and 200 pound dumbbells as though they were feather dusters, and winds up with the feat of lifting 553V2 pounds off the floor with the middle finger of his right hand. Peter is a young man weighing 158 pounds, while his behemoth brother tips the beam at 350.

The .performance was marked throughout by some astounding feats of main strength. There was little of trickery or cunning. The work was straight throughout, and the weights lifted left the floor without any of the artifices of the theatrical strong man.

Probably the most surprising feat of the evening was that accomplished by Louis Cyr, the final number on the programme.

Two heavy black draft horses where brought on the stage in harness. They were big, handsome brutes, weighing 2,200 pounds each, and were faced in opposite directions. Cyr, with only a cotton bagging guard to protect his arm against the strain, undertook to hold these two horses, after they had been started off in opposite directions. Whips were used on the steeds, and they * . v to tug away. Not alone did j*.	id his ground, but he ac-

f U. r pin.v.a one of the horses off its *eet.

Digitized by

Google