MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.	OCTOBER,	1917

No. 262

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil*, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulmt Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

j ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS j

O	.11	II.	'I II.—I. i.iO

BIRTHS AMONG THE WELL-BRED ARE RUNNING DISASTROUSLY LOW.

Limit the Production of the Unfit, but First Take Effective Measures to Promote the Production of the Fit.

(By THEODORE ROOSEVELT)

Apparently some persons regard it as a satisfactory answer to point out that some worthless or hopelessly poverty-stricken families would benefit themselves and the country by having fewer children. I heartily agree to this, and will support any measure to make this agreement effective by limiting the production of the unfit, after we have first taken effective measures to promote the production of the fit. . *	*	*

Reforms are excellent, but if there is nobody to reform their value becomes somewhat problematical. In order to make a man into a better citizen we must first have the man. In order that there shall be a “fuller and better expressed life for the average woman,” that average woman must be in actual existence. And the first necessity in “bringing up the child right” is to produce the child. *	*	*

There has recently been published a “Study of the Birth Rate in Harvard and Yale Graduates,” by John C. Phillips, of Boston.

Digitized by L^ooQle
246

It should be circulated as a tract among all those most foolish of all foolish people, the half-baked educated people who advocate a profoundly immoral attitude toward life in the name of “reform” through “birth control.” These persons see that in the “submerged tenth” of society, and even among all the very poor, excessive child bearing is a grave evil which crushes the woman, turning her into a broken-spirited, overworked, slatternly drudge; and which, therefore, crushes the family also, making it difficult for the children, on the average, to rise above a very low level. They do not see that it is the directly reverse danger against which we have to guard as soon as we rise above the class of the very poor, of those whose livelihood is so precarious that they are always on the brink of the gulf of disaster. As soon as we get above this lowest class the real danger in American families, whether of mechanics, farmers, railroad workers, railroad presidents, deep-sea fishermen, bankers, teachers or lawyers, is not lest they have too many children, but lest they have too few. Yet it is precisely these persons who are really influenced by the “birth-control” propaganda. What this nation vitally needs is not the negative preaching of birth control to the submerged tenth and the tenth immediately adjoining, but the positive preaching of birth encouragement to the eight-tenths who make up the capable, self-respecting American stock which we wish to see perpetuate itself. *	*	*

Mr. Phillips studies the birth rate for the two colleges in question by decades from 1850 to 1890. The figures for both colleges are substantially similar. Yale making a trifle better showing. They prove conclusively that for more than fifty years the men who have been graduated from Harvard and Yale have left behind them a number of sons inferior to their own number—-that is, to the number of fathers—and that therefore this college stock, which in point of worthy achievement is certainly among the thoroughly good stocks of the country, is tending to die out; and they show that this tendency has hitherto been slightly accentuated with •each decade. *	*	*

On the average during the thirty years the graduate who married did so after he had left college eight years. About 78 per cent married, roughly four-fifths. But more than 20 per cent of the marriages were childless. This leaves only three-fifths of the men of the class who contracted fertile marriages, and who, therefore, if their stock were to progress, had to make good the shortcomings of their fellows. The average number of children per capita per married graduate was about 2.3, and shrank decade by decade. Taking the entire number of graduates, the average number of children surviving was 1.55 per capita (of whom, of course, on the average half are daughters). This means, roughly, that in these thirty classes of Harvard and Yale graduates, representing, of course, a high average of the energy, ambition and cultivation and a reasonably high average of the wealth of the land, every four fathers left behind him three sons. If this ratio continues it will mean that 140 years hence—a period as long as that which divides us from the Declaration of Independence—the average

Digitized by v^ooQle
247

college graduates of today will be represented in their descendants by only three-tenths of their present number. *	*	*

The most pitiable showing is made by the graduates of the women's colleges. So far, among the elder classes of the older among these colleges, the average girl is represented in the next generation by only 0.86 of a child. This means that for every five possible mothers there were two daughters. Do these colleges teach “domestic science," and if so, what is it that they teach? * * * The figures given for the Harvard and Yale graduates show that, taking into account the number of children who die before growing up, the number of adults who do not marry and the number of marriages where for physical and natural reasons—that is, reasons presumably implying no moral blame in the parents— there are no children or only one or two children, it is necessary that the family physically able to produce children shall average more than three or the race will slowly decrease in numbers. *	*	*

The remedy? There are many remedies, all of them partial. The State can do something, as the State is now doing in France. Legislation must be for the average, for the common good. Therefore, legislation should at once abandon the noxious sentimentality of thinking that in America at this time the "only son" is entitled to preferential consideration, either for the sake of himself or of his mother. The preference, as regards all obligations to the State, should be given to the family having the third and fourth children. In all public offices in every grade the lowest salaries should be paid the man or woman with no children, or only one or two children, and a marked discrimination made in favor of the man or woman with a family of more than three children. In taxation, the rate should be immensely heavier on the childless and on the families with one or two children, while an equally heavy discrimination should lie in favor of the family with more than three children. This would apply to the income tax and inheritance tax, and as far as possible to other taxes. I speak, as usual, of the average, not the exception. Only the father and mother of more than three children have done their full duty by the State; and the State should emphasize this fact. No reduction should be made in a man's taxes merely because he is married. But he should be exempted on an additional $500 of income for each of his first two children, and on an additional $1000 of income for every subsequent child—for we wish to put especial emphasis on the vital need of having the third and the fourth and the fifth children. The men and women with small or reasonable incomes are the ones who should be encouraged to have children; they do not represent a class which will be tempted by such exemption to thriftlessness o» extravagance. I do not believe that there should be any income exemption whatever for the unmarried man or the childless married couple; let all the exemptions be for the married couples of moderate means who have children. *	*	*

There is no more fearless and danger-defying heroism than that shown by some women of the true heroic type, in walking through the valley of the shadow to bring into life the babies they

Digitized by L^ooQle
248

love; and there is no punishment too heavy for the man who does not revere and serve such a woman as he reveres and serves nothing else that is human. And it may be his highest duty if the danger is too great to see that she does not face it. I know one girl who has just, for the second time, eagerly faced motherhood; and to bring the second baby to join her first she had to show a splendid courage which (and I speak accurately) ranges her beside any of the men who in their ragged blue and buff and their gaping shoes followed Washington, or any gaunt Confederate who charged with Pickett, or any of the sailor men who held the sinking launch while Cushing torpedoed the Albemarle—a courage which ranges her beside her husband and brothers who have crossed the sea to face the German and Turkish armies. *	*	*

It would be wicked, without due thought, to expose woman or man, girl or young man, to the possible stroke of fate; but we revere them all alike, precisely because they face the stroke of fate, high-hearted, if the need warrants it. Only those who are not afraid to die are fit to live.—(Public Ledger Philadelphia.)

HECTIC HURRY AND THE UNDERGRADUATE.

By GEORGE VAN N. DEARBORN, Professor of Psychology and Education, Sargent Normal School, Cambridge; Psychologist to the Forsyth Infirmary for Children, Eoston, etc.)

“I get the impression today that most of the joy of college life is confined to the student and that that is often hectic. The faculties seem to me over-worked, over-serious, lacking in what I call pedagogic faith—faith that the student may be trusted to get some good out of leisure. I suppose that we shall have to blame, as usual, the Zeitgeist. Crowded curricula, multiform ‘student activities,’ and all the full steam and weighted throttles of modern efficiency are pushing out of college life just the one element that should be characteristic of it—time; time for rumination, daydreaming, thought.'”—Robert M. Gay, in the January Atlantic.

The sense of this paragraph above is so preceisly that of a little article that I put together a few months ago (the manuscript has been lost), that I am constrained to use it as the text, or the cue, of another outbreak perhaps still briefer, but equally heartfelt. Let us consider the students; the faculty can take care of themselves.

My key-note, too, was Leisure. And I emphasized its obvious and ever-increasing lack as a step in just the wrong educational direction in these early years of the twentieth century; as the road to the yesterday of all mental (and physical) hygiene; as education in the very thing which it is most essential should bp ignored. “Hurry!”—but whither?	“Hustle!”—but wherefore? “Strive

unceasingly!”—but the Personality that is each of them, within each poor sleepy (or else stimulated, “hectic”) boy and girl, has small interest and takes no proper part in this college “strife,” but crouches, as if neglected and abused. This clearly should not be.

And it is indeed a sad thing to see what hurrying restlessness

Digitized by Goo *
249

dominates the life in some of the very finest of our colleges today; the breathlessness of it all; the fearsome figure to which the phy-siolpgic pressure-gage points; and, above all, the deeper and invidious meaning that this timelack must have for the life-long training of these women and these men. When in all the long years, or in the short few years, of their life will these people have time to educate themselves if not in the college years when it is the allotted task?

Perhaps the present writer feels the inherent contrast and the present lack more strongly than some would feel it because he lived the four years while first a student, among the varied natural beauties at the meeting-line of fair Vermont and fairer New Hampshire, on the shore of the Connecticut River,—where else than at Hanover! Old Dartmouth had then more to offer than “efficiency” or if no more, then at least a real efficiency that included a self-reliance, a self-respect, an appreciation of Whence? and Whither? and sometimes of Why? in short, a soul. And Mount Pineo and the beautiful River and Ascutney and Norwich and all up and down the long road (even from Canada to the Sound!) made part of the curriculum which gave each (if he only cared for it!) a chance to learn himself.

And what Dartmouth did then every college else can do, each in its good own way, if it only makes the good start to try. Columbia, even, in the midst of the earth’s largest town, has human selves to train and could find a way, through the planning of some ingenious son or daughter, to see to it that in no case would a serious student think himself ever a machine or his world only a vortex of easily definable energies, of dollars, or of whatever else the efficiency-world uses to count its successes with.

But to view the education or the part of it which leisure can give as an affair only of philosophical esthetics, as a matter wholly of “soul” and personality in the sense discussed so delightfully by many poets and by men who were poets under some other name, were to wholly under-estimate the practical versatility of human motives and of human wills. F. H. Bradley’s resistless logic has made pragmatists of many, and brought closer together in the thought of numerous men and women the practical values, measurable sometimes even in gold, and those other values, more lasting perhaps, which leisure, and there through thought, alone can give. Bodily strength and bodily endurance, good health, happiness, personality, “soul,” form a sort of series, an ascending series, if you prefer it so, which mill-managers and shop-treasurer have learned or will learn to measure accurately some day by units and in terms which every citizen will fully understand. The colleges should have foreseen this and effectively felt it all the time, handing it down as almost their highest wisdom to every freshman who rises into the sophomore class.

One must "commune with herself” or become mechanized; one must escape that insistent “Hurry! Hustle! Strive!” or lose that one special attribute which marks off the human, not from brute alone, but from the brass and iron and wood machine which man, rather than God, has made. The whole tearful world cries

Digitized by kjOOQle
250

out for honor and for justice and almost harshly for humanity above all. Will the college, too, deny these to the boys and girls who are trusting her to help make them, not organic machines, alone, but real women and men?

In some institutions of learning the reaction already has actively begun—in theory at any rate. The following editorial from the Boston Herald suggests one obvious way put of this evil tendency, but not the best, perhaps, in these days when Prophylaxis is the prophetic slogan of clear-seers.

“ ‘Take care that your studies don’t interfere with your college course.’ This ancient ‘gag,’ probably from Horace or some other classic, must have been in the minds of the ‘joint council’—seven members of the faculty and six students all told—which has just undertaken the formidable task of cutting down the social activities of Wellesley College. There appear to be twenty-eight ‘events' in the official year of that institution which do not fit closely into the work of communicating and getting knowledge for which all educational establishments primarily exist. And of the twenty-eight the very names show how fearfully and wonderfully wise the students must be in things that bring no marks and count nothing towards a degree. ‘Forums,’ ‘promenades,’ ‘song competitions’ and ‘student government meetings' are intelligible enough. But what, pray, are ‘floats,’ ‘birthday rallies,’ ‘forensic burnings’ and ‘barn-swallow parties’?

“For some of these extra-academic interests, of course, there is much to be said. A reasonable amount of time given to language, debating and theatrical clubs is sure to promote intellectual development and tell in the examinations. A sufficiency of athletic exercises is an indispensable prerequisite of the sound mind in the sound body. Nor is the social side of college life out of relation to the more general aims of the college. That side has been greatly intensified in the last ten or fifteen years, and our students would suffer if it were to be seriously curtailed by faculties overfearful for their commencement output. If the spirit of democracy is to be imbibed anywhere it is to be acquired where the fraternities and the soroities meet for social intercourse outside college hours. Here is a blessed influence which lingers in the memory and could be ill spared from our educational processes.

“But there is a due mean in everything, and the interests of study have the right of way. The trouble at Wellesley, as in many other colleges, is that tendency to over-organization which sooner or later results in the setting up of a hard-and-fast division between the academic and the social. The reformers in our Massachusetts institution have drawn up a program which is well worthy of attention further afield. For they aim to replace this division by a ‘freer social’ life which shall assimilate, humanize and react upon the ideas gained from books and in the classroom.”

This, as all will admit, is not enough, however excellent, and however striking as indicative of the feeling of the supposedly “thoughtless” students themselves. The change must come in

Digitized by kjOOQle
251

the realization of over busyness and in the rearrangement of the curriculum.

Leisure to commune with one’s.self is not sentiment; it is not esthetics alone but a thing most practical. It stands for mental orderliness; for educative habits of normal living; for mental and physical hygiene; for happiness; for the best that learning can give or culture wish for. It is the very essence of education. Without it “efficiency” is a reproach.

In ignoring leisure as the student’s right, a college is falling short of its highest privilege. Even the student-idler suffers from this disorderliness of the over-ordered college life, while the conscientious student is hurt irreparably.

And no “Zeitgeist” involving the worry of hurry has any standing in the Supreme Court of Common Sense.

It is time that every college, at least, with its supposed elaborated wisdom-of-life and its unique obligation to the coming man and woman, effectively'realized it. The truest and best rewards of the race are seldom to the swift. Rash life generally somewhere has its Marne.—Journal of Education.

A PLAN OF ATHLETICS AND HONORS FOR HIGH SCHOOL

GIRLS.*

ANNA S. CRESSMAN, Germantown High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

Competitive games and athletics arouse an interest and an enthusiasm that no other type of physical training work can create. An interest once aroused will lead girls to seek these types of work in after school life. This opportunity to create a love for physical activity through forms of after school work is one we cannot afford to overlook.

There is a reason why girls enjoy the natural spontaneous activities more than the routine of the necessary formal work. They meet “a true response in the girls’ nature” and at the same time offer different kinds of work to the different types of girls. Further, they supply a healthy and useful outlet for the latent energy - the pent up longings and feelings that in the past were attributed only to boys; promptings that were subdued and repressed in girls for fear they might produce boisterous mannish qualities. Does active play and lusty yelling; group cheering and mass singing make boys grow up to be less manly, assuredly not; then why should the same expression of joy and freedom kill the girls’ instinctive sense of womanliness?

Still further, since woman has entered the wider and more exacting responsibilities of life, it is of the utmost importance that she develop the qualities of courage, perseverance, self control and self reliance, qualities which can always be carried over into the economic life of the home and the community.

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association Pittsburg, Pa.

Digitized by kjOOQle
252

i

We recognize that the ideals of group loyalty and fair play are well worth possessing and that their attainment will add much both to the happiness and the intelligence of women. And in no other way can these qualities be so easily taught and so throughly experienced as in the practice of competitive games and athletics.

The plan of work that is to follow is carried on in a co-educa-tional High School with 1400 girls on roll. The facilities are one fully equipped gymnasium, an out-of-door play space with no equipment-a neighboring Y. W. C. A. swimming pool and a modern playground, both playground and swimming pool within Walking distance of the school.

For academic purposes the student body is divided into sections of about forty (40) pupils each. These sections are used as the units for intra school competition. From each section by majority vote one representative is elected - she is designated the class leader. This body of class leaders with at least two women members of the faculty, one of whom must be a teacher of physical training, represents the controlling body for all the athletic work carried on in the name of the school.

All instructions are given to this controlling body at meetings called for the purpose by its president, or by the physical training teacher through the president. The day following such a meeting the school office grants permission for each class leader to use the first twenty (20) minutes of the morning for the organization of teams, or to impart to the girls of her section the instructions received at the meeting on the previous day. This is the most effective method of reaching the mass of girls quickly and easily. If sufficient reason be presented to the controlling body, a class leader can be disqualified at any time and permission granted to the section to elect a representative who is better qualified to do the work.

For the after school competitive work, the school year is divided into three seasons-the Fall, the Winter, and the Spring. Each season offers activities characteristic of the season of the year, as per following diagram.

According to the outline the Fall Season - Sept., Oct. and Nov. offers:

1—	Basket Ball.

2—	Tramping consisting of after school walks and two week end walks a season, one in the Fall of the year and one in the spring. Eventually this work will be broadened to include a School Camp.

3—	Practice of track and field events.

The Winter Season—Dec., Jan., Feb., offers:

1—	Captain Ball

2—	Apparatus work

3—	Dancing

The organization for the apparatus work this Winter proved so successful that it will be of interest to you. A certain day, always the same day of each week, the gymnasium was open for practice. Posted on the bulletin boards were the class aims for

Digitized by LjOOQle
253

each year-for example First Year (Freshman) girls were expected to present on the horse -

1—	exercise - squat vault.

2—	Exercise - Jump to squat stand - assume a support rear-ways and dismount forward.

3—	Exercise of their own choosing.

On the Rings -

1—	Exercise - a turn over.

2—	Exercise - The pendulum swing.

3—	Exercise of their own choosing.

On the Horizontal Ladder-

1—	Exercise - From a cross hang on beams, travel forward the length of the ladder.

2—	Exercise - From a side hang travel sideward with a swing the length of the ladder.

3—	An exercise of own choosing.

For each year's work in succession Sophomore, Junior and Senior the aims are different - the difficulty and types of work chosen are based on the apparatus work of the regular school period.

The after school practice work for this event is conducted by girl managers under the supervision of a physical training teacher. The managers are instructed and trained before they attempt the work. At the end of the Winter season the girls invited their parents and friends to the gymnasium for the final practice. Judges were provided and each pupil was given a mark based on the accomplishment of the aims scheduled for her year's work. The 100 points possible were apportioned among the 3 groups of exercises as follows:

Personal appearance Execution of the 3 exercises on the horse, ten points each Rings - 3 exercises, 10 points each Horizontal Ladder, 3 exercises,

10	points each

Every girl whose total averaged 85 points was awarded one honor in apparatus work. #

This occasion aroused much enthusiasm.

The Spring Season - March, April, May and June offers:

1—	Base Ball

2—	Tennis

3—	The walks of the Fall Season are resumed.

4—	Track and Field work is continued and brought to a climax at the Field Day held out of doors the first week in June.

The events in each season are managed on about the same plan. Let us take one of the events for this season of the year-Base Ball will do for an example. At a meeting of Class Leaders a manager is elected for each event with as many assistants as the work warrants, at the same meeting instructions are given to class leaders as to the number of girls required to form a team.

10 points

30 points 30 points

30 points

100 points •

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
254

stress is placed on the fact that a girl need not necessarily be an expert player to be a member of the team, that the object of the inter-section competition is to learn to play the game. Each class leader is asked to file in the gymnasium office, a written request that her section be entered for competition, also a list of the names of the girls composing the team. If there is no team entered, she is asked to file a statement giving the reasons why there is no entry made from her section. These reasons, I find, are usually the result of misunderstanding and therefore easily adjusted. Or if it is lack of interest the girls who are enthusiastic are given an opportunity to combine with a section in like condition.

From these lists the manager of the event arranges a schedule of games with dates and references. The schedules are posted on the various bulletin boards throughout the school and the class leader is notified at least a week previous to the dates on which her section team is scheduled to play. We try to get all the organization work done in the. month of March and as much general practice as possible so that by the first of April the competition is on in full swing. In case a sectional team fails to appear according to schedule, that team loses by default. The Base Ball games are all played out of doors. As many games are scheduled as available space permits; under our conditions we can place 5 games, that is, 10 teams are playing on the same day. I find it works best to have the same day for the same event week after week, thus enabling the girls to arrange their outside work and other after school interests accordingly. This arrangement also facilitates the supervision of the work. The physical training teacher particularly interested in Track and Field work is assigned to after school duty on that day. The one most enthusiastic about base ball assumes the responsibility for that particular day’s work, and so on. Since each event has but one day per week devoted to it, the manager and her assistants must be present and see that games are carried out as per schedule, that scores are turned in by the umpires, who, in the meantime, have been chosen for their previous knowledge of the game and their executive ability. Further the manager files the scores in the office and later places results on the bulletin board schedules. Thus the schedules at the end of the season are a complete record of the number of games played, who umpired them, and the results.

Each event in a season is managed on the same principle. After the organization, the success of the work depends on the co-operation and the enthusiasm of the managers and the class leaders, and the follow up work by the physical training department which requires a lot of time and patience and tact.

A factor which helps to raise the standard and dignity of the work is a separate department in the school paper for Girls’ Athletics, with a girl editor chosen each year by the controlling body.

Now for the system of honors. There are two kinds of honors, one a team honor, which recognizes the superiority of the winning team in a season’s event; the other an individual honor which

Digitized by t^ooQle
255	.

recognizes the individual’s effort in any kind of after school work offered during the year.

The team honor is awarded to each member of the winning team in any series of inter-section games as in base ball or in tennis, or in captain ball. It consists of a bronze pin with a design characteristic of the event for which it is awarded and the year in which it was won.

The individual honor is a cumulative honor and is awarded for accomplishment (as per outline on the board). According to this there is a possibility of twelve (12) honors as the outline will show.

During the time the girl is a pupil in the school, the winning of any three (3) individual honors entitles her to her school numerals on a shield design in the school colors. This is a distinctive design worked out under the direction of the art department of the school and cannot be bought, or procured in any other way-it must be won through personal effort. This is true of all the honors awarded. Further, the winning of any six (6) individual honors, one of which must be a game honor, entitles the girl to the school letter. And still further, the winning of nine individual honors entitles her to a school sweater.

This system of honors stimulates the interest of each girl and makes her realize that her personal effort is always worth something.

Convinced that the more vigorous forms of gymnastic work form an essential part of a girl’s training; believing that under conditions which include thorough supervision and proper training the benefits derived therefrom far outweigh the possible dangers; it becomes necessary in any system of education for girls to provide for the active participation in games and athletics.

The usual High School curriculum with its one physical training period per week does not provide for such training. It is, therefore, advisable to use any available time outside of school hours. The plan of work as presented to you is all conducted after the regular school day from 2:15 to 4 p. m. three days in the week. Therefore the work is voluntary on the part of the pupil. A small part of the regular school period is used to supplement the after school work. For example, at this season of the year when organizing base ball and Track and Field work, the physical training period is used to further the after school ends by assigning to one group baseball, while the second group practices the standing broad jump, at the same time a third group practices for the basket ball far throw. At a given signal the groups change so that in one period a class of 100 to 120 girls receive their first instructions in 3 different events. This greatly facilitates the after school work, and gives every girl a fair idea of what the work means, and gives her an opportunity to choose the types of work that appeal to her most.

Judging by the large numbers that respond voluntarily, encouraged by the enthusiasm with which girls enter this work, we are convinced that the girl naturally seeks and needs the more active types of work just as much as the boy does.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
256

Knowing that the mental qualities of courage and perseverance are developed in girls through participation in games and athletics; realizing that competition supplies a lesson in the control of motions that the girl of today sorely needs, why should our fears and prejudices be allowed to deny her the training which best qualifies her to fulfill her place in the nation’s needs?

The reaction which is bound to come after the war will make us realize more than ever that women must be trained for the wider responsibilities of life.

Let us therefore use the natural instinctive types of activity in this newer and wider sense, and thus secure to all women the fullest and the sanest development of which they are capable.

Outline of After School Activities for Girls, Germantown High School, Phila., Pa.

Three days per week are devoted to after school activities, namely: Monday, Wednesday, Friday.

Season Events Honors		
Fall  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.	Hockey	1. Any girl who plays on her Section Team in 75 per cent of the games scheduled in one season shall be entitled to one honor.
	Tramping	2. Any girl who participates in 75 per cent of the after school walks in one season shall be entitled to one honor.
	Athletic	Records
Winter  Dec.  Jan.  Feb.	Captain  Ball	3. Participation in 75 per cent of games scheduled shall entitle to one honor.
	Basket Ball	4. Same as honor No. 3.
	Apparatus  Dancing	5.	Any girl who can attain an average of 85 per cent in her execution of:  2 prescribed exercises 1 ( 1. Horse and > on -{ 2. Rings 1 of her own choosing J (3. Hor. Ladder is entitled to one honor.  6.	Any girl or group of girls who can attain an average of 90 per cent in the execution of a series of steps worked out to music of their own choosing, each girl is en-entitled to one honor.

Digitized by kjOOQle
Season Events Honors		
Spring  Mar.  April  May  June	Tennis	7. Same as any other game honor, as No. 1.
	Base Ball	8. Same as any other game honor, as No. 1.
	Track and Field Events	9. Any girl who accomplishes the “Age Aims” as listed in the Physical Training Hand Book in:-

1.	A running event.

2.	A jumping event.

3.	A throwing event.

shall be entitled to one honor.

Swimming

10.	Any girl who will present a certificate from the teacher in charge of a swimming pool approved by the Physical Training Department of the school, said certificate indicating that she can swim 3 different strokes, one of which must be the breast and show any one dive in good form, is entitled to one honor.

Further Honors

11.	Any girl chosen class leader of her section, who attends 80 per cent of the class leader meetings and does her class work for one year to the satisfaction of the teacher in charge is entitled to one honor.

12.	Any girl credited with “A” (excellent) for her work during the regular gymnastic period every term for one year is entitled to one honor.

AWARDED HONORS

A girl who wins any three honors shall be awarded her Class Numerals.

A girl who wins six different honors, one of which must be a ^ame honor shall be awarded the School Letter.

A girl who wins nine different honors, one of which must be a game honor, shall be awarded a School Sweater.

In inter-school competition the privilege of playing on a team representing the school is the only honor recognized.

Digitized by kjOOQle
Digitized by v^.ooQle
259'

WAND EXERCISES FOR SENIOR MEN’S CLASSES

By GEORGE SEIKEL, Newark. N. J.

The exercises are described only to one side, but are to be executed twice to one and then twice to the other side.

Music:	“The	National	Guard”. March by R. Aronson.

Carl Fischer, Cooper Square, N. Y.

The four measures of the introduction are played twice between each two groups of the exercises. The two measures before the Trio are to be omitted.

FIRST GROUP First Exercise

Stride left forward, swing arms fore-upward (wand upward) F. 1 1 Rise on toes, swing the right arm fore-downward, left hand in front of right shoulder (wand vertical at the right side F. 2	2

Return movements................................ '........ 3—4

Repeat.................................................... 5—8

Repeat twice to opposite side............................. 9-16

Second Exercise Stride left sideward (straddle stand), swing arms left sideward (wand left sideward) Fig. 3............................. 1

Bend right knee, raise right arm upward (wand oblique, left

arm sideward, right upward) Fig. 4.................... 2

Return movements.......................................... 3—4

Third Exercise Stride left backward (straddle stand), place wand in rear of

shoulders (wand horizontal) Fig. 5.................... 1

Bend the right knee, swing wand fore-downward, and backward on right side of the body, left hand in front of right

shoulder (wand right backward) Fig. 6................. 2

Return movements.......................................... 3—4

Fourth Exercise

1—8 turn left, stride left forward (straddle stand), raise wand vertical in front, left hand high (the left arm ‘ obliquely fore-upward, the right obliquely fore-down-

ward) Fig. 7.......................................... 1

1—2 turn right, bend right knee, place wand obliquely in rear

right hand over right shoulder Fig. 8................. 2

Return movements.'........................................3—4

SECOND GROUP First Exercise

Plac6 left foot forward (whole foot on floor), bend right knee, swing arms fore-upward (wand upward, look toward wand)

Fig. 9................................................ 1

Change knee-bending, turn trunk left, swing arms left sideward (wand left sideward, look toward the rear) Fig. 10... 2 Return movements.......................................... 3—.

Digitized by t^ooQle
Digitized by

Google
Digitized by Google
262

Second Exercise

Place left foot sideward (whole foot on floor), bend right knee

swing arms left sideward (wand left sideward) Fig. 11.. 1

Change knee-bending, bend trunk left, swing arms downward and right side-upward (left hand in front of right shoulder

wand vertical) Fig. 12................................2

Return movements.......................................... 3—4

Third Exercise

Place left foot backward (whole foot on floor), bend right knee, place wand in rear of shoulders (wand horizontal)Fig. 13.. 1 1—4 turn left, change knee-bending, bend trunk forward, straighten arms forward (wand low, middle of the wand in

front of the left foot) Fig. 14... .................. 2

Return movements......................................... 3—4

Fourth Exercise Place left foot obliquely forward (whole foot on floor), bend right knee, swing left arm left obliquely fore-upward, right hand in rear of neck (wand left obliquely fore-upward over

the left arm) Fig. 15................................ 1

Close left, bend knees deep, arms forward (the wand is swung right obliquely back-upward and then downward to the

forward position)	Fig. 16............................ 2

Return movements......................................... 3—4

THIRD GROUP First Exercise

Lunge left forward, swing arms fore-upward (wand upward)F.17 1 Change knee-bending, lower trunk forward, swing right arm

backward, the left hand comes close to the right shoulder (wand right obliquely back-upward, look downward — the movement resembles the thrusting of a spear downw’d)F.18 2

Return movements........................................ 3—4

Second Exercise

1—4 turn left, lunge left forward, swing left arm forward, right

hand over head, Fig. 19............................. 1

1—2 turn right, change knee-bending, close grip right and bend arms to strike over head (the right hand changes to undergrip and slides to the left hand, the wand is in line with the

spine) Fig. 20...................................... 2

Return movements........................................ 3—4

Third Exercise Lunge left sideward, swing wand to left hip (the wand is horizontal on left hip, look forward) Fig. 21................ 1

Change knee bending, swing wand upward and right obliquely side-downward (bend right as in throwing the javelin) F. 22 2

Return movements........................................ 3—4

Fourth Exercise

1—8 turn left, lunge left forward left arm obliquely fore-upward (wand in line with the arm, right arm bent in front of

shoulders.) Fig. 23................................. 1

1—2 turn right, change knee bending, swing wand down and

fore-upward to horizontal position, Fig. 24......... 2

Return movements........................................ 3—4

Digitized by v^.ooQle
Digitized by v^ooQle
264

KICK BASE BALL.

By N. C. SEUSS, Supervisor of Cincinnati Park Playgrounds.

RULE I. Arrangement of Game.

Any number of players may take part in this game. The players are divided into two teams (a) the kickers and (b) the fielders.

RULE II. Object of the Game.

The object of the game is to kick the ball out into the field and reach one or more bases before the fielders get possession of the ball.

RULE III. The Diamond.

The diamond is laid out with a 35 foot base line. The bases are 2 foot square. A 10 foot serving line is marked in rear of home base (see diagram).

RULE IV. The Ball.

Regulation basket ball is used. For smaller children use a volley ball.

Dtoqrani of Kick B ase Boll
265

RULE V. The Line Up.

The kickers are lined up according to size in rear of serving line. The fielders are arranged at irregular intervals within the diamond (see diagram).

RULE VI. The Foul Line.

The foul line must be drawn in a straight line from the outer edge of first and third base to the boundary of the field. A foul line is also drawn across in front of home base (see diagram).

RULE VII. Kicking the Ball.

The ball may be kicked (a) from the ground; (b) as a drop kick; (c) as a bounce kick.

RULE VIII. The Serving Line.

The ball must be kicked from the rear of serving line; stepping on or over the line constitutes a foul.

RULE IX. Choice of Inning.

The choice of inning shall be decided by flipping a coin.

RULE X. The Game.

9	innings constitute the game.

RULE XI. The Scoring.

The team scoring the greater number of runs wins the game.

RULE XII. Tie Game.

If the score be a tie at the end of the 9th inning the play shall continue until a decision is reached.

RULE XIII. Scoring of Runs.

One run shall be scored every time a base runner after having legally touched the first, second and third base shall touch the home base before three players are put out.

RULE XIV. Base Runners.

A kicker becomes a base runner instantly after he makes a fair kick.

RULE XV. Base Runners on Base.

Any number of base runners may be at the same time at one base.

RULE XVI. The Base Runner is Out,

1.	If hit with the ball before reaching the first base.

2.	If ball reaches home base before base runner reaches second, third or home base,

3.	If a fly ball is caught,

4.	In kicking 2 fouls,

5.	Interfering or being hit with the ball while running from one base to another,

6.	In leaving bases while fly ball is caught,

7.	In leaving the bases while ball is out of play.
266

PRE-MILITARY TRAINING DRILL

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Director Physical Education, Cleveland School,

Newark, N. J.

This is a drill produced by boys 13 to 15 years of age of the graduating class at the commencement of the Cleveland School June 28, 1917.

Costume: Brown knickerbockers, white blouse with buff collar and brown tie. (Buff and brown are the school colors.)

Preliminary

1.	Bugle call: “Reveille.”

2.	Bugle call: “Assembly”.

3.	Boys behind scene sing “Marching through Georgia” in low voice as if far away, gradually increasing in volume as if approaching from a distance, and after singing the first two lines of the song they march in from the right in flank rank with wands at right shoulder. They face left to form front rank and halt at the end of the first stanza of the song.

4.	Upon command: grasp wand with left hand, hip high, 1—2 Present, (Wand vertical in front of body, right elbow touching

right hip,) 3—4.

Return wand to right shoulder and lower left arm to side in position of “attention”, 5—8.

5.	Roll of drums; Boys run to open column: distance in ranks and files is length of two steps.

I

Exercises with wands: 36 inches long, 3-4 inches thick. Music, 2:4 time. Introduction, 4 measures: Raise left arm, sideward swing arm in 1-2 circle downward to position sideward right, swing arm in circle inward and grasp upper end of wand, lower wand to horizontal position down in front, 1—8.

First exercise: Lunge right sideward and raise arms sideward right, 1—2.

Place right forearm on left and bend trunk left sideward, 3—4 Reverse these movements and return to starting position, 5—8 Second Exercise: Lunge right foreward and raise right arm upward, left hand at right hip, 1—2.

Bend trunk left forward and lower arms downward (hands near tip of toes) 3—4.

Third exercise: Dipstep (layout) right backward and raise arms left sideward, 1—2.

Straighten right arm upward, 3—4.

Fourth exercise: Lunge right diagonally foreward outward, left hand in front of chest, 1—2.

Lower left arm diagonally side downward and backward, right hand over right shoulder, wand crossing the back between the shoulder blades and turn head right, bending it backward, 3—4. (Note: All these exercises are executed alternately first in the described direction, then opposite and then repeated, requiring 32 beats or 16 measures, i. e. 64 measures in all excepting introduction.

Digitized by LjOOQle
267

II

Single stick fencing exercises in 4:4 time.

1.	Raise stick to right shoulder, left hand hip high, 1—4. Present: Stick vertically in front of body, 5—8.

Carry at right shoulder, 9—12.

Lower left hand to side, 13—16.

2.	(Exercise to the front.) Half left face and point (the stick is held in prolongation of the right arm, which is held diagonally downward to the front, end of stick 4 inches from floor.) 1—4.

Elevate. Stick is raised diagonally upward, 5—8.

With moulinet left and right strike for the head, 9—12.

Right foot forward on guard, 13—16.

Two appells and close to the front, elevate stick, 1—4.

Parry left cheek, 5—8.

Strike for right flank with moulinet and lunge, 9—12.

Parry the head, hand in tierce (at right side of head) 13—16. Strike for left cheek, 1—4.

Parry left flank, grasp stick with both hands, 5—8.

Strike for the head, 9—12.

On guard, 13—16.

Moulinet right and change guard to the right, 1—4.

Close to the front and elevate, 5—8.

Parry left cheek, 9—12.

Strike for right flank, 13—16.

Parry the head, hand to right, 1—4.

Strike for left cheek, 5—8.

On guard, 9—12.

Carry arms, closing right foot to left, stick to right shoulder and face front, 13—16.

Ill

Bayonet and rifle exercises in 4-4 time.

Right half face and port arms, 1—4

Left foot forward on guard, 5—8.

Extend arms, 9—12.

On guard, 13—16.

Extend and lunge, 1—4.

Right rear short thrust, 5—8.

Thrust, 9—12.

Parry left flank, 13—16.

Right rear short thrust, 5—8.

Butt to the front, 9—12.

On guard, 13—16.

Change guard to the right with moulinet right (raise left foot and leap from right foot to left, then from left to right foot and finally from right to left foot, during these 3 quick leaps make 1-4 turn to the right,)1—4.

Aim and fire, 5—8. (The firing may be imitated by a click of the tongue).

Digitized by C^ooQle
268

Kneel right and load, (lower right hand to hip and look down going through motions as if loading the rifle), 9—12*

Aim and fire, 13—16.

Load, 1—4.

Aim and fire, 5—8.

On guard, 9—12.

Change guard to the front (leaping as before) 13—16.

Note: Now change music to 2:4 quick time.

Extend and lunge, 1—2.

Parry the head, 3—4.

Right rear short thrust, 5—6.

Thrust, 7—8.

Parry left flank, 9.

Parry head, 10.

Right rear short thrust,, 11.

Butt to the front, 12.

On guard, 13—14.

Carry arms, 15—16.

Note: All these exercises (wand, single stick and rifle and bayonet drill) are executed without a stop.

Command:

Rest. Wand is placed on bend of left elbow, head bowed.

Accompanied with appropriate music. A slumber song will do, 1—16.

Roll of drums. Boys quickly stand at “attention,” 1—8. TABLEAUX.

No. 1. Grouping of boys posing in tableau formation (with appropriate slow, music,) 1—16.

No. 2. Music: “The Star Spangled Banner. 8 boys carrying

U.	S. flags appear in succession at the beginning of each line of the song.

At the words “Oh, say, does that star spangled banner still wave o’er the land of the free, and the home of the brave” the boys swing their flags in a figure eight.

No. 3. Music:	“Columbia,	the	Gem of the Ocean.” All

poses change and a girl representing Columbia enters and mounts a pedestal in the rear of the stage, carrying a large U. S. flag in her right and a sword in her left hand. Her guards, who accompany her carrying wooden guns, take various places and positions in the tableau.

No. 4. Music: “America.”

Poses of boys in tableau change.

Note: One stanza of each of the three patriotic songs is sufficient; the audience will rise and join in the singing while standing. To make the tableaux more effective use calcium light; if this cannot be had a large stereopticon lantern will do.

Digitized by CjOOQle
269

FOR KING AND COUNTRY.

A remarkable grouping of children spelling “For King & Country.” Presented at a fete given in aid of disabled soldiers at the Arena, Toronto, Canada by the physical training classes of Branhsome Hall and the Margaret Eaton school under the direction of Mary G. Hamilton.

BOOK REVIEW.

4‘The Play Movement and its Significance” by Henry T. Curtis, Ph. D. 346 pages 5 by 7 1-2 inches, illustrated. Price $1.50. Published by the Mac Millan Company, New York.

Few people in the United States have had the opportunity to inspect playgrounds in different parts of the country as has been the good fortune of Dr. Curtis. Few people therefore can with any degree of accuracy speak of the relatively good and bad things actually found in different cities. Added to the above the author of this book for many years has been an active leader in the play movement in America. The result of this combination is a book that should be very valuable to all who wish to get correct view points from which to judge the efficiency qf the play and recreation work in his own city. The book also should be valuable in play, recreation, physical education and courses for social workers.

Digitized by kjOOQle
270

DEFECTIVE NUTRITION IN EARLY LIFE.

It has been estimated that approximately 10 per cent of the children in the schools of our large cities suffer with malnutrition. There can be no doubt that a proper bodily nutrition is essential to bodily health and efficiency. It cannot be doubted that there are many persons in every community whose efficiency is impaired by malnutrition. This affects the efficiency of the community just in proportion to the number of such cases. It is then a matter of great importance to inquire into the causes and measures for the relief of these cases of malnutrition. Many, if not most cases, of undernutrition, except those developed by disease, in later life, originate in early life, i. e., before the sixth year. It is the cases of malnutrition which we meet during the first six to ten years of life that I shall have in mind in this discussion. The first question that presents itself is, to what extent is this condition hereditary, or inborn and to what extent is it developed. Some cases are certainly hereditary, while others are as certainly developed by unfortunate surroundings, disease or accident. Among the diatheses so much discussed a few years ago, the asthenic diatheses was one.

By a diathesis was meant a condition of body or constitutional anomaly which predisposes to other pathological conditions. Asthenia universalis is a term applied by B. Stiller, of Budapest, in connection with certain individuals who have physically degenerated and show marked atonic condition with dyspepsia and neurasthenia. He believes that some persons are bom into this condition and remain in it with little chance of being lifted out of it. Acquired asthenia is the result of faulty hygiene and faulty metabolism, due to either faulty methods of feeding or the result of disease, and often dates back to infancy or early childhood and by reason of inertia or neglect remain uncorrected as the years go by. It is evident that any reconstructive efforts to be successful must be begun in early life. When practicable such children should be transferred from city to country life, as a city life is too strenuous for them, and an outdoor life will do much to increase their general tonicity. Much more can be done for the acquired cases than for the hereditary cases, although, by careful management these latter may be greatly benefited, especially if they can be put under the care of a judicial nurse or governness. A great many neurotic mothers are not fit to raise their own children because they are too unstable to maintain a fixed policy and to manage a sensitive

Many of these underfed, mostly neurotic or neurasthenic children are injured during infancy or early childhood by faulty feeding, by acute infections such as the exanthemata, tonsilar infection or acute gastro-enteric infections.

These children are naturally regarded as delicate, therefore they are brought up in the idea that they are to be nursed, pampered and indulged.

Not rarely they come to us with a card from the school, as

child

Digitized by
271

suffering with malnutrition, or, possibly from general tuberculosis-Much can be done for these cases of under nutrition and lowered vitality by careful management if efforts are begun early, or during the pre-school age, or before the effects of vicious habits are too firmly fixed. It is at this time that the remedial defects in children are often neglected or overlooked. During these years, when the general health and bodily characteristics are being formed, the responsibility for the future citizen rests upon the parents and the family physician. It is the up-to-date family physician, not the specialist, who can make good citizens of many of the cases, we are discussing. He is in a position to follow up the supervision with the family, which is essential to obtain results.

By the time the child reaches the age of six or seven years,, the chance of changing the general bodily health and constitution grows rapidly less.

The first necessity is to obtain a complete history of both child and parents; the home life, disposition, characteristics and habits-This takes time and patience, and will often inspire confidence and perhaps the co-operation of the parents without which we can do nothing. Much will depend also upon the practicability and the definiteness of directions and the ability and willingness of the parents to carry out the measures recommended.

These directions should include the regulations of the daily habits of exercise, rest, play, sleep, entertainment, diet, the care of the mouth, nose and throat. Since we cannot take time here to take up all these matters in detail, I want to say a few words about some of them.

These children are usually treated as if they were half invalids, and are often pampered too much. This is a mistake. While we cannot always practice the so-called hardening process by exposure to extreme changes of temperature and weather^ we can allow them as much liberty of action as their health will permit, and much more than parents are inclined to do. Fresh air at night is now easily obtained, thanks to the influence of the fresh air propaganda. All children should be made to walk as soon as they can do so readily, instead of being wheeled about in a go-cart. They should not be hemmed about with too many don’ts. Give them range enough to let them develop, with just enough oversight to protect them from bodily harm. It is sometimes surprising to see the improvement in an apparent weakling who has been restrained at every turn from this kind of liberty.

It goes without saying that long hours of sleep, a proper a-mount of rest after the tire of play or walking must be enjoined-This should be systematic and not haphazard. Entertainment— so-called—is often carried to the ridiculous. To allow a child of five or six years to attend the theatre or picture show, especially those of the type of children we are considering, is a great mistake-It excites and exhausts the nervous system to an alarming degree.

As the mouth is the port of entry of all that nourishes the body, so also is it the port of entry of infections that determine the health or ill health of the body. It is only in recent years

Digitized by A^OOQle
272

that we have come to realize the great influence of oral, nasal and tonsilar infections on general health. Dental malocclusion, dental caries, pyorrhoea, adenoid growths, sinus, diseased mouth, deformities, tonsilar infections, all have a very important effect on the development of children, as well as their general health. It is now well known that many of our diseases, originate in these infections; as for example, rheumatism, so-called, either acute or chronic deforming, endocarditis, gastric disorders, including gastric and duodenal ulcers, appendicitis and gall bladder infections, middle ear infections, deafness, mastoiditis, some cases of pneumonia, and possibly others.

It has been observed by some authors that tubercular children usually have bad teeth. Dr. Knepf says, “I defy the most skilled physician to either cure or help a tubercular patient who has decayed teeth in his mouth. The restoration of the teeth increases greatly the chances of recovery.”

In the management of these physically defective children, we should carefully inspect and treat, or have corrected, any source of infection in the mouth, nose or throat.

In recent years, especially in large cities and suburbs, infections have grown more frequent and in some cases more virulent, and hence the secondary diseases such as cardiac diseases, renal diseases, pneumonia, mastoiditis, gastric and duodenal ulcers, are apparently on the increase. As the people in the country living near large cities more frequently visit the city now than before the advent of the automobile, these remarks apply to the country as much as to the city. The question of nutritional disorders in childhood is a common one and a difficult one to handle.

The chief difficulties we have to contend with are:

1.	The prejudices and preconceived notions of the mother

or nurse.

2.	The previous habits and prejudices of the child.

3.	The lack of appetite or digestion of the child.

4.	The unwillingness of the child to assist.

The Notions of the Mother or Nurse.—Frequently the most difficult mother to manage is the one who reads a popular book, or some other authority, on foods. I was recently called to treat child of twelve months for malnutrition. It was very anemic, had no teeth, could not walk, and had been losing weight for four months. I found that the mother had read that green vegetables contained iron. She was giving him spinach, celery and lettuce every day and still he lost weight. By a sensible change in diet, omitting these “greens,” he gained color and five pounds in three weeks and began to walk.

Another preconceived notion of mothers is, that a child should be made to eat the things she thinks are good for him, or go without; the result being that the child expects a contest every time he comes to the table. This method of trying to force a child to cat seldom succeeds in securing the object desired. This notion of mothers must be corrected to one of coaxing the child’s appetite rather than driving it. This can usually be done by catering to

Digitized by ^ooQle
273

the child’s likes and dislikes so far as substantiate go. Find out by numerous trials, what appeals to the child, by ever changing variety, avoiding nick-knacks which benumb the appetite.

Most mothers think that a child of two years must eat soft boiled eggs and meat juice to live. They do not dare to allow a fried egg, or an omelet, or fried potatoes or fried mush. He must have a chop or roast meat, never salt meat. If a child of two to four years takes milk he does not need egg or meat of any kind. He gets all the protein he needs in the form of casein and albumin and in a better form than as meat. It is a very common observation that the child who drinks milk freely is stronger, grows to a larger stature than other children of the same family who do not drink milk. I regard it a misfortune when a child does not take milk. Rarely we meet with cases of milk anaphalaxis, hut more often we find that the mother is to blame for the distaste for milk. At the weaning period she allows other foods to displace milk, or, because she does not like milk she causes her child to dislike it because of suggestion. This I have often observed. Efforts should be made in such cases to induce the child to return to milk in some form, as junket, custards, malted milk, etc. When possible a lacto-fariaaceous diet will generally be found to give the best results. Vegetables will be a useful addition to these, letting the child at first select the vegetables it is willing to eat. Among the farinaceous foods, allow the greatest possible liberty of choice and method of cooking. Cast theory to the dogs, when necessary, in methods of cooking or selection of cereal. The main object with these children is to promote appetite and nutrition. When milk cannot be used, for any of the above reasons, the difficulty is greater. Meat, cheese, legumes or eggs will be needed. If fresh meats are distasteful, it is usually because of monotony in the selections. It must be known that salt meats are often more palatable and quite as digestible as fresh meats. Cold corned beef, tongue, bologna, dried beef (smoked beef), ham and bacon are usually well borne in reasonable amount by children three or four years old. Those meats which have been soaked in brine as a part of the curing process, are especially desirable because the connective tissue has been disintegrated so that in mastication the tendency is to crumble and expose a greater surface to the digestive juices than is the case with fresh meats. It is a law of chemical action that the rapidity of reaction is proportionate to the surface exposed. It is for this reason that bread is raised, and that bread that is old enough to be brittle is more easily and rapidly digested than new bread which is doughy or plastic. For the same reason hot biscuits, griddle cakes, dumplings, sweet potatoes and bananas are less easily digested than some other goods. The modem steamed oats, for the same reason, is less easily managed than the old-fashioned cracked oats, and the latter should be selected. However, some of these foods may be allowed if on trial they appeal to the appetite and are well borne. I would except the bananas for other reasons.

Fats.—Most of these children discard fats as far as possible.

Digitized by kaOOQte
274

-and no efforts are usually made to correct this vice. The cells of the body all contain from 15 to 25 per cent of fat as an essential part of their composition, and hence it is essential to the growth and maintenance of the life of these cells. To be sure when fats are not supplied carbohydrates, proteins and the tissues themselves can be and are made to furnish fats. But this entails considerable loss of energy, and the body prefers to receive the fat as such. This is shown by the fact that when it is supplied freely the body stores it up without change. Thus if a dog is fed goose fat freely, analysis shows that the fat stored up is not all dog fat but goose fat. If the dog is starved the goose fat is used up just as readily as the dog fat. Fat is essential to the well being of all growing children. It can most readily be supplied by milk, butter, bacon and gravies, all readily taken by most children and easily digested. Even when milk is not well borne, butter is usually well tolerated during the second year and later, and I have come to regard it as a great assistance in the treatment of all cases of malnutrition. For many years I have made it a practice to ask consumptives if they like fats. In the vast majority of cases a look of disgust is the answer. Sometimes the abstinence from fats is an early symptom of tuberculosis of the lungs, and I have thought at times this contributes largely to the progress of the ■disease. At any rate the free use of fat may retard its progress to a marked degree. For this reason I regard bacon and butter in liberal allowance as highly beneficial in all cases of malnutrition whether due to tuberculosis or not. The use of cod liver oil in tuberculosis is too well known to need discussion. The storage of fat in the tissues adds to the nutrition of the cells, gives added strength, protects the body from loss of heat by radiation, gives rotundity to the figure and serves as fuel for use during temporary cessation of food in illnesses to which all of us are liable.

Sugar.—Sugar is the most easily metabolized of the food constituents, especially malt sugar. The only drawback is that when used too freely it has certain disturbing effects on the digestion of other necessary foods. It benumbs the appetite especially when taken between meals or on an empty stomach. Therefore, it should be eaten with the meals unless it is found to produce acid fermentation. These under-nourished children are apt to be very fond of everything sweet, and many of them will not eat anything else if allowed to indulge this tendency. The tolerance of sugar must be studied in each case. When well tolerated and when taken with meals it acts to protect the proteins and fats to a large degree and it promotes the retention of water which is desirable. The too free use of sugar tends to increase acidemia, which is a frequent tendency in such children.

This brings me to speak of another matter of considerable importance, and one frequently overlooked. This is the balance in acid-forming and alkali-forming foods. A dietary should be such that there is a slight excess of alkaline residue left after complete combustion, to maintain the proper degree of alkalinity of the blood and lymph. Otherwise the child suffers with acidemia or

Digitized by v^ooQle
S'

I'A ANGc NO

it

o

v>v

a sub-alkalinity of these tissues, and may develop scurvy.

In general the meats, eggs, cereals, including rice, are acidforming foods.

The fruits, green vegetables, milk, potatoes, legumes and milk are alkali forming foods. Meat soups, meat juice and cereals without milk or vegetables, then, must be regarded as an improper continuous diet. When they are used their acid residue must be neutralized by potatoes, vegetables, fruits or milk. The so-called anti-scorbutic foods, it will be observed, are all alkali-forming foods, and there are good reasons to believe that scurvy may be induced by this form of acidemia independent of the absence of the so-called vitamines. This is one very important element in the failure to grow and develop in some of these cases of malnutrition.

The reason why orange or other fruit juices act so promptly in the cure of scorbutis is that they supply inorganic bases to alkalize the tissues. Children are more likely to suffer from acidemia than adults, because of their more restricted diet.

Experiments on mice show that they die in eleven to fifteen days, when fed on an ash free diet of pure casein, fat and sugar, and do not better when sodium chloride is added to this diet. They live twice as long when sodium carbonate is added. Taylor developed marked symptoms of acidosis or acidemia in nine days in living on practically an ash free diet. Goode and Joslin tried the same experiment but did not develop these symptoms. Wright, who studied the epidemic of scurvy during the siege of Ladysmith, says the disease followed a diminished alkalinity of the blood due to food which furnished too little of the bases. Gautier states that the outbreak of scurvy during the siege of Paris was not connected with the use of salt meat, but with the exhaustion of the supply of vegetables. The diet of children then should be so chosen as to furnish the body with enough base-forming elements to neutralize the acids produced from the metabolism of the sulphur and phosphorus of the food eaten. This is a strong argument against the too free use of soups in the diet of young children.

DISCUSSION.

Dr. A. Clifford Merger, Syracuse: Every physician present would agree, I think, with Dr. Bartley when he says: “The question of nutritional disorders in childhood is a common one and a difficult one to handle.”

I believe, farther, that no two physicians would handle this common and difficult problem in a given case in the same way, and that no one physician would attempt to solve the problem in just the same way in two different cases. The factors used in the solution of the problem are at least more numerous than the letters of the alphabet from which are formed all the words and sentences of the English and numerous other languages. So, therefore, the number of possible combinations of these factors is greater than the number of words in an unabridged Webster, and the actual combinations are probably as numerous as the patients of all the

Digitized by

Google

J
276

physicians who seriously deal with the nutritional disorders of the first six years of life, which period Dr. Bartley says he has in mind in his discussion.

Even during the first year of this period, when conditions may be pretty well controlled, no hard and fast rules can be laid down, while with the passing years conditions become more complex and less subject to control and, therefore, less subject to hard and fast rules.

Dr. Bartley’s paper is full of suggestive details, too numerous for one in the alloted time to discuss in turn even briefly.

Speaking from my own point of view I am led to believe that the most universal fault in the majority of cases in question is neglect of correct habits in relation tp the passage of food stuffs or their derivatives through the beginning and end of the alimentary canal. In infancy it is the irregular hours of feeding, following the whims of the baby or the convenience of the mother, with food perhaps right in quality and quantity, but more commonly wrong in these respects. In older children it is the eating between meals, spoiling the appetite for meals, and the neglect of a regular stool habit. Even with good food, the results may be disastrous, but with food wrong in character and amount the results are obvious,

In regard to the character of the food given to older children my usual practice is to advise mothers to use as a guide the food lists found in Dr. Holt’s little book, “The Care and Feeding of Children”. I tell them when a neighbor or relative suggests a food the child has not had before to consult the book and give the food only if it is in the approved list, and certainly not if it is in the forbidden list. If in doubt about any point I ask the mother to talk the matter over with me. Mothers who are capable soon learn to make good use of this guide, and to some the little book becomes almost a second bible. Its teachings become in a very satisfactory way general fundamental subjects for discussion which are supplemented by modifying or additional advice to meet particular conditions.

Finally, I would add that when we take credit unto ourselves for a successful result it is at least wise to take into account the elasticity and adaptability of the digestive function. Depending upon this adaptability I feel reasonably sure that many of us consciously or unconsciously often really train a baby to thrive on the food which we for theoretical and clinical reasons see fit to prescribe. Perhaps, for instance, following the teaching of an enthusiast, one trains the infant to take a proportionately excessive percentage of fat, and successfully up to a certain point, but only more intelligently than the Italian tenement mother in a negative way trains her baby to take during its first year substantial adult food with remarkable impunity, —New York State Journal of Medicine.

Digitized by kjOOQie
277

A PROGRAM OF PROGRESS IN PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By JESSIE H. BANCROFT, Assistant Director of Physical Training, New York Public Schools.

The enlarged opportunities that lie before New York City for the physical training of its school children should make a marked difference in the health standards of the community. Four hours a week are to be added to the recreative exercise of all children 8 years of age and over, according to the new State (Welsh) law, which became effective on Sept. 1, while other forms of school exercises are continued; furthermore, the facilities provided for physical training in some of the duplicate schools in the city are beyond anything hitherto available here for this subject, including, as they do, increased gymnasium and playground space in many schools, additional equipment and supplies, and assignment of more time and teachers to the subject.

Will the schools prove equal to this opportunity? Time, equipment, teachers, and course of study are only the working machinery through which results might be attained. Will the schools rest merely on filling this time with activities provided by a course of study, or will they make a closer adaptation than heretofore to the needs of individual children, bringing to bear all of the health agencies available to achieve definite results?

The difference in these two points of view is enormous. One attitude sees only the external machinery and trusts vaguely to the use of this machinery for producing some generally good results; the other makes the individual child the point of departure, considers his needs, adapts the work definitely to those needs, and seeks to produce specific effects. The profession of physical training, like that of education in general, has too long relied on the former methods; some of us are trying to swing it around to the new attitude of the new day, which demands an accounting in definite terms from every stewardship.

Just what does such a change of attitude imply? First of all, a closer correlation or segregation of all existing health agencies in the schools, including medical examination, fresh air classes, school lunches, other means of affecting nutrition, special clinics, and physical exercise in its many branches. The medical examination of all school children should be more frequent than at present, and include some items not now noted.

Chest development, for example, is not noted in present physical examinations, nor made an object of special training through exercise, yet there are many children whose undeveloped chest proportions are a serious menace. The functions of the alimentary tract are not made an object of investigation, or training, although it is an astounding fact that from 40 to 90 per cent of the school children have heavily coated tongues. Except for extreme anaemic and tubercular cases there is no relation between the specific nutrition needs of the children and the splendid development of school lunches. The intensified public interest on all food questions should be utilized for meeting these individual needs, as should'

Digitized by C^ooQle
278

also the domestic science department, parents, associations, and district instruction classes on food now being conducted. Orthopedic defects of feet and spine receive little attention, and special classes or clinic facilities for treating them are inaccessible or inadequate to school needs. More should be done in many schools for the training of posture, although some admirable methods have been started for this. Cardiac conditions that are susceptible of improvement through exercise are not receiving the special work that recent development in medical and physical training practice have shown might improve them. Other specific examples might be cited.

To meet individual needs in so definite a way for hundreds of thousands of children is a gigantic undertaking, but it is not at all impracticable. The force of school doctors, nurses, and physical trainers would have to be increased, and in some lines original research would have to be made to determine the best adaptation of means to ends. This means clear ideals, scientific methods, wide co-operation, and strong leadership. But New York City already has a wonderful corps of workers, and should be able to meet the great opportunity before it. A standardized scale of measurements for all health essentials should be established, as has been done on the one subject of posture, and the health efficiency of every individual, every class, and every school should be determined at regular intervals in the terms of that scale. Several years might be required to establish such methods, but until something of this kind is done we shall not be meeting our great responsibility for the health training of school children.

We should go even further, and certify for every child graduated, not only that he has reached the maximum health standards which it may be proved reasonable for the schools to establish, but we should co-operate with agencies for vocational guidance by indicating for what kinds of work he is physically fit. For example, if England ,can divide the heart conditions found among her recruits into several classes, fit, respectively, for full military service, for less strenuous garrison duty, for quiet clerical work, or, in extreme cases, those not safe for any demand on the heart, surely we can do as much in starting out in life the hundreds of thousands of young people who annually leave our schools. The number of young men rejected for our army draft as physically unfit is primarily a reflection on the schools in which they have been educated, barring irremediable conditions due to heredity and home environment. A majority of cases of defective lungs, heart, feet, posture, eyesight, malnutrition, lack of power and, endurance, are potentially or actually something that the schools should have discovered or improved.

Some day we shall blush to relegate even our middle-aged men and women to the scrap heap of physical defectives, and that so many of our young men are already there is a biting arraignment of our inadequate methods. In the face of the present stem measuring of physique for military, industrial, and' civilian life, can we, as a nation, do our work and hold our place in the world unless our schools produce definite health standards as basic to all their intellectual, technical, and moral training?

Digitized by v^ooQle
279

HOW MUCH FAT WILL YOU GIVE?

Monthly Health Letter No. 39 Life Extension Institute, Inc.

New York City. Eugene L. Fiske, Editor.

To our Members and Subscribers:

There are large stores of fat in this country about which we seldom hear. There are 200,000,000 pounds of fat on the bodies of our citizens that could profitably be surrendered.

Is this fat available?

Can we consume it without cannibalism?

Most assuredly. This fat can be burned in millions of human furnaces and thus release for food consumption other fats or greatly needed fuel foods, such as wheat, corn, oats, barley and rye.

Where is the proof that the middle-aged American is overfed?”

It is found in the following analysis of life insurance experience showing what overweight and fatty accumulation do for the human body.

We are not now referring particularly to so-called fat people,, but to the average individual who has reached full maturity.

Our ideas of what the average man should weigh are derived largely frrom life insurance statistics showing the average weight at the various ages of life. These figures are used as standards by which to measure normal or ideal conditions, but these standards are faulty in that it has been found by life insurance experience that after full maturity — say ages 35 to 40 — and throughout middle life, those who are somewhat underweight have a lower death rate than those who are of average weight or beyond.

Just as the death rate increases in regular proportion to the increased use of alcohol so does the death rate increase in regular proportion to the increase of overweight.

The following figures from the experience of 43 American Life Insurance Companies tell the story of overweight:

Ages: 45 to 49.

Height: 5 ft. 7 in. to 5 ft. 10 in.

(Height and weight taken with coat and vest or waist off, and in shoes)

Note: The Life Extension Service of the Institute comprises the following features:

Health Examinations: Periodic health examinations for the purpose of detecting disease in its incipiency, when hygienic guidance or proper treatment by the family physician can check or cure it.

Educational: Monthly Health Letters or Bulletins conveying information regarding the prevention of disease, the improvement of health and the acquirement of physical fitness; Keep-Well Leaflets dealing with special phases of personal hygiene and right living.

These services are available at a moderate cost to individuals applying directly, to life insurance companies for their policyholders, employers for their employes, and to members of clubs, societies, schools, etc. Correspondence is invited.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
280

Average weight	4	per	cent	higher	death	rate	than 10

lbs. under the average weight

5 lbs. above average

	weight		8 per cent	44	44	44
10	44	44	12 per cent	44	44	44
15	<4	44	18 per cent	44	44	44
20	44	44	22 per cent	44	44	44
25	41	44	26 per cent	44	44	44
30	44	44	32 per cent	44	44	44
35	44	44	40 per cent	44	44	44
40	44	44	49 per cent	44	44	44
45	44	44	55 per cent	44	44	44
50	44	44	60 per cent	44	44	44
55	44	44	65 per cent	44	44	44
€0	44	44	71 per cent	44	44	44
65	44	44	78 per cent	44	44	44
70	44	44	85 per cent	44	44	44
75	44	44	92 per cent	44	44	44
30	44	44	100 per cent	44	44	44
85	44	44	110 per cent	44	44	44
so	44	44	120 per cent	44	44	44

There are between the ages of 35 and 55—a period of life when -excess weight causes its most serious ill effects—a vast number who could surrender ten pounds or more of fat. In fact, the 20,-000,000 people in these age periods could profitably give up 200,-000,000 pounds of fat, the surrender of which would make this nation happier, healthier, and more efficient. This amount of fat is equal in energy value to 690,355,533 1-lb. loaves of bread. It would supply the total energy requirement of an army of 3,000,000 men for 60 days.

How to Surrender Fat.

. There are two ways.

First, by exercise.

Second, by regulation of the diet.

In the first way, by exercise alone, there would be no food saving, but if the exercise is in the form of productive labor the individual and the nation would be benefitted.

If it is merely in the form of exercise, recreational or formal, the individual and the nation would also be benefited inasmuch as the result would be a more efficient citizen.

Without in the least discouraging exercise, we must point out that with civilized modes of living the average man cannot devote sufficient time to exercise to burn up very much of his fat. Everyone should try to do setting-up exercises each day, and to get as much walking, climbing, and recreational exercise in the open as possible, but when all is said and done, there is a strict limitation on what the average citizen can do in this regard.

If very much overweight, his best recourse is to the second method—that of dietetic regulation, and he should bear in mind

Digitized by

Google
281

that this does not mean starvation or deprivation, but just what the word implies—regulation—the eating of certain kinds of foods in preference to others.

It so happens that these fuel foods which contribute to overweight are the very foods which are so greatly needed in the present crisis, grains, cereals, and flours; fats and sugars to a lesser degree.

A man who is 40 pounds overweight is carrying on his body the equivalent in fuel value of 135 1-lb. loaves of bread! We hear a good deal about food speculators and food hoarders—but how about the fat hoarders?

This fatty accumulation has always been caused by improper stoking of the human furnace. An inordinate amount of food is taken or else, with an average consumption of food there is less than the average amount of physical activity.

Fortunately for the heavyweight, he can correct his condition much more readily than the extreme lightweight. In the latter case there may be some fundamental lack of vigor, or a poor physical endowment that makes it difficult to assimilate food.

With the average heavyweight it is simply a matter of arithmetic—to cut down his calories until he begins to bum his own fat. While the procedure is simple, yet it is not without some dangers,, and extreme measures, either with regard to exercise or diet should never be taken and are never necessary. Complete abstinence from the essential fat-forming foods in the diet would be very unwise, just as it is unwise for a middle-aged fat man, whose organs and tissues have suffered by his indulgences, to undertake prolonged, strenuous exercise. After a physical examination, which has made clear that there is no organic disease that is responsible for the overweight, it is simply necessary to reduce— not “cut out”—the fuel foods in the diet and introduce in the place of such foods those that have very little fat-forming value. There is absolutely no need to take any special medicine, or mysterious course of exercise, or to do anything that is at all difficult, intricate or complex. It is simply necessary to bear in mind the types of fcodg that are high in fuel value and eat lightly of them, substituting in their place the feeds that are chiefly composed of fibre, cellulose,, and water. Following such simple directions as these, many people in the service of the Life Extension Institute have had no trouble in getting their weight down 30 to 60 pounds.

There can be no argument regarding the wisdom of gradually taking off an excess of 25 to 50 pounds, or more.

The man of average weight, however, or one who is only 10 to 15 pounds overweight may attempt to argue the question as to whether he is not entirely physically fit as he stands. To such a man, who has reached 35 years or beyond, we recommend that he view himself in the looking-glass “in the buff”, and observe whether there are any sagging outlines on his body; whether his muscles can be outlined readily under his skin or whether they are overlaid by soft cushions of fait. If there are no sagging outlines on his body, no soft, padded cushions, it is possible that he-

Digitized by LjOOQle
282

may be of a heavy-framed type, and that he needs little reduction. JBut these cases are exceptional.

Underweight—Its slight effect at Middle Life

Ages:

5 lb. below the av. wgt.			3 per cent lower death rate than av. wgt.			
10 “ “	tt	tt tt	4 per cent “	a	tt tt	a tt
15 “ “	tt	it it	5 per cent “	n	tt tt	tt tt
20 “		it it	5 per cent “	a	tt tt	tt tt
25 “ “	ii	it ii	4 per cent “	tt	tt tt	tt tt
.30 “	tt	it ii	3 per cent “	tt	tt a	tt tt
35 “ “	tt	ii ii	2 per cent “	tt	tt tt	tt u
40 “ “	tt	it tt	0 mortality of average weight			
45 “ “	tt	tt ii	3 per cent higher death rate than av. wgt.			
-50“ “	tt	tt tt	6 per cent “	tt	a a	u n
(Height and weight taken with coat and vest or waist off, and in						

shoes.)

It must be remembered that these figures are taken from life insurance sources where the individuals have been subjected to careful medical examination. This shows that no matter how .careful the medical examination, it has been impossible to select a favorable class of mature overweights, while it has been possible to select a relatively favorable class of mature underweights. It .should also be remembered that those figures relate to underweight and overweight entirely apart from other adverse factors. That is, these groups presented no other departure from the normal .than their variation in weight.

Table of Heights and Weights at Age 30

(Most favorable for average person thereafter throughout life)

	Men:				Women:			
	Height			Weight		Height		Weight
-5	ft.	0	in.	126	4	ft.	8 m.	112
-5	ft.	1	in.	128	4	ft.	9 in.	114
-5	ft.	2	in.	130	4	ft.	10 in.	116
5	ft.	3	in.	133	4	ft.	11 in.	118
5	ft.	4	in.	136	5	ft.	0 in.	120
5	ft.	5	in.	140	5	ft.	1 in.	•122
5	ft.	6	in.	144	5	ft.	2 in.	124
5	ft.	7	in.	148	5	ft.	3 in.	127
5	ft.	8	in.	152	5	ft.	4 in.	131
5	ft.	9	in.	156	5	ft.	5 in.	134
5	ft.	10	in.	161	5	ft.	6* in.	138
.5	ft.	11	in.	166	5	ft.	7 in.	142
6	ft.	0	in.	172	5	ft.	8 in.	146
6	ft.	1	in.	178	5	ft.	9 in.	150
6	ft.	2	in.	184	5	ft.	10 in.	154
6	ft.	3	in.	190	5	ft.	11 in.	157
6	ft.	4	in.	196	6	ft.	0 in.	161
6	ft.	5	in.	201				
		(Height and		weight taken .with coat			and vest	or waist off,
				and in	shoes.)			.

Digitized by kjOOQle
283

The following is a simple dietary for an overweight'who has no serious organic disease:

Breakfast:	Apple,	small	orange,	or	1-2	grapefruit

One or two eggs

Thin toast, dry or very lightly buttered Coffee, with hot milk instead of cream; not more than one lump sugar Luncheon:	Vegetable	soup	(no	creamed	soups)

Rye bread, bran bread or bran biscuit, or Graham rolls—thinly buttered (one small pat only)

Lettuce and cheese salad, or lettuce and tomato, or fruit salad French dressing

Dinner:	Moderate	helping	of	any	roast	of	lean meat or non-

fat poultry or fish Baked or boiled potato

Any bulky vegetable (as lettuce, Swiss chard, parsnips, carrots, turnips, celery, oyster plant, cabbage, Brussels sprouts, tomatoes, salsify, Spanish onions, spinach) Coffee

Fruit dessert—grapefruit cocktail, oranges, or stewed fruits

Beware of alcohol, especially beer; also candy between meals, and pastry. Pie, French pastry, and sweet desserts often furnish as many calories as the balance of the meal (pie, 300 to 400).

A cup of boullion and a cracker may be taken at 11 a. m.,; tea, with lemon and a little sugar at 5 p. m., and a glass of skimmed milk on retiring, if the need of food is felt.

The more rapid digestion and absorption of such a dietary, owing to the small amount of fat, may account for the feeling of “goneness” that some people complain of when following it; hence, the value of forenoon and afternoon “snacks.”

Such a diet can be h6ld down to 1500 calories or less and thus force the average individual to contribute 1000 calories daily from his own fat. A fairly liberal indulgence in such a diet will keep the calories below 1800 and with even a moderate amount of exercise some weight will gradually be lost each day.

Avoid starvation diet and fasting, except for diseased conditions, such as diabetes, when such measures should be taken under medical supervision. A starvation diet robs the tissues of building and repair material. It is not such material that should be reduced, but the fatty tissues.

There is no reason why the man or woman of 60 should not have the general outlines of youth. The unwieldy shapelessness of the average elderly person is unnecessary. See that the young people are generously fed and well nourished, but after 30, watch the scales!

How much fat will you give?

Digitized by kjOOQle
O'

284

>o

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

........-..	.1,1	o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

Diet and the Bacterial Flora of the Intestine.—It is

becoming an accepted dictum that the most important factor in determining the character of the bacterial flora of the intestine is diet. Ingestion of foreign bacteria, even in large numbers, does not of itself seem to displace the common intestinal types in normal individuals. This fact needs to be kept in mind in any attempt to implant a special strain of bacteria for therapeutic purposes in the digestive tract. Interest has been concentrated from time to time on several groups of micro-organisms which may appear in special relations to the alimentary processes. They include the so-called “putrefactive” bacteria, of which the Bacillus coli and B. welchii are familiar illustrations; the aciduric micro-organisms represented by B. acidophilus, B. bifidus, and also the widely heralded B.	bulgaricus; and	latterly the amylolytic or starch-decomposing

bacteria, of which the Glycobactor peptolyticus of Metchnikoff is an example. Each group represents organisms which somewhat specifically exhibit a pronounced disintegrative effect on individual types of food compounds—proteins, sugars and starches, in the order referred to above.

Long ago Herter and Kendall found that in animals an abrupt change in diet from a dominantly protein (meat and eggs) to a milk and sugar diet is followed by an alteration of physiologic conditions in three distinct directions: in the nature of the intestinal flora, in the putrefactive products of the feces and urine, and in the clinical conditions. The chief characteristic of the bacterial change is the gradual but rapid substitution of an acidophilic non-proteolyzing type of flora for a strongly proteolyzing type. The chief feature of the putrefactive conditions in the intestine is the reduction of the indol, skatol, phenol and bound hydrogen sulphid and a diminution in the indican and aromatic oxyacids of the urine. Clinically the most striking feature of the change in diet is (in monkeys) an improvement in spirits and activity which may safely be construed as showing a markedly improved sense of bodily and psychic well being. The diminished intestinal putrefaction may in part be ascribed to a reduced protein intake when meat and eggs are omitted from the dietary, but this alone was not believed to account for the pronounced physiologic changes, particularly the alteration in the flora. After noting the extensive bacterial degeneration which follows the change from one diet to another, Herter and Kendall ventured to assert that possibly in conditions of disease of the intestinal tract in which undesirable bacteria abound both on a protein diet and on a diet rich in carbohydrates, frequent alternations in the chemical nature of the diet are beneficial by interfering with the establishment of any one type of bacteria in the intestine.—From an editorial “The Journal A. M. A.”

Digitized by Google
285

The Backward Child.—In his interesting and practical article Dr. C. W. Kollock (Jour. So. Carolina Med. Ass’n., Aug. 1915) calls attention to the great value of good vision and hearing to the growing child. Next to mental capacity they are the most important and when we remember that of the twenty million school children in the United States fifteen million have some eye, ear, throat and nose trouble, the work to be done is by no means to be undervalued. What, then, is the best method of handling this undertaking? Undoubtedly the medical inspection of schools by competent physiciahs would be the best way, but for various reasons it has not proved successful. First, it is difficult to get physicians to devote sufficient time to the work without compensation, and in many States the school funds are not sufficient to pay adequately for the time and trouble. Again, it was found that when physicians were chosen to perform the work there was more or less jealousy on the part of those who had been left out, and it was also intimated that their practices were at times interfered with. Some parents also object to their children being examined by others than the family physician. Therefore, the best solution of the problem would seem that the work should be done by the teachers themselves in the following way: At the beginning of the school term, one day could be set aside for the examination of the children, such as testing the vision, the hearing, noting obvious defects, such as crossed eyes, inflamed eyes, impaired hearing, running and foul smelling ears, mouth breathing, etc. It may be said that this is too much work to put upon an already overworked individual and that teachers are not competent to do it. In reply to the first objection I will remind you that it is to be on a day set aside for that purpose alone, and supposing that each room had about forty pupils it could be done in a day. Secondly, no special training is necessary beyond that which can be given by a competent specialist, or a physician in general practice. About five minutes will suffice for examining each pupil who will either be passed, or the parents will be requested to have a physician see the child and, if possible, correct the defect. It seems scarcely necessary to add that the child who is nearsighted will not be able to see the blackboards or other distant objects that are used in teaching. The tendency of these eyes is to become worse, and if nothing is done to protect them, seriously impaired vision and even blindness may follow. The hyperopic, or farsighted child suffers from headaches in his efforts to see small print and characters, and unless relieved by glasses he will suffer intolerably, be forced to give up the use of his eyes, or become a “repeater,” careless, shiftless, mischievous and, perhaps, in time, a criminal. Equally as dire results follow impaired hearing, due to adenoids, enlarged and diseased tonsils, etc.

Thus can be seen the great importance of looking carefully after our children in order that they may not go backward, but will grow up strong men and women, prepared to take our places, as soon as they must, in the various walks of life.— From “Hygiene and the Child.”

Digitized by
286

O-—	■■■■■	   -	O

ATHLETIC NOTES	|

o—	■	o

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

CHANGES FEW IN FOOTBALL RULES.

Minor Alterations Made for Season Rdfer to Substitutions

and Penalties.

Minor in character are the few changes in the football rules this year, and they may be told in a few paragraphs. Perhaps the most important is one that prevents an incoming substitute from communicating with any of his team on the field until after the first play. This is intended to bar as much as possible the advice of a coach while the teams are in play and when the situation is a critical one for either side. The new rule, however, has its exception, for if the substitute replaces the quarter back he is permitted to give his signal.

Interference with a man attempting to catch a forward pass has been changed to the loss of the ball to the offended side at the spot of the foul. This replaces the penalty which cost the offending side a certain distance toward its own goal line. The penalties for running into or roughing the kicker are now measured from the spot where the ball was put in play.

A place kick has been more clearly defined. It must be made by kicking the ball from its position when resting on the ground. A player may scrape up the earth, but may not make use of artificial tees. On kick-offs and free kicks not made from scrimmage the players may be in motion in any direction, provided they are on-side when the ball is kicked.

Provision is made that an uncompleted pass does not constitute a foul, which makes it possible to decline any penalty.

The Athletic World has again suffered a severe blow by the death of Evert Jansen Wendell, the New York philanthropist * and former Harvard athlete. As a result of an unsuccessful operation in Paris last August Mr. Wendell died in the American hospital there. Not since the announcement of the death of the late James E. Sullivan has the athletic fraternity been so shocked and grieved. As a student at Harvard he was intercollegiate champion in the 100 yds. distance in 1880 and 1881—title holder at the furlong distance from 1879-1882. Being a man of independent means he did not engage in any special business enterprises, but divided his time between rescue work for boys from the slums and lifting amateur athletics to its present high plane.

“May he rest in peace.”

Digitized by f^ooQLe
287

SENIOR NATIONAL A. A. U. CHAMPIONS, 1917.

ON THE TRACK.

Name	Event.	Club.	Time.

A. E. Ward......100	yards.......Chicago..........10	1-5

A. E. Ward......220	yards.......Chicago..........22	1-5

F. Shea ........440	yards.......Pittsburg........49	3-5

M. Devaney......880	yards.......Millrose, N. Y...1.57

*Joie Ray.......One	mile........Illinois.......4.18	2-5

Charles Pores...Five miles............Millrose, N. Y 26.26 2-5

*George Goulding Three-mile walk ..Toronto ....21.15	1-5

Harold Barron___120-yard hurdles...Meadowbrook .15

Frank Loomis....220-yard hurdles,..Chicago........24	4-5

fFloyd Smart....440-yard hurdles,..Chicago........54	4-5

ON THE FIELD.

Height.

E. Knourek......l.Pole vault.....Illinois........ 12	ft.	9	in.

C. Larson ......High jump...........Brigham Young6 ft. 21-2 in.

*	Distance

Pat Ryan........16-pound hammer Irish, N. Y..168 ft. 71-2 in.

Pat Ryan........56-pound weight ..Irish, N. Y.... 33 ft. 3 in.

Arlie Mucks.....16-pound shot....Chicago... 45 ft. 10 5-8 in.

Arlie Mucks.....Discus...........Chicago.......140 ft. 21-2 in.

Joe Irish ......Broad jump  .....Chicago.......22 ft. 4 3-4 in.

DanAheam........Hop,step.........Illinois........ 47 ft. 8 in.

George Bronder...,Javelin........Unattached ...,184 ft. 21-2 in.

* New championship records, t Equaled record.

A Swedish athlete, J. Zander, recently set a new record for 1500 meters, the classic distance of the Olympic program. His time was 3 min. 54 7-10 sec. or 1-10 of a second faster than the world’s mark made by A. R. Kiviat in the Olympic tryouts at Boston in 1912.

PLAN STANDARDS IN SCHOOL SWIMMING.

A plan has been evolved to place interscholastic water sports on a better footing, and it promises to solve the problem adequately until a high school swimming association is formed. The plan is simple, and there should be no trouble in carrying it out with the assistance of the National Collegiate A. A., whose co-operation has already been sought. It entails gaining the consent of all universities holding interscholastic water carnivals yearly to the adoption of the same competitive and eligibility rules, and to the division among them of the championship events.

Virtually all the interscholastic swimming meets are super-

Digitized by CjOOQle
288

vised by some college, and there is little doubt that practically every one will be glad to aid in standardizing high school aquatics and in the establishment of uniform laws.

Probably the most important feature of the outlined plan is the division of the championships. Hitherto every interscholastic meet has had title rank, so that the end of the season found several claimants to laurels at each event of the list. With the National Collegiate A. A. empowered by all concerned to allot sanctions, and the notice of the awards published in good time, there will be not only a chance for the contestants to make arrangements to enter their chosen events but larger and better fields should result, and the winners will have clear and undisputable right to the championship crowns.

It is not proposed, however, to ask the colleges to alter their usual programs. The full list of events may be held, but the entry blanks will indicate which carry title honors. The competitive rules suggested for general enforcement are those of the National Collegiate A. A., embodied in the yearly manual of the organization.

The standard of eligibility has been formulated only tentatively, but it sets twenty years as the age limit, bars contestants having • competed four years in high school sports, and prescribes that the student be in good standing, these matters being vouched for by the signature of the Head Master or Principal on the entry

In an editorial the Public Ledger of Philadelphia on August 5th expresses the following sentiments.

College Sports and War. At the suggestion of Secretary Baker, the Collegiate Athletic Association will do its best to restore -athletics to the program of the colleges. But the basis of sport will be changed. “Every student an athlete” has become the ideal. It is probable that the war will do away with the old gladiatorial tradition whereby thousands sit in a stadium, rolling cigarettes, to watch the writhings of a groomed handful of men on the turf below. The students will not energize by proxy; participation in games will be general. Secretary Baker well says that by the extant system the wrong men are trained. The strong men, not the puny, are made stronger. To those that already have, more is given. For the great mass of under-developed men requiring special exercise physique is a neglected elective. The scholar who contemns the body in his quest of the things of the spirit is allowed to cultivate the muse on insufficient calories unmolested, while the giant of the training table has the diet experts solicitously at his shoulder. The requirements of modem warfare are such as to set a premium on physical hardihood. There is no better preliminary training for the role of the soldier than the drill of the athletic field. But each man must be trained, and none must be slighted for the sake of an intercollegiate banner or bowl for the trophy room.—Philadelphia Public Ledger. Aug. 5,1917.

Digitized by
NOTES AND COMMENTS

For some years past the women’s clubs and other organizations of the state of Iowa which are interested in child welfare have been acting under the leadership of Professor Carl Seashore, of the state university, in the effort to secure from the legislature funds for a bureau of research in the university which should deal with the whole matter of conservation of child life. This movement has finally succeeded. The last Iowa legislature appropriated $25,000 for the organization of such a bureau under the direct supervision of the graduate faculty of the state university. The appropriation is to be expended in the establishment of an experimental station at the state university. This will be a purely research institution. The work will begin this summer. At first attention will be concentrated on some two or three lines of research which will be selected as soon as the staff is formed. A committee is now at work on preliminary steps toward forming the organization provided by law.

In some respects the work of the station will be to do concerning human life what animal-husbandry experiment stations have long been doing concerning care of animals. It will investigate the conditions in Iowa that produce ill-bom children and those that produce well-bom children.

By experiments the best methods of feeding children to produce health and efficiency of the body will be worked out in the university hospital. The values of various foods, as well as their costs, will be determined.

Plans include an investigation of the causes of infant mortality, from which it is hoped that the public can be awakened to the merits of preventive measures of all kinds, not only in warding off disease, but also in aiding production of the superior body and mind.

The station will seek figures regarding births and deaths of infants and the maiming, stunting, dwarfing, reduction, and crippling of vitality of those who survive. Sanitation, housing conditions, food supplies, and working conditions of mothers as affecting child welfare will be studied.

The problems which this bureau has set for itself are in no wise duplicates of the problems which are taken up by departments of education or other institutions which are engaged in the training of teachers. This is essentially a problem of developing better methods of training children in the home before they come to the schools.

The experiment will be watched with great interest by the rest of the country, and undoubtedly the suggestion in this Iowa legislation will be fruitful in stimulating other states to undertake similar types of investigation.—“Elementary School

Digitized by Google
290

SUMMER SESSION OF THE NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U. INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

Even the weather seemed to be in the good conspiracy to make the 1917 summer session of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union at Indianapolis a success.

The students, although not as many in number as in the previous year, showed their interest in the work in a marked degree, and all classes were very well attended.

The dancing classes were, as usual, particularly enjoyable and visitors were never lacking to smile approval on the graceful dancers. Mr. Rath and Mr. Heckrich had paid their usual yearly visit in June to Chalif’s and the other dancing notables in New York and gave to the summer students the latest dances taught by these experts.

An innovation which caused great interest was the course in pageantry given by Miss Bertha Fisher, assistant supervisor of physical training in the public schools of Philadelphia. During the last ten days of the course all the preliminaries of putting on a pageant were gone through. The enthusiasm waxed strong and regret was felt by all when it was realized that time did not permit the staging of the composite production.

Another new course was that on pediatrics given by Dr. Segar. He told of children and their diseases in such interesting manner that he made admirers and friends of all members of his class.

Other courses this year were the following:

Educational Gymnastics in three grades, given by Mr. Rath, Mr. Heckrich, Miss Mildred Jost, Miss Fisher and Mr. Frank Eckl.

Playground work, and Philosophy of Physical Education, by Mr. Stecher.

Descriptive Anatomy—Dr. Henry.

Emergencies—Dr. Maxwell.

Physiology and Hygiene of Sex—Dr. Ketcham and Dr. Kiser.

School Hygiene—Dr. Ocker.

Military Training—Lieut. Koster.

44 men and 43 women were enrolled.

Many enjoyable social affairs were arranged during the course. The weekly concert and dance in the German House garden always found a large table surrounded by students exclusively. Then there was that moonlight hike from Riverside to Fairview, memorable for the large number that turned out, and swimming and canoeing parties, all attended by congenial crowds.

K.	S.

The renewed interest in health, brought about by the great war, is showing itself in many different ways. For instance we seem to be destined to be deluged with many physical training books written, or rather compiled, by well-meaning but poorly prepared people. Schoolboards will be petitioned by publishing houses to buy these books and to put them into the hands of the regular classroom teachers. Glowing descriptions often written

Digitized by LjOOQle
291

by advertising experts who know little of the real conditions, of how to improve the race by physical training lessons given to the pupils in the classrooms will be sent to members of schoolboards. Many of these books will be sold and much effort will be expended by untrained class room teachers. We fear, however, that little permanent good will result, because the books were written by people who have had little or perhaps no experience with real school conditions. It will, therefore, be wise for teachers of physical training to scrutinize all books carefully, and to reject all that are too complicated to be understood easily by class room teachers or that show at a glance that the work offered can have little effect upon the health of school children.

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND WHY IT’S IN SCHOOLS.

“To make children of the public schools physically fit now and physically fit later when they are men and women,” is the aim of the State educational authorities.

State Commissioner of Education Kendall, commenting on the physical training law enacted at the last session of the legislature, says:

“This law is the fullest recognition of the value of physical training in public schools found in any American state. The effect of it upon the citizenship of the state will be far reaching, and as beneficial as it is far reaching. It affords all of us an opportunity for substantial public service.

“This law expresses the popular will that the children and youth of the state should be so trained that physical vigor should be a support for their intellectual lifp, their spiritual life, their industrial life, and last but by no means least, for their civic and patriotic life.

“He whose blood is red, whose muscles are hard, whose sleep is sound, whose digestion is good, whose posture is erect, whose step is elastic, whose endurance is lasting, and whose nerves are steady, has just so many resources in life. Physical vigor and soundness contribute to happiness, to accomplishment and to service to society, to state and to country.

“It has been very difficult to make a course that would fit all conditions in the State. Some districts already have courses in physical training adapted to their needs and well established in their respective school systems. Other districts have never had such courses and teachers are not well prepared to teach physical training.”

The physical training law compelled the school authorities to extend the school day a half hour.—Newark, N. J.,

Tuesday, Sept. 11, 1917.

Digitized by kjOOQle
292

The Newark, N. J. schools now start at 8:45 a. m. and close at 3:15 p. m. while the high schools begin at 9 a. m. and close at 3 p. m. instead of 2:30 p. m. The 1-2 hour per day has been added on account of the 1-2 hour per day, or, rather, 2 1-2 hours per week required by the new state law for physical training.—Another news item is that Dr. Addison B. Poland died September 15th. He was superintendent of our schools for 16 years and did much to promote physical training in Newark.

30 DIFFERENT MAGAZINES. All late issues. Yours for only 25c prepaid. Great help in teaching. Satisfaction guaranteed. Eastern Bureau, New Egypt, N. J.

Sworn Statement Required

By the Postal Law.

STATEMENT OP THE OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF MIND & BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minnesota.

EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 45 W. Johr.son St. Philadelphia.

MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 45 W. Johnson St., Philadelphia. BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser and H. Payne, New Ulm, Minn. PUBLISHER:—MIND & BODY PUBLISHING CO.

OWNER:—Albert Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

Known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders, holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities: None.

Affirmed and subscribed to before me this 25th day of Sept. 1917.

T. J. SNILSBERG,

Notary Public, Brown Co., Minn. (SEAL)	My	commission	expires	March 4th., 1923

NEW HAVEN SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS

FOR MEN AND WOMEN

OFFERS

A Two Years* Course of Preparation for Teachers of Physical Training.

Course of Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

Summer Course in Gymnastics and Athletics.

For Catalogs, Terms, etc. apply to E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director, 1466 Chapel St., New Haven, Conn.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe