\

. > I -i Mt

>. t

TATE NORMAL SCHOOL

' MIND AND BODY

Tol. 81. V	MARCH,	1914.

ANGSLSj, CALIi'CiU'.'lA

No 227

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 62 Mason St., Room 300, Milwaukee. Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

—The importation of Dr. Alvin Kraenzlein as a coach for German athletes who wish to prepare for the Olympic games at Berlin in 1916 may help to open the eyes of many men who weren’t quite certain if as teachers of physical training they were “back numbers” or not. A number of the best men from the Prussian physical training college at Spandau were detailed to take part in the training course at Berlin for coaches, led by Dr. Kraenzlein. These report “that they had learned much from Kraenzlein—but that they now were stronger supporters of progressive German gymnastics, especially of school gymnastics than before; that they resent the arrogant attitude of the athletic authorities who imagine that they have something exceptional to offer, as being absolutely detrimental to the growth of bodily education.”

Well, we foresaw a reaction, but did not expect it to come until after 1916. The fact that trained men who are studying for a profession take such a determined stand so early in the fight speaks strongly for the intelligent and wide-spread interest taken in Germany in the physical education of the masses, as compared with the interest the athletic world takes in the training of a few record breakers.

In this connection it may be of interest to note that the German Turnerschaft, an organization with nearly a million and a half members, is contemplating sending a commission to America to study American physical training and play methods. The impression is gaining ground in Germany that the Olympic commission headed by Carl Diem was taken in hand so thoroughly by some of our athletic authorities that they saw nothing of real American physical training life. Yes, that even the athletic life they saw was carefully picked out for them. The Germans, therefore, want to send a body of their best teachers, have these go where they want and see all that is to be

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Digitized by

Google
seen. We hope that this plan materializes, and that our European visitors will see much that will please them. Yes, that they will be greatly impressed with the intelligent effort made everywhere in our great country to help the physical development of the mass of boys and girls; that they will see the devoted work done by an army of hard-working teachers whose names never are mentioned in the sporting pages, but who, nevertheless, are doing more for America than are the coaches who are training a few record breakers. Isn’t it about time, that also here a more determined stand be taken against “arrogant athletic authorities” who appear to believe that by coaching a few men of exceptional physique they really are influencing the physical education of the masses?

—A New Kind of School. A committee composed of women deeply interested in school affairs was recently formed in the Civic Club of Philadelphia, under the direction of Mrs. Jesse D. Burkes, the wife of the director of the Bureau of Municipal Research. This committee, after much deliberation, has devised a curriculum for the elementary schools which to their minds is far superior to that in vogue everywhere in the United States. In the suggested program the sessions are increased to about six hours a day, and the time is equally divided among four activities, as follows:

1.	Drill at desk.

2.	Hand work.

3.	Study and recitation.

4.	Play and physical training.

The program for the first four grades is as follows:

A. M.

9:00 to 10:15—Arithmetic, geography, history, training in citizenship, beginning with second grade.

10:15 to 11:00—Directed play and physical training.

11	:oo to 11:45—Nature study or hand work or drawing.

p. M.

2	:30 to 3 :i5—Directed play and physical training.

3:15 to 4:00—Music, literature, art.

The typical daily program for the last four grades would be:

A. M.

8:45 to IO:I5—Arithmetic, geography, history, training in citizenship.

10:15 to 12:00—Hand work, laboratory work, science.

P. M.

1	:oo to 2 :$o—Reading, writing, spelling, language.

2	:30 to 3 :i5—Directed play and physical training.

3	:i5 to 4:00—Music, art, literature, drawing.

4	:oo to 5 :oo—Voluntary play.

Digitized by Google
The new feature in this program is the increased attention given to hand work and play, which assume a newer and broader significance than under the present curriculum. Hand work is taken to include a variety of occupations, which not only train the hand to accuracy and skill, but will give the child the power and resourcefulness that actually -comes from doing things for himself. Woodwork, metal work, modeling, weaving, basketry, sewing, cooking, housework, gardening, and the care of little children and animals, are among the subjects included in this useful department.

The play time of the children will be spent in physical exercises and games, which it is now believed are invaluable in developing the social side of the child’s nature, and cultivating qualities of courage and promptness of action.

The other subjects recommended are much the same as under the present system, but will be modified so as to give them a practical value, and a closer connection with the everyday life of the child and the community. Geography and history, for instance, will be taught in their local aspect, and in such a way as to give the child an understanding of the industrial and commercial conditions of his city, State and country. #

The Civic Club Committee is convinced that the efficiency of the public schools will be largely increased by adopting such a program. At present the public schools give all their attention to the acquirement of knowledge, which furnishes little preparation for practical life. The aim of the program under discussion is the development of personal power, through the building up of a sound body, and the formation of useful habits.

—Women who desire to be correctly and fashionably clad should unite in a protest to ninety-nine in every hundred shoe manufacturers and force them to make all new lasts with a correct balance of the foot. Their delusion that a woman’s foot is different from a man’s is not supported by the anatomical facts. It is an artificial growth fostered by their own traditional delusions.

NEWS NOTES.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, LA CROSSE, WIS.

The exhibition given on Jan. 23 by the School of Physical Education was attended by the largest crowd ever assembled in the gymnasium. After the Normal Band of forty pieces had given a delightful concert, the exhibition, which was the first one of its kind or character ever presented to the people of La Crosse, was enthusiastically received and appreciated. Following the exhibition a social dance was enjoyed.

In the normal school basket-ball championship race of Wiscon-

Digitized by L^ooQie
sin, the La Crosse Normal team has 1,000 per cent average. The locals defeated Stevens Point 50 to 26 on Feb. 6, and Superior 20 to 15 on Feb. 13.

The new Athletic Association organized has 150 members enrolled at the present time. The constitution has been drawn up and accepted by the Athletic Association. The following constitutes the executive board:—M. Byers, Pres.; Celia Kaufman, Vice-Pres.; A. Youngberg, Sec.; Mr. Moore of the faculty, Treas.; Dr. Sputh, faculty manager of all athletics; L. Hanson, student basket-ball manager; and A. Strum, captain of basket-ball team.

At the last meeting of the board of regents $15,000 was appropriated for equipment for our new athletic field, and enough money was appropriated to build eight new concrete or asphalt tennis courts. A committee is negotiating with builders to find out which is the better material for tennis courts.

Arthur Strum, Reporter.

PRELIMINARY PROGRAM OF AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION CONVENTION AT ST. LOUIS, MO., APRIL i, 2, 3, 4, 1914.

Headquarters at the Planters Hotel. .

WEDNESDAY, APRIL I, I9I4.

Visits to schools and other institutions throughout the day.

8	p. m.

Reception and entertainment to the delegates by the Citizens’ Committee at the Liederkranz Club. Addresses of welcome and response.

* THURSDAY, APRIL 2, I914.

9—11 *.30 a. m.

General Session at Soldan High School. Dr. R. T. McKenzie, Chairman. Topic: “Preparation of Teachers of Physical Education.”

“What the Normal Schools are now Doing,” W. P. Bowen, Ypsilanti. Discussion by Dr. D. A. Sargent, Cambridge; Emil Rath. Indianapolis, and others.

“A Scheme for Standardizing positions and titles in Physical Education,” H. F. Kallenberg, Chicago. Discussion.

1130—4 p. m.

Section Meetings. Central High School.

Public School Section. A. E. Kindervater, St. Louis, Chairman. Tonic: “How does physical training aid the school in training its pupils for efficient citizenship? The physical, mental and moral ends in Physical Training.”

“Health and Strength,” by Ethel Perrin, Supervisor Physical Training, Public Schools, Detroit, Mich.

Digitized by C.ooQle
“Skill and Endurance/’ by Arthur A. Knoch, M. D., Walnut Hills School, Cincinnati, O.

“Deliberation, Reflection, Determination, Perseverance and Self-control,” by Franz Weege, M. D., High School, Chicago. “Appreciation of the Beautiful, the True and Good; Self-discipline and Self-sacrifice,” by Millicent Hosmer, Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

Business Meeting.

Therapeutic Section. Baroness Rose Posse, Boston, Chairman. “Gymnastics in Physical and Mental Deficients,” by F. W. Ewerhardt, M. D., St. Louis, Mo.

“Further Experiences with my method of Cervical Dilatation without Anaesthesia,” by Curran Pope, M. D., Louisville, Ky. Paper, title to be given later, by Jay W. Seaver, M. D., New Haven, Conn.

4—6 p. m.

Demonstration of practical work under direction of Mr. A. E. Kindervater. Grades 1-8. Public schools of St. Louis and E. St. Louis. (This work will illustrate the regular day’s program as carried on in the schools.)

7—8 p. m.

Banquet for delegates and visitors at the Planters Hotel.

8	p. m.

General Session. (Main auditorium Planters Hotel) Dr. R.

T.	McKenzie, Chairman. Topic: “Education by Recreative Activities.” Edward B. DeGroot, Chicago; George W. Ehler, University of Wisconsin, and others.

FRIDAY, APRIL 3, I914.

9—11130 a. m.

General Session in charge of College Physical Directors’ Society. Planters Hotel. Dr. James Naismith, University of Kansas, Chairman.

1	-30—4 p. m.

General Session in charge of the teachers of Physical Education for Women, at the Y. W. C. A. auditorium. Miss Gertrude Dudley, University of Chicago, Chairman.

4—6 p. m.

Demonstration of practical work, under direction of Mr. A. E. Kindervater. Public and Private high schools, also colored high schools.

8	p. m.

Demonstration of practical work by classes representing Turn-vereine; Y. M. C. A.; Playground Association; Missouri School of the Blind; Boy Scouts; etc. Coliseum. Under direction of Mr. A. E. Kindervater.

Digitized by
SATURDAY, APRIL 4, I914.

9—11130 a. m.

General Session at the Planters Hotel. Dr. R. T. McKenzie, Chairman.

Illustrated lecture: “Physical Training in Europe,” C. G. Rath-mann, St. Louis.

“The main object of physical education,” Dr. E. H. Arnold, New Haven.

Discussion of the demonstration of practical work led by Mr. W. A. Stecher, Philadelphia; Dr. Carl Ziegler, Cincinnati; Prof.

R.	W. Seymour, Cedar Falls, Iowa.

Business meeting of the Council. Business meeting of the Mid-West Section.

THE REGULATION OF INTERCOLLEGIATE SPORT*

By GEO. W. EHLER, Professor and Director of Physical Education, the University

of Wisconsin.

The avowed object of this association is stated in its constitution and by laws to be: “the regulation and supervision of college athletics .... ” This is its chief business. An examination of its proceedings discloses that the subject of “Regulation” has been discussed under various titles and has occasioned the reports of several committees at each of the annual conventions. These discussions and reports cover almost the entire scope of the field and present the largest possible diversity of view.

A glance at some of the statements made in regard to the function, value, place, and control of athletics in the various addresses and reports will serve to indicate some of the reasons for the choice of the title of the present paper and also to bring the discussion more or less down to date.

Prof. Kemp of Columbia, spoke at the second convention on the “Proper Function of Athletics.” He said:

“The proper function of athletics whether intramural or intercollegiate is that of recreation and refreshment from the inroads of sedentary life.”

The “Committee on the Proper Administration of College Athletics” at the fourth convention, “does not deal with the regular work of the physical department of a college, but concerns itself only with the various forms of competitive athletics which add zest and pleasure to physical training.	I

Contrast now those limited conceptions with that of two college presidents.

* Read before the Eighth Annual Convention of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, New York City, Dec. 30, 1913.

Digitized by O-ooQle
Chancellor McCormick of the University of Pittsburgh, discussing “College Athletics from the viewpoint of a College President/’ said “the physical exercise which belongs to the play side of human nature is a fundamental necessity in the production of the kind of manhood which is to dominate the earth,” and declared that “athletics, collegiate, intercollegiate and communal, are a good thing and are worth a very considerable amount of trouble in order that they may be made the best possible.”

It is the opinion of Chancellor Day of Syracuse that: “the function of college athletics is to secure to the whole student body the most healthful physical development in the most exhilarating manner for the purpose of a sound and healthy scholarship, by adapting and using all manner of exercises and sports; and for the purpose also of inculcating practical moral ideals and the moral uses of the body in the development of manhood.”

That Prof. Kemp realized that athletics might have another function than that expressed in the quotation given is hinted at in these words of his:

“Instead of being a means of recreation and refreshment the teams have in their best uses become rallying points for intense patriotic devotion and support.”

That he believed that this was of little value or achieved at too great an expense is indicated by his conviction: “after long observation that on the whole we would be much better off in all the main purposes of a college or university if we did not have intercollegiate contests at all.”

In discussing “competition in athletics,” Dr. Sargent can see neither place for, nor value in, modern intercollegiate athletics, for he says:

“	*	*	*	*	our	present	method of competition leads to

madness and destruction. *	*	*	*

“We have allowed the fighting impulse, represented by the spectacular side of athletics, to get the better of the educational and developmental side. In other words we have lost control.”

In contrast to his we find the highest possible importance ascribed to this very feature by Dr. Gulick, in his address on “Amateurism.” He states, “Inter-institutional sports do not exist for the benefit of the competitors.” Then, referring to the playing of the two teams in a recent football game before 40,000 spectators, he went on to say that

“those 22 persons are creating and expressing ideals with reference to those things that are highest in life, ethical conduct and social relations. This game in particular—and intercollegiate sports in general—cannot stand or fall because of the number of knees sprained or the number of hearts dilated or even the number of lives lost,— because lives are lost in a far larger way and with far more direful

Digitized by LjOOQle
results through social and moral demoralization than through the physical injury of a comparatively few persons. The question must turn upon the effects of this playing upon the moral character of the general student body.”

“Here is a powerful social force. It may work toward a higher social morality or toward a lower one.”

That the general sentiment of this association is in sympathy with this last view is to be presumed from the favorable reception always given to the annual address of our former president, Capt. Pierce, who never neglected an opportunity to say that this association “believes in the educational features of athletics and sees herein great possibilities for the betterment of the youth of the land and through them the nation at large.”

That he believed in intercollegiate athletics as a moral and social force is plain when he says:

“If we can encourage the great mass of youth of this land to take part in manly games in a rational and gentlemanly manner, we will have done much for their moral and physical well being. Since over fifty per cent of the successful men are college graduates, what a wonderful field this is in which to work for the national welfare.” “If we succeed in eradicating the “win at any cost spirit” on college athletic fields, the civic life of this country undoubtedly will be wonderfully benefited.” *

Coming now to the consideration given to the question of direct control of athletics, we find the association in its constitution and by-laws committed to the principle of “faculty control.”

Prof. Waldo, discussing the “Proper Control of College Athletics■” argues for “Faculty Control,” and expresses his conviction of the importance of the subject in the words of Prof. Hetherington, as follows :

“This whole question is in a sense fundamental to the success of our colleges. It is practical and broadly ethical. The college officer who busies himself with every other phase of college life and neglects this is in a measure like the Pharisees who thought only of mint, anise and oummin.”

The “Committee on Proper Administration of College Athletics” four years ago recommended that the control of athletics be vested in two bodies, as follows:

“Control of athletics in a college divides itself into two classes of functions. The first class includes promoting, organizing, practicing, selecting, electing, financing, devising, methods, formulating plans, awarding honors and fostering a general institutional interest in the cultivation of a manly athletic spirit. The second class includes idealizing, advising, supervising, confirming, revising, rejecting, admonishing, correcting, disciplining.”

“The first class of functions belongs to the students’ athletic

Digitized by CjOOQle
board, made up of athletic association officers, representatives of natural college divisions, captains, managers, coaches, and one or two faculty advisers selected by the students themselves. The second class of functions belongs to the faculty athletic committee. The presiding educational officer is of course a member of this committee ex-officio, and he appoints, say, three, five or seven other members who represent in opinion and policy the dominant opinion and policy of the institution. This committee should be from among the strongest men in the faculty, for its duties require the greatest available wisdom and experience. Upon it there is no place for student, alumnus or business officer; its problems require for their solution the critical ability, wide experience, and impartial judgment of the best type of college professor.,, This report was referred to the Executive Committee.

At the following meeting in 1910, the following recommendation was presented by the Executive Committee of this association.

“It is the sense of the National Collegiate Athletic Association that coaching and training be confined to the regular members of the teaching staff, employed by the governing board of the institution, for the full academic year; and further, that athletics be made a regular department, or, combined with physical education, constitute a regular department, and receive the same consideration and be given equal responsibility and be held to the same accountability as any other department in the college or university.” This was adopted by a unanimous vote by the Convention of 1910.

It will be noted that this resolution went far beyond the recommendation of the special committee.

It emphasizes coaching and training by regular members of the instructional staff employed by the governing board of the institution (not the athletic association), and for the full academic year.

Further, it recognizes a kinship (but not an identity), between athletics and physical education, and recommends their administration through a regular department co-equal with other college or university departments.

It is very doubtful whether the full implication of this resolution has been realized by any considerable proportion of the membership of this association. The report of the special committee emphasized the point that faculty control should be exercised by the strongest men in the faculty, “the best type of college professor.” It is to be presumed that the executive committee had in mind the same “type of college professor” when it recommended the lodgement of the control of athletics in a department of physical education. Did the association in unanimously endorsing that resolution believe that the staff of such a department of physical education would include the “best type of college professor?”

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 10 —

Or, does the position taken last year by the Professor of Chemistry of Vanderbilt University express the prevalent sentiment?

Prof. Dudley, speaking on “The Proper Control of Athletics,” and basing his views on an experience of 18 years as President of the Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Association, adopts the principle of the special committee heretofore referred to and says:

“We will discuss the control of athletics under two heads, namely, faculty control and association control. They are both essential for the best results. Neither control alone is satisfactory. The faculty must have the active support of a virile intercollegiate association; while the association is almost helpless unless it has the activfc aid and co-operation of a sympathetic vigorous and courageous fac-ulty.,,

He expresses the same idea of the importance of the faculty committee being composed of the “best type of college professor” when he says:

“The faculty committee has more responsibility than most college committees, and it should be selected with the greatest care. The members of it should be broad-minded men who are even-tempered and not subject to “brain storms.”

And now for my point:	Does	this Association believe in the

resolution and its implication which it unanimously endorsed, or is it of the opinion of Prof. Dudley when he speaks further of the members of the faculty committee, and says:

“They should not be athletic directors, but men who are interested in sport for sport’s sake, and also in the human side of the student ?”

It is to be observed that the foregoing is the very latest expression on this question before this association, and so far as my knowledge extends, has so far met with no objection. It leaves the Association in the position of promoting athletics among college students as a great moral and ethical force, but specifically excludes from the direct control of these character building activities the very men from whom the student gets his only athletic training and the only men whose responsibility it is to develop and maintain whatever standard of athletic morals and ethics the institution professes. And on what ground, forsooth, is this exclusion based:

“They should not be athletic directors, but men who are interested in sport for sport’s sake, and also in the human side of the student.”

Is it true that athletic directors are not interested in sport for sport’s sake, nor in the human side of the student?

It is not the function of the speaker to defend the athletic director, but your attention is directed to the fact that no higher notes have been sounded at any convention of this association in regard to the moral and ethical values of athletics than by athletic directors,
— 11 —

notably in Dr. Gulick’s address on “Amateurism,” Professor Heth-erington’s report on “The Amateur Law,” which for some reason has been omitted from the printed proceedings of this association, and Dr. McKenzie’s “Chronicle of the Amateur Spirit.”

However, there is no doubt that there have been and there are at the present time, athletic directors of the type described. There are no apoligies for them here.

For the sake of the argument, though, let us grant that athletic directors are such a class as Prof. Dudley intimates. Does any one believe for a single moment that athletics taught by such men can issue in constructive character building? What utter folly then to believe that the “control” of athletics by faculty committees of'even “The best type of college professor” can ever be more than a method of repression and restriction,—a purely negative measure, absolutely without ethical or moral force.

Right here is to be found the fundamental error and weakness in almost every effort to “regulate” and “control” athletics of any sort. “Faculty control” has eliminated many of the abuses and evils and vices of athletics as observed under “student control” or “alumni control,” but it has utterly failed to develop any considerable moral force of a constructive type, except in so far as there has been recognized and made effective; the paramount function of the athletic director and his associates; namely, moral leadership of a positive and znrile type. If the athletic director has not exercised this function, whose has been the fault? Has he been given to understand that it was expected of him? Has it even been expected of him? How many institutions demand it of him ? It is interesting to note that the athletic director had not appeared directly as a factor in this matter of “control” in any of the discussions of this association until this reference by Prof. Dudley. Yet his reference reflects a very preyalent attitude that is a symptom of the superficial consideration that has so far been given to the subject.

This brings the discussion down to date and furnishes the ground for what follows.

“The regulation of intercollegiate athletics” must cease to be negative, and must become positive and constructive. Instead of repressing and restricting, it must encouiage and promote. Regulation of athletic sport must be designed to secure the values of athletics rather than to waste time and energy in the endeavor to prevent their abuses and vices,—an exploded pedagogic error.

Constructive regulation is based primarily upon a recognition of the nature and function of play as the fundamental determinant in the growth and development of all children and youth in respect to the physical organs and their functions, intelligence and character. Athletics—vigorous fighting games—are the characteristic play activities of adolescent youth. Their function as a primary and funda-

Digitized by CjOOQie.
— 12 —

mental mode of moral and ethical training has been most eloquently presented and defended before this association on various occasions. It is unnecessary that this should be dwelt upon further. Neither is it needful that time be taken to discuss the value of athletics in promoting the growth and development of the physical organs and their functions, nor in the training of the intelligence.

For a long while athletics have been considered one thing, physical education quite another. In the Greek system no such distinction was made. The distinction grew out of the rise of the gymnastic idea which had its origin in the exigencies of the modern school and the congestion of the present day city. It is the function of physical education to systematically promote and conserve all the values of the play activities of the child, the youth and the adult, whether those are of a physical, a psychic, an ethical or a social nature; be the mode gymnastic, aquatic or athletic. It is high time that the divorce were dissolved and the identity of athletics as a phase of physical education be admitted. College and university faculties must cease to consider athletics as a necessary evil, the occasion of vice and dissipation, an incident in the life of the student, and begin to concern themselves with it as a moral agency, an essential in the life and education of every child and youth, and to place the organization, conduct and administration of these activities on the same plane of dignity and responsibility with every other department of instruction and training.

This association has unanimously endorsed this position, as shown in the resolution quoted. It is time now to make our acts square with our words, by recognizing the implications of this resolution and carrying them into effect.

What are some of these implications? They have been suggested already.

ist. Athletics — intercollegiate as well as intramural — to be made an essential part of the system or method of physical education in each institution.

2nd. The staff of the department of physical education to include every person having anything to do with any aquatic, gymnastic or athletic activity conducted in that institution.

3rd. The members of that staff to be selected in the same way and subjected to the same tests of education, training, experience, and instructional efficiency, as other members of the faculty, but in the matters of moral character, personality and leadership to be required to measure up to the highest practical standard set by “the college professor of the best type.”

4th. Wherever the athletic instructor does not approximate to the standard, displace him with one who does. Better no athletics at all than training and coaching by a man whose influence is not positively constructive.

Digitized by
— 13 —

5th. The athletic director should approximate “the college professor of the best type”: he should be a member of the “faculty committee” and properly its chairman.

6th. Positive and aggressive promotion of the ideas and ideals of clean sport by the athletic department among the student body and through them in their home communities, and further, through establishment of relations by the extension method with communities, elementary and secondary schools and normal schools.

7th. The selection, education and training of college men of the best type to be physical educators and athletic directors and instructors.

Until this association goes consciously and deliberately to the root of this whole matter and enters upon a constructive campaign to actually carry into effect the resolution and its implications that were unanimously endorsed three years ago, all other efforts to regulate athletics will be largely futile and barren of constructive results.

With the members of this association united in an aggressive campaign to control athletics from within through the hearts and lives of the youth of this country, we may hope to see the day when this will be a nation of athletic youth of high ideals and virile manliness such as Greece never knew.

SUPPLEMENTARY WORK.

By GERTRUDE DUDLEY, Chicago, 111.

For many years it has been the practise in universities and colleges of high standing to offer and often to require courses in physical education, and, as preparation for such requirement to give the incoming student a more or less elaborate physical examination. Several objects have been sought in these examinations, among others, more or less interesting data with reference to the general physical development of the young person of college age. From this data, tables of average height, weight, chest expansion, etc., have been given to the public.

Undoubtedly the intelligent correlation of these facts with other facts, relating to nationalitv. to the section of the country from which groups of students come; eastern, southern, central, etc.; the home circumstances: rural, small town, urban; the pecuniary level represented by them, the type of preparatory school: public, high, parochial, nonsectarian private, will some time prove the basis of interesting conclusions concerning the conditions in which our young persons are growing up. Because of the need of such information the personal history seems quite as significant as the physical examination, if not more so. The height of a student depends to some extent upon a chance standing position, girths and expansions upon a tight or loose tape line, while various nervous impulses at the time

Digitized by Google
— 14 —

of the examinations influence to a greater or less degree the pulse, respiration, and blood pressure. But the facts of social and personal relationship are taie facts and are therefore valuable.

The physical examinations can and should be made to serve as a stimulus to arouse interest on the part of the student in bettering her physical condition. To the examiner’s statement, “You have a chest expansion of only one and one-half inches” the student will invariably reply, “How much should I have and how can I get it?” and the other facts indicative of limited development can be so put as to arouse the same interest and effort. But, using these measurements with the utmost skill, the departments in which such examinations have been made for a considerable time, realize more fully every year how little they tell of the real condition and actual physical efficiency of the student. On this account there has been a fairly wide-spread reduction of the number of measurements taken as compared with those taken ten or fifteen years ago. Bone lengths have been practically eliminated and muscle girths, biceps, etc., are now seldom made.

It is possible in connection with examinations, however, to secure data which may prove of very real service to the student and to suggest and prescribe practises other than those connected with class work, which constitute physical education in a very real sense. I mean practises with reference to the daily care of the body which will require self-control, and the patient steady application of suggested principles which will result, not only in better physical condition but in the higher level of character based upon self-control. In this connection the small table of figures relating to the subject of constipation which have been obtained during the past two years in the Department of Physical Education at the University of Chicago, seems to me to have real interest.

At the time of the entrance examinations much emphasis is placed upon the personal history. This is always taken by the examiner herself, never left for the student to fill in. The following questions are asked in reference to the action of the bowels. Whether or not the student has (i) a daily action, (2) takes a laxative, (a) what, (b) how often, (c) how much. These examinations are followed during the next few weeks by consultation with each student who has reported any irregularity. They group themselves into three classes. (1) those who are interested in the problems, who know it is “bad to take anything, but don’t know what else to do.”

(2)	those who think it “does not make any difference as it has always been in the family.” (3) those who “have tried everything and nothing helps.”

For each case, abdominal exercises, correct standing posture, diet and general care are recommended in accordance with the need of the individual students. If the cases are obstinate, the students

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 15 —

are asked to report every week for further recommendations. Naturally the results depend largely on the point of view of the student, the extent to which her interest can be aroused and her co-operation secured. This co-operation means the substitution of patient effort, tedious exercise and attention to diet, for the quickly taken and swiftly acting dose, and the following figures on that account seem significant, in spite of the small numbers as compared with the total student body.

The first examinations were taken during October 1911 and 1912, the second records some time during May 1912 and 1913. Autumn 1911

Total number examined.................................. 223

Number taking medicine from once a week to daily......	53

Number taking medicine daily and yet no free action. . .	9

Total ................................................ 62

Spring 1912

Free action daily	without	laxative................... 39*

Improved, medicine taken less often..................... 12

No change............................................. 11

Total ............................................... 62

*	Six of these were from the group of nine chronic cases and at the time of second examination their improved condition had extended through two months.

Fall 1912

Total number examined.................................. 240

Number taking medicine from once weekly to daily......	54

Number taking medicine daily and yet no free action. . .	4

Total ................................................ 58

Spring 1913

Free action daily	without	medicine................... 43*

Improved, medicine less often............................ 3

No change............................................. 12**

Total ................................................ 58

*	Two of these were from the group of four chronic cases.

** Seven too busy to take the exercises.

Five did not follow the diet.

To illustrate the different types of student and some of the methods used the following cases are given:

CASE A.

History. Miss X, age 23, height 5.2, weight 165.5, a city resident. Special student doing labratory work. Had been a nurse, done some clerical work, some vocal work. Bad standing position, muscle tone poor, skin inactive, susceptable to colds, avoided both fresh air and free use of water. Drank three or four cups of coffee daily. Doctor said, “absolutely no exercise,” took laxative daily, “nothing else to be done.”

Digitized by Google
— 10 —

Prescription. Sitting, general body building exercises.

Low wooden stool or hard bottom chair with foot stool, arm bending and extension; sideward, forward, upward and downward; deep breathing. Trunk bending sideward left and raise, deep breathing. Same right. The arms progress in position from hips firm to arms up; trunk bending forward and raise; deep breathing.

Standing balance exercises. Simple combination of arm and leg movements with increasing degree of co-ordination.

Special abdominal work. Sit, feet supported and slightly raised ; trunk bendinp- forward, arm across the abdomen, the closed fist pressing on the liver. Stride stand forward, trunk turning toward the forward foot. Stand; knee bending upward. Lying; knee bending upward. Lying; abdominal massage. Lying; rythmical diaphram movements.

Diet. Drink one cup of hot water in the morning one-half hour before breakfast. Drink two, hot or cold, before retiring. Gradual decrease of amount of coffee. Gradual elimination of sweets. Whole wheat, rye, or bran bread. In addition to the regular food, one or more of the following vegetables daily, cabbage, onions, sourkraut, carrots, either cooked or used raw, grated on salad. Cooked fruit at least twice daily; dates, figs, dried prunes or pears. Olive oil twice daily.

Habit. Regular time for daily action, with concentration. Daily bath.

Result. Loss of ten pounds in weight, one and one-half inch in both hip breadth and girth, able to walk two miles, no laxative taken for two months, daily action.

CASE B.

History. Miss C, age 29, height weight 123, resident of small town. Teacher for six years preceeding, in good condition with the exception of occasional attacks of neuritis. Walking, only form of exercise. Had taken laxative daily for six years, before that time twice or three times weekly. “Did not like to do it but knew no other way.”

Prescription. Sitting, body building exercises, special abdominal work, diet, longer hours of sleep with a short daily period of complete relaxation preceding luncheon, rowing and golf.

Result. Gain of twelve pounds, other measurements increase in proportion. Strength tests—hand grip increased 70-85; chest strength 55-70; lung capacity 150-160. No laxative for six weeks, daily action.

case c.

History. Miss Z, age 19, weight 127, height 5.4, entered from high school in good condition with exception of standing position. Had taken laxative twice or three times a week. “What difference does it make.

Digitized by Google
— 17 —

Prescription. Posture work, balance exercises, abdominal work, diet. This in addition to the regular class work.

Result Increase 14 pounds in weight. Strength test—increased hand grip 55-90; increased chest strength 60-90; increased lung capacity 160-170. No laxative taken for one month, daily action.

Of course, one may question the worth of the stated difference in increase and decrease of physical measurement, but taken in connection with the results from the special work, they are interesting. These results are not quoted as final. The work is very incomplete. Each case should be followed through the entire college course and more individual attention given to the obstinate ones. The figures are only suggestive. Is it not true that there are other aspects of physical habit giving similar opportunity? Attention is called, however, to these figures as indicating one line in which the departments of physical education may contribute in a real and constructive way to the fullest efficiency of the student body.

A SANITARY SYSTEM FOR THE CARE OF GYMNASTIC UNIFORMS.

By P. B. BARNES, Secretary of the Fred Medart Manufacturing Company,

St. iLouis, Mo.

Two of the most neglected phases of the problem of school hygiene have been the insanitary condition of the locker and dressing rooms provided for the physical education classes, and the insanitary condition of the clothing used by the pupils while exercising. An. inquiry into the subject reveals the fact that one of the chief causes of trouble is the utter lack of sanitary methods in caring for the gymnasium uniforms. The writer of the present article made this discovery several years ago and has evolved the following plan to overcome this as well as other minor defects:

The system of clothing storage generally in use in educational institutions at present is to provide for each pupil a steel locker, large enough to hold all the street clothes while he, or she, is using the physical department, and at all other times to store the perspiration-saturated and germ-laden, dirty gymnasium uniform. This uniform in the process of drying gives off the familiar obnoxious odor, which permeates the locker rooms and gymnasium, and which sometimes penetrates to other parts of the building. This uniform frequently becomes so obnoxious when in close proximity as to be offensive. It is dangerous also for frequently infection following slight injuries has been attributed to contact with insanitary gymnasium uniforms.

ECONOMIC WASTE.

From the economic standpoint, the present locker systems involve a double waste. Because of the limitation of space in the gym-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 18 —

nasium and in the dressing rooms, and because of the grading of classes for instruction in both physical training and in the regular academic branches, it is never possible that more than one-tenth of the enrolled student body use the physical department at one time. Certainly it is not in accord with economic principles of administration to install lockers which are in active use at one time by only one-tenth of a student body.

Again, it is obviously a waste of space to provide a locker large enough to contain a suit of street clothing for the brief period during which an individual is exercising and to be used the rest of the time for the storage of a soiled gymnasium uniform which ordinarily would occupy only one-tenth the space. When it is remembered that the average physical education period is only two hours in each week this waste becomes more apparent in that the locker is practically empty during 97 per cent of the time.

Again, under the present condition, there is no point of control to the entrance of the locker rooms, baths and gymnasiums.

THE NEW SYSTEM.

About five years ago what has since become known as the “Kansas City Locker System” was first installed experimentally in the Young Men’s Christian Association building at Kansas City, Mo. The plan immediately found favor in that the following four advantages were noted:

First, it is sanitary in that it removes the cause of unhygienic conditions by immediately laundering the gvmnasium uniforms and compelling the pupils to exercise in clean, dry clothes.

Second, it is economical in space. The gymnasium uniforms, always clean, are stored in small fibre boxes and placed on steel trucks in the storage room under the supervision of an attendant. Only enough lockers are provided to accommodate the largest number of persons which may be in attendance in the gymnasium at one time. This means enough dressing lockers to accommodate an incoming and an outgoing class.

Third, absolute supervision is made possible. The storage room is so located that it controls the entrance to the locker and dressing rooms. The attendant in charge of the storage room has at all times a record of those who pass into the physical education department. The entrance is always under his eye.

Fourth, the cost is low. .For economy in cost of installation, it is obvious that the fibre boxes stored in small compartments are much less expensive than large enameled steel lockers. Likewise, the cost of floor space is reduced because of the much smaller space required.

THE STORAGE SYSTEM.

As a practical illustration of the manner in which the “Kansas City Plan” operates, a storage room planned by Mr. Wm. B. Ittner and adopted by the board of education at Washington, D. C., for

Digitized by CjOOQ le
— 19 —

LAYOUT • Of • XQUH*V£NT-IN- GYANA5IUM - LOCKED •STOJLAfif,* CiNTRAL HIGH SCHOOL-WASHINGTON, J>. CL W».	-----	Ar«ii.	♦««♦.•

the new high school may be described. By referring to the accompanying plan, it will be seen that the storage room is centrally located and serves the boys and girls alike without a mingling of the sexes. This storage room has a capacity for 2,000 storage boxes and trucks, and the dressing rooms are equipped with three hundred large dressing lockers. Owing to the fact that the gymnasium uniform worn by the girls is larger and more bulky than that worn by the boys, a box I3”xi3”x7” is provided. The standard size for boys is I3”x9”x8”. The standard size for girls’ dressing lockers is I5”xi5”x72”, slightly larger than the average. The size for boys' dressing lockers is I2”xi5”x72”. The storage room is equipped with enough fibre boxes to accommodate all of the students who will use the physical department. These are stored on steel trucks, and so far as possible, each class is assigned a truck.

THE KEYBOARDS.

Two keyboards are provided, on which are hung the tagged and numbered keys for the lockers in the dressing rooms. These keys have brass safety pins attached so that they may be taken to the gymnasium and pinned on the gymnasium uniforms.

There is also provided a small laundry plant consisting of:

1	combination washer and wringer 1 tumble drier 1 table

4	canvas laundry trucks 1 marking machine.

ARRANGEMENT OF DRESSING ROOMS.

The dressing rooms are equipped, as stated above, with enough comfortable full-length lockers to accommodate the largest possible number who may use the gymnasium at one time.

The arrangement of the lockers in the boys’ room is around the room, backs to the walls, thus providing an open court. This arrangement is a protection against theft and misconduct and contributes to the social atmosphere, because conversation is not interrupted

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 20 —



by rows of lockers shutting off the view from one part of the dressing room to another.

The girls' dressing room is arranged with lockers forming compartments provided with curtains, thus affording a degree of privacy; it is also provided with a hair-drying device.

ClULJ L0CRT1 KoOft a2 MAiJXTZ- -Jin&LE TUTU. SACK. TO BACK. ±CH.IKTK~r.

33 IJxiSXlf ~	-	WALL

Layout of Locker and Dresser Rooms, Northeast High School, Kansas -City, Mo.

I

THE OPERATION OF THE SYSTEM.

The pupil on enrolling for physical training is assigned to a particular class and is given a box stored on the truck which is to contain the boxes of his or her class.

Upon going to the physical department for the first time, the student brings his uniform to the storage room and the attendant I marks each garment with the storage box number to which he has been assigned. Each time the student comes to the physical training department, after the first visit, he presents to the checkroom attendant his enrollment card upon which is stamped in large figures his storage box number.

A few minutes before a class is scheduled to use the physical department, the attendant rolls out to the counter the truck containing the box assigned to the class. He places a clean towel, a small half-ounce bar of soap and a key to one of the dressing lockers in each box. The class arrives, and just as fast as the members present their enrollment cards showing the storage-box numbers, they are handed their boxes. They then pass into the dressing room, where they open the locker to which they have a numbered key. They dress in their gymnasium uniform, pin the dressing locker key to the waistband of the gymnasium suit and pass into the gymnasium for their exercises.

Digitized by
— 21 —

When they return the process is reversed. They bring the fibre storage box containing the gymnasium uniform, soiled towel and dressing-locker key back to the attendant, and in exchange for this, receive their enrollment cards. During the period when there is no class passing into the dressing room, the attendant hangs the enrollment cards on the keyboard in place of the respective dressing-locker keys.

STEEL TRUCK

Mounted on ball bearing Steel Casters containing 84 fibre locker boxes. Used in connection with the “New’’ Kansas City Locker Scheme.

After the class has used the physical department and has returned its boxes to the attendant, the latter at his leisure examines the contents of the storage boxes and places the wet and soiled gymnasium uniforms in a truck ready to send to the laundry. Here they are washed and dried and returned to the respective boxes which correspond to the garment numbers. Of course, the towels are washed every time they are used.

By this plan, the responsibility for the sanitary condition of the gymnasium uniforms, lockers and dressing rooms is more entirely controlled by the management of the school. Nothing is left to the will or convenience of the student.

The process is so simple, the cost of installation and maintenance comparatively so small, and the benefits derived from the standpoint of sanitation and hygiene and the supervision so complete that the system appeals at once wherever it has had a fair hearing.

Digitized by O-ooQle
COMPARATIVE COST.

Below is an estimate of the comparative cost of the new system as specified for the new Northeast high school at Kansas City:

THE OLD SYSTEM.

1,000 lockers 12x15x72...........................

THE “new” KANSAS CITY LOCKER SYSTEM.

1,000	fibre boxes.............................$380.00

250 12x15x72 steel	lockers.................. 970.00

12	steel trucks........................... 520.00

2	keyboards .............................. 20.00

4	laundry baskets......................... 40.00

1	marking machine........................ 150.00

1	combination washer and wringer......... 150.00

1	tumble drier........................... 450.00

1	table .................................. 10.00

250 safety pins............................... 6.25

Total new system.....................................

$4,250

$2,69675

Net saving

$1,553-25

“BASKET BALL” DRILL.

Arranged by J. CERMAK for a Gymnastic Exhibition at Medill High School,

Chicago.

This drill has been arranged for 8 participants, it may, however, be performed by any even number of pupils. 8 boys exercise with 4 basket-balls—four illustrating "players with the ball” nd 4 illustrating the movements of the "guards.”

The participants are "counted off” 1, 2, 3, 4. "Firsts” and "seconds” stand facing each other—and "thirds” and "fourths” face each other. (Nos. 1 and 3 face to the left, Nos. 2 and 4 face to the right.)

In describing the exercises Nos. 1 and 4 are called the "outer,” Nos. 2 and 3 are called the "inner.” The exercises are described for Nos. 1 and 2 only—numbers 3 and 4 do the same, but opposite. When numbers 1 stride backward right, numbers 4 stride backward left; when numbers 2 stride forward left, numbers 3 stride forward right.

Figures marked ia, 2a, 3a, etc., denote the positions of numbers 1 ("outer”), and figures marked ib, 2b, 3b, etc., denote the positions of numbers 2 ("inner”). The "outers” (Nos. 1 and 4) start the exercise with the balls—"inners” (Nos. 2 and 3) without the ball.

t-h	|\3	CO

t-h	ro	co	^

Digitized by Google
-23-

Musical accompaniment “Schottische.”

Time: 1-2! means one measure (four notes). Where the “running exercise’’ is marked 1! 2! 3! 4! make one short, quick step on each Y\- note, or 4 steps in one measure.

Fundamental position. Those holding the ball, heels together, arms down, ball in front of the body. Those exercising without the ball, heels together, arms at the sides.

Each part contains three exercises A, B, and C. Exercise C is repeated after A and B in each part.

PART

A.

“Outer” (No. 1.)

a)	Stride backward right, the ball a over the right shoulder 1-2! (Fig. ia)

b)	Stride forward right, extend b arms forward, ball in front. (Fig. 2a) 3-4!

c)	Stride sideward right, ball be- c hind the head (Fig. 3a) 5-6!

d)	In position 7-8!

Repeat the same opposite, d (stride left) from 9 to 16, but on the 15th count bounce the ball between the “inner” and “outer” and lower arms. (See the dotted lines between figure 3a and figure 3b.) Then change the exercise with the “inner.” On the 16th count again catch the returned ball and repeat once more exercises

a)	b) c) d) right and left, bounce the ball and change.

64	counts.

1.

“Inner” (No. 2.)

) Stride forward left and raise the arms forward, palms downward. (Fig. ib.)

') Stride backward left, arms sideward, palms forward. (Fig. 2b) 3-4!

) Stride sideward and left, arms upward, palms forward. (Fig. 3b) 5-6!

) Fundamental position (lower arms sideward) 7-8!

Repeat same with opposite foot, from 9 to 16. On the 16th count catch the ball bounced by No. 1 and repeat exercise of No. 1. On the 15th count bounce the ball to No. 1 and repeat exercises a)

b)	c) d). Change off twice. 64 counts.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 24 —

B.

“Outer” (No. i.)

The same position of arms and ball, but lunge instead of striding. (Fig. 4a.) Change twice and repeat. 64 counts like exercise A.

“Inner” (No. 2.)

The same position of arms like in exercise A, but in the first measure (1! 2! 3! 4!) 2 running steps forward (Fig. 4b) and 2 steps in place. Second measure, 2 running steps backward and 2 in place. Third measure, 2 steps sideward left and 2 in place. Fourth measure, 2 steps sideward right and 2 in place. Same but side-step to the right.

Remark: — The steps are “double-quick,” i. e., 1 step on each note. In stepping sideward the free foot executes a cross-step. Change twice and repeat. 64 counts like part A exercise A.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 25 —

C.

“Outer” (No. i.)

a)	Bend the knees, ball on the a) floor between the knees 1-2! (Fig. 5a.)

b)	Straighten knees, stride back- b) ward inward right, ball over the right shoulder 3-4! (Fig. 6a.)

c)	Lunge forward outward right and at the same time throw c) the ball to the “inner” 3d 5-6! (Fig. 7a, ball leaving hands.)

d)	Close heels, Ya turn to the right (face the audience) and d) lower the arms 7-8!

a)	Bend the knees, and place the hands on the floor 1! (1 count a) on two lA notes.) Extend the legs backward (leaning support) 2!

“Inner” (No. 2.)

Bend the knees, arms sideward, palms forward (Fig. 5b) 1-2!

Straighten the knees, stride backward left inward, right arm obliquely upward (palms downward) left arm backward. (Fig. 6b.) y2 turn left, lean forward and catch the ball thrown by the “outer” 4th. (Fig. 7b in the position of catching the ball.) Ya turn to the right, (face the audience) and hold the ball in front of the body. 7-8!

One follow step forward, bounce the ball on the floor and again catch it. 1-2! (Fig. 8b.)

b)	Bend the knees again 3! b) Straighten the knees 4!

c)	Lunge sideward right (out-

. ward), right arm obliquely c) upward, left arm down, palms forward (Fig. 8a) 5!

Close heels and lower the arms d)

6!

d)	Lunge sideward left, left arm obliquely upward, right downward 7!

Close heels and make a % turn left (facing No. 2 again.)

One follow step sideward left (inward), bounce and catch the ball. 3-4!

One follow step backward, bounce and again catch the ball. 5-6!

One follow step sideward right, bounce and catch the ball and make a Ya turn to the right (facing1 No. 1 again.)

Digitized by CjOOQie
— 26 —

Remark:—The “inners” (Nos. 2 who are facing Nos. 1 and Nos. 3 facing Nos. 4) after taking a backward stride pos. inward left, make a turn to the left and lean forward, Nos. 2 towards rear. Nos. 3 toward front. Nos. 1 from lunging position outward right throw the ball to Nos. 3, and Nos. 4 from the lunging position outward left throw the ball to Nos. 2. On the last count all close heels, face forward (toward the audience) and go through the above exercises a, b, c, d. When they finish, Nos. 1 again face Nos. 2 and Nos. 3 face Nos. 4. The ball is then returned to Nos. 1 and 4 as follows:

“Outer” (Nos. 1.)

a)	Bend the knees, arms side- a) ward. 1-2!

b)	Straighten the knees, stride b) right backward inward, raise left arm obliquely upward, right arm backward (palm c) downward) 3-4!

c)	Lunge forward outward right, and catch the ball thrown by d) Nos. 3. 5-6!

d)	Close the heels and face to the front. 718!

From 9 to 16 repeat follow steps forward, sideward (outward) backward and sideward (inward) with bouncing and catching the ball.

“Inner” (Nos. 2.)

Bend the knees, ball on the floor, between the knees. 1-2! Straighten the knees, stride backward left inward, ball over left shoulder. 3-4!

^2 turn to the left, and throw the ball (Nos. 3 to Nos. 1, and Nos. 2 to Nos. 4) 5-6! Close heels and face forward. From 9 to 16 repeat the exercise of the “outers”: Bend the knees, front leaning support, bend and straighten the knees, lunge sideward, inward and outward. On the last count Nos. 2 again face Nos. 1 and Nos. 3 face Nos. 4.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 27 —

On the drawing, the straight solid lines show the directions of the balls when they are thrown from the “outers” to the “inners” (by Nos. i to Nos. 3, and by Nos. 4 to Nos. 2). When the balls are returned, they travel on the same lines, but in opposite directions. The dotted circle indicates the way Nos. 2 run around Nos. I.

(to be concluded.)

PERCENTAGE TABLES FOR PROFICIENCY SWIMMING.

By JOSEPH I. SMITH, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa.

In order to stimulate and keep up the interest in swimming, the participants must have some form of competition. It may be in the shape of racing, some object to be obtained, a certain distance, or against time. This is so thoroughly recognized among athletes that no trailer would permit his pupils to train without assistance, no matter for what event he may be training. This applies especially in a swimming pool, where large numbers of men, women and children are learning to swim.

In order to encourage everyone to advance in the science of swimming, and permit every swimmer to receive full recognition of the work done by him, I have devised the following percentage table for proficiency swimming. Many swimmers claim that they are satisfied to come in first, second, third or nothing in each contest, but this does not indicate the consistent or the best performer throughout the season, for which the proficiency swims were inaugurated.

This percentage table may be adapted to any distance; it is only a matter of a sliding scale. The standards of maximum and minimum times are arbitrarily selected, especially the maximum. The minimum is governed by the difference between the maximum time set and the slowest swimmer’s time. No matter what this difference

Digitized by GjOOQle
may be, divide the number of seconds between these two points so that the minimum time will be a fraction of a point and the maximum time ten points.

Example—To compute each man’s average, first make up the percentage list from the maximum to the minimum standard. In this case it ranges from i minute and 7 seconds to 1 minute and 36 seconds. Count every second as one-third point from 1.36 to 1.07. Every second better than 1.07 will count one point (dividing the seconds into thirds).

I	consider it is easier for a swimmer to improve his record from

1.36 to 1.07 than a 1.07 man to improve one second below his record.

In practical use, first, take the swimmer’s record, handicap him to bring him up to the maximum point, ten; second, count the same number of seconds in the handicap as in the percentage list; third, compare his time with the number on the percentage table—this will give the number of points actually made; fourth, add the number of points made with the number of points awarded in his handicap; this will give the total number of points. No handicap points will be more than two-thirds of the maximum points.

Percentage Table for Men and Boys. MEN.	^	BOYS.

100 yds. Tim* Pts.		40 yds. Time Pts.		120 yds. Time Pts.i		200 yds. Time Pts.		40 yds. Time Pts.		60 yds. Time Pts.		80 yds. Time Pts.		100 yds. Time Pts.	
1.36	|	.40	8	1.54		3.09	8	.46	I	.68	1	1.30	8	1.67	8
1.35	I	.39	1	1.53	I	3.08	8	.44	1	.67	1	1.29	1	1.56	3
1.34	1	.38	n	1.52	1	3.07	1	.43	11	.66	11	1.28	1	1.55	1
1.33	18	.37	2	1.51	1ft	8.06	IS	.42	2	.65	2	1.27	18	1.64	18
1.32	it	.36	2*	1.50	18	3.05	18	.41	25	.64	21	1.26	11	1.63	1ft
1.31	2	.35	3	1.49	2	3.04	2	.40	3	.63	3	1.25	2	1.52	2
1.30	25	.34	31	1.48	28	3.03	28	.39	31	.62	31	1.24	28	1.51	28
1.29	23	.33	4	1.47	2!	8.02	28	.38	4	.61	4	1.23	21	1.50	23
1.28	3	.32	41	1.46	3	3.01	3	.3?	41	.60	41	1.22	3	1.49	3
1.27	38	.31	6	1.45	38	3.00	38	.36	6	.59	5	1.21	38	1.48	38
1.26	33	.30	61	1.44	3!	2.59	38	.35	51	.68	61	1.20	33	1.47	31
1.25	4	.29	6	1.43	4	2.58	4	.34	6	.6?	6	1.19	4	1.46	4
1.24	48	.26	61	1.42	48	2.6?	48	.33	61	.56	61	1.18	48	1.45	48
1.23	4?	.27	7	1.41	4g	2.56	48	.82	7	.65	7	1.17	43	1.44	4§
1.22	i	.26	71	1.40	6	2.55	5	.31	71	.64	71	1.16	5	1.43	5
1.21	68	.25	8	1.39	58	2.54	54	.30	8	.63	8	1.15	58	1.42	68
1.20	&£	.24	81	1.38	68	2.53	68	.29	81	.62	81	1.14	63  6	1.41	6g
1.-19	6	.23	9	1.37	6	2.52	6	.28	9	.51	9	1.13		1.40	6
1.18	61	.22	91	1.36	68	2.51	68	.27	91	.50	91	1.12	68	1.39	68
1.17	6§	.21	10	1.35	68	2.49	6§	.26	10	.49	10	1.11	63	1.38	6g
1.16	7	.20	11	1.34	7	2.48	7	.25	11	.48	11	1.10	7	1.37	7
1.15	78	.19	12	1.33	75	2.47	7J	.24	12	.47	12	1.09	78	1.36	78
1.14	78	.18	13	1.32	78	2.46	78	.23	13	.46	13	1.08	73	1.35	73
1.13	8	.17	14	1.31	8	2.45	8	.22	14	.45	14	1.07	8	1.34	8
1.12	81	.16	15	1.30	88	2.44	88	.21	15	.44	15	1.06	88	1.33	88
1.11	8§			1.29	88	2.43	88			.43		1.05	83	1.32	83
1.10	9			1.28	9	2.42	9			.42		1.04	9	1.31	9
1.09	98			1.27	9$	2.41	95					1.03	98	1.30	98
1.08	9g			1.26	98	2.40	95					1.02	93	1.29	93
1.07	10			1.25	10	2.39	10					1.01	10	1.28	10
1.06	11			1.24	11							1.00	U	1.27	11
1.05	12			1.23	12							.59	12	1.26	12
1.04	13											.58	13	1.25	13
1.03	14											.67	14		
1.02	15														

Digitized by Google
WOMEN.

GIRLS.

40 yds. Time Pts.		100 yds. Time Pts.		60 yds. Time Pts.		40 yds. Time Pts.		60 yds. Time Pts.		80 yds. Time Pts.	
.46	8	1.47	3	.63	8	.51	8	.75	8	1.49	8
.45	1	1.46	1	.62	1	.50	1	.74	1	1.48	8
.44	n	1.45	1	.61	18	.49	U	.73	18	1.47	1
.43	2	1.44	13	.60	2	.48	2	.72	2	1.46	18
.42	2i	1.43	18	.59	24	.47	28	.71	28	1.45	
.41	3	1.42	2	.58	3	.46	3	.70	3	1.44	2
.40	3 3	1.41	23	.57	38	.45	38	.69	38	1.43	28
.39	4	1.40	23	.56	4	.44	4	.68	4	1.42	28
.38	4*	1.39	3	55	48	.43	48	.67	48	1.41	3
.37	5	1.38	38	.54	5	.42	5	.66	5	1.40	38
.36	58	1.37	33	.53	58	.41	58	.65	58	1.39	38
.35	6	1.36	4	.52	6	.40	6	.64	6	1.38	4
.34	63	1.35	48	.51	68	.39	68	.63	68	1.37	48
.33	7	1.34	43	.50	7	.38	7	.62	7	1.36	48
.32	73	1.33	5	.49	78	.37	78	.61	78	1.35	5
31	8	1.32	58	.48	8	.36	8	.60	8	1.34	58
.30	8 3	1.31	58	.47	88	.35	88	.59	88	1.32	58
.29	9	1.30	6	.46	9	.34	9	.58	9	1.31	6
.28	93	1.29	68	.45	98	.33	98	.57	98	1.30	68
.27	10	1.28	63	.44	10	.32	10	.56	10	1.29	6$
.26	11	1.27	7	.43	11	.31	11	.55	11	1.28	7
.25	12	1.26	78	.42	12	.30	12	.54	12	1.27	78
.24	13	1.25	73	.41	13	.29	13	.53	13	1.26	71
.23	14	1.24	8	:4o	14	.28	14	.62	14	1.25	8  88
.22	15	1.23	88			.27	15	.51	15	1.24	
		1.22	83							1.23	81
		1.21	9							1.22	9
		1.20	98							1.21	98
		1.19	93							1.20	91
		1.18	10							1.19	10
		1.17	11	,							
		1.16	12								
		1.15	13								
		1.14	14								
		1.13	15								

Plunging for Distance—Time Limit One Minute.

Ft.	Pts.	Ft.	Pts.	Ft.	Pts.	Ft.	Pts.	Ft.	Pts.	Ft	Pts.
23	1	29	3	35	5	41	7	47	9	53	13
24	18	30	33	36	53	42	73	48	93	54	14
25	13	31	31	37	58	43	78	49	98	55.	15
26	2	32	4	38	6	44	8	50	10		
27	28	33	43	39	63	45	8!	51	11		
28	23	34	48	40	61	46	88	52	12		

(To be concluded)

—Educational Effect of Medical Inspection in the Schools. According to the weekly Bulletin of the New York City Board of Health the percentage of children requiring treatment for defects other than those of the teeth has declined from 44.20 in 1909, to 30.1 in 1913. The percentage of those requiring dental treatment declined from 57 in 1909, to 49.4 in 1912; defective vision from 13.4 in 1909, to 7.3 in 1912; defective nasal breathing from 18.7 in IQ09, to 7.6 in 1912; enlarged tonsils from 22 in 1909, to 10.4 in 1912; malnutrition from 3.14 in 1909, to 2.8 in 1912. By persistent follow-up work in the homes the percentage of glasses procured has increased from 27 in 1909, to 50.5 in 1912, and of tonsil operations from 22 in 1909, to 29 in 1912.

Digitized by Google
ATHLETIC DRILL FOR FIFTH ANNUAL CONTEST OF THE NORTHWESTERN GYMNASTIC SOCIETY.

To be held at the University of M’nnesota March 21st, 1914.

Count 4 to each movement, and perform each exercise twice in alternation to left and right, unless otherwise directed.

GROUP I:—FIELD AND TRACK

1—STANDING BROAD JUMP

1	Va turn left, raise heels and swing arms fore-upward (1-4).

2	Bend knees and swing arms downward and backward (5-8).

3	Jump forward (two feet), swinging arms fore-upward (9), then bend knees and lower arms to front horizontal (10-12).

4	Position, still facing left (13-16). Repeat 4 times in a square left.

2—SHOT PUT

1	Lunge left backward, hands clasped in front of left thigh, head turned to front.

2	Touch right toe forward, raise right arm forward and bend left as if to put the shot. Look toward right hand.

3	Lower right heel and lunge left forward with Ya right turn, thrusting obliquely side-upward with left hand, palm down, right hand side-downward, palm down. Look at left hand.

4	Ya turn left and close with left to position (facing front).

3—THE SPRINT

1	Ya turn left and touch left toe far backward, bend trunk slightly forward and swing arms fore-upward (palms inward) .

2	Bend both knees and place knuckles on ftoor, head up.

3	Lunge left forward and bend arms for thrust, fists closed, knuckles down.

4 Va turn right and close with left to position (facing front).

4—HAMMER THROW

1	Lunge left sideward and bend trunk forward, hands 6 inches apart near left foot, fists closed.

2	‘Straighten knee, raise trunk and arms and slowly circle trunk and arms (overhead) to left.

3 Yz turn left and lunge left forward (very quickly), extend arms obliquely fore-upward, palms inward and open.

4	Close with left to position, facing rear. Repeat left, then twice to right.

Digitized by C,ooQle
1—THE DROP KICK

1	Dunge left forward and bend trunk forward, arms obliquely fore-downward, palms inward (Picking up the ball). (1-4).

2	Raise trunk and touch left toe backward, arms still obliquely fore-down-ward (A'ming). (5-8).

3	Kick left foot high forward and swing arms upward (9), then touch left toe forward and lower arms obliquely side-downward, paTms forward (10-12).

4	Position (13-16).

2—BOXING

1	46 turn left, step left backward with bent knee and assume “on guard” position, right hand advanced, palms open and turned slightly forward.

2	Dunge left forward, bend trunk slightly forward and thrust forward with left, right on guard, hands closed.

3	Change knee bending and resume “on guard” position as in (1). hands still closed.

4	Vs turn right and close with left to position.

1	Touch left toe sideward and swing arms side-upward, hands together and hollowed (The catch). Dook upward.

2	44 turn right, extend left leg backward, bend trunk forward and lower arms, hands closed and together in front of right calf, eyes directed some distance ahead (as if waiting for the runner). Deft leg and trunk in line.

3	Vz turn left and lunge left forward (right foot remains in place), throw forward with right arm and swing left around to position obliquely backward downward, palms open, right down, left inward.

4	44 turn right and close with left to position (facing front).

4—BOW AND ARROW

1	Cross toe touch backward with left and reach over right shoulder with left hand, head turned over right shoulder.

2	Kneel on left, arms right sideward, left hand in front of right shoulder fists closed, knuckles of right hand backward, left forward. Look to rignt.

3	Dunge left and pull bow, left hand now in front of left shoulder, right arm sideward, hands closed and heal turned as in (2).

4	Close with left to position.

GROUP II—SPORTS AND GAMES

3—THE DOUBLE PLAY

Digitized by C,ooQLe
The Physical Education Department of the Chicago Normal College looks forward to its new quarters in the Normal Arts and Gymnasium Building as a wonderful opportunity for growth and development. This institution is of interest as being a part of the public school system of the city, a large majority of the Chicago teachers being trained here.

The name of the building suggests the distribution of interests which may be seen in the accompanying diagrams of the ground and

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 33 —

first floors. The two upper floors are given over entirely to the Arts. The gymnasium proper is a room which it is difficult to surpass among the gymnasiums of the country. It is 197 x 60 feet, very light because of its white enamelled brick walls and double tiers of windows on three sides. A mechanical plenum system of ventilation makes an adequate and safe fresh air supply. The size of the gymnasium makes it suitable for mass drills, for unusually large classes, for athletic meets and sports and the frequent social gatherings of

Digitized by
— 34 —

the Normal School and vicinity. This large room may be divided into three smaller rooms by two fire proof canvas curtains rolled up by means of winches. The curtains are situated sixty feet from the ends of the room making it possible to have two rooms 60x60 feet with one room in the center 60 x 77 feet or one larger room 137 x 60 feet with an end room 60 x 60 feet, making it possible to have classes at either ends—the curtains between serving as a deadener of sound —or just a larger and a smaller room. The curtains are easy to operate which allows quick and rapid accommodation. At the east end of the gymnasium are the Swedish booms, bar stalls and traveling rings. At the west end are the horizontal and vaulting bars, bar stalls, and traveling rings. Each end contains a basket ball field and extra goals. The middle section has the climbing ropes and poles, slanting ropes, rope ladders, adjustable ladders, horizontal and vertical ladders, flying rings and giant strides. Two basket ball fields of nearly maximum area are accommodated in the undivided gymnasium. The hand apparatus is hung in the two end sections and the horses, bucks, boxes, jump standards, parallel bars, balance beams and mats are distributed in such a way as to be quickly moved into any of the sections. Because of this location of the apparatus and the easy operation of curtains two classes can be taught simultaneously, if necessary, without handicapping either in its use of the apparatus.

Next to the gymnasium on the ground floor is placed the swimming pool 60 x 24 feet with a depth of from three to six ieet. Glazed windows between the pool and the gymnasium allow additional light for each room and may be opened for the advantage of additional space for an audience at any aquatic demonstration. The pool is lined with white enameled tile. The sides extend above the floor level preventing back drainage from the floor and the upper section sets back from the life rail making an overflow and cuspidor*at all points. A sky light over the pool and a filter with constant inflow and outflow, reinforced by chloride of lime treatment at regular intervals, will insure safety and clarity of the water. The tank suits will be furnished by the school to all bathers and the careful supervision of their physical condition will be maintained. The facilities for dressing and bathing can hardly be surpassed. Leading out of the pool room at each end on the ground floor and over them on the first floor are four large dressing rooms which contain one hundred and three private dressing rooms with as many adjoining shower baths. No wood is used in the construction of these dressing rooms, the walls of the showers being marble and the doors either of white water proof or washable material. The steel lockers with maximum ventilation onenings are placed two inches from the wall on foundations of concrete three inches above the floor level. In each of these four well-lighted, well ventilated rooms, are twelve hair driers, the

Digitized by LjOoq le
— 35 —

air for which is taken directly from out of doors, heated by steam coils and forced by electric fans. They may be operated at once or separately with the air at any one of three temperatures.

Upstairs on the first floor are two suites of offices for instructors and a medical suite consisting of reception room and six offices—one of the larger in this suite will be used for a rest room for college students and another as a special exercise room where those needing individual attention in the line of corrective exercises will be able to practice on individual orthopedic apparatus. The other rooms will be used for medical examining and prescription. At the west end of the first floor are found two class rooms of which one will be equipped with adjustable school room desks and seats and the other with college class room chairs. A piano in the school room will complete the equipment necessary to teach the normal students those phases of physical training which may be taught with school room equipment.

Careful thought has been spent upon the decoration of the department by suitable pictures and casts which may be used in theoretical work and serve as an inspiration to improve development and good pocture. There is a large equipment of physiological and kine-siological apparatus with appropriate and adequate office furnishing in the line of desks, book cases, filing cabinets, etc.

The equipment of the department has been planned with a view to (i) carrying on the college and normal work as heretofore; (2) the training of specialists in physical education and (3) social center and educational work for those not connected with the normal school. With the introduction of courses in the Industrial Arts and trades it is expected that there will be an increasing number of men students. These also have been provided for in the equipment of the building. It is believed that the building and equipment will be efficient in accomplishing the aims and ideals of the department to the growth and development of physical education—the foundation of all education.

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.

By ALEXANDER A. HARWICK, Supervisor Physical Education, Reading, Pa.

ONE VALUE OF GYMNASIUM TRAINING.

By H. A. HIGGINS, Boston. Mass

The purposes of a public gymnasium are not any too well understood. In the case of the modern municipal gymnasium this is especially true. Certainly there is occasion to remind a large percentage of the people that a gymnasium is an educational institution in which the individual learns to advance his health and improve his bodily efficiency. It is true that the gymnasia now in use do a thriving business, and that vast numbers of people profit by their operations. But the fact remains that only a very inconsiderable part of the entire population of the city realizes that regular attendance at a

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 36 —

gymnasium improves one's health and adds years to one's life. If all who need gymnasium training were to undertake it at once, gymnasia would soon appear on every corner.

The tendency of modern education has done much to point out the advantages of a gymnasium training. There has been a wonderful forward movement in the direction of physical education in the last ten years. Not merely in athletics and in popular sports, but in well ordered systems of body building and gymnastic exercises, have colleges and preparatory schools made sure of the training of the human body. The dictum of Herbert Spencer that a man must first become a sound animal in order to become capable of his utmost educational possibilities, has been accepted in all its significance. And never since the days of the ancients has the fundamental necessity of a sound body been so fully emphasized. All this advance, however, has been in connection with the training of the individual during school and college life.

And while that is a great gain it is not enough. It is good, of course, to lay well the physical foundation during the school years. The momentum of the training obtained in this way will naturally carry its advantages w‘ell into later life, and will tend to establish resistance against many mistakes and errors in the habits of living. But this momentum will die down perhaps quite early in the individual’s career, and in the absence of secondary measures will leave him in need of those physical attributes which extend human life to the fullest span, and which render it enjoyable in the living.

Not only should the body be trained toward perfection in movement and fulness of strength during the early life of the individual, but it should be intelligently cared for at every stage of later life. It should be looked upon as a machine which, in order to yield its best in the way of easy running and durability, should be cared for daily.

The one important rule of daily care which perhaps most people disregard is that of muscular exercise. This is especially true of the person of sedentary occupation. Thousands of this class fall into ill health for no other reason than neglect of proper and regular exercise.

To these people, therefore, a word by way of a reminder will not be amiss. They should cultivate the habit of taking some sort of exercise with reasonable regularity. They should rescue their muscular and nervous systems from the disastrous results of prolonged inactivity. They should visit the gymnasia provided for them by the city, and place themselves under the guidance of the trained instructors who will not only show them the mode of exercise to adopt, but will also invest the exercise with an interest which will make it pleasurable, instead of allowing it to become a forbidding drudgery, as it so often does in the case of the person working alone or unguided. —Park and Recreation Bulletin.

Digitized by Google
— 37 —

WATER BASKETBALL. A NEW AQUATIC GAME.

With the abolishment of the old game of American water polo, considered by many athletic authorities too rough for any but swimmers who have had years of practice with all its intricacies, a new game has sprung into being throughout the country, which combines all the recreative and muscle building features of the old game, minus its excessive roughness, at the same time retaining enough of the personal encounters that the red blooded athlete craves. Water basketball is the new game that has taken the west by storm. Almost any area is sufficient, providing the water is over 6 feet in depth. As a sport and developer of endurance and lung power it takes high rank, necessitating as it does, constant swimming for a period of five to eight minutes coupled with some of the strenuousness of wrestling.

As played in the Missouri Athletic Club, ordinary basketball backboards and baskets are used, so suspended from the ceiling that the rims are five feet above the surface of the water. Six men to a side, lining up as in basketball. The ball is tossed to the centers, starting the play. The game is composed of two halves of eight minutes each, with as much time between halves as necessary. A fully inflated waterpolo, or “soccer” polo ball is used. A player can not hang to the side of the pool and play the ball, nor can he push off the side and receive the ball or tackle an opponent. A player with the ball can be tackled only by one of the opposing side, until he releases the ball or gives it up. He is permitted to swim under the water not more than eight feet. The ball going out of bounds is given to the opposite side.

Fouls consist of: Tackling or interfering with a player who has not the ball, more than one player tackling another, pushing off the side or hanging on to receive the ball, slugging, gouging, and other unnecessary rough play. All fouls entitle to a free throw from an eight foot line, at no time until after the foul has been thrown can a player be interfered with.

The rules are simple. An increase in the attendance of the swimming pool together with a general improvement in the swimming ability of the players will be one of the immediate results of the introduction of the game. A more important result will be the acquiring of knowledge of what to do in event of attempting to rescue a drowning person who puts forth a struggle. It will train a swimmer to keep his head under difficulties, break “death-holds” and give him the confidence under and above the water that is so necessary to the successful rescue of a-drowning man or woman.

By T. G. WHITAKER. Missouri Athletic Club, St. .L-ouis.

131669

Digitized by
— 38 —

NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.

We kindly request our subscribers when reporting changes of address to give both the old and new one.

CRISTOBAL PIN BALL.

By H. DARNELL BRITTIN, Physical Director. Y. M. C. A., Cristobal, Canal Zone, Panama.

This is a lively game for the playground or gymnasium.

Each team consists of two pin forwards, one pin guard, one center, two forwards and two guards. (See diagram for positions of players.) Object—To knock over opponents ten pin or Indian club with a basket-ball.

Rules. A. A. U. basket-ball rules with the following added:—

Pin forwards and pin guards are not allowed to step over the lines of their respective boxes. The pin <ntard is not allowed to step inside the pin circle. The forwards and centers are not allowed to step over the eight-foot mark. Stepping over a line by any player constitutes a foul.

The pin forwards are the only players eligible to knock over the opponent’s pin or Indian club. A try for a “pin goal” by any other player constitutes a foul.

A pin or Indian club being knocked over by a pin guard (either with ball or person) counts 2 points for the opposing team. Play is resumed at center by the referee after this.

The pin forward is allowed to hold the ball but 3 seconds (the referee can count three slowly.) He can try for a “pin goal,” can pass the ball to the other pin forward or pass the ball to one of his team-mates in the playing field.

But 3 consecutive passes are allowed between the pin forwards (example, R. F. to L. F. (1), L. F. to R. F. (2), R. F. to L. F. (3). The pin forward must then make a try for a “pin goal” or pass the ball to one of his team-mates in the playing field. Any infringment of the above constitutes a foul.

A goal can be made by “back-boarding” i. e., hitting the wall with the ball so that it rebounds against the pin or Indian club.

A goal counts 2 points.

When a foul is committed, a try is made from center, by rolling the ball in an endeavor to knock the pin or Indian club over. If successful, 1 point is scored, if a miss, the play goes on as usual. The ball must not be interfered with when trying for a foul. If the pin or Indian club is knocked over by the ball rebounding from the wall it does not count and play is resumed at center by the referee. Time of halves, 10 or 15 minutes.

Digitized by t^ooQle
— 39 —

Left pin forward X	WALL •2% feet  jj 1 3 feet | 00 l<J	0-1  0  Pin guard	Right pin forward X
X Left forward		Right forward X
O Left guard		Right guard 0
	Centre	
		
	x	
	Centre	
O Left forward		Right forward 0
X Left guard		Right guard X
	Pin guard	
	X	
Left pin forward	/	Right pin forward
O	0 !	O
	\ Indian club in centre	
	\ of both circles j	
	WALL	

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High Scho 01, 59th St. and 10th Ave., New York City MORE POINTS FOR ATHLETES IN COLLEGIATE MEETS.

The executive committee of the Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association has drawn up several amendments to the constitution and by-laws that will be submitted to the delegates to the annual convention at the Waldorf-Astoria on February 28.

Digitized by

Google
-40-

First in importance perhaps is the proposal to award points for five places in every event at the annual championship games instead of four, as has been the custom since 1898. Under the new system first place would count five points, second place, four; third place, three; fourth place, two, and fifth place, one. The object is to induce more students to join the track and field squads and train for the championships. An athlete of only fair ability, it is suggested, may have little hope of developing into a champion, but there will be an incentive for him to train when he realizes that he can help his alma mater at the annual meet by finishing fifth in his event.

The picking of five point winners will be possible in every event, even though it is not always possible to have more than four starters in the final of a hurdle race. To offset the latter difficulty it is proposed that the beaten men in the semi-final heats run an extra heat for fifth place.	_____________

—The British Olympic Fund, whose sponsors aspired to secure $500,000 through a national subscription has turned out to be a monumental fiasco. In October last the special Olympic Games Committee decided unanimously that if the fund did not reach $125,-000 by the end of 1913 the committee would not be justified in proceeding further in the matter. On the expiration of the time limit the subscriptions aggregated only $55,000.

Of the total sum subscribed only $32,500 is in cash, the balance having been merely provisionally promised, and out of the cash collected the committee already has expended $17,500, which leaves a balance of $15,000 to try and discover and train a team to avenge Great Britain at the Berlin Olympic games in 1916 for the defeat inflicted on her by the American athletes at Stockholm.

—For the first time in the history of intercollegiate relay racing the annual meet of the University of Pennsylvania at Franklin Field on Saturday, April 25, will present an international aspect. Harrow University of England has entered a team in the four-mile championship, captained by A. N. S. Jackson, the Olympic 1,500-meter champion.

There will be three relay races to determine the college championship of the world, and they will be open to any college or university that desires to enter. One race will be for a distance of a mile, each man to run a quarter mile. The second race will be a four-mile race, each man to run a mile. The third race will be a two-mile race, each man to run a half mile. The university of Pennsylvania will be found in all three, and it is expected that Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Cornell, Columbia, Chicago, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, Syracuse, and Dartmouth will also enter them.

The carnival has for many years been regarded as the largest and most important intercollegiate meet of the year. Nearly 300 teams were in attendance last year.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 41 —

PHYSICAL TRAINING AMONG THE MENTALLY UNBALANCED.

By GLADYS M. HUBBELL, Physical Director of Kings Park, New York State,

Hospital.

A mentally unbalanced person usually is also physically unbalanced and requires proper exercise to get him again in harmony. The need, therefore, of physical training in institutions for the insane is being recognized, and the same is being introduced in many institutions.

The New York State Hospital at Kings Park is the third largest in the world and the largest one having a regular physical director. Up to last summer the work consisted mainly of in-door work—military tactics and light apparatus work for the male patients; light apparatus work, free exercises and dancing for the female patients. Last summer a small playground was opened as an experiment—it proved so . great a success that it was kept open until early in December and will be enlarged this year. Exercising in the open air resulted in rapid improvement for many; some greatly depressed cases were found to act more normal when induced to enter a vigorous, interesting games than at any other time since their commitment ; and some who had a superfluous amount of energy were given the opportunity to expend it in other than destructive ways. The stimulation <nven to the vital processes, and the enthusiasm aroused resulted in better appetites and more natural sleep, thus giving tone to the muscles and building up the entire body.

INSANE PATIENTS PLAYING TENNIS, TETHERBALL, BASKETBALL

AND CROQUET.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-42-

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.( Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

—The Nervous System and Metabolism. The muscles, the secretory glands and the central nervous system preeminently represent the physiologically active tissues of the organism. Their function exhibits itself in the familiar manifestations of movement, secretion and cerebration, respectively; but in the case of the muscles and glands, at least, there are well-known attendant phenomena characteristic of most physiologic activities in which a transformation of energy is concerned. Heat is evolved and results in a transitory rise of temperature of the individual tissue or even the organism as a whole; carbon dioxid is eliminated in greater amounts, and this waste product serves as an index of the augmented chemical transformations going on, while most striking of allj perhaps, is the increased consumption of oxygen—a typical indicator of heightened metabolism.

Despite the obvious fact that the functioning of the higher nervous system must represent physiologic activity of a high order, it has been far from easy in the past to connect this with any of the evidences of metabolism so prominent and characteristic in the work of the other tissues mentioned. As a result there has arisen the tendency to deny that nervous activities are accomplished with any demonstrable—or at all events, any noteworthy—transformations of energy. The higher activities of the nervous system, such as are commonly termed “mental work,” have rather been assumed to be characterized by a unique quality of participating change rather than by any measurable transformation of potential energy or quantitative metabolism of matter. The make-up of the excreta has not been found notably altered after intense nervous response and the evidence for heightened gaseous exchange or respiratory metabolism is commonly considered to be negative.

In accepting such conclusions respecting the apparent non-participation of the nervous system in the familiar augmentation of energy-changes manifested by other tissues during their physiologic activity, it must be recalled that the nervous system comprises decidedly less than 5 per cent, of the entire body. It is accordingly quite conceivable that small increases in metabolism due to the greater work of this quantitatively minor organ might be hidden in the incidental variations due to the relatively great bulk of the other tissues. Various investigators have insisted that the central nervous system makes an exceptionally large demand for oxygen on the circulation. Lately Alexander and Revesz of Budapest have studied the gaseous metabolism of the brain, using optical stimuli as a mode of exciting the activity of this organ. They reach the conclusion, apparently substantiated by their experimental findings, that the thus augmented

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 43 —

function of the brain is attended with an increased consumption of matter and energy, evinced in the increased utilization of oxygen under such conditions of activity. This result, of course, is more in keeping with what a rational conception of the work of vigorously responding living cells would lead one to expect. If this revision of current views will stand the test of future criticism and further experiment under even more crucial conditions, a supposed exceotion in the domain of phvsiologic functions will be eliminated.—Ed. Journ•

A.	M. A.

—Psychotherapy. Dr. H. Vo°t, in the Aoril issue of the Thera-peutische Monatshefte, Berlin, discusses this from a general standpoint and then from the relations between the physical and the psychic and the nature of and treatment of psychoneurotic disturbances in general.

He reviews the methods in vogue and their aims, devoting much space to Freud's psychanalysis. This consists essentially of two features, he repeats, “psychocatharsis and sexual analysis." The latter feature, he remarks, has become so morbidly hypertrophied that it has thrown discredit on the whole system, although many still regard Freud as the Copernicus of phychiatrv. Binswanger says, “Freud kneels on the conscience of his patient." It is beyond question, however, Vogt continues, that psychic trauma may occur as the result of fright, worry, a sense of shame and distress. He dwells in particular on the importance of psychotherapy in the training of children inclined to be extra nervous, especially the children of parents with a tendency to degeneracy. Calmness and firmness are necessary in their training, and the first days of life are none too early to commence the psychotherapy. The child should be trained to bear pain and should never be kept away from the sports and games of children of his own aee. The “hard school of the street" is particularly needed for such children, as also training in simplicity, self-control and self-confidence, truth and an innate or cultivated abhorrence of the unbeautiful and the vulgar, and avoidance of luxury. Everything should be done to cultivate a healthy cheerful outlook in life and to divert the child's attention from books and theories to practical things, while cultivating a habit of observation and enjoyment of the every-day things of life. In all these things, he emphasizes, the physician can be of infinite guidance and help. It often happens that he will have to counsel the parents and educators, for the first and greatest need is naturally a sound and true example. Parents who cannot control themselves, of course cannot train their children in self-control. (The term “psychocatharsis" applied to Freud's method of psychanalysis is from the Greek katharos, “pure," meaning a cleansing process for the soul and mind. “Catharsis" is too good a word to be kept for the intestines alone.)

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 44 —

—Respiration and the Circulation. The movements of respiration are commonly described as having a distinct influence on the circulation by acting as an auxiliary to the heart in accelerating the blood-stream. There is assumed to be a constant aspiration of blood from peripheral parts into the thorax. The heart is portrayed as thus being better supplied with blood during inspiration than expiration, thereby tending to raise the arterial blood-pressure. The inspiratory descent of the diaphragm is believed to increase the flow into the heart by raising the positive pressure in the abdomen, so that blood is pressed out of the abdominal veins and sucked into the heart and the thoracic veins. During respiration there also occur changes in the pulmonary capillaries whereby their capacity may be increased and the resistance they offer to the flow of blood will be diminished. The effects of the respiratory movements on the systemic blood-pressure are thus explained by the influence they exert on the lung vessels or lesser circulation.

These conventional views have not remained unchallenged. Lewis believes that the variations in pericardial pressure, that is, the direct influence of the thoracic movements on the heart, play a much more important part than changes in the pulmonary circulation in such phenomena as the production of the respiratory undulations in the blood-pressure. Indeed, he concludes that it is not possible to make any general statement as to the nature of the blood-pressure response to a particular respiratory act, the effect of the respiration varying according to the type of respiratory movement.

In the Yale Medical School, Drs. Henderson and Barringer have critically reviewed the evidence for some of the current notions regarding the reputed role of the movements of respiration in assisting the heart to propel the blood-stream. This is commonly supposed to be particularly conspicuous and physiologically helpful during the hyperpnea attending muscular exertion. These investigators conclude, contrary to the familiar belief, that neither the augmented respiration nor other influences can induce the enormous, systolic discharges at rapid rates of heart-beat that have been believed to occur during vigorous physical exercise. According to Henderson and Barringer, the utmost assistance that respiration can afford is the maintenance of a venous pressure sufficient to distend the right ventricle as rapidly as it relaxes and as fully as the duration of diastole allows—conditions without which the heart action becomes subnormal. Contrary to the general opinion, these investigators further hold that the influences of the rhythmic changes of the negative pressure of the thorax on the thoracic veins, on the heart and on the pulmonary blood-vessels are in reality of no considerable importance in relation to the velocity and volume of the arterial blood-stream. Under normal conditions of venous supply the respiratory variations of arterial pressure are mainly due, they believe, to corresponding alterations in the heart-rate.—Ed. Journ. A. M. A.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 45 —

—Coeducation. At the congress for juvenile education held at Breslau a few days ago, Professor Cohn discussed the difference of the sexes from his experience in Baden which in contrast to Prussia and other states of the empire, permits girls to attend the higher schools for boys. Cohn sent a number of questionnaires to the principals of schools with reference to their experience in coeducation, and discussed the answers which he had tabulated. Great interest attaches to the replies to the question whether erotic relations had developed between the boy and girl pupils. The answers are overwhelmingly negative. Cohn believes that this question can be treated with the greatest calmness, for the attraction of the sexes for each other will result in undesirable occurrences whether there is coeducation or not. Objectionable conduct will be quite as rare among coeducated pupils as among those not educated together; indeed it may be said that coeducation may contribute to lessen the tension between the sexes. Cohn draws the following practical conclusions from the collective investigation. Separate instruction may in itself be better in view of the different objects of interest for boys and girls, and even the vast American experience supports this view. . In addition the greater readiness to fatigue in girls especially during the years of puberty, which is not noticed in boys, indicates the propriety of separate instruction. On the other hand, the objections against coeducation are not so great that it should be forbidden where it is desirable, because the small number of girl pupils does not permit the establishment of special schools for girls.

A long discussion followed the address in which a number of speakers opposed the method of coeducation. It was emphasized that these investigations were conducted on altogether too small material, and had also taken the wrong way to secure facts on which reliable scientific conclusions could be based. More extensive investigations must first be made before a complete scientific decision of this question could be reached.—From Berlin Letter to the Journ.

A.	M. A., Nov. 21, 1913.

—The Health of Schoolchildren. -The annual report for 1912 of the chief medical officer of the English board of education has just been issued. It contains an exhaustive account of the measures which are being taken throughout the country to safeguard the health of schoolchildren. Uncleanliness still occupies a large share of the time and energy of the officers of the school medical service, but the returns show a decided and progressive improvement, and the grosser forms of uncleanliness are now rare as compared with the conditions that prevailed when medical inspection was instituted in 1908. There are about six million children in the public elementary schools. About 10 per cent, suffer from serious defects of vision. Among the causes given are heredity, early eye-strain, defective lighting, infectious dis-

Digitized by AjOOQle
— 46 —

eases and neglect in obtaining early medical advice. ‘ From I to 3 per cent, suffer from defective hearing; from 1 to 3 per cent, have suppurating ears; about 10 per cent, have adenoids, inflamed tonsils or enlarged cervical lymph-nodes requiring surgical treatment; 1 per cent, have ringworm; 1 per cent, suffer from tuberculosis of readily recognizable form; from 1 to 2 per cent, have heart-disease; from 30 to 40 per cent, have unclean heads or bodies, and more than half the children are in need of dental treatment.

In five directions school hygiene has undergone evolution. There has been a steady improvement in the routine work of medical inspection, and ancillary undertakings. There is less “leakage,” more following up and more accurate clinical examination. Second- ' !y, there is fuller differentiation of abnormal children and a tendency on the part of authorities to modify the school curriculum in their behalf. Much time and labor are now being devoted to mentally defective, tuberculous, stammering, and frail or retarded children. Thirdly, there has been an enlargement of the conception of the sphere of influence of the school medical officers. Education authorities are finding that though they have been appointed in the first place merely to inspect children, they may fill a very useful place in the educational system. Fourthly, there has been a marked advance in respect of medical treatment both in quality and in quantity. Lastly, the intimate relation between school hygiene and education is becoming recognized and its application understood. The equipment of the school, the character of the teacher, the importance of physical exercise and manual work, the relation of the leaving child to the national insurance system, to industrial employment, to further education in secondary schools, and to its own home life, are now receiving attention. Thus the school medical work and the issues arising therefrom are beginning to form an integral part of our educational system.—London Letter to Journ. A. M. A., Dec. 20, 1913.

—Strenuous Athletics and the Heart. The hypertrophied heart is more liable to acute cardiac dilation than the normal heart. At the state university, during the past two years, there have been four cases of acute dilatation in athletes and only one in the non-athletes, although relatively few students take part in the major college sports. In case of severe fever these large hearts seem to be especially vulnerable. In the graduates from Annapolis it has been found that there are six times as many deaths from heart-disease among athletes as among non-athletes. If physical training is to be made compulsory in our schools and violent athletic contests are to be incited by crowds and publicity, a serious duty devolves on the medical profession to study the results carefully and, in case of each individual youth, to supply that balanced judgment concerning the value of various kinds of physical exercise which only those can have who

Digitized by L^ooQLe
follow human life from the womb to the winding-sheet.—C. R. Bardeen, M. D.y Wisconsin Med. Jour.

BOOK REVIEW.

—“Moto Sensory Development ” by George V. N. Dearborn, M. D., published in Educational Psychology Monographs by Warwick and York, Baltimore. 215 pages 5^2 by 8 inches. ‘Price, $1.00 net.

This is a delightful account of the chronological development of various reflexes, inhibitions and other sensory motor activities during the first three years of a little girl's life. The observations are supplemented by comparisons with similar activities recorded by others who have studied this matter, and by interpretative discussion and induction from the facts observed. Various excellent indices give a useful epitome of the observed development. Parents, physicians, teachers, all persons who are interested in child psychology will be glad to have a really scientific contribution to this important subject in such readable form.

—“The Posture of School Children” by Jessie H. Bancroft, assistant director of physical training, Public Schools, New York City. 327 pages ^2 by 8 inches. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Price, $1.50 net.

The value of this book is evidenced by the fact that the 1913 edition has been followed by one dated 1914.

—“The Way to the Heart of the Pupil ” by Dr. Herman Wei-mer, rector of schools, Biebrich on the Rhine; translated by Dr. J. Remsen Bishop and Adolf Niederpruem. 178 pages, 5 by 8 inches. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Price, 60 cents net.

In these days of strenuous activity when every manager of a factory, railroad system, yes even superintendents of schools, is looking for a means of measuring the efficiency of his workers it is refreshing to turn to the pages of a book in which the author dares speak of things that can not be measured and compared by percentage tables. He speaks of the influericy of the personality of the teacher, of the power of love, of the effect of patience and confidence in training children for efficient citizenship. Yet, these all are things that can not be measured by figures, although to all who have risen above the mass they represent greater values than those expressed by percentages.

Digitized by Google
44Dancing and Art Appreciation Should Be a Part of Every School Life."

Dr. Montessori.

Elizabeth Burchenal, A. B., Organizer and first chairman of the Folk-Dance corn-mittee of the Playground and Recreation Association of America. Inspector of Girls’ Athletics for the Board of Education of the City of New York. Executive Secretary of the Girls’ Branch of the Public Schools Athletic League of New York.

* FOLK-DANCES AND SINGING GAMES

Containing 26 Folk-Dances of Norway, Sweden, Denmark. Russia. Bohemia, Hungary, England, Scotland and Ireland. With music, directions for execution and illustrations.

Price, paper $1.50, cloth $2.50.

DANCES OF THE PEOPLE

Containing 27 Folk-Dances of England. Scotland, Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland. With music, directions for execution and illustrations.

Price, paper $1.50, cloth $2.50.

Elizabeth Burchenal, A. B., and C. Ward Crampton,	Director

of Physical Training, Board of Education, New York.

FOLK-DANCE MUSIC

Containing 76 characteristic dances of the people of various nations adapted for use in schools and playgrounds for physical education and play.

Price, paper $1.00, cloth $2.00.

Melvin B. Gilbert.

SCHOOL DANCES, edited by Susan H. Gilman.

With music and detailed instruction as to execution.

Price, paper $1.00, cloth $2.00.

GILBERT DANCES. Vols. I and II, edited by Susan H. Gilman.

With music and detailed instruction as to execution.

Price, paper $1.50, cloth $2.50.

(Catalogue giving contents sent gratis on request.)

G. SCHIRMER (INC)

3	EAST 43d STREET	NEW	YORK

THE BOSTON MUSIC CO.	BOSTON

Digitized by U.ooQle