HIND ANI> BODY

Tol. 17.	OCTOBER,	1910.	No.	192

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mask.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Bdttorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Ai business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN ITS VARIOUS PHASES.

ELEMENTARY SECONDARY AND HIGHER.

By D. A. Sargent, M. D.*

This is a large subject to cover in a twenty minute paper, but I hope to be able to consider some of the various phases of physical education in the elementary and secondary schools, and to suggest some ways in which the college may further its own aims by improving the physical condition of those who come to it. My paper will be confined to the physical education of boys, since that of . girls is considered in another department.

Since the average man as we see him to-day is the resultant of all the varied physical activities of the past, the problem before us is how to preserve the development already attained, and to add still further to man’s possible perfectibility. It is a recognized fact that the physical activities which, in the past, made for this attainment have been superseded by the inventions of machinery, the use of steam, electricity, etc., taking the place of muscular effort. Moreover, the concentration of population in large cities, and the great multiplication of human interests, add to the complexity of the problem. These social and economic changes have brought about a minute division of labor and greatly modified the developmental value of man’s occupations, and the health fulness of the environment in which he lives and works.

The complications growing out of our present condition of affairs, are forcing the problems of the farm, the shop, the factory and the home upon the schools and colleges which must be prepared to meet them. What part should physical education play in this important movement? Assuming that there is a mental and a physical side to education, although they are mutually dependent, the larger part of the elementary school life should be given over to physical education. Healthy children of six or seven years of age when left to themselves will expend an amount of energy in the;r daily physical activities equivalent to that required in a continuous walk of nine

* Read at the July meeting of the National Educational Association in Boston.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—202—

or ten miles. This ’amount of muscular movement is necessary for the development of the normal child of the elementary school age. The best kind of exercises for children of this age are those free and spontaneous movements of trunk and limbs which they naturally enjoy and indulge in, such as bending, twisting, rolling, jumping, running, balancing, tumbling and climbing. These simple exercises should be frequently supplemented by more formal movements in imitation of primitive occupations such as reaping, mowing, rowing, sawing, etc. Then the dramatic plays such as Indians, cowboys and soldiers furnish a large amount of physical activity, as do the games of hunting, shooting, etc. The so-called “constructive” plays, the making of such things as huts and forts, and the digging of caves and wells, all require considerable physical as well as mental effort and are in a way highly educative. In order to produce the best physiological results, the periods of physical activity should be frequently interspersed with periods of rest. And frequently the best kind of rest for a normal child is a change of organic activity. Prolonged attention or prolonged maintenance of bodily positions either sitting or standing should never be expected or required. In view of the narrowing and deforming effect of many modern occupations,—due to the limited employment of the mental and physical faculties, I believe that it is of the utmost importance that children of both sexes, as early as 8 to io years of age, should be given a series of more or less formal’ gymnastics as a means of physical improvement to fit them for future labor. This is necessary not only to correct the evil effects of posture, etc., in the school room, but also to develop those great fundamental groups of muscles on the back, shoulders and chest, which are so little used in school life and in modern education. There is no better way of developing these important parts of the body than by the so-called heavy gymnastics and the time to begin the practice of these exercises is when children delight to climb, and hang and swing, and do so with exceptional agility. To postpone these exercises to a later period, on the ground that children from 8 to IO years are not strong enough to take themi is a great mistake, and one for which similar work attempted later in life, seldom compensates. In speaking of the elementary phases of physical education, I have intentionally confined myself to a consideration of the large, simple movements of the trunk and limbs, because it has been found that the development of these parts at this time of life is of fundamental importance. This is an age. however, extremely susceptible to sensory and mental impressions; thus there will come to them naturally all the knowledge that children absorb through observation, imitation, and experimentation with their toys, plays and physical activities. Greater efforts should be made to teach, in the same way, the elements of language, music, drawing, arithmetic, geography and some of the sciences.

The secondary school period from io to 18 years of age, is the most important of all for physical education. These eight years are accompanied by many mental and physical changes and no simple series of exercises will meet the demands of both the youngest and oldest of this group. We have seen that normal children of the elementary school age like young animals delight in activity for its own sake. But at the beginning of the secondary school age there is a transition in interest from the control of the body and activity for its own sake, to interest in the control of environment and ac-
—203—

tivity for the ends sake. This transition of interest may be a source of mental, moral and physical’ improvement, or it may usher in a train 6f evils. The changes that are taking place in the nervous system at this time make it necessary to modify the methods of physical education to meet them. Exercises requiring fine muscular co-ordinations, the development of keen muscular sense, and nice powers of bodily adjustment may well1 be introduced now. It is the period most favorable for laying the foundations for future skill and expertness in gymnastics and athletic sports. It i$ also the period when the neuro-muscular habits are formed and fixed, and when the discipline of the daily drill counts for so much; when conduct is moulded and character is fixed. There is no better way of accomplishing these high aims than through organized play, educative gymnastics, athletic sports and competitive games. The value of graded plays and games has been so thoroughly considered elsewhere* that I will not linger here, but will go on to certain; phases of physical education which, it seems to me are not so well understood, although very important.

In order that physical movements may be made educative it is of vital importance that they be executed correctly and according to some ideal standards. The mere careless effort of bodily activity may be of some hy-genic value, but such efforts are not strictly educative.

This is the school age when bovs should learn to run, jump, swim, row, box, fence, etc., as individual accomplishments. They must not only practice them assiduously, but they must know how to expend, for the best results, the required strength, speed, skill and precision. It is not expected that any one youth shall excell in all these sports, but I wish to emphasize the fact that an important end to be striven for in the practice of these physical accomplishments should be grace, poise, accuracy, order and beauty of form and execution. This applies equally well to various kinds of light and heavy gymnastics. The movements with Indian clubs and wooden wands, the exercises on the rings and bars, lend themselves to the execution of graceful, pleasing motions requiring perfection of structure and harmony of function. The same laws as to beauty, order, harmony and rhythm apply to these modes of expression through activity as well as to other arts, and their practice depends upon the same mental processes and ethical principles. If a boy should become an expert in any athletic or gymnastic performance he would not only conform to the laws of animal mechanics, but to the standards of applied ethics and esthetics as well. Apply this principle to all of the boys physical activities, and it will be seen that there is fertile field here for mental and moral improvement. Boxing, wrestling, foot ball, etc., have served a useful purpose by fostering the love for such sports as test heroism, manliness and courage; while many of the feats performed on the gymnasium apparatus call for skill, daring and presence of mind. An arduous feat should act as a spur to a boy of the right spirit; and the voluntary self-discipline of conquering a difficulty through long and persistent efforts, affords a preparation for the struggles of life. Such efforts give all athletic records their true value. The physical education of

“Education by Plays and Games.” Johnson.

“Games for the Playground, Home, School and Gymnasium.” Bancroft. “Play.” Angell.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-204-

the last four years of the secondary school course should consist of gymnastic drills, field games, group contests and athletic sports. By the age of 14 or 15 the boy, if properly trained, will have acquired full use of his muscles, taken on some individual accomplishments, and will be prepared to enter athletic contests with some restrictions and modifications. I say advisedly “with some restrictions,” for when preparatory school boys enter the field of competitive athletics they incur some physical risks and moral1 dangers. Practice for exhibitions, contests in gymnastics, or trials for the best allround performance in several kinds of sports, have within them great possibilities of physical, mental and moral improvement. But a contest that puts a premium on jumping the greatest height, or lifting the heaviest weighjt, puts a premium on a high degree of specialization and on the acquirement of bodily conditions which are more or less abnormal. Games like base ball, basket ball or foot ball, where players may advance their side by injuring opposing players are not games to be encouraged unless the rules are modified to prevent such foul tactics. For this reason these sports have constantly to be regulated to eliminate the evils that arise and to preserve the good that is in them. The question is all arising among school principals and physical directors as to whether something may not be done so that the weaker. portion of the students, as well as the physically strong, may enjoy the benefits of these athletic contests. A method has been worked out, under the name of group contests, which furnishes the best solution yet suggested for the problem. This method consists of dividing the pupils into divisions, clubs, or groups, each of which shall include boys of various athletic ability,—the short and the tall, the strong and the weak, the slow and the alert. Each boy competes in the several events, and whatever he does will be added to the total score of his group. Then if his group wins, he will h,ave. contributed something to the victory and will consequently have a rtight to share in the honor of it. The tendency of this method is to bring about a spirit of mutual helpfulness and joyous co-operation. The advisability of school boys under eighteen engaging in boat races, long runs, tug-of-war contests and violent athletic games should be determined by a physico-medical examinating of each individual, and a full knowledge of the part of the authorities, of the nature and length of the contests under consideration. These prolonged athletic contests bring the respiratory and circulatory organs into great activity and are especially valuable for this reason. But as heart, lungs, brain, stomach, etc., usually do not complete their growth until after the 22nd year it is very important that these organs are not overtaxed in early youth. During these years the good that may be done to a boy is so great, and the injury often so irreparable that it is a matter of anxious solicitude that the best supervision and instruction in physical education be secured for the secondary schools.

With such preparation as outlined physical education in colleges would be much simplified. Young men would enter college trained in body as well as mind.. They would be familiar with the various individual sports, have learned to play the different athletic games and become conversant with the regulations governing contests. Under these circumstances many of the puzzling questions which now vex the college faculties \Vould not arise. 'Men would choose their favorite sports as they now do their favorite studies.
-205-

The embarassment felt by many college men in taking up a new exercise or playing a new game arises from the fact that they have had no previous training. They have postponed learning new exercises until too late and now find themselves with inadequate muscular control and no staying power. This physical deficiency makes them defer to begin training and many of them never attend the gymnasium or frequent the athletic field.

Although leading educators throughout the land, upheld by the researches of the psycho-physiological laboratories, attest to the unity that exists between the education of the mind and that of the body, it is difficult to realize a practical co-operation between the academic and physical departments in our colleges. If a young man attends a course of lectures on physiology and hygiene, he receives credit for his efforts even if he spends much of his time in pursuits that are injurious to his health. But if he attends to the gymnasium or joins some athletic team, and applies the principles of hygiene, he receives no academic credit. The present need is for some academic method bv which health and self control may be measured and given credit in judging the mental efficiency of the college man. The college would render a service by requiring entrance examinations that would determine a boy's potential ability apart from mere book learning. These requirements should consist of examinations to determine general condition of health and muscular control, strength tests and trials of physical efficiency. Such requirements would give new meaning to the physical work in the preparatory schools, putting their curricula in accord with the impulses of the child and combining the constructive forces of brain and body building. Then the work of physical training and development would be largely done in the preparatory schools during the formative period of a; boy's life, and when he arrived at college his physical work would be recreative rather than developmental. He would have learned the value of keeping fit for his mental work, and with the vigor and energy that come with prime physical condition he would enter his intellectual pursuits with greater zeal. Simply to advise college men to obey the laws of health, without adjusting the-system of credits to recognize such obedience puts a premium on neglecting the advice. Same colleges require those students who compete in athletics to attain a certain grade in their studies; so students who compete for scholarship should attain a certain standard of physical efficiency. An athletic requirement is one of the distinguishing characteristics of the Cecil Rhoades scholarships, and marks the beginning of a movement, which is to bring the college and the world into more sympathetic relationships through the practical efficiency acquired by some physical education.

WE WOULD LIKE to call particular attention to Mr. Harmon’s article on “The Commercial Value of Parks and Playgrounds” reprinted in this issue. With arguments of this character it will be much easier for playground advocates to demand that one-tenth of the total area of a city be taken utf by parks and playgrounds. Send marked copies of this issue to all persons whom you wish to interest in your playground plans. The plan as outlined will1 appeal to everv open-minded business man as one that is practical.
-20G-

YOUTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By Carl L. Schradbr.

‘'Youth! We are unconscious of it so long as we possess it. It flows through our blood, shines out of our eyes, resounds in our laughter, manifests itself in our fearless adventures. We are youth itself. Inseparably/ connected with us we accept it as something self-evident, just as the rays of the sun, the blowing of the wind, or the appearing of the flowers in the spring. To us belongs the world. The thought that somewhere in the future lurks and waits ol'd age is far remote from us. But we live on. Very gradually a certain something steals over us and appears in our make up, causing changes. Our laughter once so spontaneous is less frequent and not as hearty, our joy not so free and contagious. Then comes the day when we suddenly grow conscious of the fact that youth has left us. When did it happen? Can we remember the day?

“Once we are conscious of it we struggle hard to keep hidden from others what we ourselves have known for some time. With perceptible effort we try to be jollier even than the young. A sort of nervous energy radiates from us, which however soon tires us. Finally we overcome this feeling of reluctance and we begin to call ourselves old. First jokingly with a sad smile playing about our face, later with quiet resignation. It it is the iron law of nature to which we must bow.”

Thus is the disappearing of youth beautifully pictured in an article from which I have translated these few sentences. It suggests a connection which may be made between this cold fact of vanishing youth and the possibilities wrhich are inherent in our profession, possibilities for delaying this dreaded moment, when we recognize that we are old. I believe it can safely be stated that woman succumbs sooner to old age and offers a more pathetic picture in her effort to hide the fact from others, than does man. The reason for this condition may easily be found in the many conventionalities forced upon woman in her youth, and we find this condition changed in the same degree as we find the conventional barriers disappearing. When wTe meet mothers to-day who appear to be the sisters of their daughters or sons, we may rest assured that we have before us women who suffered little from conventionality, women who remained young because of a continued interest in youthful pastimes aend pleasures, unhampered in their youthful pursuits of joyful activities. We find a great number of such women today, married and unmarried, who have retained their vivacity and an active interest in bodily activity. We also meet great numbers of women who, conscious of the benefits to be derived from such activity and interests, but who, having been deprived of this in their youth for various reasons, arduously apply themselves to make the best of the possibilities which still await them in certain forms of exercises. But there still remains that great mass of women who are old before they really have lived through a reasonable period of youth. The endless number of donts arbitrarily strewn in the
path of the young girl are the stones which early complete the boundary wall of youth in the life of the woman. Very early in the girl’s life she is told of the impropriety of running, jumping or climbing; if not entirety forbidden, she must at least not run too fast or jump and dimb too high.

Wiry? This the mother cannot answer nor can it be told by those self-enthroned moralists who for want of something better to occupy their minds, set up a standard of propriety entirety arbitrary. Does it ever occur to these well-meaning teachers that they suggest thoughts to these young harmless frolicking girls which accomplish just the reverse from what they really desire to bring about. The question why they must not do these forbidden things brings to the minds of these girls a variety of distorted interpretations. It is in this connection that the woman director of the gymnasium, whether it be grammar or high school, preparatory school or college, Y. W. C. A. or neighborhood center has a mission to perform which is of the greatest significance. She must be the guiding star, she must possess a degree of excellency in her performance which at all time will be an inspiration to those who are under her care, and thus they will learn to see in such performance only the art and not an offense to society. There are of course too many different activities to permit an individual to be expert in all, but to be equipped in many activities and expert in some should be the aim of every instructor. It is important that postural faults are Corrected and measurements taken; it is well to impart and insist on knowledge and practice of hygiene; it is well to influence the shaping of character and to teach the many things in manner and bearing which belong to a well-bred woman. If with it all, however, we have failed to create in the individual such enthusiasm and desire which manifests itself in a voluntary pursuit in at least one form of bodily activity, then we have ill1 succeeded in our calling.	The degree of voluntary pursuit of playing

games, of skating, swimming, mountain climbing, boating, etc., in after school life is the true criterion of a successful and extensive physical education, during the school and college life. What profits does a physical education net which terminates with graduation and which during its practice has only been a cold performance of a school regulation? Now let us apply this thought of vanishing youth to the instructor of gymnastics herself. Of all teachers she can least afford to acquire the resigned habits of a typical school'marm. It is not the color of hair or the calendar age which signals the departure of youth, but rather the cessation of active participation in sport and the attitude which one maintains toward the youthful performances and pranks of the younger. There are many gray-haired instructors of advanced vears who because of this retained youth are in closer touch with their pupils than many a vouner teacher who has grown away from doing things with or for the pupils. Doing things! That is the keynote. As we glance along the line of instructors who have been in the harness but a few vears, -we find already much too large a body of those who are teaching only from the distance, that is from their office. They do the planning but leave the doing to assistants, in other words, thev are beginning to preach things they do not practice, and that is a serious mistake. When the director withdraws from actual doing she loses her grip, no matter how efficient her assistants are. It is true that in a large and well-organized department the planning and administrating does require much time
-208-

on the part of the director, but in my estimation that director ceases to get .the best results out of her department who resigns herself entirely to the passive task of planning and supervising, without remaining in intimate touch with the pupils and who gives them the benefit of his or her personal influence and encouragement. It does not lower the dignity of the director one iota to mix up occassionally and frolic with the students in the gymnasium, pool or on the field; on the contrary, a love and admiration will spring up which will be of a life-long influence to those who are thus being encouraged to play with a youthful spirit of forgetfulness of life's earnest ways. I would much rather be criticised for mingling too freely with students than have the name of rarely getting into my gymnasium clothes.

Doing, then, is the one issue we must consider paramount, and in this doing we must give due consideration to those activities, which lend themselves most convenient for practice in after-school life. The women instructor more than the man must take the initiative in matters of sports, tournaments, tramps, etc., because young girls are less likely to organize for games and sports than boys are. Here is an opportunity to show how, from the dignified pedestal of the teacher, she can dismount and enter into a game of basket ball or tennis, or vault over the horse, climb the rope, dive into the pool', all with an abandon which in time will prove contagious to others, and cause the pupils to follow the example and enter into the performance with enthusiasm. If the heads of schools whose duty it becomes to engage a director for the gymnasium would, in enumerating the desired qualifications, insist more definitely upon the ability to swim, skate, row, play games, dance, etc., instead of calling for qualifications entirely foreign to a department of physical education such as mathematics, languages, elocution, etc., the students of that school would be infinitely more benefited. It is the business of an aspirant for such a position to acquire these above named arts to the point of teaching ability, while the other qualifications should merely have been a part of her general education. Our profession is too broad in itself to even tolerate any division of interests and duties over subjects which lie entirely outside of our field. Where, of course an instructor considers her duties ended when the class instruction is over, then her many idle hours may suggest to the head of the school and justly so, that she has time for additional duties. It is a golden opportunity lost not to get hold of the students after school hours. These opportunities should not only be taken advantage of from a sense of duty but also from the self desire of doing something for the joy of it. In order to enjoy a. gymnastic or athletic performance w*e must do it well and be able to come out a winner some times. It is the fear of being defeated or outdone by a pupil which causes many to avoid showing their hand and with this avoiding our youth disappears and our influence as leader ceases. It is this active participation then which keeps an instructor of physical education in that youthful frame of mind, which keeps her in close contact with her students and which stimulates them to earn such prolonged youth for themselves. With the decreased demand for doing things on the part of the teacher comes the increased danger of a shortened professional life, so that it becomes of vital importance to the teacher to keep up the practical ability and thus retain youth and eligible for a greater number of years.

Digitized by

Google
-209-

NEW YORKS PURE-AIR LAW FOR WORKMEN.

By C. M. RIPLEY, New York.

It costs money to purify anything. Whether it be die Panama Zome ifcat must be made habitable or a political situation which requires a house-•kaning—all of these worthy enterprises require considerable expenditure

there will always be found some who protest.

Even our worthy Pure Food law came in for its share of complaint, ami now we learn that the New York Labor law, requiring a supply of faaesh air for the employees of workshops and factories is being subjected to fame criticism.

The law reads as follows:

“The owner, agent or lessee of a factory shall provide in each work-roam thereof, proper and sufficient means of ventilation, and shall maintain proper and sufficient ventilation; if excessive heat be created; or, if steam, gases, yapors, dust or other impurities that may be injurious to health be generated in the course of the manufacturing process carried on therein, the rooms must be ventilated in such a manner as to render them harmless, so far as is practicable.”

William W. Walling, chief factory inspector for the State of New York, interprets the law as follows:

“As defined by Dr. John S. Billings, perfect ventilation means that any and every person in a room takes into his lungs at each respiration, air of the same composition as that surrounding the building, no part of which has recently been in his own lungs or those of his neighbors, or which consists •f the products of combustion generated in the building, while at the same time he feels no currents or drafts of air, and is perfectly comfortable as regards temperature, being neither too hot nor too cold.

“How much air is required to meet these conditions?

“Not less than 2,000 cu. ft. per hour for each person, with the same amount per hour for each cubic foot of gas consumed, whether for light, heat or power.”

Some landlords in New York City have put forth the claim that the. amount of fresh air specified by the Department of Labor was an “arbitrary quantity.” Several authorities on the subject of ventilation who have been consulted in the matter and who are also entirely disinterested—agree that 2,000 cu. ft. per hour per person is common practice and is based upon definite laws or rules which have been followed for many years in the design of ventilating systems.

The Architects and Builders' Pocketbook, written by Frank E. Kidder,

C.	E., Ph. D., states that 1,800 cu. ft. per hour per child should be the standard for school buildings—this amount being required by law both in Massachusetts and New York. It further states that in buildings more closely packed, and occupied for a longer period, the air supply should be from 2,000 to 2,500 cu. ft. per hour per person. In giving an example of a school room of certain dimensions, he shows that the standard amount of air would result in the air in the room being changed about eight times per hour—which certainly does not appear to be an excessive amount.

Since the above applies only to buildings where people sit quietly, or

Digitized by CjOOQle
-210-

for buildings where children only congregate—it is difficult to see how the representatives of the New York Department of Labor can justly be accused of an “arbitrary” action in interpreting the meaning of “proper and sufficient” ventilation.

Percival Robert Moses, consulting, heating and ventilating engineer, of New York City, states that he has found the rate of 2,000 cu. ft. per hour per person a satisfactory and conservative working basis. This was used in designing the ventilating equipment of the large department store of B. Altman & Company, the Rikers Island Penitentiary, the Baltimore Stock Exchange, and the new Hearst Building in San Francisco, as well as in others; and he stated that the operating expense for a system laid out on this basis has not been found excessive, and will not be, if due care is taken at the time of installation.

In a loft 25 ft. wide and 100 ft. long, containing 80 workmen, and lighted with electricity, the amount of air required would be 80 times 2,000—160,000 cu. ft. per hour. This amount of air per hour would move at the rate of about ]/& of a mile per hour—and would be sufficient to change the air in the loft six times per hour, assuming a 10-ft. ceiling. Since the Massachusetts and New York State laws for school rooms require eight changes per hour and since some authorities recommend even 50 per cent in excess of this—it appears that the action of the factory in-' spector hardly comes within the definition of the word “arbitrary.”

Dr. Daniel R. Lucas, of New York City, states that it is a well-known law of hygiene that one gas jet will consume as much oxygen as five persons. Since electric lighting—thanks to the new high efficiency lamps— has been reduced in cost 50 per cent or more, it appears that the easiest way to comply with the labor law regarding ventilation would be to abandon gas lighting. In New York City especially this would seem advisable, as electricity can be bought by meter from the street or from the power plant downstairs.

Since the average gas light is equivalent to five persons, as far as its vitiating effect is concerned, it can be readily seen that the ventilation required will be reduced 5-6 by abandoning gas light, assuming one gas jet to each workman. Or, stating it in another way, the landlord who clings to gas lighting must install ventilating apparatus six times as large as would be necessary if electric light were used. This calculation is also based upon conditions where one gas jet is provided for each workman.

The operating cost for a ventilating system is made up of two items:

(1)	Power for turning fans; (2)) Additional heat for incoming air. In a loft building where the tenant will pay for the power, the expense will automatically be divided and the landlord will pay for the extra heat required, since heat is included in the rent. It will also be noticed that again the adoption of electric lighting will cut the bills for operating expense to a remarkable degree. This cut in expense will affect the tenant, since a much smaller ventilating motor will be required, and it will also affect the landlord because less air will have to be drawm in and hence the cost for heating would be diminished.

In large systems the services of an expert heating and ventilating engineer would probably prove valuable, and it is possible to so design the equipment that a judicious “recirculation” of the air from halls and base-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-211-

men ts will effect an economy in the fuel bill. This air is seldom impure and requires much less heat than if cold air were brought in from outside. It is also possible in buildings where high pressure steami is available, or where boilers which have been run at low pressure can be run at a higher pressure, to adopt the following policy:

Provide steam engines to operate the fans and turn the exhaust steam into the heating coils—thus getting a double use out of the steam and cutting down the electric bill. This idea could be carried still further in many instances, and economies could be made (especially in the winter) by abandoning electric pumping—again lowering the electric bill.

This is the stock argument of the advocates of isolated plants, who contend that great economies result in buildings of 1,000,000 cu. ft. or more if engines are installed and electricity is made on the premises. It is a fact that steam at high pressure only contains about 6 per cent more heat than steam at low pressure. Thus the argument that electricity can be made and a building heated with exhaust steam, is advanced. The layman does not appreciate one very peculiar fact about steam—that at 5 lbs. pressure it is only about 6 per cent cheaper to make than at 100 lbs. pressure— showing that the cost does not increase in proportion to the pressure.

• In the future it is probable that factories and loft buildings will be equipped with ventilating apparatuus at the outset, with the ducts concealed in the walls and the fans located in the basement. A model building of this character has recently been' completed at 37-43 West Twenty-sixth Street, New York, in which the landlord at the time of construction had the ventilating system installed at his expense, after the design of a prominent consulting engineer. Thus the cost of operating a system and the responsibility of maintaining it in good condition does not rest upon the tenant. At the present writing we are informed that the owners of the West Twenty-sixth Street corporation have already rented eight out of twelve floors—a flattering reception and appreciation of the advantages they have to offer.

It is natural during this transitory period and before the betterment of the standard of building construction has become general, that some differences are bound to arise between the Factory Inspection Bureau and the landlords and tenants. It is to be hoped that this condition is but temporary.

In the report of the United States Bureau of Labor at Washington, D. C., it is shown that deaths among factory workers due^o consumption, were divided as follows:

Employees exposed to metallic dust.......................36.9	per	cent.

Employees exposed to mineral dust........................28.6	per	cent.

Employees exposed to vegetable fibre dust................24.8	per	cent.

Those exposed to animal and fibre dust...................32.1	per	cent.

An ingenious conclusion was reached by Mr.	Frederick L.	Hoffman,

of the Prudential Life Insurance Company, based	on	this	report.	It	is his

opinion that by intelligent methods of ventilation and dust removal the consumption death rate among the wage earners would result in an annual saving of 22,238 lives. This would add, quoting the Engineering News, 15.4 years of life for every death from consumption avoided by rational conditions of industrial life. Such a gain would represent a total of 342,465

Digitized by
-212-

ye&rs of additional life time, and by just so much the industrial efficiency of ' the American nation would be increased. Placing the economic value of 'a year’s life time at only $200, the total average gain to the nation would be $3,080 for every avoidable death of a wage earner from consumption, representing the enormous total of $68,493,000 as the annual financial value clearly within the range of practical attainment. Therefore, nothing within reason should be left undone as a national, state, and individual or social duly to prevent that needless but now enormous loss of human life from consumption due to the unfavorable condition in American industry*

None will denv that the efficiency of workmen varies with their good health and comfort. Slight physical ills are prevented by better surroundings, says William! H. Tolman, and the loss to the employer due to absences, brains made stupid by breathing foul air—are immediate losses t# the employer through lowered efficiency, and later involve a loss of trained employees and the necessary breaking in of green help.—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

DEEP BREATHING.

By Dr. Daniel F. Comstock of the School of Technology (as reported in an interview in the Boston Herald.)

“My experiments have shown me, that enforced deep breathing over a period of several minutes produces several' striking effects on the body, the chief of which are: 'Material increase in the length of time which the system can do without respiration; effective mental stimulation; material increase in physical endurance for a short time, and a rise in the frequency of the pulse beat.

1 “Daring rescues from suffocation and drowning are common enough to make the knowledge of this possible threefold endurance without air of no little value; and by proper use of the lungs remaining under water or in dense smoke for a considerable time is possible.

“With myself I have found that four minutes of enforced breathing makes it possible to hol'd the breath for 3 y2 minutes, whereas without this preparation 56 seconds was my limit. The time during which it is possible to do without respiration increases, of course, with the length of time during which preparatory breathing is carried on. The increase does not go on indefinitely, but finally reaches a definite limit beyond which further length of time given to preparatory breathing does not increase the time during which the breath may be held. The limit varies with different people. I can hold my breath 3 minutes and 34 seconds by the stop-watch by this method, while one of my friends claims five minutes* holding without discomfort. The change produced in the system is certainly more fundamental than a lung change, and it would appear to indicate a temporary change in the Wood constitution. I have seen some very amusing betting on how long it was possible to hold the breath, and I have seen the cocksure better laid low by not knowing this possible resource of his adversary.

“The effect as a mental stimulant is very pronounced. I have noticed in my own case that mental fatigue may be postponed far beyond the usual point by two minutes of rapid deep breathing at half-hour intervals. A feeling of sluggishness or sleepiness from long mental effort may be completely dispelled. I have never noticed any reaction, as in the case of other stimulants, and altogether it seems very satisfactory.

Digitized by CaOOQle

j
-213-

“The effect on muscular fatigue is also striking. A difficult arm exercise with heavy weights, which I could not repeat under ordinary circumstances more than 20 times, I found that after four minutes of preparatory breathing I could do 27 times without especial extra effort, thus gaining about 30 per cent, in power. This increase I found to exist almost constantly in all stages of fatigue.”

Dr. Comstock has not carried out experiments as yet to his breathing method in track athletics, but he is of the opinion that if it; will not increase rthe speed materially it will leave the sprinter in a better physical1 condition at the finish and prevent collapse.

Instead of the latter portion of the time of enforced breathing being difficult and a struggle, as is the last few yards which the runner tears off on his nerve to break the tape in a race, the breathing becomes easier as the lungs get used to it and the last few seconds seem to pass more quickly than the first.

Deep breathing will often cure a headache almost instantly. The pulse beat goes up verv rapidly while the breathing is continued, in an average case from 65 or 70 to 105 or no. The breather experiences considerable dizziness at the time, which passes off in a few seconds and leaves the head perfectly clear.

By deep breathing the man of sedentary occupation, who has labored all day over book-keeping or writing and finds his head heavy and his figures a blur, may instantly clear himself for action again and sustain his effort for hours, by stopping to breathe before an open window every half-hour. The breath must be taken in deeply, filling the lungs to their utmost capacity, and not held for any length of time, but expelled sharply as from a bellows, another breath being taken instantly, the object being to- get as much oxygen into the lungs in as short interval of time as possible.

Vigorous exercise in the open air has long been advocated for warming the body. The teamster who is chilled and beats his body with his arms is a well1 known example. The same effect that this action produces carl be produced by the deep breathing, only the whole body will be warmed to a greater extent, for while the physical action drives the blood made sluggish by the cold through the arteries, the rapid breathing increases its power of warming, much as the draught of whiskey does. A combination of the breathing and action warms the body more effectively than a steam heater.

Oxygen makes up a large percentage of the nourishment of the body. If a man’s breath is stopped he dies, and hence if insufficient supply of oxygen is taken into the body an impoverished state ensues much like that of partial starvation from lack of food. The forced breathing makes up for this often insufficient supply of oxygen and adds extra oxygen, the result obtained being much like that of crowding a furnace to obtain more steam pressure by burning oil and turpentine. With plenty of oxygen a thin person puts on flesh and an over-fat body is reduced, the blood carrying out its natural work in the expulsion of the useless matter segregated.

The combustion of oxygen in the tissues gives heat; the more oxygen the greater the combustion and the more heat created. Regular deep breathing at night, if the air of the room be pure, is a more powerful sedative than any drug; long, deep breaths of fresh air taken without quick expulsion bringing sleep to the most troubled mind. Regular deep breathing improves the general health, and lessens suffering from functional disorders. ’

Digitized by c.ooQle
-214-

INDIAN CLUB DRILL

By Karl F. Ross, M. D., Physical Director Turnverein Germania, Los Angeles, Cal.

Exhibited at the Bundes Turnfest, held at Cincinnati, Ohio, June 1909.

(Concluded.)

1.	Number of participants 16.

2.	Music : “Schottische.**

3.	All Tactical evolutions performed while running.

4.	Clubs are carried upon forearms during all running (arms bent at right

angles, forearm horizontal, upper arm vertical) unless otherwise commanded during drill.

Figure 24. Figure 25.

Figure 26. Figure 27.

Figure 28.

Figure 29. Figure 30. Figure 31.

Figure 32.

TACTICS— GROUP C.

All run to flank circle and circle left 1 1-2 times—32 counts.

Members 2 and 4 of each rank 3-4 circle left. Members 1 and 3 of respective rank forming inner circle—8 counts.

With right arms raised obliquely outward and up, and left arms raised obliquely outward and down outer circle 1, 3, 5, etc., run 1-2 circle left, and inner circle 2, 4, 6, etc., run 1-2 circle right, RUN—12 counts.

Alternate or change positions of arms and partners 1 and 2; 3 and 4 cross clubs of inside arms obliquely side upward and 4-4 wheel left around centre of couple as pivot—8 counts.

The inner circle 1-4 circle left forming in rear of 1, 3, etc., of respective ranks—4 counts. Ranks C and D face left about in 4 counts.

Ranks A and B circle left, C and D right, one time—16 counts.

Circles change places by running figure eight; repeat coming back to original positions—32 counts.

Ranks C and D (members 9-16) left about. Rank A leading, all forward and angle march left and around room, RUN —16 counts.

Ranks A, B, C, D, angle march left opening ranks to 4 steps distance, run—16 counts. Ranks A and C 3 counts forward, run—(2 steps.)

Exercise 1.

(a)

Part 1.	(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Part 2.

CLUB SWINGING----GROUP C.

Ranks A and C with double arm circle left lunge left sideward 1.

Close right foot to left with double hand circle left back of shoulders 2.

Repeat (a) 3.

Close right foot to left with clubs tipped on forearms (arms sideward right) 4.

Swing arms down 5.

Double hand circle right back of hip 6.

Double hand circle right front of hip 7.

1-2 double arm circle right and double hand circle right in front of arms (upward) 8.

Repeat -whole to opposite side 9*-16. Repeat parts 1 and 2 —32 counts.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
	*	• *	T(uPxu-fycd~£-	
3  iS	A	** y	t~ *£itr'“ .rv'.A	i 1.
			> Sv	: y
/»			H V	If 4 *
T’ *				o
pr			- '' \ X4 • i) T /	_ £ (•)  Tr &
			. ~ '»V	>
i*			4. l» a j  ; „';	< *.
				V
n			1 » V- ‘	
		b v	V V	
	/a	i »		

>l v A, * ' A

3-ivV i e. 1

*,S '•'•'V*"'" |k»

ii"t 3 t

T T T T

T T t T T T8 T 5

V**'

U-

A C

Note:—Ranks B and D in exercise I and 2 of group C work to right as ranks A and C work to left and vice versa.	;

Digitized by i^ooQle
Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Pose i.

Pose 2.

—216—

2.	.

(a)	1 Ranks A and C pirouette7 left with double arm circles left I.

(b)	Same to the right 2.	:<

(c) Double arm circle left (bring arms sideward right) 3.

(d)	Lock step right and double hand circle left (backward) in

front of arms (inside of right arm, outside of left) 4.

(e)	Double arm circle right 5.

(f)	Hand circle left back of left hip while right arm hand

circles right back of right shoulder 6.

(g)	Double arm circle left 7.

(h)	Hand circle left back of left shoulder while right arm hand

circles right back of right hip 8.

Repeat a, b, c, d, e, f, g, to other side 9-16. Repeat whole to both sides 17-32.

3.

Follow arm circle left 1. Follow hand circle back of shoulder 2. Follow hand circle left (arms upward) in front of arms 3. Follow hand circle left back of shoulders 4. Follow arm circle 3-4 left 5.' Follow hand circle left back of right shoulder 6. Follow hand circle left (arms upward) in front of arms 7. Follow hand circle left back of left shoulder 8. Repeat—32 counts.

4-

* left face, follow arm circle forward on left side of body 1. Follow arm circle forward on right side of body 2. Follow arm circle with left on right side and right on left side 3. Follow arm circle forward on left side 4. Follow hand circle forward on right side of arms 5. Follow hand circle forward left on left side of arms and right on left side of arms 6. Follow hand circle forward on left side of arms 7; on right side of arms 8. Repeat all 3 times, 9-32.

Note:—Hands height of head starting position during hand circles.

POSE OF RANKS.

Rank A kneeling right, right arm bent horizontally over head, left arm bent horizontally aerbss front of body and Rank B lunge left sideward, left arm obliquely outward and up, right arm obliquely outward and down.

Rank C clubs crossed upward above head.

Rank D facing right, right arm bent horizontally above head, left arm obliquely down and backward, right forward lunge. Hold pose for 8 counts.

Rank A straighten left leg sideward, bend trunk right and arms sideward raise.

Rank B with double arm circle inward, lunging and arm positions change.

Rank C with double arm circle inward arms obliquely side upward, stride stand sideward pump.

Rank D kneel left and position of arms change. Hold pose 9-16.

Digitized by i^.ooQ le
-217-

Pose 3. All change to respective positions of pose 1; hold 17-24-In position stand, close ranks forward, RUN—8 counts. The ranks angle march right—4 counts.

The line countermarch left and off, RUN.

FIELD DAY OF THE MILWAUKEE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

June 4th, 19LO.

1^ The calisthenic exercises under Part I are designed for the “Drill” of the Field Day Program and are to be taken up by the pupils of the 6th, 7th and 8th grades at once in place of the work prescribed in the “Hand Book.” They must be practiced in drill form, that is, the pupils must memorize them and learn to execute them without directions.

The boys and girls should be arranged in two separate divisions in order to enable them to execute the exercises of the divided order type, also to have them become accustomed to this particular form of execution.

The exercises should be practiced with music accompaniment as soon as possible. Sousa’s “Stars and Stripes Forever, March” is the piece which will be used on the day of the festival. The introduction of this march has four measures, and this introduction will be played before Part I begins. After each part of the drill a pause of eight measures will be made, during which the music will continue. When practicing cause the pupils to count from 1 to 8 for the introduction, and from 1 to 16 for each of the pauses. Since we cannot use the march as it is written, a re-arrangement of the same became necessary, which will be explained to those teachers or principals who will call1 for the sheet music at the office.

The movements of the exercises must be well marked and the execution must be accurate; the marching-step must be executed lightly and with a marked extension of the leg. Erect carriage of the body must be demanded during the marching and facing.

Classes and individuals must be able to execute the exercises correctly and in drill form (during Mr. Wittich’s last visit to the schools before the Field day) ; no other will be accepted either in the drill or in the games and athletic events.

2.	The competitive exercises selected for the Field Day are:

For the Boys of the 7TH and 8th Grades :

Broad and high jumps with running start, 100 yard dash, one mile relay race, 20 boys to each team, and Captain Ball, 10 boys to each teamn. For the Girls of the 7TH and 8th Grades:

1300 yard shuttle relay race, 20 girl's to each team, Captain Ball, 10 girls to each team.

For the Pupils of the High Schools:

Boys:—Two mile relay race, 20 boys to each team; Captain Ball, 10 boys to each team.

Girls:—1600 yard shuttle relay race, 20 girls to each team; Captain Ball, 10 girls to each team.

Only pupils who are well up in their studies, and who are also to take part in the Mass Drills, are eligible.

The boys of the grades will be divided according to size into two

Digitized by CjOOQle
—218-

classes for the broad jump, the high jump and the dash, in order to give the smaller ones a fair chance. Those who are 60 or more inches tall in their running shoes will form one class and will be called Seniors; those who are less than 60 inches tall will form another class and will be called Juniors.

An exact and careful classification of Juniors and Seniors, under the supervision of a competent person, some time prior to the Field Day will facilitate matters very much and will prevent disputes between judges and contestants.

Principals and teachers are earnestly requested to encourage all the boys and girls of the above named grades to prepare for the Field Day. This should be done not merely for the sake of the winning of prizes but for the wholesome exercise which the boys can get out of the preparation.

We must make this our end in view.

PART I.

Exercise i—Two steps sideward left and raise arms forward upward on ist step and lower them on 2nd step (3rd leg

movement) ........................................ I— 4

Left about in 4 stqps............................. 5— 8

Repeat the marching with arm exercise and the facing. 9—16 Exercise 2—Boys: .

Squatstand and raise arms forward................. 1— 4

Toestand and raise arms upward.................... 5— 8

Squatstand and lower arms forward................. 9—12

Fundamental position .............................f3—16

Girls:

Toestand and move arms sideward, upward, sideward

and upward ....................................... 1— 4

Squatstand and lower arms forward................. 5— 8

Repeat the toestand with arm movements............ 9—12

Fundamental position .............................13—16

Exercise 3—Toestand, lower head backward and raise arms slowly

sideupward ....................................... 1— 8

Return and place hands on hips on the 16th count.... 9—16

Exercise 4—Stride forward left and straighten arms upward...... 1— 2

Bend trunk left and lower arms sideward...........3— 4

Return ........................................... 5— 8

Same right ....................................... 9—16

Exercise 5—Stride sideward left and straighten arms forward.... 1— 2

Twist trunk left and move arms left............... 3— 4

Return ........................................... 5— 8

Same right .. .*.................................. 9—

Exercise	6—Repeat Exercise 4 ................................. 1—16

Exercise	7—Repeat Exercise 3.................................. 1—16

PART II.

Exercise 1—Two steps sideward right and move arms forward upward, forward, upward, and forward downward................... 1— 4

Right about in 4 steps............................ 5— 8

Repeat the marching with arm exercise and the facing. 9—16

Digitized by Google
-219-

Remark:—In this exercise the boys begin with facing and the

girls with marching sideward.

Exercise. 2—Repeat Exercise 2 of Part I....................... i—16

Exercise 3—Toestand and raise arms forward.................... 1— 4

Lower head backward and move arms sideward, palms

upward ........................................... 5— 8

Return and place hands on hips on the 16th count... . 9—16

Exercise 4—Lunge forward left and straighten arms upward...... 1— 2

Lower trunk forward and arms sideward............. 3— 4

Return ........................................... 5— 8

Same with lunge right............................. 9—16

Exercise 5—Lunge sideward left and straighten arms sideward... 1— 2

Bend trunk backward and raise arms upward......... 3— 4

Return ........................................... 5— 8

Same right ....................................... 9—16

Exercise 6—Repeat Exercise 4 ................................. 1—16

Exercise 7—Repeat Exercise 3.................................. * 1—16

PART III.

Repeat Part I.

PART IV.

Repeat Part II.

Club Drill for the Girls of the Milwaukee High Schools for the Field Day.

PART I.

Exercise 1—Two steps sideward left and raise arms forward up-

ward on first step and lower them on 2nd steo (3rd

movement)* ......................................... 1— 4

Left about in 4 step9............................... 5— 8

Repeat the marching with arm exercise and the facing. 9—16 Remark:—One club is heM horizontally in both hands, the knob in the left hand, during the first three exercises.

Exercise 2—Toestand and raise arms forward upward................ 1— 4

Squatstand and lower arms forward................... 5— 8

Repeat the toestand with arm exercise...............9—12

Fundamental position ...............................13—16

Exercise 3—Toestand, lower head backward and raise arms slowly

forward upward...................................... 1— 8

Return and raise club to starting position on the 16th

count .............................................. 9—16

Exercise 4—Arm and hand circle outward left, the latter behind the shoulder, three times. Transfer the club to right hand

on the 8th count.................................... 1— 8

Same right. Club horizontally in front of thighs on

the 16th count...................................... 9—16

Exercise 5—Stride forward left and raise arms forward upward.. . 1— 2

Twist trunk left and lower arms forward............. 3— 4

Return ............................................. 5— 8 .

'	Same	right. Club in starting in left hand on the 16th

count .............................................. 9—16

Digitized by CjOOQie
-220-

Exercise 6—Repeat Exercise 4. Club in front of thighs on the

16th count ....................................—	.	1—16

Exercise 7—Repeat Exercise 3.

PART II.

Exercise 1—Two steps sideward right and move arms foreupward,

forward, upward and foredownward................. 1— 4

Right about in 4 steps........................... 5— 8

Repeat the marching with arm exercise and the facing. 9—16

Exercise 2—Repeat Exercise 2 of Part 1...................... 1—16

Exercise 3—Toestand and raise arms forward upward........... 1— 4

Lower head backward and bend arms, club on chest... 5— 8 Return and raise club to starting position with left hand

on the 16th count................................ 9—16

Exercise 4—armcircle inward left with tipping of club

handcircle) ..................................... 1— 8

Same right....................................... 9—16

Exercise 5—Lunge sideward left and raise arms foreupward.... 1— 2

Lower trunk	forward ............................. 3— 4

Return .......................................... 5— 8

Same right....................................... 9—*6

Exercise 6—Repeat Exercise 4 ................................. 1—16

Exercise 7—Repeat Exercise 3................................ 1—16

PART hi:

Repeat Part I.

PART IV.

Repeat Part II.

Wand Drill for the Boys of the Milwaukee High Schools for the Field Day.

PART I.

Exercise 1—Two steps sideward left and raise arms foreupward

on 1st and lower them on 2d step (3d leg movement) .. I— 4

Left about in 4 steps....—.......................... 5— 8

Repeat the marching with arm exercises and the facing 9—r6

Exercise	2—Squatstand and raise arms forward.................... I—	4

Toestand and raise arms upward...................... 5—	8

Squatstand and lower arms forward................... 9—12

Starting position ..................................13—16

Exercise 3—Toestand, lower head backward and raise arms slowly

foreupward ......................................... 1—	8

Return ............................................. 9—

Exercise	4—Stride forward left and raise arms	fore-upward...... 1—	2

Bend trunk left and place wand behind	shoulders.....3—	4

Return ............................................. 5—	8

Same right..........................................9—

Exercise	5—Stride sideward left and raise arms	forward........ 1—	2

Twist trunk left and move arms left.......t......... 3—	4

Digitized by VjOOQLC
-221-

Return .......................................... 5— 8

Same right ...................................  —	9—16

Exercise 6—Repeat Exercise 4 ................................ 1—16

Exercise 7—Repeat Exercise 3................................. 1—16

PART II.

Exercise 1—Right about in 4 steps............................ I— 4

Two steps sideward right and move arms foreupward,

forward, upward and foredownward................. 5— 8

Repeat the facing and the marching with arm exercise 9—16

Exercise	2—Repeat Exercise 2 of Part 1....................... 1—16

Exercise	3—Toestand and raise arms fore-upward............... 1— 4

Lower head backward and bend arms, wand on chest. . 5— 8

Return .......................................... 9—16

Exercise	4—Lunge forward left and raise arms fore-upward..... 1— 2

Lower trunk forward and lower arms backward downward ............................................ 3— 4

Return .......................................... 5— 8

Same right ...................................... 9—16

Exercise	5—Lunge sideward left'and raise arms fore-upward.... 1— 2

* Bend trunk backward and bend arms, wand on chest. . 3— 4

Return ............................................ 5— 8

Same right ............................. *....... 9—16

Exercise 6—Repeat Exercise 4 ................................ 1—16

Exercise 7—Repeat Exercise 3................................. 1—16

PART III.

Repeat Part I.

PART IV.

Repeat Part II.

THE HYGIENIC CARE OF THE GYMNASIUM.

By CHARLES J. KURTZ, M. D., Instructor in Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene in The Institute and Training School.

The hygienic care of the gymnasium can hardly be described in all its . details so as to apply to every gymnasium, but mention may be made of some principles of hygiene that should be followed in all of them.

The ventilation of the gymnasium should be excellent. The quiet man uses 3,000 cubic feet of air per hour, but as this may be changed about three

•	times per hour without draft, he needs only 1,000 cubic feet of space. The exercising man, however, needs four to six times this amount of air and space. The air may be changed oftener than three times per hour while the men are exercising, say about six to eight times per hour, so that 2,000

*	cubic feet of space per man is sufficient.

Artificial heating and lighting are usually less apt to be injurious than other factors, and have less influence. Sunlight, the importance of which every one recognizes from a hygienic standpoint, should reach the gymnasium, and especially the locker room, as much as possible.

Digitized by ^ ^.ooQle
—222—

There should be a good supply of cuspidors, well located. The dental or running water cuspidor is excellent and hygienic, but not always practical. A plan that all can follow, however, is to have a box two feet square and three inches deep, almost filled with sawdust, with an ordinary cuspidor placed in the center, or a smaller pasteboard box of sawdust in place of the cuspidor. The sawdust should always be kept moist with a one per cent, solution of carbolic acid. The sawdust boxes are either burned or emptied into the furnace, thus avoiding the necessity of washing cuspidors. It is quite as essential that the use of these cuspidors should be strictly enforced as to have them.

Drinking water should be supplied in the gymnasium. The objections to the common drinking cups are well known. The running over-flow" or bubbling cup should be used and, if not allowed to run constantly, a valve may be arranged so that it can run while used, thus decreasing the expense.

It seems old and unnecessary to say that a gymnasium should never be swept and dusted as we ordinarily think of the terms. The floors should be well sprinkled with sawdust, torn papers, or similar material wet with a one per cent, solution of carbolic acid, and then a brush broom should be used and not the ordinary broom. All dusting should be done with cloths wet with one per cent, solution of carbolic acid.

Dirty and dusty mats have always been a hard proposition to handle. An ideal method could easily be outlined, but any method must-be practical' as well. One that can be followed out and used easily is to treat them the same as the floors. However, the mats need occasionally a more thorough cleaning than this. A practical way would be to place the mats in a small room and disinfect with formaldehyde. An additional method of caring for the mats is to have covers that lace at the sides made for them, or a cover may be tucked underneath the edges of the large mats. These covers may be washed and kept clean and thus lessen the frequency of the other methods being used.

I have mentioned carbolic acid a number of times. It is a poison, and also it is rather hard to handle I know, but it is the least expensive and most efficacious of the various antiseptics which are on the market. 'Crude carbolic acid, which is 30 per cent, strength, should cost about 15 cents a quart, so that the use of it is not an expensive proposition.

Lockers and locker rooms are and always will be a source of annoyance, as men will place unclean clothes in them. Suggestions and rules of suitable means should be brought to the attention of members and enforced with courteous firmness. Some advocate going through the lockers periodically and having soiled clothing laundered and charge the expense to the member. The unclean aspect can be largely overcome, however, in spite of the careless members by disinfecting the entire room with formaldehyde periodically, according to use. The locker room should be so placed that it is properly ventilated and lighted, and should also be arranged so that it can be easily hermetically sealed and disinfected. This can be done on a Saturday evening, opened on Sunday morning and by Monday the lockers will be ready for use. The cost of disinfection should be less than 40 cents per 1,000 cubic feet of space. The mats and similar apparatus can be placed in the locker room, and disinfected at the same time without additional expense.

Digitized by Google
-228-

A/VnD ftND BODY, ye

Subscription Priee, >1.00 per Year.

Published Montlny.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

MUwaukn, •Wisconsin.

MB Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—THE FOLLOWING EDITORIAL in the Philadelphia Ledger is of such general interest to parents and teachers that we reprint it.

A couple of English experimenters, under the auspices of the Francis Galton Laboratory for National Eugenics, have just published the results of a series of inquiries to determine whether the children of parents addicted to habitual alcoholic indulgence are inferior in physical development or intellectual activity. The results are bound to provoke bitter controversy, for the reason that their findings traverse the doctrine, universally accepted among the advocates of total abstinence, that many diseased organisms are transmitted from the drunkard. Miss Elderton and Professor Pearson, who conducted the inquiry, seem to have been greatly surprised by their own findings, for in their report, as it has been summarized in the English newspapers, they appear to apologize for their discoveries.

They say, wisely, that “no greater evil can be done to a good cause than by obtaining, through emotional appeals, general credence for statements which wider experience shows to be inexact”; but they add that “the desire to know before acting, and the mind which refuses to express an opinion before knowledge, are so unfamiliar to many workers in the field of social reform that the possibility of starting an inquiry without any bias as to its result seems to them almost an iniquity, the mark of an abnormal temperament.”

Having thus anticipated the criticism they are likely to encounter, these students give the results of their investigation in the cases of upward of 3600 school children in Manchester and Edinburgh, concerning whom the social and family statistics were unusually complete. From this study they conclude that, while the death rate among the children of alcoholic parents is higher than among the offspring of sober parents, the former were slightly heavier and taller, their general health was slightly better, and they found no connection whatever between parental alcoholism and filial intelligence.

It is quite reasonable to suggest that a more prolonged study, with a greater number of subjects, might modify these conclusions, but until they have been set aside by research more profound they will be quoted in opposition to the view commonly held concerning the visitation of the sins of the drunkard upon his children and his children’s children. The findings of the Galton Laboratory experts will have many supporters

Digitized by

;GoogIe
—224—

among those familiar with the inmates of children's homes and asylums. But that they will create “consternation” among many enthusiastic advocates of “temperance,” as has been suggested by one of the British commentators, is as certain as that the sun will rise tomorrow. For the subject is one about which some people cannot argue, and which is in their minds far removed from the domains of philosophy and logic.

'	—IN HIS ANNUAL REPORT for 1908 the chief medical officer

of the Board of Education of England urged that the teaching and practice of physical exercises should be organized and co-ordinated upon a national basis, and applied and directed specifically to the education of the child. "For many of the frail, stunted and ill-developed children in public elementary schools suitable and appropriate physical training, if coupled with sufficient nourishment, is the best of all medical treatment.” To give legislative effect to this suggestion a bill has been introduced in the House of Commons by Mr. Whyte. Its object is to secure universal and continuous training for the youth of both sexes up to the age of 16 years, in order to avert, as far as is possible by such means, the danger of physical degeneration disclosed by the report of the Inter-Departmental Committee on Physical Deterioration.

It is provided that local education authorities shall provide in all elementary, secondary, intermediate, or other schools within their areas physical training for all pupils during a certain period daily, the time so occupied to be not less than two hours per week. Every local authority must appoint a committee to supervise the work, the cost of which is to be defrayed out of a special Parlimentary grant. Children leaving school before they are 16 will he required, under a penalty, to attend continuation classes on at least two evenings a week until they attain that age.

—THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE publishes another set of "Health-grams” which, we suspect, are close kin to a previous installment in these columns from the Bulletin of the Chicago Department of Health: "Taking in fresh air is healthier than putting on fresh airs.” "Don’t permit your palate to get your stomach into trouble.” "Children in factories mean a crippled citizenship.”

"Make your neighbors’ front yard jealous of your back yard.” "The trees and the grass are making life-giving air for you. Go get it.”

"There’s some consolation in the thought that it’s healthier to walk than to ride in automobiles.”

"Have thought for the capacity of the baby’s stomach; it is not built or operated to suit the mistaken notions of fond but ignorant mothers.” "The Civil War killed 205,070 Americans in four years; consumption kills 800,000 in the same length of time. If ’war is hell’ what is consumption?”

Digitized by v^ooQLe
-225-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

SOME SHADOWS OF OUR PUBLIC PLAYGROUNDS.

By JOS. CERMAK, Instructor at Medill High School, Chicago, 111.

It is a well established fact, that our public playgrounds are an important factor in the education of the coming generation in large cities. It has been proven by statistics, that an increase of the number of playgrounds means a decrease of petty crimes among those unfortunate children, who are left to themselves, without the guidance of an intelligent father or a loving mother, and that the more our municipalities or states spend on playgrounds the less they will have to spend on court rooms, reformatories and jails. A boy may not be bad, but if his natural instinct for play or any other healthy physical activity is not satisfied, he easily becomes a victim of the numberless temptations, which are offered to neglected and inexperienced boys and girls in every large city.

But, like everything else, even these great institutions, the playgrounds, are not without faults, without some shadows. I am writing of experiences which I have had with some of the “playground boys and girls” as a High school instructor, and I wish to state, that in pointing out some of the faults of the playgrounds, I do not intend to criticise the instructors, but the conditions under which they are obliged to work.

“What do I wish to accomplish?” This question is the best guide to every gymnastic instructor. His own answer to this question will show him the way to	reach his goal,	his	aiim, his	ideal. We must have our aim

before our eyes	all the time, for it	is the light-house which shows the way

even to those who	are groping	in the	darkness of ignorance,	or are still'

tossed helplessly on	the seas of doubts.	If I know the aim, if	I have the

goal before my eyes, I shall easily find the way.

Is competition among the teams of different playgrounds conducive to fair play? Does it cultivate the spirit of honesty? Does it build characters? I doubt it very much. We can not answer these questions satisfactorily even in our high schools, where, as I presume, the players participating in league games are under stricter supervision than are the playground teams. So	long as the	chief aim of the players is “to win”—so

long as the players	are playing	for a	reward, whether in the	shape of a

piece of gold or	silk—they will	try	“to win	honestly if they can, and if not

they will try to	win anyhow.”	So	long as	the public, and oftentimes even

the press, judge the ability of a gymnastic instructor by his “winning teams,” one need not wonder that “victory” is the instructor’s only aim—“victory at any price, his goal”—and this wrong goal naturally must show him the wrong way. I frankly admit, that conditions in most public schools are not much better in this respect; that even school boys are not taught to play for the love of the game, but for some material gain—medals, banners—or, perhaps, notoriety. When the instructors showed a reluctance to devoting their spare time to “coaching teams only,” and said that the school gymnasiums were not built only for the benefit of five, nine or eleven able-bodied boys, because they wanted to devote their time to those pupils who needed play most, they were made targets of “witty” remarks about “not

Digitized by CjOOQle
-226-

being able to catch a ball” and even their efficiency as instructors was questioned. This last information may seem out of place in this article, but it is my intention to throw a little light on the conditions under which we are obliged to work, in case somebody would criticise us for tolerating things which we condemn.

Now, let us pay a little attention to the physical training of the children, which is the main object of this article. What would we say if a growing boy would be left to himself in his mental development—if he would be allowed to follow his own inclinations—if his mental and moral training would be left to his own judgment? But this is what is being done in his physical1 training, and this, in my opinion, is one of the faults, one of the shadows, of our playgrounds as conducted at present.

We see that both sections—boys and girls—are provided with all kinds of apparatus for heavy gymnastics, and that children of all ages and physical condition have free access to those apparatus. What is the result? Small, delicate, and poorly nourished children try to imitate larger and stronger boys in their efforts to perform “tricks.” In their eagerness to excel they must expend too much of their vitality, which they need so much for their growth. We know that girls never know the limits of beneficial exercises, and that they exercise on/the “giant-stride,” rings and ladders to exhaustion. The composition of blood Compels us to be careful in arranging gymnastic exercises for girls, for they have not such a percentage of necessary “oxygen-carriers.” If there is a lack of quality, nature, in its effort to even things up, tries to make it up in quantity and the result is, that the heart is strained to a point where gymnastic exercises cease to be beneficial. Aenemic girls, who should be in the care of a doctor, come to playgrounds on the advice of well-meaning but ignorant friends, or of parents, and by exercising on heavy apparatus, or by running or jumping, do themselves more harm than good. Strong and healthy girls, left to themselves, like to do things in the “easiest way.” I have seen girls who could do all kinds of “stunts,” but on the flying rings they were able to turn one way only (usually to the left.) On the “giant-stride” they like to do all the exercise in one direction only. This shows that girls left to themselves take only one-sided exercise, which naturally must have a decidedly bad effect on their growth and their development.

How can this be overcome? It is impossible for a playground instructor to remedy this when there are hundreds and hundreds of children on the playground. He can not watch the little boys to see whether they are not trying exercise beyond their strength; he can not watch the girls, whether they are not exercising “one-sidedly” from morning until night; he can not watch every girl so as to decide which one of them should be rather in the care of a doctor than exercising on apparatus. These are the conditions on most playgrounds, and the best instructors will be helpless unless these conditions are changed.

Is there a way to rid our popular playgrounds of these shadows? I see only one way:

(a)	Remove all the apparatus fromi that part of the playground which is open to all children, and leave only apparatus for games, and swings; in short, leave only such apparatus which they can use without any detriment

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-227-

to their health and where all danger of strain or injury would be eliminated.

(b)	Have all the gymnastic apparatus in an inclosed place and de-vote afternoons, or at least a few hours a day, to systematic instruction on this apparatus.

(c)	Only those children would be admitted to this inclosed place who would be willing to work in classes and follow the directions of a teacher.

Children then could be classified according to their age, strength, general physical condition; in short, instructions would be governed by the known laws of gymnastic hygiene.

And I am convinced that our playground instructors, who are all able men and women and conscientious workers, would draw hundreds and hundreds of children and growing boys and girls to their classes; and exercises thus conducted would be a blessing to the children, whereas, under the existing conditions, where children are left to themselves, the benefit derived from such exercises is rather problematical to a great number.

REPORT OF THE MORTON PLAYGROUND.*

(Opened this year.)

By G. B. SHIPMAN, Principal.

The Morton Playground has enrolled a total of 1356 children. The average daily attendance for July was 146, and for August 168.

I regard this attendance as very good indeed, when we consider the surroundings:—

(1)	Within three squares there is a public bath-house to which most of the boys went at least once each day on boys’ days, and on two days per week the girls went there.

(2)	Within three squares there are three baseball fields. On each of these games were played nearly every day. On Saturdays these were especially resprted’ to on account of the larger games.

(3)	Only a few squares away were two lakes where the boys went to fish and swim quite frequently.

(4)	Each child has a back yard and a front porch as a place to play. Many of them have sand in the back yard. This made our sand bin less popular than in the congested parts of the city.

(5)	Two churches, some distance away, conducted Art, Industrial and Bible classes for a part of each morning. This imay account for the fact that we had our best attendance in the afternoons.

Songs:—The singing work was especially hard at first. The children scarcely knew any songs. They seem to sing very little in school. It being a new yard they knew none of the playground songs. Notwithstanding

* Playgrounds of the Board of Education, Philadelphia.

Requests frequently come to us for copies of reports made by teachers at the end of the playground season. We print two typical reports on this years work in this issue, and will print a third in the November issue.—Ed.

Digitized by
—228—

this fact the children have learned a number of songs, and some have beccMne popular. Some are the following:—Patriotic Medley, Uncle Sam, Betsy Ross, America, the A. B. C. Song, Good Morning Merry Sunshine, The Golden Rule, Guard the Flag, Hurrah for the Flag, Marching Song, Oh bring the Fife, The Merry Farmer Boy, Baby’s Boat, Morning Hymn Father we thank thee, Pitter patter come the feet, Sweet and Ltfw.

Games:—The games were especially difficult at first because they were all new to the children. The games played with the basket ball were most popular for boys. Among these Bound Ball and Dodge Ball were most popular. It has often been difficult to get the girl's to play singing games, but when once started they seemed to enjoy them. At times we were obliged to resort to the necessity of closing off apparatus during the game period. It was encouraging to note that when children learned a game they played it in preference to street games, and the same may be said of the songs.

The game activity was the most difficult one to handle in our yard. I suppose that this was largely due to the fact that the playground games were all new and had to be taught. When once learned they seemed to be enjoyed. When a game was taught during the day the children often played it in the evening after the yard closed, and told us about playing it when they returned to the yard the next day.

Stories:—A story or nature tale was told at each opening exercise, both A. M. and P. M. These have been popular. Some children come for	these alone.	They would often come to us to	ask the name of	the

story after it had	been told.	This may account for	the fact that we	had

from 30 to 80 children at the morning opening exercise and 60 to 120 at the afternoon opening exercise. These figures represent the usual number, while at times there were even larger numbers.

The story of	Cornelia’s	jewels interested a boy	so much that he	told

his	mother of the	two kinds	of jewels, and that he	wa$ one kind.

Occupation Work:—This has been most decidedly the most popular activity in our yard. During this period we had more children than at any other period.

Basketry:—We made Reed Baskets, Reed and Raffia Baskets, Split Reed Baskets, Splint Baskets, Raffia Coil Baskets. Of these the Split Reed and Splint Baskets have been very popular.

Hammocks:—These have been popular. Four large ones were made for our own yard. Ten others were made by children who purchased their own material and made them in the yard (seven large ones by boys, three small ones by girls.) It is interesting to note that some of this interest was aroused by the fact that a barber who lives across the street became so much interested that he bought material for one of the boys so that he could make a hammock for him. After this the boys were anxious to make them for themselves.

Card Board Sloyd and Paper Folding:—This has been made very interesting. Reed and Raffia and Splint work was also much enjoyed.

Chair Caneing:—Four chairs were ^aned. One piece of brass work ha9 been done. This was an experiment and was a success. Another season I shall be pleased to do more. I think it is an interesting field.

Knife Work:—This has been very much enjoyed by the boys. Many

Digitized by
—229—

wwe eager to do tke work. We have made a marker,-a pencil sharpener, a shield and a bed. Many boys have each cut out the four pieces. These were all made from cigar boxes. People in the neighborhood showed their interest by sending me empty cigar boxes. At no time did we want for Material.

Our procedure was as follows:—

(1)	We made the Marker. It is a simple piece such as the florist uses to put the name of a plant on and stick in the pot by the plant. In this all edges are straight. Each boy must make it before he can make any ♦ther piece.

(2)	We made a Pencil’ Pointer. This contains both straight edges and curved edges; and must be made before the boys could take up the next.

(3)	We made a Shield. Hooks may be placed on this, and used for a key-board. In this all edges are curved. Another season I want to use fckk form for mounting brass work.

(4)	We made a small Bench. This besides straight lines contains the angle. This piece was much enjoyed, and is as far as some boys got.

(5)	We made a small Bed. This involved the steps learned in the yievious four pieces and made glueing necessary.

I should like to have followed with several other pieces, but time did n#t permit.

I am pleased to note the fact that the loss of material by theft at the Morton has been exceedingly small. To my knowledge there is but one checker board and one pair of scissors missing. We have tried to instill into the children the habit of keeping the material in the playground so that at might enjoy it.

The attitude of parents and business firms toward the playground has been good. They have given cigar boxes, card board boxes and ribbon for ear use. They have purchased material for their children so that they wight make mats and hammocks.

Through the efforts of one of our teachers the lumber for our sliding board was presented by a lumber company. Two of our janitor’s friends «ade and presented the iron work for our slide. Our janitor gave valuable assistance getting material and assisting in building the same. Our janitor is always ready to get material and make repairs. He helped build the slide, made the “Nigger Babies,” and the board for pitching rings.

All parents who came to the yard expressed their appreciation of what we are doing for the children. At first they were afraid of measles aad whooping cough, and did not allow their children to come, but when they found the caution exercised they readily sent them. On the last day many were surprised at the work we-did, and said another year they would send chairs to cane and have hammocks made.

We have had no occasion for asking the assistance of the Department of Public Safety.

Suggestions for next year:	(1) I suggest that an arrangement be

made with the school doctor by which we may refer cases to him. I do not think it would be necessary to have him visit the ground, but an arrangement by which we may send cases to him at stated office hours.

(2) I suggest a frame for hanging hammocks over which a shelter tent be placed for the Morton yard. There is no shade in the yard.

Digitized by Google
—230-

REPORT OF THE LEIDY PLAYGROUND.

By L. ELINORE STEPHENS, Teacher.

I herewith submit the following report of work performed at the Leidjr playground.

With regard to morning exercise, including rhymes, riddles, songs,, stories, the exercises were attended mainly by children from ten to fourteen years of age, with boys in the majority. A close observation of these children showed a marked preference for Nature Songs such as are found in Gaynor Book 2. To illustrate; “Poppies,” “Sweet Pea Ladies,” “Water Lillies,” “Buttercups,” “The Cow,” Etc.; over the finger plays—“All For Baby,” “The Little Plant” and “Thumbkins” were favorites of the latter class.

The riddles were next in favor, several of the boys bringing books of them to read in the circle. The rhymes were not as popular, due no doubt to the child’s dislike of reciting before the others.

Of all stories the fairy tales took preference, and were received with careful' attention and great seeming enjoyment.

Next in order the “free play” period may be mentioned. At this time: of course the swings were in great demand, as indeed the same may be stated of the entire session. Giant strides, ladders, slides, see-saws were patronized less in comparison. The sand pile may be included here as continually pleasing to the little ones, many bringing buckets and shovels from home in order to participate.

At free play tqo, the checker boards were much enjoyed by the small as well as large children. Board games such as “Parchesie” and “Fishpond” would be extremely popular in this playground, as the children prefer quiet to noisy games.

When the time for the singing games approached it was found difficult to interest the children in the games, most of them declaring a liking for such games as “Cat and Mouse” and Bean Bag Relay. The favorite singing games were “Here comes One Soldier Marching” and “Farmer in the Dell.” In games of higher organization the most popular games were “Dodge Ball” and “Promotion Ball.”

The boys and girls, both large and small, enjoyed heartily the occupation period. All worked diligently at this time, seeming anxious to accomplish as much as possible. Among the older children the Raffia work, such as Indian Basketry, was in great demand. The younger, ones liked to make picture frames. The hammock making too received its fair share of attention, the boys working well on those destined for the Race Street Pier.

The older boys made many book racks decorated with beaten brass, and smaller articles of wood, as pencil sharpeners, etc.

The looms, used principally by the boys, displayed some nice work in mats. Card board sloyd went well, especially when decorated with wall paper designs, the last seeming to be a pleasing novelty to the children.

In general, the attitude of parents, business firms, etc., in the neighborhood toward the playground seemed favorable. A number of parents visited our yard to view the work done. At the car barn across the street from the school great interest was manifested, especially during the Morning Circle, the motormen and conductors often pausing at the gate while we sang.

Digitized by

Google

J
-231-

In conclusion it may be stated that the playground though composed of two distinct classes of children, the prosperous and the very poor, was enjoyed equally by both.

THE COMMERCIAL VALUE OF PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.

By William E. Harmon, New York.

The article on The Commercial Value of Parks and Playgrounds which was read at the annual convention of the American Civic Association in Cincinnati, and published in The Survey of December 11. has called forth a number of requests for fuller information on the subject, and especially for the data upon which my theory was predicated.

My contention was that small public parks, if intelligently planned, may be taken from almost any residential land area at the beginning of the period of active development, without loss to the owner or developer, or expense to the municipality in which they are situated. Obviously, if this contention can be established it opens up the door to an almost unlimited extension of a certain type of public park.

In order to bring the facts out clearly, it will be necessary to go somewhat into the inner workings of the suburban real estate business. I will take up first the relative cost of acres and lots—land values at wholesale and at retail. A successful real estate developer must follow fairly closely the following figures:

Cost of land and physical improvements thereon, forty to forty-five per cent of total selling price.

Cost of selling and collection, twenty-five per cent of total selling price.

Cost of maintenance, carrying charges and profit, twenty-five to thirty per cent of total selling price.

These figures are given only to show approximately the average successful developement; there are variations in very high priced and very low priced real estate, but these figures will answer our purpose.

Upon the foregoing basis, the actual cost of a lot of land with the physical improvements completed, represents say forty-two and a half per cent of the total selling price, and to sustain our theory we must secure this amount from the increased value of the lots adjacent to the land segregated for park purposes.

The first requisite to success is intelligent planning. Small parks must be distributed so as to give the greatest value to surrounding land, and must be laid out of such size and comformation as to distribute their burden of cost over as wide a district as possible. These park areas should not have a greater width than the depth of two lots ; in other words, the width of a city block. In New York that will mean 200 feet; in Chicago, 265 feet. In both places the principle would operate equally well, as it is the number of lots and not their size which measures the burden. The length of such a park, properly planned, would be from 400 to 500 feet, though this may be extended somewhat without a serious f fleet, at least, until the length reaches 700 feet.

Having our typical park thus in mind— 200 to 300 feet in width (two lots) and 400 to 500 feet in length—let us proceed to the distribution of its cost on the adjoining land.

While I have repeatedly demonstrated to my own satisfaction that these small parks give to the surrounding land an increased value sufficient to offset their cost. I realize that ray own conviction may not be shared by others, and as it is difficult to get satisfactory data on the park already in existence, for reasons hereafter stated, I concluded to submit a typical park plan to a number of the most competent real estate developers, with a hypothetical question as to-the influence that such a park would exert on the surrounding land if incorporated in a development of their own. As these men set the price at which the public purchases their real estate, and do so through an expert knowledge of conditions, and as they are subject to loss if their opinions as to the value are in error, it would seem that such a consensus of opinion would approximate the truth.

In the accompaying diagram I have shown the typical plan, the hypothetical

Digitized by v^ooQle
-232-

question, and the valuations given by six of the most prominent real estate mem accessible to me at this time. It would seem that this testimony of independent operators would demonstrate my proposition beyond dispute, but if further evidence is desired, it will only be necessary to examine any number of parks, from the center to the circumference, in any number of cities, keeping always in mind that an increase of value of twenty to twenty-five per cent, in the land immediately about the park (as distinguished from land and buildings) will wipe out the land cost of my park in a new district. The difficult of getting data of any value from existing parks in built-up sections comes from the fact that they are almost invariably of the wrong shape to support my proposition, and further, that the land values are retail values, as distinguished from wholesale values.

Mop StoowinqTopical Park.-tooicscofl 5ize of Lots -	*£0**00’	*

Hypothetical question submitted to six leading real estate operators and developers:

Assuming you were about to develop a tract of suburban property for residential purposes ; that said tract contained from thirty to forty acres ; that in the center of said tract the city had laid out a small park of four or five acres; that said park fitted perfectly into your street plan as shown in the above diagram. Assuming that if the park were not there the average retail value of the lots over the whole parcel to be $1,000 each: —

What effect would the park have upon the land in ‘A*, ‘B’ and ‘C’ represented n percentage of increase or decrease of the average inside lot value of $1,000?

B. H. Knowles,

Operator in suburban real estate for past twenty years.

Edward Bouton,

President of Roland Park Company, Baltimore, Md., and vice-president of Russel Sage Foundation Homes Company.

John W. Paris,	1

Paris and MacDougall Company, large New York developers of suburban property.

William H. Milnor,

General manager for Wood, Harmon and Company.

Joseph P. Day,

Real estate—New York City.

50 per cent increase in value of lots marked ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’.”

“At least 25 per cent.”

“30 to 35 per cent.”

“ 4 A* would be advanced 50 per cent, 4B’ 30 per cent, and ‘C’ 40 per cent.

‘‘Lots fronting on park advanced 40 per cent.”

Answers.

<<

Digitized by LjOOQle
-233-

Brnbstus Gulick,	“Under	proper conditions increase

Ernestus Gulick Company.	would	be 25 per cent.”

William E. Harmon,	“Lots	in	*A’, ‘B* and ‘C’ would be in-

creased in value at least 25 percent*

In addition to the estimates of increase shown in the lots immediately fronting the park, a second question was asked as to the effect of such a park over the whole tract. The opinions ranged from “definite sentimental value** to “fifteen per cent.*’ In the writer’s opinion the effect on land not directly contiguous would be measured not by increased selling value as much as by the increase in attractiveness of the whole proposition, therefore, no consideration is given to it.

Let us confine ourselves to the increased value given to the land fronting on the park and see how far this increase offsets the cost of the land embodied in the park and the improvement of the streets surrounding same.

Assume cost of land and improvements to be forty-five per cent of the selling price—($1,000 per lot). Taking typical park shown on diagram:

50 lots taken up by park at cost of $450. each................. $22,500

' 50 lots in ‘C’ increased $250. each (minimum percentage of

increase shown in estimates).......................... $12,500

40 lots (20 in ‘A’ and 20 in ‘B’) increased $250 each

(minimum percentage of increase shown in estimates)...	10,000

Total increase in value of surrounding land............. $22,500

It should be noted that I am using only the minimum figures furnished by my appraisers; the average would be considerably in excess of these estimates. Furthermore, I am not taking the benefit of the increased valuation of corners, which would be somewhat in excess of inside lots; nor any increases in the main body of the land, which might either be measured by an increase in price or a decrease in selling expense.

Variations in the length of the park would, of course, affect the result, but not appreciably till 700 feet is reached, which should be the maximum length for a park of this kind.

If you will, however, accept my type of park, my statement of relative wholesale and retail values, and the testimony of disinterested practical experts upon the effect of parks on adjacent values, you cannot escape my conclusions. This typical park has a number of advantages; it is small, easily policed, does not lend itself to football, baseball, and other rough games which would convert it into an athletic field and deprive small children from using it, and it can be duplicated up to, at least, ten per cent of the total land area without adversely affecting the value of the surrounding land.

Another direction in which intelligence must be used is in the natural evolution from the use of the word “park” to the use of the word “playground”— this should be contemporaneous with the natural evolution of the use of the land for park purposes and for playground purposes. Obviously, if an operator in Flat-bush should contemplate the invasion of a thousand kids from the Bast Side tenements on his newly embellished park, he would recognize its injurious effect upon his remaining property.

As I conceive it. these small parks are for the use of the people in the immediate neighborhood. During the first ten to twenty years of a development there will be no need whatever for them as playgrounds, for vacant lots suitable for all kinds of games are convenient and more attractive, and entirely meet the requirements of the scattered settlement. During this period, these parks should be treated as parks, pure and simple, and embellished with planting. The evolution into a playground as we know it on the East Side, would be so remote that its effect would be offset by changes in the character of the neighborhood. That is to say, the use of these parks by large numbers of children implies a congestion which changes the advantage of the park from the point of view of beauty to an advantage which comes solely from the point of view of light and air

It is a big subject. It would be hard to estimate the economic value of my theory in avoiding the wasteful expenditure of public moneys in the purchase of grounds for park purposes. If its correctness be admitted, it will strengthen the work of those engaged in playground propaganda, and it should solve the problem of certain kinds of open spaces in the cities of the future.

Digitized by

Google
-234-

Thcre are two directions in which the data shown in this report can be made available. One is in their appeal to the business intelligence of those engaged in the work of suburban real estate development, who are naturally anxious to get the beneficial co-operation of municipal authorities in the communities in which they arc operating. I know of no public act which would create a deeper sense of appreciation, or stronger disposition for co-operation, than the voluntary gift of lands to cities. The second direction is in the use of these facts, supplemented by further investigations, in encouraging legislative action in various states. This action could take the form of permitting cities to segregate lands for park purposes in connection with future city planning, the cost being placed on the abutting properties. If as I stated before, parks are intelligently planned, from five to ten per cent of the total area of unplotted ground within the borders of our cities could be segregated without any burden whatever upon the land owner.	*‘The	Survey.”

Dr. Tyrrell Brooks of Oxford University has made an inquiry among the principals of the large public schools in England as to the effect of athletics on the pupils. Jn the last twenty years only five deaths from athletics are on record. One was from asphyxiation, the youth being smothered by food that came up in his throat when he practised on a horizontal bar just after a meal. The other deaths were from surgical operations. In the university in the last twenty years, there have been but two deaths from athletics, one of them valvular disease of the heart.

In the same period there were four sudden deaths among students taking no part in athletics. The heart is most likely to be damaged by excessive indulgence in violent exercise. Vascular damage due to exertion, is rare. Excessive smoking, drinking or gluttony harm the heart the same way; also the toxins of fevers. The only practical danger is in taking exercise after a heavy meal.

Dr. John Morgan’s study of the history of men who have taken part in university boat races shows that their longevity and physical activity are above the average. Long school runs should be forbidden to asthmatics. There should be no active exercise until an hour after eating.

Sir Clifford Allbut has had an elaborate series of blood pressure observations made among the student athletes at the University of Cambridge. The only serious results, it was shown, were in those who had had bad colds or other infectious ailments. Sir Lauder Brunton (one ot the greatest English authorities) says that the ideal training for youths is a combination of physical exercise methods and games. Every school, he says, should have a game master

Dr. Anthony Traill, provost of Trinity College, Dublin, says a majority of those taking fellowships there are athletes. In the alemen-tary schools, he said, there should be no general system of exercises unless the pupils are properly fed. He indicated the danger of public school athletics in large cities like New York or London, where there is no standard of feeding among the pupils, and where many pupils come from homes where there is not money enough for feeding on an athletic basis.

The more hazardous the game, says Sir James Barr, the better it is for the development of the character of the individual taking part.

SOME ENGLISH OPINIONS.

Digitized by
-235-

A PLEA FOR CONSERVATISM IN ATHLETICS.

By JOSEPH I. SMITH, M. D., First Turnwart of the Philadelphia Turn-

gemeinde.

In spite of the many broken bones and disfigured faces, to say nothing of the many fatal accidents that have attended the game of foot-ball in recent years, the popularity of athletic contests seems steadily on the increase. There is a great difference between the simple and healthy competition as encouraged by the North American Gymnastic Union (which has ever in mind the harmonious development of the human body), also between the old-time class-rivalry in our colleges, and the spirit of competition as found in the different athletic clubs, the inter-collegiate and international games, in which the champions of the respective clubs and colleges meet to contend with all the tremendous energy and fury of mortal combat. The spirit that was manifested at the last Olympic Games, held in England two years ago, could never appear in any of the National or International games of the Turners. In Germany 1908 in “Frankfort on the Main” there were held the National games in which five thousand men were gathered for competition in all kinds of Gymnastic events. The games lasted three days. All countries were accorded the same treatment. They were looked upon as one people. To this spirit of rivalry has gradually been added the incentive of international contests of more or less celebrity such as the Henly Regatta, Tennis and Athletics, among the clubs and colleges, and out of these arose finally the idea of reviving the old Olympian Games. This idea once conceived, needed no argument to bring conviction to the athletic world. It appealed irresistably to all lovers of manly sports. The very name of Olympia brought before the imagination forms of classic heroes who met their opponents in the arena, in honorable manly contests and carried off the palm of victory amid the plaudits of the assembled thousands. We can not resist the conviction that ambition thus aroused to gain the coveted prize was one of the means of bringing the humanity to its highest development, and that in the ancient Greek we have the ideal of physical beauty. The result of the suggestion was that in April 1896 the Pannational contest known as the “Revival' of the Olympian Games” was held in the ancient stadium at Athens. Ten of the leading nations of the earth were represented, and we as Americans can be justly proud of the fact that the United States carried off more prizes than any other nation. We gloried in the success of our champions, and proclaimed the success of the Olympian games, in reviving the spirit of friendly rivalry, of awaking national pride and consolidating peace and friendship among nations. We rejoiced too in the stimulus given to athletic sports and to the cultivation of physical prowess and vigor. This is all very well in its way, but the question arises what is the effect of this training and effort on the individual contestants? What does the physiologist say? Is it true that the benefits are obtained only by the sacrifice of him who takes part? There was printed in newspapers a few months ago an article stating that the young man who won the world champion-ship in the middle distances running, at home and abroad, was rejected for a position in {he police department of New Tork City on account of an enlargement of the heart. If this is true how

Digitized by

Google
—236—

many of our young boys from fifteen to twenty years of age are sacrificed who drop completely exhausted in the latest craze of the Marathon Races; a race which saps all the vitality, in the course of fourteen to twenty-six miles. Those who are conversant with the history of ancient Olympian sports are not surprised, for it tells us that not a few died through their efforts for this prize. A medical journal in an editorial on the physiologic cost of a boat race, suggested by the recent Oxford .and Cambridge race, says: “Speaking as judicially as possible a physiologist can not but express the conviction that every mian in the two boats, except perhaps the two coxswains, must have been to some extent injured. In a definite number of cases the injury is lifelong to individuals, and in every race every man can hardly fail to be more or less the sufferer for a longer or shorter time.” We have but to read the newspapers to see the list of casualties caused by the game called “Foot Ball” as it is played in all our higher educational institutes of today. These arguments do not apply to all athletic games to the same degree, for in none of them except perhaps the long distance run and bicycle races (also scorching for any length of time, which is fortunately a thing of the past) is the strain kept continuously at the highest possible tension for so long a time.

But the disastrous effect of overtraining and the supreme effort of the contest apply with equal force to all. Train as systematically or as scientifically as he may the supreme moment of the final struggle is as a rule too great a strain for the heart or blood vessels and the record-breaker then and there too often puts the seal' of a shortened existence upon his life. The records of insurance companies show that a surprisingly large percentage of athletes, foot ball players, sprinters, fast bicycle riders and strokes in the crews, have weakened hearts, or diseased kidneys, or both. Recognizing then the fact that indiscriminate competition is often dileterious to those who take an active part, is it fair to encourage the young man to enter a contest and take upon himself these risks? These games are restricted to lamateurs, and in this country at last amateurs are to be found mostly in schools and colleges. The amateur is not like the professional who has no other ambition in life beyond his athletic success. The contest to the amateur is but an incident in his scholastic career. If this training and experience fitted him the better to meet the demands of his future career it would certainly be a desirable preparation, but the average school or college athlete sooner or later enters one of the professions and 'has nothing in his daily life to keep his over-developed heart and kidney, or over-developed muscular system in condition. He is less able to meet the nervous wear and tear of a sedantary life than his more equally balanced but less athletic comrade. From the standpoint of the physiologist it must be conceded that the majority of our amateur athletes are too young and immature to subject their nerves, muscles, and heart to the strain of a severe athletic contest.

The aim of the North American Gymnastic Union is to develop the body in all its parts, not to make specialized athletes, but to develop good strong healthy men and women fitted for life’s battles.

Attached to the army of Norway is a corps of skaters armed with rifles. They can be manoeuvred on the ice or snowfields with a rapidity equal to the best trained cavalry. (From Health, London.)
-237-

6YMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

NEW FOOTBALL RULES DISCUSSED.

Gridiron experts from all the big colleges in the East as far south as Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn., attended the meeting of the intercollegiate football officials at the Hotel Manhattan, New York, Sept. 17, 1910. The meeting, which was public, was presided over by Chairman Walter Camp, of Yale and was called for the purpose of interpreting the rules adopted after many executive sessions in New York and Philadelphia last winter and spring.

Several knotty problems arose when efforts were made to put the new rules into practice, and to solve these the meeting was called. One of these was rule No. 3, the language of which mystified some of the coaches. This was settled when it was made clear that a player removed for a rule infraction cannot be returned. But it was not settled what to do with a player removed because of injury. Whether he may be returned at a later period is yet to be settled.

The Rules Committee forgot to impose a penalty on the side whose guard receives the ball in a snapback, as forbidden by section 4, rule 15. Mr. Camp said that the committee would impose a penalty of five yards in such a case. Any player—save a guard—may receive the ball in a snapback after the ball has been put in play by any player on hi6 side. • The word “caught” in rule, 18, section 3, was changed to read “touched.” This made the section read:—“Players of the side which put the ball in play after they have crossed the line of scrimmage may not in any way interfere with their opponents until the ball has been touched by a player of either side, except bonna fide interferes in an attempt to advance the ball by a rush.”

Rule 20 forbids a return kick of any sort, but Mr. Camp said that the subcommittee would be asked to revoke it. Until the rule is rescinded it must be observed.

—W. C. Fownes, Jr., of Pittsburg, won the sixteenth amateur golf championship at the links of the Brookline, Mass. Country Club Sept. 17, by defeating Warren K. Wood, of Chicago, 4 up and 3 to play. It was Mr. Fownes> tenth attempt to gain the title, but heretofore his nearest approach to the honor had been the bronze medal of the semifinalist in 1905 and 1907.

The cards were:

Fownes—Out	4	5	5	4	5	5	5 5	5-43
Wood—Out	5	4	5	5	3	4	3 6	6-41
Fownes—In	3	5	4	5	4	5		
Wood—In	3	5	5	4	6	5		

Bye holes not played.

—Three more records of long standing were recently broken in New York City. These records were for the 75 yd. low hurdle and the 56 lb. weight for height and the 5 mile run.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-238-

The law hurdle record was lowered by John J. Eller of the Irish American A. C. from 10 4-5 sec. made by Hugh H. Baxter at Rutland, Vt. twenty-six years ago to 9 2-5 sec.

The 56 lb. weight throwing for height was raised by C. E. Walsh of the New York A. C. from 16 ft. % in. made by Pat. McDonald to 16 ft. 2 7-8 in.

The record for the 5 mile run held by Eddie Carter for 23 years was lowered by George Y. Bonhag from the Irish American A. C. from 25 min. 23 3-5 sec. to 25 min. 9 1-5 sec. thereby chopping off 14 2-5 sec. from the previous record.

—Yale and Princeton divide this year’s college lawn tennis honors, the blue winning the singles championship and the orange and black taking the doubles title. The final rounds in both events were played recently and were witnessed by large crowds of spectators around the courts and on the porch of the Merion Cricket Club’s home in Philadelphia.

In the singles R. A. Holden, of Yale, defeated A. H. Sweester, of of Harvard, by 3 sets to 1 in a match replete with good playing, but the doubles were dissapointing, so far as championship play is concerned, Deane Mathey and B. N. Dell, of Princeton, experiencing little difficulty in disposing of R. Evans, Jr., and P. Goodhue of Yale.

Sweester took the first set from Holden in the singles, the latter apparently feeling out his opponent’s game. The Yale man steadied down in the second and third sets, using his chop stroke to advantage tod covering his court with agility. In the fourth set Sweester made a game fight, taking the first two games. Holden pulled up even and it was nip and tuck after that until six games all had been played. Here Sweester seemed to tire and Holden, playing with increased vim, ran out the two necessary games and the match.

The results make the point standing on the championship trophy as follows:—Pennsylvania, 6; Yale, 5; Harvard. 5; Princeton, 4. Seven points are necessary for permanent possession.

The summary:—

Singles.—Final Round—R. A. Holden, Yale, beat A. H. Sweester, Harvard, 3—6, 3—2, 6—3, 8—6.

Doubles.—Final Round—D. Mathey and B. N. Dell, Priilceton, beat R. Evans, Jr., and F. Goodhue, Yale, 6—1, 6—4, 6—4.

HARVARD SUMMER SCHOOL.

—The Harvard Summer School, which opened July 7th, closed on August 11 with the usual final demonstration. This the twenty third year of its existence and throughout has experienced a steady growth to which past session has also added its increase in number of students over last year. There were registered 170 students, 110 women and 00 men. Of these ninety were taking the full course. 4 only the theory and 70 only practice. The teaching staff besides Dr. Sargent and Mr. Schrader numbered 11 lecturers, 22 instructors and 14 student

Digitized by Google
-239-

assistants. There were graduated this year 14, all having completed the required 4 years work. Among these were graduates from the Sargent Normal School, Boston Normal School, Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, and the Springfield Training School, all receiving credit for the work done in those institutions finishing their work at Harvard in either one or two summers. Four very successful sociables were held, which helped much to weld together this congenial student body into a circle of friends, all of whom acknowledged that the end came all too soon.

BOOK REVIEW.

—H ALTUNGS-VORBILDER*. MODEL POSITIONS, by Dr. F. A. Schmidt and Karl Mueller. Ten tablets, each about two feet square, showing in thirty-two illustrations the principal gymnastic positions both in their correct and incorrect forms.

The drawings are admirably executed and will be a great help to all teachers of gymnastics in schools and associations. The publishers, B.

6.	Teubner, Leipzig, have had the positions prmtd on paper as well as upon papyrolin. This allows them to be hung up in the gymnasium or teachers’ office. They are highly recommended. Mailing price on paper $1.60. Mailing price on papyrolin $2.25. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—SCHWIMMRETTUNGS-TAFEL. LIFE SAVINGS TABLET by Dr. r. A. Schmidt, Bonn. In his usual practical manner Dr. Schmidt on a large sheet of about three by four feet shows by means of eigth very large drawings 1) how a life-saver should free himself from the grip of the person he is trying to save, 2) how to bring the person to shore and 3) how to resuscitate him. The drawings are clear and well made. Published by B. G. Teubner, Leipzig. The tablet is highly recommended to all swimming clubs, gymnastic and athletic associations, normal schools, as well as to all leaders corps. Mailing price on paper $1.00. Mailing price on papyrolin $1.50. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“THE GIRL FROM VERMONT” by Marshall Saunders, 248 pages 5%x8 inches, illustrated, published by the Griffith and Rowland Press, Philadelphia, Pa. The book, a novel, is written in the interest of playgrounds. The heroine is the teacher in a vacation school who enters upon a crusade for childrens’ playgrounds. Mailing price $1.35. To be had from Mind and Body, Heroid Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—“AMONG SCHOOL GARDENS” by M. Louise Greene, M. Pd., Ph. D. 388 pages, 5%x8 inches, illustrated, published by the Charities Publication Committee, New York. Mailing price $1.25.

An exceedingly interesting and thoroughly practical book on "school gardens,” including those conducted by associations in public parks and at the homes, as well as gardens carried on in connection with regular school work. Based upon personal study and observation, by the author, of school garden work throughout the United States and Canada. Beautifully illustrated with nearly one hundred full-page and smaller

Digitized by C^ooQle
-240-

half tones, besides plans and diagrams. The book can be warmly recommended to all who are interested in school gardens. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—“THE FOUR EPOCHS OF WOMAN'S JLIFE" a study in Hygiene by Anna M. Galbraith, M. D. 244 pages 5^x8 inches, published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia, Pa.

This book deals with the four epochs of woman's life, i. e. Maiden-; hood. Marriage, Maternity and the Menopause. Each part has several chapters. In the preface the author says that 'Terfect health is essential to perfect happiness." The greater the knowledge of the laws of nature, and the more closely these laws are lived up to, so much nearer “ideal" will be the health and the happiness of the individual. ......

“It is little less than criminal to allow girls to reach the age of puberty without the slightest knowledge of the menstrual function; young women to be married in total ignorance of the ethics of married life; women to become mothers without any conception of the duties of motherhood; other women, as the time approaches, to live in dread apprehensions of “the change of life;" and many women unnecessarily to succumb to disease at this time." The book can be heartily recommended to all teachers; both married and unmarried. Mailing price $1.65. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee.

—INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES AND EXHIBITION DRILLS. By H. B. Camann, Teacher of Physical Training, McKinley High School, Chicago, 111. Mailing price 75 cents. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

This manual on specialized gymnastics is, as the author states in his preface, “the result of many years of experience in high-schools, college, and normal school" and intended for the use of teachers as well as pupils as a guide and text book.

Considering the dearth of practical and methodical literature on Indian club exercises in the English or any other language, this book, supplies a long-felt want and should receive a hearty welcome by everybody interested in this special gymnastic art. The systematic grading of the rich material, the simplicity of its arrangement according to, pedagogical principles, together with the clearness of expression and nomenclature, give evidence of the mastership of the author in dealing with his subject.

The text is profusely supplemented by pen and ink illustrations, which further enhance the value of the book and serve to make its lessons easily understood, even by beginners.

A number of exhibition drills prepared by six well-known teachers of physical training of Chicago, St. Louis and Pittsburg have been added as an appendix and should prove the high adaptibility of Indian club exercises, for class performances and public exhibitions. Mr. Camann's book is a creditable addition to the literature of practical educational gymnastics and should be in the hands of every teacher of physical training.—Dr. H. H.

Digitized by ejOOQle