MIND AND BODY

Vcl. 29	DECEMBER, 1922	No.	313

fMtkti By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New tta, Mfaa

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, /p/d, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

AIMS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

What the State Expects from Local Schools and High Schools.

BY CHARLES H. KEENE, M. D., HARRISBURG, PA.

The discussion in this paper will be confined almost entirely to high schools. Some general statements regarding theory of organization, however, include the whole school system.

Being New England born and educated, the writer naturally has a very strong belief in the rights and independence of local communities. Any person, however, who has studied, or has been brought in contact with, advances in civilization, particularly in health matters, must realize that when the citizens of any local community, whether town or city, are so ignorant, penurious, or obstinate that they neglect or refuse to provide proper facilities for the guiding and guarding of the health of the rising generation, it becomes necessary, since the health and vigor of any locality so vitally affects the welfare of its neighbors, for some higher authority, usually the State, to step in and say, “Thou shalt!” However, since most communities are found eager to do all that is possible for the advancement of the physical welfare of their children, the contact of the state with the local authorities is largely one of advice, suggestion and co-operation. *

* Read at the Public Schools section, Detroit meeting oj the American Physical Education Association.

Digitized by LjOOQle
290

The activities of the Bureau of Health Education of the State Department of Public Instruction of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania cover the health supervision of children, the teaching of hygiene and physiology, the organization of special classes for those who are physically impeded in school progress, and physical education in all its branches.

Health Supervision: This ordinarily is spoken of as “medical inspection,a very unfortunate term for a most desirable activity. We wish to emphasize the fact that it is not a medical examination, but a health examination, a thorough going over of the body and an investigation of habits for the purpose of finding whatever defects exist, that there may be a basis from which to start correction. It is a guarding, advising, and supervising rather than a mere inspection. There is a great and definite need for this health work in secondary as well as in elementary schools.

There are several factors concerned in this activity. The school physician is essential, and in some states is required by law. Certain standards should be observed. Working three hours each school day he can supervise properly in most districts the health of three thousand five hundred to four thousand pupils, provided he receives proper help from the school nurse, principals and teachers. In much scattered districts the number must be less. His functions are first, thorough physical examination of the pupils assigned to him; second, examination for contagious diseases, and, if such be found, the removal of infectious pupils from school, and the notification of the health department; third, supervision of the sanitary conditions in the school, covering such factors as cleanliness of floors, windows, and blackboards, the questions of heating, ventilating, lighting and the care and efficiency of toilet arrangements. He should also give the teachers certain instruction which they must have in order properly to teach hygiene and physiology. He should control all those clinics which are carried on primarily for school children.

A second factor concerned in this health supervision, and an extremely important one, is the school nurse. Her function is to assist the school physician in physical examinations, to bring about as intimate contact as possible between the home and the school in matters relating to the physical side of the child, and to bring about corrections of physical defects by urging both children and parents to see the need and value of such corrections. She is of great assistance in finding minor contagious diseases and checking the spread of them. She is the able assistant of the physician in checking up daily on matters of school sanitation. She takes children to clinics, assists the physician in school clinics and should teach certain parts of the work in physiology and hygiene. To her should be assigned not more than two thousand school children when she is working on a full time basis. In rural regions where the schools are scattered it is probably advisable to reduce this number to one thousand.

A third important factor in this school health supervision is the teachers, principals, janitors, boards of education and other school officials who may in any way come in contact with this problem. Their intense and hearty co-operation is essential for any success in the work. They owe it to their pupils and to the community which employs them, to aid

Digitized by v^ooQle
291

the phys cians and nurses in every way, to help maintain proper sanitary standards, to urge correction of physical defects and so to arrange school programs that malnourished and otherwise impeded pupils may be given special opportunity and favor on the school program, that improvement or correction may be possible.

Hygiene and Physiology: The teaching of the old-fashioned blood and bone physiology has been a failure. This is evidenced by the fact that approximately 45% of the young men who appeared before draft boards for military service were found physically defective, and nearly 30% were so defective that they were declared unfit for full military duty. The percentage of defects among the general public is undoubtedly higher than this, because the men examined were at the age when they should have been at their physical best. Probably fifty per cent of these defects were unnecessary and would not have occurred if there had been proper health supervision and teaching of health in the public schools at the time when these persons were in attendance.

The new Pennsylvania state syllabus in hygiene and physiology puts the emphasis not so much upon the mechanical construction of the human body as upon its proper use, and on efforts to teach how to live. It is built around the ideal of the formation of proper health habits covering such factors as personal hygiene, including cleanliness, fresh air, sunshine, proper sleep and recreation, proper diet and certain other factors through out the twelve or thirteen years of school life. In the upper grades it includes the hygiene of the whole family, school and community, whether this community be conceived as being the block, town, city, state or nation. Special emphasis is placed on proper habits of diet and proper food selection. Still later in the school course the content of this syllabus broadens to include such matters as industrial hygiene, care of babies, nursing in the home, prevention of accidents, first aid, and special studies on the causes and prevention of tuberculosis.

Special Classes:	Special classes should be formed for taking care of

those children who are so physically impeded that they cannot make satisfactory school progress under ordinary school conditions. This means particularly those who are markedly defective in hearing, or in vision, those who are crippled so that it is extremely hard for them to participate in ordinary classroom activities or because they need special training to offset their handicap, and also those who are suffering from tuberculosis.

In larger communities there should be organized, too, special classes for demonstrating the efficiency of proper feeding, although the main work in nutrition should be an effort to teach all pupils, (and through them their parents,) proper diet, and proper food habits.

When not otherwise available the schools should provide certain clinics for school children, especially those for the care of the teeth, eyes, nose, and throat.

Physical Education:	Physical	education activities should be carried

on in classrooms, school corridors, playrooms, gymnasia, swimming pools, playgrounds and athletic fields. The content of physical education is extensive, covering not only such well-known factors as formal exercises, games and plays, but including such less-known factors as folk dancing

Digitized by v^ooQle
291

and other rhythmic exercises, story plays, and mass athletics. On the side of athletics it is desired that the fact be emphasized that these should be not only interscholastic but intra-mural in type. Present day athletics are often more harmful than beneficial, because the intense competition aroused gives rise to certain unfairnesses and efforts to “beat the game,” and an immense amount of time is taken up by certain faculty members and a small group of students to build up a winning team. This time is devoted to excessive development, and often overstrain, of the boy, who, if he were not already above par physically, could not win a position on the school team. The effort should be to spread athletic activities so that every pupil may have a chance to compete. The need for girls to have this opportunity should be particularly emphasized. A considerable part of the efforts toward improving the public health through infant welfare activities is wasted because we begin to care for our babies from ten to twenty-five years too late. The proper and most efficient place and time to begin this care is in the public schools when the potential mothers are elementary school pupils.

Physical education activities also include those of the playground, whether this playground be located at home or school, or whether it be a community, town, or municipal project.

A Bureau of Health Education with the following personnel is organized in the State Department of Public Instruction in order that these various activities may be properly correlated and no one specialty over-emphasized at the expense of the other; a Supervisor of School Nursing having charge of the nursing activities of the state as related to Boards of Education; a Supervisor of Health Education having in charge the teaching of hygiene, particularly in the smaller districts of the state, where otherwise any proper supervision would be almost entirely lacking; a Supervisor of Nutrition who has charge of that particular phase of hygiene teaching relating to diet, foods, preparation of foods, and the relation of these to normal development; and three Supervisors of Physical Education who are engaged in inspecting and checking up on the physical education activities of the schools of the states, with the view to persuading as many communities as possible to employ properly trained instructors and supervisors in physical education. Little of their work is strictly supervision as three supervisors in a state of nine million people can give no real supervision to any district.

While the law in Pennsylvania makes compulsory the teaching of “health,—including physical training and physiology,” in every school in the state, it .seems much wiser to have this teaching grow by means of persuasion and assistance rather than thru an arbitrary law stating that at a given date this thing must be done. The latter program has been tried elsewhere and has failed, largely because of inability to get suddenly a sufficient number of properly trained instructors, and because public opinion was not educated to see the need and value of this activity.

The function then of the Bureau is not to teach how to make a living, but to teach how to live and enjoy living. “Health is wealth.” Without health financial income is valueless.

Time allotment:	In the elementary schools the following is the time

allotment for the various phases of health education approved by the Department of Public Instruction:

Digitized by ^.ooQle
293

Recess—ijo minutes per week.

Physical Education—90 minutes per week.

Hygiene and Physiology—60 minutes per week.

In secondary schools, the time allotment in all grades should be at least three periods per week. Two of these periods are to be used for physical education as has been the custom for years in those communities which have carried on physical education in secondary school gymnasiums, and the third period is to be taken for teaching hygiene and physiology through formal classroom work, discussions, debates, news items, organization of health clubs, and the like. It is suggested that in the ninth and tenth grades this might be made a part of the course in science or biology.

Aims:	From a physiological point of view the type of physical

activity should call into play vigorously the large, fundamental groups of big muscles. These exercises build vigor, endurance, and power. They should be supplemented by exercises building skill, grace, and alertness. Throughout the child’s school career special attention should be given to developing habits of good posture while standing, sitting and exercising. Instruction should be given to all pupils in gymnastics, athletics, dancing, swimming and games.

From a character building point of view there must be proper control and administration of team games and athletic contests so as to eliminate unfairnesses and excesses. All instructors in any of the branches of physical education should be full time employees of the Board of Education. The present custom of employing a former athlete of renown merely as a coach should be stopped. He is usually interested only in winning games* not in building bodies or character. Only teachers and instructors in physical education who represent the highest ideals in moral and personal character should be selected. Proper virtues are taught from the inspiring personality of teachers; they are rarely taught through definite moral instruction. Contests within the school covering all phases of physical activity whereby class competes against class, room against room, and group against group, should be encouraged.

Facilities: Any adequate plan for health provisions in a school must begin not only before the building is constructed, *but before the site is selected. It must be recognized that health is a fundamental objective.

A school site should be high and well drained. Filled ground is not only more expensive to build on because of the need of getting down deep with foundations, but the soil is often contaminated by the material used in filling. A markedly uneven site means added expense for grading.

Flay field: The site for a junior or senior Jhigh school should never be less than three acres. “This space should include space for baseball which space will also serve football. Space for two volley ball games and one playground ball game is recommended. About 100 students in action can thus be accommodated at one time. If the school is to con. tain more than 600 pupils, the outdoor physical training space should accommodate over 100 pupils at a time and hence must be enlarged

Digitized by Google
294

proportionately. A quarter mile running track, pole vaulting, running broad jump, running high jump, standing broad jump, and a spectators* stand wherever ncluded will demand additional space.”*

The building should occupy not more than 20% of this space and should be placed at one side or in one corner so that the maximum unincumbered play space may be available. In a building having 500 or more pupils the minimum area purchased should be five acres. If there is to be a general athletic field with accommodations for spectators this size must be increased to ten acres, otherwise the athletic field with its advantages to only a small group, pre-empts the space that should be available for the use of the whole student body.

The site must be sanitary. It must not be near pools of stagnant water. It must be clear of all rubbish and kept cleared. It must not be near barns or other places of filth. The soil should be that type which drains quickly after rains. The best method of drainage is to have the whole area of the playfield slightly convex, placing catch basins, or open drains, which carry off the water, at the border or outer edge of the field. If the ground has a slight natural slope in one general direction, all necessary drainage is secured without trouble.

Grading and Surfacing:	A	level surface is necessary. Therefore, if

the ground be rough or sloping or encumbered with small mounds, stumps or rocks, these must be removed Trees should be planted about the edges of the ground, or, if the area is ample, clustered in corners. Trees which interfere with the area used for games, should be removed. If not already practically level, the ground must be graded.

Where the area is large in proportion to the number using it, the best surfacing is sod or turf. It is possible to have a turf playfield kept in fairly good condition. This is practically impossible in small, much used fields. Certain areas such as tennis courts, volley ball courts, and the like should be provided with a special wear-resisting surface. Torpedo gravel, (the small, round gravel), makes a fairly satisfactory surface for play and when mixed with clay it is excellent from every viewpoint. Gravel, sand, and cinders have the great advantage that they dry off very rapidly after a rain, so that the ground can be used practica ly all the time. A clay or loam soil gets muddy very easily and does not dry so quickly; when wet it is sticky and very slippery. It has the advantage however, that when dry it makes an excellent playing surface. A mixture of clay, loam and cinders is very satisfactory. Such a mixture, especially if thoroughly rolled, packs well, is springy, does not get dusty in dry weather and can be played on in the rain.

In any community where it is desired to use the playfield in the evening, some method of lighting the grounds is essential.

It is important that the field be fenced in order to keep out the vicious element; to protect the apparatus and the neighborhood from trouble with unsupervised gangs after school hours, particularly nn the evening.

* High School Buildings and Grounds: Report of the Commission on Reorganization of Secondary Education of the National Education Associa-tion. By William B. Ittner, 1922.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
29S

Shrubbery, vines, and bright colored flowers should be planted, both for	the beautifying and cultural effect produced	and for	the aesthetic

value upon the community. If we make our school buildings and grounds beautiful the people will become accustomed to the beautiful, will demand the beautiful, and will copy and produce the beautiful.

In towns having water systems, one or more bubbling fountains are essential on the playfield, especially for summer use.

Too much	stress cannot be laid upon the	necessity	of providing

toilet facilities	and keeping them in as perfect	sanitary	condition as

possible. Where the toilets are located in the school some arrangement should be made to give access from the field to these, and to prevent entrance into the remainder of the building. This can be done by placing substantial gates in the passageways leading upstairs, and to other parts of the building. Outside entrances directly to toilets solve the problem wholly.

Equipment	should be simple but adequate.	In selecting and in-

stalling equipment it is necessary to keep constantly in mind that this play field is designed primarily for secondary school pupils and that the real function of physical education in the secondary schools, just as much as in the elementary schools, is to provide time, facilities, and organization so that the whole student body may be reached. An ideal plan of physical education would provide a sufficient amount of proper physical exercise every day for every boy and girl, out of doors if possible. The present emphasis on school teams at the expense of the general student body is not only wasteful and non-educative, but is usually a distinct detriment to the vast bulk of the pupils in the school, to the school itself, to the community, and particularly to the participants, not only physically, but ethically and socially. The equipment provided should include jump standards and jump pits, volley ball, football, and basketball goals and posts, and material for play such as volley balls, soccer balls, basket balls, playground balls and bats. Certain strips in addition to the regular track should be set off for running by large groups, and the finishes of dashes from 30 to 100 yards should be marked along these strips. Certain definite areas should be set aside for organized games and activities, such as volley ball, tennis, soccer ball, field hockey, basketball, football and baseball.

In most communities these secondary school playfields should be. utilized as community playgrounds during the evening and summer.

Buildings:	‘The first requisites to a realization of health as aiT

educational objective are safe, well-lighted and ventilated work and study rooms. Every school environment should be a model for health. Sanitation, good lighting, airiness and cheerfulness of surroundings are the eternal watchwords _ of a real school architect. “Cleanliness next to godliness** ought to be the slogan of the housekeeping corps of school buildings. The proper location of the school plant, adequate site, and an efficient building plan ought to result in a physical environment that fairly radiates health and wholesomeness. Noth ng but a well-organized janitorial service, however, will maintain t as a model of health.

“Health programs in high schools generally include, aside from the out-of-door varieties the physical activities in gymnasiums, the physical

Digitized by

Google
296

examinat'ons^ medical inspection and instruction in personal and community hygiene. The scope of these activities var'es all the way from the small schools where practically all the work is developed by one physical director in a limited space to the large, comprehensive high school where many special sts such as phys cal examiners, nurses, gymnasium, swimming and athlet;c instructors are employed and the physical activities diversified so that the needs of all groups may be met.”*

Within the building certain definite health factors should be provided* One of the most important of these is a health room located as near as possible to the office of the principal. This is ordinarily spoken of as a medical inspection or nurse’s room. It should be called a “Health Room” in order to emphasize the constructive side of this activity and to impress upon pupils, parents and teachers that health supervision is more than mere examination of children for contagious disease or for physical defects. Adequate sized, properly heated, ventilated and lighted rooms, equipped with toilet, wash bowl, running hot and cold water, soap and towels, medicine cabinet (preferably of the built-in type), with first aid and emergency supplies, filing box, desk or table, reed couch, and scales, with measuring rod, should be provided for carrying on the work in health supervision. This means that one dimension should be at least twenty-two feet long for eye testing, and that there should be a properly shaded, crooked-necked, electric light fixture conveniently located for giving standard illumination of the eye-test chart. The sole use of such rooms should be that of health supervision and improvement.

Another most important factor, and the one that most nearly concerns instructors in physical education, is a proper gymnasium. There are distinct advantages in having the gymnasium placed toward the rear of the building. Its floor should be above grade, but not so far above that it is not feasible to issue from the gymnasium directly upon the playfieid. In some communities it has been raised to the level of the auditorium stage and is used as the stage of the auditorium with a move-able, sound-proof partition between the auditorium and gymnasium. There should be windows on three sides in order that there may be ample sunlight and fresh air. Certain of these windows should come down to the floor level for purposes of ventilation. Many of them, however, must have their sills at least seven feet from the floor in order that wall apparatus may be placed below them.

The most modern thought does not advise the provision of running track. The limited use to which it can be put does not justify its cost. The running track belongs upon the playfieid.

The floor area should be at least 60' x 8o', free from all obstruction. There should be at least 18' in the clear between floor and the ceiling or its beams. Some authorities recommend two gymnasiums under aU circumstances, or one very large gymnasium with movable partition across its middle. When the number of pupils enrolled exceeds 600, two gymnasiums are essential for carrying on a proper physical educa-

* High School Buildings and Grounds:	Report of the Commission on

Re-organization of Secondary Education of the National Education Association. By William B. Ittner, 1922.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
a97

t‘on program for all the pupils. The ratio, then, between the number of gymnasiums and the number of pupils should be considered as one to each six hundred or major fraction thereof enrolled.

This gymnasium should be provided with certain play material and equipment. The following is recommended as a minimum:

Basketballs, at least 2, I additional for each ioo pupils.

Indoor balls and bats—12, 2 additional for each 100 pupils.

Soccer foot balls—2, 1 additional for each 100 pupils.

Jumping standards—2, 1 additional for each 100 pupils.

Jumping standards—2 1 vaulting standard for schools of 100 or more boys.

Mats—1 for each 12 pupils, 5' x 7' x 2".

Balance beams— 12.

Adjustable ladder—4.

Stall bars— 10 to 20.

Climbing ropes—10 to 20.

Wands—50.

Indian clubs—60 pairs.

Weighing scales with measuring rod.

Volley balls and nets—2.	1	additional	for	each 100 pupils.

Stop watch—1.

1	triplex pulley weight (combining straight chest, floor and intercostal pulls.)

Putting shots—2, 12 lb. indoor type.

Wall hangers for mats—2 pairs.

First Aid Kit.

This material is indispensable if a complete program of physical education is to be carried on. The following are considered very desirable.

Horse—1 for each 12 pupils.

Buck—1 for each 12 pupils.

Steel cabinets or locking racks for hand apparatus.

Basket ball equipment.

Horizontal bars—4 low.

Boom and boom saddles.

Adjustable flying rings.

4 sets boxing gloves.

Toe blocks for shot put (indoor use.)

Measuring tape, steel, athletic.

Where plenty of money is available the following additional equipment may be provided, but for senior high schools only:

Spring board.

Adjustable traveling rings—5.

Wrestling mat, 16' x 16' x 2".

Horizontal bar—1 high.

Parallel bars—1 for each 12 pupils.

Every child should have an opportunity, in safety and under proper instruction, to learn to swim. This means the addition to the physical education plant of properly lighted and ventilated swimming pools, constructed and maintained under the strictest safety and sanitary regu-

Digitized by Google
298

lations. The minimum standard size for swimming pools is 21' x 60' varying in depth from 3'6" at the shallow end to 8' at the deep end* with adequate head room at the deep end of the pool for diving. Unless all these conditions can be met and sufficient funds provided for upkeep and trained supervision, swimming pools ought not to be installed. It is scientifically possible, however, to make the sw mming pool thoroughly sanitary and hygienic. Under such circumstances a sunlit pool, with proper systems of water refiltration, circulation, purification and heating in connect on with sanitary method of handling showers, bathing trunks, suits and towels, is stimulating to persons of all ages. It adds materially to the interest of the physical education activities of the school, and const tutes a distinct community asset.

"Regardless of the quality of the water supply for the pool, an approved system of water filtration, purification, and heating is necessary. Since a dip in the pool must always be preceded by a shower, the proximity of showers and dressing-room becomes mandatory.”*

Physical act vity to be of any real value should be strenuous enough to cause perspiration. It follows then, that bathing following such activity is essential. These facilities usually take the form of shower baths. The number of these provided should be based on an estimate of fifty pupils in the class. For boys the open room shower bath arrangement is better for both moral and hygienic reasons. Single showers with individual control are ample for five boys each. By installing multiple showers with a central control the number of boys each may be increased to seven. The latter method is a saving of time, water and space. The showers themselves should be placed, uninclosed, on the side of the wall of an open room. The shower and its adjacent drying space should contain at least twenty square feet. A much more economical arrangement, both of time and funds is the gauntlet shower through which a whole class may be run in from two to five minutes. For girls the closed shower booth arrangement is far preferable. It gives them privacy which is essential, not only for the preservation of modesty, but for any real use of the baths by girls. One shower with individual control should be provided for each three girls, one with multiple control shou d be provided for each five girls. The latter arrangement is the better.f

As a part of the gymnasium equipment, dressing rooms are essential. These should be provided with lockers, one for each pupil, for storing street clothes during exercise and for gymnasium suit between exercise periods. Frequent laundering of exercise clothing and towels should be provided. Those of the individual type should be 12" x 36" in height and eight square feet of floor space is required for each locker. Proper distribution of the boys of each class throughout the locker room permits

* High School Buildings and Grounds: Report of the Commission on Re-organization of Secondary Education of the National Education Association. By William B. Ittner, 1922.

t Adapted from U. S. Bureau of Education Bulletin on "Physical Education in Secondary Schools,” by Dr. J. H. McCurdy.

Digitized by LjOOQle
299

this area to be reduced to four square feet per locker. The box locker should be 6”xi2MX36” in height and is used only for storing gymnasium clothes. With this arrangement it is necessary to add to the locker equipment enpugh large lockers for two classes, one coming to the gymnasium, the other leaving it. The number of the large lockers equals the number of pupils in the largest class. By this arrangement the area per locker may be reduced to two and one-half square feet. For girls we may use the box lockers with the same space requirements as for boys. This arrangement, however, necessitates, dressing booths 2' 10" x 4' in floor area, sufficient in number to equal double the number of pupils in the largest classes.*

“The offices for the gymnasium directors, the conference, medical and examining rooms may be arranged en suite with the offices opening directly to the gymnasium as well as indirectly to the playground. Maximum air and sunlight are as essential to these quarters as to the gymnasium and pools. The installation of running water and toilet is also necessary for these offices.”**

As additional factors in large schools there should be provided small gymnasiums for small classes in corrective gymnastics, and out door gymnasiums, which need be provided with roof only for shelter from rain. These must be properly surfaced.

In smaller buildings it is economical and often desirable to build a combination gymnasium and auditorium. In such cases the room should be built as a gymnasium and then provided with movable seats for assembly-auditorium purposes.

Personnel: These facilities cannot function properly unless the physical education activities are in charge of properly educated and trained special teachers in physical education. The state must insist that local communities employ trained personnel for this work as rapidly as such personnel is available. In many states the state pays a certain proportion of teachers’ salaries; such being the case it is not only the right but the duty of the state to see to it that local communities employ scientifically trained instructors.

This means that the special teacher in physical education must have at least as high qualifications as other teachers on the school staff. It means as a minimum, graduation from a good, four-year high school course, and from two to four years of active preparation in the special field. If the state or local regulations require that teachers in junior or senior high schools be college graduates, the physical education instructors must be college graduates. The time is rapidly approaching when most cities will not accept as qualified teachers inexperienced persons who are graduates only of a four-year high school and a two-year special course in physical education. As rapidly as normal schools for general teacher training are changed into three or four year courses (and that day is not

* Adapted from U. S. Bureau of Education Bulletin on “Physical Education in the Secondary Schools,” by Dr, J, H. McCurdy,

** High School Buildings and Grounds: Report of the Commission on Reorganization of Secondary Education of the National Education Association. By William B. Ittner, 1922.

Digitized by v^ooQle
300

far distant) the normal schools of physical education must change the length of training similarly. The more advanced of the normal schools are seeing this handwriting on the wall and have already changed to a three-year and, in some instances, a four-year basis.

With this lengthening of the curriculum for training special teachers in physical education must come a broadening, so that the physical education instructor may go out, not only qualified to teach physical activities of various kinds, but able to step into the classroom and teach hygiene by modern, scientific methods. This specialist must be able also to fulfill many of the functions of the school nurse, certainly so far as relates to preliminary diagnosis of acute infectious diseases, emergency care of illnesses and first aid.

The state expects that the local community will come up to certain set standards in regard to the number of physical education instructors employed. For secondary schools, both junior and senior, this standard should be at least one teacher for every 500 pupils or major fraction thereof enrolled. With proper study on the part of the person who makes out the school daily schedule, this standard will permit the size of the greater portion of the classes to be limited to from 35 to 40 pupils each, and will allow each teacher to have one non-teaching period each school day. If the teacher is expected to teach any classes in hygiene the number of floor periods, and the number of pupils per teacher coming into gymnasium, must be proportionately reduced.

The duties of these teachers are numerous and complicated. Being employed full time and paid by the Board of Education they must be considered an integral part of the school faculty and organization. They must not only handle their specialty in all of its branches, covering such formal work as calisthenics and apparatus work, plays, games, folk dancing, and athletics, but must participate in other faculty activities, holding their proper place on faculty committees, particularly those relating to recreation, and student government. No person not a full faculty member should be permitted to participate in any way in any of the coaching of the school teams. Physical education instructors should be held responsible for the physical condition of their pupils, particularly to see to it that no boy or girl who is not physically sound is permitted to participate in any sort of a competitive game or in any athletic contest, and that no pupil participate so frequently or so strenuously as to risk over-strain.

The state hopes and expects that communities will soon see the light in regard to salary schedules. The aim and desire of the vast majority of instructors in physical education, so far as public schools are concerned, is to secure positions in the high schools. This is due very largely to the fact that almost always the high school salary schedule is considerably higher than the schedule of the elementary schools. This is all wrong. The services of an expert teacher are much more valuable in the lower grades where he or she teaches all the children, than in the high school which only a small proportion of the pupils ever reach. Salary schedules should be based not upon the grade taught, but upon the education, professional training and experience of the teacher. With such a schedule arrangement, instructors in physical education would not be so eager for positions in high schools, but would be content
3oi

to work in the elementary schools where they can accomplish so much more for the welfare of children.

Relation of Public Schools to the Community:	The	state expects, too,

that the public high school will consider itse f, and become, an integral part of the community which supports it. It isn’t enough that these schools should render srevice only five or six hours per day one hundred seventy days in the year. In order for those who support them to get real value for the money invested, these schools must be thrown open for all sorts of community uses outside of regular school hours. The opportunity of the school is particularly broad in physical education activities. The gymnasium plant and its accessories appeal particularly to the people, and their use by the people is peculiarly valuable to them and should be encouraged. This means that the physical education plant should be available evenings, Saturdays, and summers for the use of any group in the community which will use it under proper restrictions. It is not only the duty, but to the advantage of the school personnel to serve community groups in this particular, largely because such action enhances greatly the value of these activities and of this plant in the minds of the public, and readily leads to an extension of plant and personnel when the growth of the community and of the school makes such increase necessary. In this particular secondary schools have lagged far behind the elementary schools.

It is the duty and the privilege too of the physical education group to render a real service to the state in building ideals and, therefore, good citizenship, through clean sports and clean sportsmanship. This means that the state and the local community must insist upon the highest ideals on the part of the personnel employed in physical education. A part of these ideals must be the fundamental belief that physical education is for all rather than for the select few. In the future the success of any physical education instructor in the public schools will be judged, not upon ability to turn out winning teams, but upon whether or not the organization is such that they are offering to every boy and to every girl ample opportunity for participation in those games and sports which not only build bodies, but build citizenship and character.

The efforts of physical educators must be applied to building up all the people. They should keep constantly in mind that the boy or girl who is only normal physically, or below par physically, has much greater need of their assistance than has the boy or girl whose physique enables them to participate in the strenuous contests which interscholastic competition brings. We must keep constantly in mind that we have long since passed the era when only the fit survive. We are now in the midst of a great, advancing civilization that is striving, and with a large measure of success, to make the unfit fit, not only physically, but mentally, morally, and socially. As physical educators it is our privilege to be in the vanguard of this mighty effort for human betterment.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
302

THE AIMS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.*

BY FLOYD A. ROWE, ASST. SUPT. OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION OF MICHIGAN.

Just what the state has a right to expect in the way of intelligent service, from classroom teachers in developing a program of Physical Education is a topic which cannot be either adequately or exhaustively treated in the brief time alloted to its discussion on this program. The topic is one, however, which is an extremely interesting one and of tremendous importance.

Before proceeding with the discussion of the topic itself, however it seems best to glance first at the rules of the game, then hastily survey the field, and lastly draw conclusions which may or may not be the correct ones, depending of course on whether or not logical lines of thought have been followed.

The rules of the game are brief and pointed. Anything which tends towards better physical conditions of the school children themselves or better surroundings should attract the attention of the Director of Phy-sical Education, be he either a local or a state director. No nice distinction is aimed at in this statement. It is a broad guage statement of policy and is open to many quibbling qualifications; however into it can be read any and all of the various specialized programs known as Physical Culture, Physical Training, Health Education, Child Conservation, etc.* etc., ad infinitum.

Next, after the rules of the game comes the hurried survey of the field. Speaking now of conditions as existing throughout the United States, fully 3-5 of the children are attending rural schools, (by rural school is meant that school located in a district which has no incorporated village or city of 2000 population within its limits). Therefore, from either a national or a state viewpoint, the rural school element is the one which should receive the first and greatest consideration. You are therefore requested to keep this thought in mind during the remainder of the discussion. The statement that fully 3-5 of our children are in rural schools is only one-half of the problem however. It means that 3-5 of our children are being taught (Michigan figures now, no national figures available) by teachers who have graduated from high school and have had not to exceed one year of training beyond their high school course.

Our expectation of service then is from teachers who have had only one year’s professional training beyond high school, and who conduct during the course of the day:

8 recitations in reading 1st to 8th inclusive 8 recitations in arithmetic 8 recitations in language and grammar 8 recitations in word study 5 recitations in geography 3—7 grades 2 recitations in hygiene 6—7 grades 1 recitation in history 8th grade

* Read at the Public School Section, Detroit meeting of the American Physical Education Association.

Digitized by L^ooQle
303

i recitation in civics 8th grade

I recitation in agriculture 8th grade

I writing class — all grades.

In addition to this program, there is the question of opening exercises, seat work, recess periods, noon lunch periods, and usually janitor work either to supervise or actually perform.

As though this were not a great enough handicap there is the handicap of length of service, the rural teacher being one to have the shortest average length of service. One-third of the teachers in our rural schools teach only one year. The average length of service is just under three years.

Now with the rules of the game in mind and with the actual facts of the hurried survey before us, let us not ask the question “What does the State expect,” but, “What has the State a right to expect” from these teachers in the way of development of a state wide program of Physical Education.

Expectation of service based upon the facts above outlined is somewhat different from the expectation of service as shown by State Courses of Study so far issued by the State Departments of Education.

With the above facts in mind, doesn’t it seem a little ridiculous for experts to spend hours discussing whether we should call our work Physical Education or Health Education? Doesn’t it seem wise to just do something and forget the arguments? Doesn’t it seem to you that the. only expectation the state has a right to have is an expectation of getting out and of helping these teachers and their children in some practical fashion rather than by writing pages about the necessity of training the motor powers of the body, or of increasing the co-ordinations, both muscular and mental? This assistance should be of a practical nature but based upon sound physiological and pedagogical premises.

Certain it is that if too much is expected of the average teacher, small will be the result. If, on the other hand, we give the teacher the absolute minimum of direction—simplicity itself—much more will result that will be helpful to all. An indoor baseball and bat will do more for proper recess activity than will any book ever written.

On the other hand, the teacher has a direct obligation both to the pupils and to the state. This obligation is a two-fold one, that of educating the children intrusted to her care and of protecting their healths To help these more or less experienced teachers to live up to this obligation is the duty of every school executive, but again before we can expect a great deal, we must make very sure that the teacher realizes her obligation. After this has been made plain by means of institutes, etc. the state has the right to expect certain definite things of the teachers. In the order of their importance will be recited the specific things the state has the right to expect, and does expect of all the public school teachers.

First of importance, is the physical well-being of the children. The teacher must be alert to see that the school is clean, properly ventilated, and warm. The purely creature comforts of the scholars must be looked after if the school is to fulfill its mission of a place in which to educate children so that they may become intelligent citizens.

Digitized by LjOOQ Le
3°4

Next comes the matter of actual education which is so often overlooked by the specialist in making extravagant demands for time for special work. Education being the object of the costly maintenance of the school it should at all times be considered by specialists before requests for any special allotment of time is asked for.

Next in importance comes the recreative portion of the program. This portion is too often eliminated and considered by the teacher to be useless.

Analyzing further the first, the need of attention to the physical well-being of the children, the sta{e has a right to expect that the teacher will be intelligent and use judgment in the control of relief periods either for the group or for individuals. Frequent periods of short duration— commonly called two-minute relief periods—should be insisted upon. The actual content of the period is of little importance if during the time the children are allowed to get plenty of fresh air and some opportunity to stretch or rest cramped muscles. Few teachers are prepared to give strictly postural corrective exercises; these poor folks don't know whether the thumb should be extended or held close to the first finger. Neither do they know whether the palms of the hands should be up or down, and it is to be feared that they as a group don’t care. However this may be, the relief periods are of value and should be insisted upon.

The state it would seem, has the right to insist upon having all new teachers trained so that they are competent to conduct these short relief periods properly with formal setting up exercises or with mimetic games for the sake of variety. Here in Michigan such training in Normal Schools is insisted upon by law, there being five component parts which must be given each prospective teacher in training, physical training being one of these parts.

Right here it seems to be the proper place to inject the somewhat irrevelant remark that fully 95 percent of our people taking specializing courses in physical education, do so with the idea of becoming directors and teachers of high school pupils. Recently a group of over 125 specializing students was asked for a showing of hands of those desiring to work with grade children. The result simply gave added proof to the statement that 95 percent of our specializing students desire to teach high school or college work.

Here we are assembled in National Convention, a large group of people interested in Physical Education and you cannot help recognizing the fact that your greatest interest is in high school and college work. It is time to wake up and build from the bottom up rather than from the top down.

With three fifths of the children in the rural schools, we should have 3-5 of the interest there, 3-5 of the effort there, yet you know that there are not twenty-five persons attending this entire convention who are interested in the rural schools. The biggest problem of all gets the least study, the least attention and the least help from this, a national body, to further physical well-being throughout the nation.

Be honest now and answer the question as to how many of you ever attended a national convention and listened to a talk given before the general meeting upon the needs in the rural schools?

Digitized by LjOOQle
305

This is a sad digression from the topic assigned, but it is a justified one under the circumstances. Some of us who see and feel the needs in the rural schools want your sympathetic help and understanding. For this reason you are requested to pardon this brief departure from the subject under consideration.	%

The next matter of importance is that of the actual education and here we as specialists should be sympathetically intelligent. When teachers speak of I. Q. we should reverently take off our hats and at least look wisev One of our specialists broke into a conversation regarding the great I. Q. by saying that he knew what the C. B. and Q. was but didn’t know about the I. Q. £nd again when the threshold of intelligence is discussed we should know that it has nothing in common with the threshold of the school room. If we are to expect respectful and sympathetic understanding and co-operation from school teachers we must at least be on bowing terms with their great catch words and phrases. We must say that they can motivate their recess periods with a ball and bat or a volley ball. We have no right to expect from the teacher any more serious or courteous attention to our problems than we are willing to give to theirs.

Finally, regarding recreations let us make it simple and easy for the teacher. A minister could give a mighty dry sermon about the flood but that is no reason why we should make work of recreation.

Directed play becomes driven play under certain conditions and it is certain that no teacher will study for long any text on how to lead play. The same teacher will however read simple directions for a new game, and will try it once. If the game works, well and good—if it fails, a convert to directed play is usually lost. This teacher will not, however, select the game from among many in a book. She is afraid of her judgment and does not wish to make a mistake.

Even those of us who are constitutionally lazy are not attracted by the prospect of eternal rest in the world beyond and we all know of folks who even in heaven will never make successful harpists; the same is true of recreation. We all know people who advise play and recreation, who write about play and recreation, and who know everything about it excepting how to do it. This is true of many teachers; they cannot successfully lead or direct recreation and their attempt to do so makes of it a burden to the children. Then don’t expect all teachers, young and old, to become even fair leaders in play and games, much less in the giving of formal exercises.

In conclusion it would seem that the state has the right to expect teachers to perform certain simple routine things which can be done without a great deal of preparation. Further the state has a right to expect sympathetic co-operation from supervisors and teachers alike in taking care of or in the promoting of special recreative days or exercises, providing the directions are simple, specific, direct and brief.
306

What the Local Schools Expect from the State and how the State can Assist in Making Physical Education in the Schools Show Results.

BY A. E. K.INDERVATER, ST. LOUIS, MO.

In order that the state may give assistance in making physical education in the schools show results efficiently and with success, the following seven items are essential and should be required:

I. State laws or regulations fixing a definite amount of time per week for physical training, supervised play and hygiene.

Considering the possibilities, I would offer the following suggestions: During the elementary school day thirty minutes should be the minimum; this time to be devoted as follows: two periods for physical training with emphasis on posture and setting up activities, two periods for organized play, and one period for health education per week. In addition hereto one hour per week for after school supervised play, selected to fit the age of the child and suitable to the season of the school year, should be allowed. As we have to consider the limited yard space or playground connected with the average school building, the five hours per week should be divided among the grades as follows:

The pupils of two grades play on Monday, two grades on Tuesday, two grades on Wednesday, and two grades on Thursday, Fr day to be reserved in case inclement weather prevents the use of one of the other days. Schools that use the programs arranged on the departmental plan providing from 30 to 45 minutes per day to each subject offer the simplest solution of the time problem.

Those schools with double gymnasiums and ample yard space and those that can separate the sexes so as to give special attention to both work and play present the ideal conditions. Here the gymnasiums take the place of regular classrooms and are in use every minute of the school day.

2nd requirement:	State	laws or regulations prescribing that definite

space be provided for indoor and outdoor physical activities.

The Boards of Education in every city and town should be required to provide two equipped gymnasiums, one for each sex, and one swimming pool. The minimum size of each gymnasium and pool should be 30 x 60 feet for all school buildings carrying eight grades. In school buildings carrying only six grades or less one gymnasium and one swimming pool should be provided. In the rural schools sufficient outdoor equipment and sufficient yard space for all requ red outdoor physical activities assigned to elementary grades should be provided. The size of a school yard or play space will depend, especially in the larger cities, much upon the location of the school and the possib lity of securing the property for a reasonable price. My ideal would be a space of 200 x 150 ft. at each end of the building or a space of 400 x 150 in the rear of the building, so that the pupi s of two rooms, sexes separated, could work or play

* Read at the Detroit conventiony Public Schools section, American Physical Education Association.

Digitized by Google
30 7

there at one time. Should there be a public playground within reasonable distance of the school, classes could be scheduled there for outdoor work during the school day.

For high schools the number of gymnasiums and swimming pools will depend upon the number of students taking the work. The minimum size of a high school gymnasium should be 40 x 80 ft. and the swimming pool should be 30 x 60 ft. The schedule for classes should consist of two periods for physical training and one period for swimming each week. With the arrangement one thousand students could be accommodated in two gymnasiums and one pool.

Each high school should be provided with an athletic field in its immediate neighborhood. Such a field should be at least 200 x 400 ft. in size and equipped for all high school track and field activities and games.

3rd requirement:	State	laws or regulations prescribing the prepara-

tion and training that teachers of these subjects must have.

In order to make this provision effective, a department of physical education, including the subjects of supervised play and hygiene, must be established and should be under the authority of the State Superintendent of Schools.

This department should be equipped with a well prepared, capable and experienced educator in the three subjects to act as head. There should be the necessary number of assistants, who would also be specialists in their respective lines. Together they could prepare the courses of study in the required subjects, fix the number of semester hours for each subject, and provide the minimum requirements necessary to qualify as teachers.

This course of physical education prepared by the State Department of Physical Education, with a possible assistance of other efficient physical educators of the state, should be put into practice in all state institution training schools; and every student preparing for the teaching profession should be obliged to take it in order to secure a teacher’s certificate or license.

The following minimum requirements are at present in force in the state of Missouri:

TENTATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR PHYSICAL INSTRUCTORS.

Tentative requirements for instructors of Physical education for the State of Missouri as set up by. the State Superintendent of Public Schools in compliance with House Bill No. 515, Session Acts, 1921.

1.	Teachers for the physical training course must be approved by the State Superintendent. The minimum requirements necessary for the approval of such teachers are as follows:

(a)	Good personality and evidence of special fitness for the work of a physical supervisor.

(b)	Two years’ continuous experience as a teacher.

(c)	Sixty hours of college work in an approved institution in advance of an approved four-year high school course, this college work to include the following special requirements:

1. 15 semester hours in physical education, including six hours of theory of physical education.

Digitized by v^ooQie
3°8

2.	Two semester hours of hygiene and three semester hours in physiology.

3.	Five hours of practice teaching in physical education, except that a candidate who has taught physical education successfully for one year may be excused from this special requirement, without thereby gaining credit towards the sixty hours of college credit required.

(d)	Exception—The fol*owng candidates may, with the consent of the State Superintendent, be exempted from the foregoing requirements:

1.	A graduate of an approved professional training school for physical education, who has completed a two-year professional course in advance of an approved four-year high school course.

2.	A physical director with fifteen years’ practical school experience in physical training who is well recommended as qualified to direct physical training in the State of Missouri.

4th requirement: The State Department of Physical Education and Hygiene must have full supervision of this work in all state institutions teaching the same.

A further important duty of this department would be to introduce, organize and inspect this work in cities and towns as yet unfamiliar with the same, to arrange teachers’ meetings in the various cities of the state where lectures on the subjects in question might be given to provide for practical demonstrations of the work and to assist the class teachers in arranging and managing competitive activities, indoor meets, field days and pageants. (Also to advise as to space and equipment for the work.)

5th requirement: The State Department of Physical Education should also publish an annual list of such normal training schools that fully comply with the prescribed regulations, in order that prospective students may be attracted to them.

6th requirement: State laws or regulations prescribing physical training, health education and recreative activities for all students attend-ing night schools.

If the local Boards of Education provide rooms, light, heat and janitor service, the state should provide the instructors for this work. These instructors must qualify as to the state requirements and should work under the supervision of the state department.

7th requirement:	State	laws	or regulations providing financial aid

for all bona fide educational associations outside of the public schools that carry on regular schools of physical training and play for children and adults of both sexes and all ages, such as, the Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., the turnverein, sokols and all associations of that type. The state should assist financially all associations that can meet the necessary requirements, such as, sanitary gymnasiums and swimming pools, cleanliness in both, and a minimum attendance of pupils in all classes, and other requirements that may be necessary for a good control. Well trained and enthusiastic physical directors provided by the state for such organizations that cannot afford their own would become real missionaries of health in a large field, and the results of their work could become a valuable asset in the community.

Digitized by LiOOQle
309

WHAT THE LOCAL SCHOOLS EXPECT FROM THE STATE.*

JOINT PAPER BY C. H. BURKHARDT AND EUGENE HOFMEISTER, BUFFALO.

History repeats itself. Your committee we believe has chosen a very timely topic—the question “What the local schools expect from the state?" The records of ancient history reveal the fact that once upon a time the youth of Greece at the tender age of eight was taken from home and parents and put exclusively into the hands of the state. From that time on until he reached manhood—18 to 21—his education was administered by the state. Magnificently was it done. For the sake of comparison, it will not be amiss at this time to briefly reiterate their educational program.

From earliest time of which we have records, Athenian education was divided into two parts: First: Gymnastics for the body; Second: Music for the soul. The morning was devoted to bodily gymnastics and in the afternoon the boys marched to the school called music school. Here after saluting the master and uttering a brief invocation to the Muses, whose statues adorned the school room, they began their mental gymnastics. These consisted of singing, playing on the lute, writing and reading. The boys sat on the ground while the Master occupied an elevated seat. The exercises opened with a patriotic song. First is a religious song, celebrating Zeus, Hermes or some other great deity; it is sung in unison to a simple Doric air, and the boys are encouraged to throw all the fire they can into both words and music. This is followed by war songs, recalling some great national victory, and is rendered in same spirit. Then followed other songs of different kinds but all simple and strong, appealing to patriotic and ethical emotion. After the singing comes the lesson on the lute and finally instruction in letters. Each boy holds in his hands a wax-covered tablet and a stylus. The tablet contains the writing lesson of yesterday, which is the reading lesson of today.

Homer’s poem and Hesiod’s works were written, read, memorized, declaimed and recited. Health inspection and two minute setting-up drills or relief exercises we failed to discover in their program. From the viewpoint of the modern educator, it was a well-rounded program. With the physical education program of this ancient race, we are all familiar. The entire forenoon was devoted to the training of the body. There were provided for each sex magnificent palestras or gymnasia with adequate space and equipment. Competent teachers were placed in charge of the palestras, and secret as well as sacred were the periods of instruction. The youth was grouped into three age classes and the program of exercises graded from the lighter to the heavier exercises, such as: Running, jumping, wrestling, discus throwing for distance and javelin for accuracy-games with a ball and dancing. Boxing was prohibited. Such was the education in vogue during the reign of the great wise Solon and Kleisthen-es under a democratic form of government 500 B. C. The State did it all, but Greece with all her bodily perfection, art, science, literature and

* Read at the Public Schools section Detroit meeting of the American Physical Education Association.

Digitized by Tooele
3l°

philosophy, religion and politics, commerce and wealth, is but a page in history. In giving this description we do not wish to convey to our hearers the impression that the aggressive policy of the state has brought the downfall of Greece. To the contrary, we simply cite this case to show how much service was rendered by the state.

Note: Let the standards of Greek physical education serve as the ideals for which our present state physical education laws are Striving.

Again the question—What can the Local Schools expect from the State? First of all, we believe in a policy of “Reciprocity;” in other words, the relation of the state and local schools should be one of reciprocity. Mutual action and reaction; give and take mutually.

Our experience in N. Y. state has been of that kind. The physical training law enacted in 1916 has paved the way. The attitude of toleration by city and school administrators has changed to one of recognition. The situation has improved materially since 1916, particularly as regards the elementary and secondary schools in our city. Our state has given us definite time requirements. We have a definite program, a summary of which is as follows:

A.	Health inspection a few minutes daily.

B.	Relief exercises, eight minutes a day, forty minutes a week.

C.	Talk on hygiene—Twenty to thirty minutes a week.

D.	Physical education activities (a) games, athletics, gymnastics, group dances, etc., two hours a week.

(b) Home and community recreational activities supervised or unsupervised three hours per week.

We have a definite program of graded lessons for the class-room as well as for the gymnasium; also a state-wide physical ability test for boys and girls. Furthermore, definite specifications as to qualifications of physical education teachers and last but not least a definitie amount of state money of $600.00 has been set aside for each and every teacher of physical education that the schools may employ. In spite of the fact that we have such a definite state program and the same being supervised with an almost paternal attitude yet we frankly admit that many schools in our city have fallen far short when viewed in the light of reciprocity.

Permit me to cite a few examples:

No. 1 (Referring to secondary schools). Our state law says: “The teachers of athletics (‘coaches’ - ‘trainers’ etc.) must be teachers in the schools. No outside instruction may be employed.” Has that been observed? What is wrong with our athletics? Concentration on a few selected athletes while the rank and file of students are neglected so far as wholesome physical development is concerned. The false values placed on athletics is still with us. Example No. 2. Our state law says: School Boards are to provide adequate play space and equipment for physical education activities. Yes, our school board is willing—but the city council is ever elusive. Many other examples might be mentioned but for the present that is sufficient. As to the question of “How the States Can Help Us,” we have thus far said nothing,—we have only briefly enumerated what our state already has done for us. But like any normal child, our wants are never supplied; our local schools will want to see, sooner or later: First:	A	physical	education department for teachers of

physical education in every State Normal School. The curriculum should
311

include subjects that bear oh the aims and scope of physical education. It must include biology, anatomy, physiology, psychology, sociology, bacteriology, personal hygiene and public health. It must acquaint the prospective teacher with elements of disease recognition and bodily defects. He must be made familiar with theories and practices of all types of physical activities, as adapted to the various ages and conditions. Other than physical education students in the State Normal to be required a minimum of one hour of Physical education daily during their entire normal course.

Second: Schools may expect that the the State have a bureau of Research and Investigation, for the purpose of standardizing physical education measurements, ability tests, scientifically prepare ways and means of taking care of the subnormal, physical defectives, nutrition, etc.; in other words, help solve problems with reference to physical education and students’ health.

Note: Accurate means of measuring our work to determine whether or not we are attaining the ends for which we are striving.

Third:	Establish	an	organization	and regulations of athletics par-

ticularly as it applies to the secondary schools. In other words let athletic competition become a means to an end rather than the end itself. Interscholastic contests, then, would serve as an opportunity to experience and display the products of physical education. In so doing competitive sports will become a by-product—(Example:—New York State High School Ball Tournament very successful affair.)

Fourth:	State	regulations	prescribing that communities furnish definits

space for indoor and outdoor activities. Two gymnasiums and two school yards for every school. Size of school yards in the city should never be less than two square yards per child. Democracy must provide not only a seat and instruction for every child, in school, but also play space and supervised play for every child.

Fifth:	We	expect	the	State	to	provide an adequate health program

and supervision. It is highly important that instruction in health supervision of school children should be standardized. No teachers training institution, state or otherwise, should be given a Class A rating if its course in health education does not conform to at least a minimum standard. To whom to entrust the administrative authority of health supervision is of secondary importance—department of education or health department, so long as the work is done efficiently.

Note:	Supervision	should	not be limited to mere inspection but

should include demonstration showing the latest approved methods of teaching.

Sixth:	Can	we	expect	a	state syllabus or outline of bodily exercises

that contains only essentials and is absolutely workable? We like to compare it with a well-rounded diet. The chemist says we need protein to build up and repair our body, carbohydrates and fats to produce heat and energy, pep, if you please, — and above all foods that contain “vitamines.” Furthermore, the dietician, says foods must be palatable, they must look and taste right; in other words, the meal must be appetizing, also must have quantity and variety.
31*

What bodily exercises correspond to proteins, real body building ‘exercises? And what exercises correspond to carbohydrates and fats, the type that will produce strength of expression, capacity of acting, power to impress the mind and arouse a sense of well-being, spirit,—yes, life itself?

What corresponds to the so-Called “vitamines” so essential for metabolism. The vitamines in physical education must be gotten out-of-doors. Exercises out-of-doors.

Can we expect a syllabus of exercises that is palatable, appetizing, contains quantity, quality and variety?

In conclusion, much have we already received from the State and more is expected and forthcoming providing local schools believe in and practice Reciprocity.

SWIMMING POOLS IN PUBLIC SCHOOL BUILDINGS.

SECOND REPORT BY WILLIAM A. STECHER.

After presenting my report upon the installation of pools in public school buildings it was said that pools could not be kept in a sanitary condition. I therefore wrote to New York, Cincinnati and Buffalo stating the above named objection. The following answers were received :

Cincinnati, Dated Sept. 25, 1922:

I am in receipt of your report regarding swimming pools and am somewhat surprised at what you say concerning the prevalent idea that the swimming pools cannot be kept sanitary. One might just as well say that a gymnasium cannot be kept sanitary or you might say the same of any building, public or private. Pools can be kept sanitary but it is simply a matter of eternal vigilance.

We have had pools in operation now for a period of twelve years. The Board of Education analyses our water and examines the pools at frequent intervals sometimes two or three times in one week, and while it is true that sometimes the number of bacteria is larger than we would like to see it the number has never been as large as the number of bacteria found in the marketable milk. It is only on very rare occasions that the coli-bacillus is present and then not in sufficient numbers to be alarming.

In order that you may see the way we conduct our pools I am enclosing the instruction issued to our janitors and the teachers in the swimming pools. As I stated above it takes eternal vigilance on the part of the supervisor to make the janitorial force and also the teachers of swimming live up to the letter of the law in regard to these rules but I feel that we are getting excellent results and I wish to report that we are putting in as many swimming pools as it is possible to place.

Two of our elementary schools nearing completion have swimming pools. Our new high school, plans for which are now being drawn, will have two full sized pools. In fact, we would not think of building any high schools without a pool. In the elementary schools pools are omitted

Digitized by LnOOQle
3f3

only in those new buildings where they have schools near enough to them that have pools to permit the pupils to go from one place to another.

(Signed)	Carl	Ziegler, M. D.,

Director, Physical Education.

New York City, Dated September 27, 1922.

Your letter of Sept. 20, referring to swimming pools is at hand, I am very glad to have the copy of your report to Associate Superintendent Cornman. It think it is a very fair statement of the facts.

Referring to your quotation relative to insanitary conditions of pools I would say that the question hinges largely on the interpretation of “proper sanitary conditions.”

Of course I think that special supervision is absolutely necessary for a swimming pool, and my belief is that the supervision should be unified under one department, and if possible, one teacher whose special interest is in this particular activity.

I am of the opinion that the pools now being operated in our schools are in good sanitary condition. We have had no complaints as to transmission of disease or ailments contracted in the swimming pools, and I believe that if any such had occurred, the pools would have been blamed very promptly. An examination of an elementary school pool by an expert of the Board of Health showed a satisfactory condition of the water.

I believe that the principal difficulty in connection with these pools is in the community use out of school hours. This use may be by Recreation centers at night, or by clubs after school.

The point of view of these organizations is different from that of the school. The standards of the users are not so high as the standards of the teachers and indeed of most school children, in relation to health and consideration for other people.

The Community Centers depend upon a numerous attendance, which is not compulsory, and the people who come in are not trained in personal cleanliness nor subject to the same discipline as school children. The supervision is seldom as good as in the day school. The groups are usually larger. The probable result is obvious. I believe, however, that every effort is made by the users of these pools after school, to keep them in excellent condition.

If I can do so, I should like to restrict the use of the school pools to children during the school term, and permit the use by miscellaneous outsiders only during vacation periods.

•The above discussion is an expression of my personal opinion. I hope it answers your question to some extent.

We are now commencing five High School buildings with swimming pools.

(Signed)	Abner	P.	Way,	M.	D.,

Asst. Director of Physical Training.

Buffalo, October 4, 1922.

In answer to your letter of Sept. 20, regarding the sanitation of swimming pools in our public schools, I do not agree with your informant in his stand on this important question.

Digitized by Google
3H

Since the introduction of swimming pools in our public schools in Buffalo, which was in 1911, there never has been a complaint on the sanitary condition. Inasmuch as we have no re-circulation or sterilza-tion system in any of our nine pools, our method of having them emptied, scrubbed and cleaned three times a week, keeps them in proper sanitary condition. In cases where our pools are used for night school classes also, they are cleaned more often. You understand, of course, that everyone using the pool must have a thorough examination after a soap shower before allowed to go into the tank. This inspection is carried out by the swimming instructor and a shower bath attendant.

(Signed) Carl H. Burkhardt,

Supervisor of Physical Education.

The foregoing statements from people who are supervising the work in swimming pools should help in dispelling any fear that pools cannot be kept in a sanitary condition.

COACHES ATTACKED ON AMATEUR STAND

Michigan Athletic Director Says College Officials Make Joke of Rules.

Ann Arbor, Mich., July 15.—That athletic authorities have not yet really tried to enforce the rules and that strict amateur interpretation can be accomplished by universities if they actually set out to do it,* and that the worst cases are those of athletes who are subsidized by alumni over-zealous to win victories for their alma mater is the contention of Elmer D. Mitchell, director of intra-mural athletics in the University of Michigan*^

“No one wants to start house cleaning at home,” remarks Mr. Mitchell. “Lack of mutual trust on the part of our athletic people has made for hypocrisy all around. It will be a great boon to amateur athletics if a rule is enforced, with strict penalties for falsifying to one’s status. Such an offender should be barred from all college affairs other than his classes. Make it a matter of dishonor to lie in such a case rather than to encourage a lie, as is done at present.”

Mr. Mitchell recalled that as long as idealistic motives alone existed for observing the amateur rule little was done to enforce it. “To-day necessity has driven athletic authorities to make a beginning,” he said, “for the reason that professional football and basketball have added themselves to baseball in recruiting in the college ranks to the point where the professional game may jeopardize the drawing power of intercollegiate athletics.

“The colleges bar all men who are professionals in the sense of having played for money. This rule has not been strictly enforced, since many technical evasions are possible, and because through lack of understanding the sympathies of students, faculties and outsiders have been largely on the side of the offenders. The athletic officials have made a joke of the rules, and this has led the players themselves to do likewise.

“The college needs a rule on amateurism to protect itself. Otherwise a player who receives the athletic training the university gives him, and becomes more skilled because of it, can capitalize both the skill and the

Digitized by CjOOQLe
3’5

drawing power he derives from the name of his school along a line the university should not favor. If the school stands for ideals of clean play, as it surely does, then it should not allow its players to enter the professional game, with its atmosphere of loafing hours, easy money and many vices. Players coming from such an atmosphere react unfavorably upon amateur play, for the college player is quick to ape the professional.

“One thing with which a university should not concern itself is the question of a student having played for money before entering college. If after entering school he obeys all the rules that are laid down he should be allowed to play.

“Another weakness lies in the fact that the rules do not covefr the case of an athlete whose way is paid through college by some enthusiastic alumnus or through some money that is advanced for imaginary or overpaid jobs. His case is the most flagrant violation of any, for he is actually being paid to play on the school teams that represent themselves as amateur. Yet this most unworthy type of athlete, demanding concessions, and only interested in his personal gain, is allowed, even though found out, to stay on the college team with his status unchanged. How can we demand a curtailment of playing privileges to boys in vacation time, on the ethical grounds that have just been stated and yet ignore this other case?

“There will be many who will agree that all these things are fine and yet scoff at the thought of making any practical enforcement of them. These rules can be enforced. The present weakness is not that they cannot be enforced but that the athletic authorities have not earnestly tried to do so.”

EXERCISES UPON APPARATUS

BY L. ZWARG, PHILADELPHIA.

There is an increasing demand for easy exercises upon apparatus, exercises that readily may be used by a teacher and at the same time appeal to the pupil. In the following compilation the exercises have been arranged in the form of lessons; that is, the suggested exercises are to form the material for one lesson upon a particular piece of apparatus. As a rule there are four lessons upon each piece of apparatus for three groups of pupils. The first group consists of pupils in the first, second, and third school grades. The next set of four lessons is for the middle group comprising school grades four, five and six. The last group is for grades seven and eight. In this group a sex division has been made so that there are exercises for boys and exercises for girls.

EXERCISES ON THE VERTICAL LADDER.

(Continued from November)

For boys and girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Run to top. Return in bent arm hang, hands on rounds, feet placed against beams.

2.	Hang rearways. Raise knees as high as possible.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
3*6

3.	Stand frontways on round, hands hip-high. Bend and straighten knees.

4.	Hang frontways. Raise legs backward and bend upper trunk backward.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent arm hang. Lower slowly.

2.	Hang rearways. Raise knees high. Straighten knees and lower legs slowly.

3. Stand frontways on lowest round, hands hip-high. Bend knees. Straighten knees, but keep hips bent. Return.

4.	Hang-stand frontways. Turn trunk left and swing left arm and leg sideward.

j. Lesson.

1.	Hang rearways. Raise legs forward alternately.

2. Hang frontways. Keep grip. Walk upward as close to hands as possible into a squatting position. Return.

3.	Stand frontways. Hook second or third round with left (right) foot and bend trunk backward, hands placed on hips or in rear of head.

4.	Support-lying position frontways on floor, feet placed on second round.

4. Lesson.

1.	Hang rearways. Raise legs forward. Lower slowly.

2.	Chin upward in bent arm hang, feet placed against beams.

3.	Walk upward five rounds. Sit on round. Lower body backward to knee hang (assistance). Return.

4.	Support-lying position frontways on floor, feet placed on round. Climb upward with feet to hand stand.

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL BAR, HIP TO CHEST HIGH For boys and girls of grades, 1, 2, 3.

/. Lesson.

1.	Step to hang-lying position frontways. Return.

2.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Return with a jump.

3.	Hang-lying position frontways. Raise knees alternately. (Legs).

4.	From cross-stand with mixed grip jump to hand-knee-hang. (Both knees.)

2.	Lesson.

1.	Hang-lying position frontways. Chin.

2.	Hang-lying position frontways. Turn trunk, releasing one hand.

3.	Support stand frontways. Raise legs backward alternately.

4.	Hand-knee-hang left (right) between hands.

j. Lesson.

1.	Hang-lying position frontways. Change grip to under and upper grip.

2.	From cross-stand jump to knee hang. Chin.

3.	Hand knee-hang (both) between hands.

4.	From support stand frontways jump to momentary hang-lying-position and return. (Try without touching floor).

4. Lesson.

1.	Jump to support, (lean well forward, arms straight).

2.	From cross-stand jump to knee-hang left. Change to right.

3.	Jump to support. Turn over forward. (Caution.)

4.	Hip swing-up (Trial) with under grip.

Digitized by CjOOQle
3*7

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL BAR, HIP TO CHEST HIGH. For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

/. Lesson.

1.	Jump to support. (Lean well forward, arms straight.)

2.	Support-stand frontways. Raise legs backward alternately.

3.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Chm.

4.	Knee-hang (both) between hands.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to support. Turnover forward.

2.	Knee-hang left between hands. Change to right.

3.	Knee-hang (both) between hands. Turnover backward to stand.

4.	Hip-swing-up with under grip.

3.	Lesson.

1.	From support-stand frontways jump to momentary hang lying position frontways and return.

2.	Knee-hang left (right) between hands. Knee-swing-up. (Trial Assist.)

3.	Turn over backward to stand.

4.	Hip swing-up with upper grip.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Hip-swing up with under grip. Turn over forward.

2.	Knee-swing-up left (right) between hands. Under grip. Turn-over forward to knee-hang.

3.	With under grip turn-over backward to hang-stand rearways. Raise legs backward alternately.

4.	Knee-circle left (right) backward between hands. (Trial Assistance).

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL BAR, CHEST HIGH.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to support. (Lean well forward, arms straight).

2.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Turn trunk left (right) and place left hand on floor. Return.

3.	Support-stand frontways. Raise legs backward alternately.

4.	Knee-hang (both) between hands.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to support. Turn over forward.

2.	Jump to hang-lying position frontways. Chin.

3.	Knee-hang left (right) between hands.

4.	Hip-swing-up, with under grip.

3.	Lesson.

1.	From support-stand frontways jump to lying position frontways and return.

2.	Knee-hang left (right) between hands. Knee-swing-up. (Assistance.)

3.	With under grip turn over backward to hang-stand rearways. Raise knees forward. (Upper spine arched.)

4.	High-swing-up with upper grip.

Digitized by Google
3*8

4. Lesson.

1.	From support-stand frontways jump to momentary hang-lying position frontways and return. (Try without touching floor.)

2. Knee-swing-up left (right) between hands. Under grip. Turn over forward to knee-hang.

3. With under grip turn over backward to hang-stand rearways. Raise legs backward alternately. Raise legs forward alternately, rising on toes. (Chest well arched.)

4.	Knee-circle left (right) backward between hands. (Trial Assistance.)

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL BAR, CHEST TO SHOULDER

HIGH.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Jump to support. (Lean well forward, arms straight.)

2.	From support-stand frontways jump to hang-lying position frontways and return.

3.	Knee-hang left between hands. Change to right.

4.	Hip-swing-up with under grip.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to support. Turn over forward.

2.	From support-stand frontways jump to momentary hang-lying position frontways and return. (Try without touching floor.)

3.	Knee-swing-up left. (Right.)

4.	Turn-over backward. Return.

j. Lesson.

1.	Hip-swing-up with under grip. Turn-over forward.

2.	With under grip turn-over to hang-stand rearways. Raise legs backward alternately, forward alternately. (Chest well arched.)

3.	Knee-swing-up between hands. Change to under grip. Turnover forward to knee-hang.

4.	Support. Swing to free support and jump to stand. (Keep hands on bar.)

4. Lesson.

1.	Knee-circle left (right) backward between hands.

2.	From stand frontways under-swing to stand.

3.	Knee-circle left (right) forward between hands.

4.	Support. Hip-circle.

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL BAR, HEAD TO REACH

HIGH.

For boys and girls of grades 1, 2, 3. 1. Lesson.

1.	Upper grip. Jump to bent-arm hang. Lower.

2.	Cross-hang, mixed grip. Raise knees forward.

3. Uppet grip. Raise feet backward to straight hang.

4. Upper grip. Raise knees forward alternately.

Digitized by CjOOQ Le
3i9

2.	Lesson.

1. Under grip. Jump to bent-arm hang. Lower to straight-arm hang.

2. Cross-stand* mixed grip. Jump to knee-hang. (Trial.)

3.	Upper grip. Raise feet backward to straight hang. Travel sideward.

4.	Raise knees to inverted squat-hang.

j. Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang. Turn head.

2.	Cross hang. Raise knees. Travel forward.

3.	Cross stand, mixed grip. Jump to knee-hang. Chin.

4.	Jump to hand-knee-hang left (right) between hands. (Trial, assistance.)

4.	Lesson.

1.	Hang with upper grip. Lift hands alternately.

2.	Raise knees to inverted squat hang. Lower slowly.

3.	Under grip. Jump to bent arm hang. Change to upper grip.

4.	Hand knee-hang left (double) between hands.

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL BAR, HEAD TO REACH

HIGH.

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

/. Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang. Turn head.

2.	Cross stand, mixed grip. Jump to knee hang.

3.	Jump to bent arm hang. Lower to straight arm hang, feet raised backward.

4.	Raise knees to inverted squat hang.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Under grip. Jump to bent-arm hang. Change grip.

2.	Cross stand, mixed grip. Jump to knee-hang left (right.)

3.	Under grip. Swing forward and backward in bent-arm hang. Jump at end of backward swing.

4.	Upper grip. Knee hang left (right) between hands.

j. Lesson.

1.	Travel sideward in hang. (Feet raised backward.)

2.	Hand knee-hang left (feet near hands). Change to right.

3.	Hand knee-hang (double.) Lower slowly to hang rearways. (Assistance.)

4.	Travel forward in cross-hang, feet raised backward.

4. Lesson.

1.	Hang. Release one hand and grasp wrist of other.

2. Upper grip. Knee-hang left (right) knee-swing-up. Lower backward.

3. Upper grip. Knee-hang left (right) knee-swing-up. Change to under grip. Turn over forward.

4.	Hip-swing-up. (Trial.)

Digitized by C^ooQle
3io

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL BAR, REACH TO JUMP-

HIGH.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Short swings.

2.	From hang yi turn left around left arm, and right around right arm.

3.	Raise knees as high as possible.

4.	Change grip from under to upper.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang.

2.	Short swing to knee hang left (right) between hands.

3.	Travel sideward with under grip.

4.	Raise knees to knee-hang between hands.

3.	Lesson.

1.	From cross-hang, raise knees to knee-hang.

2.	From cross-hang, knee-hang-left. Release right hand and turn trunk.

3.	Jump to bent-arm hang with under grip. Swing forward jump at end of backward swing.

4.	Hang turns around one arm, the other arm swinging downward.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Knee-hang between hands. Turn backward (slowly) to inverted hang rearways, jump.

2.	Knee-swing-up.

3.	Long swing with upper grip. Jump at end of backward swing.

4.	Long swings with yi. turn on forward swing.

EXERCISES ON THE HORIZONTAL BAR, HIGH.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Short swings.

2.	Pull up to upper arm hang left (right.)

3.	Raise knees to knee hang between hands.

4.	Change from under grip to upper grip in bent-arm hang.

2.	Lesson.

1.	In bent-arm hang with under grip. Swing forward and backward. Jump at end of backward swing.

2.	Pull up to upper arm hang.

3.	Knee-hang between hands. Turn over backward (slowly )to hang rear-ways.

4.	In bent-arm hang, change grip, simultaneously, from under to upper griP-

3.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to hang and swing forward, jump at end of backward swing.

2.	Swing forward and backward in upper-arm-hang. Lower to straight arm hang at end of backward swing.

3.	Knee-hang between hands. Straighten body to inverted hang rear-ways. Return.

4.	Knee-hang left (right) between hands. Knee-swing-up.

Digitized by L^ooQle
321 4- Lesson.

f. Long swing with yi turn on forward swing.

2.	From upper-arm hang, hip-swing-up.

3.	Knee-circle (left or right) forward with under grip. Backward with upper grip.

4.	Hip-swing-up. Hip circle.

EXERCISES ON CLIMBING POLES (OR ROPES.)

For boys and girls of grades I, 2, 3.

/. Lesson.

1. Climbing position. Grasp high. Place left (right) shin against pole, knee outside, ankle inside, knee about hip-high. Place the other leg around in front, pinching the rope tightly between the knees. (This should be learned well.)

2.	Jump to climbing position.

3.	Climbing position. Release one hand.

4.	Climb upward (Trial.) Slide downward in climbing position, hands moving hand under hand.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to hang on one pole, straddling legs sideward.

2.	Run forward with pole, jump to climbing position at end of forward swing. Jump at end of backward swing.

3.	Jump to bent-arm hang on one pole.

4.	Climb upward.

3.	Lesson.

(On two poles.)

1.	Jump to hang.

2.	Jump to hang. Raise knees.

3.	Jump to bent-arm hang at end of forward run. Jump down at end of backward swing.

4.	As 3. Swing forward and backward with raised knees.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Run forward and jump to bent arm hang. Jump down at end of backward swing.

2.	Climb sideward from one pole to another.

3.	Run forward and jump to climbing position. Jump down with yi turn at end of foreward swing.

4.	Climb to top. (Race.)

EXERCISES ON CLIMBING POLES (OR ROPES.)

For boys and girls of grades 4, 5, 6.

1.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to climbing position; repeat.

2.	Jump to climbing position; release hands alternately.

3.	Jump to climbing position at end of forward run.

4.	Climb upward. Glide down, hands grasping hand under hand.

2.	Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang.

2.	Jump to bent-arm hang, straddling legs sideward.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
322

3« Jump to bent-arm hang at the end of forward run.

4. Climb to top.

3.	Lesson.

(On two poles.)

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang at end of forward run.

2.	Jump to hang with raised knees at end of forward run.

3.	Jump to climbing position on two poles (feet inside; knees^outside.)

4.	Climb upward on two poles.

4,	Lesson.

1.	Climb sideward from one pole to another.

2.	At end of forward run, jump with yi turn to climbing position. Jump down at end of forward swing with yi. turn.

3.	Climb to top. Climb downward from one pole to another.

4.	Climbing race.

EXERCISES ON CLIMBING POLES.

For girls of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Jump to bent-arm hang at end of forward run.

2.	Jump to climbing position. Release hands alternately.

3.	Climb sideward from one pole to another.

4.	Climbing race.

2.	Lesson.

(On two poles.)

1.	Hang-lying position frontways. Raise knees (legs) alternately.

2.	Chin in hang-lying position.

3.	Climbing position on two poles.

4.	Jump to hang with raised knees at end of forward run.

3.	Lesson.

(On two poles.)

1. Jump to bent arm hang at end of forward run.

2. Jump to bent arm hang. Short swings.

3.	Inverted hang, feet against poles.

4.	Climbing upward in climbing position on two poles.

4.	Lesson.

1.	Climb to top on end pole. Climb downward from one pole to another

2.	At end of forward run, jump with yi turn to climbing position. Jump down with yi turn at end of forward swing.

3.	Jump to inverted climbing position.

4.	Climb upward on swinging pole.

EXERCISES ON CLIMBING POLES, OR ROPES.

For boys of grades 7, 8, 9.

/. Lesson.

1.	Climbing position. Release hands alternately.

2.	Climb upward. Climb downward.

3.	Jump to inverted climbing position. (Knees above hands.)

4.	Climbing race.

Digitized by CjOOQle
3a3

2. Lesson.

1.	Climbing position. Release hands (clap) and regrasp.

2.	Climb to top on end pole. Climb downward from one pole to another,

3.	Climb upward with one shin against pole, the other leg extended sideward.

4.	Climbing race.

j. Lesson.

(On two poles.)

1. Jump to bent-arm hang at end of forward run.

0.	Inverted hang; feet against poles.

3.	Turn over backward.

4.	Climb upward in climbing position on two poles.

4. Lesson.

1.	Climb downward in inverted climbing position.

2.	Climb upward from one pole to another.

3.	Climb upward on swinging pole.

4.	Climb upward without use of legs.

(To Be Continued)

♦	■	■'	""	f

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

I--------------------------------------------♦

“SUNSHINE,” “SHOWERS,” AND “SONG.”

ARRANGED BY ERNEST H. SEIBERT, ASSISTANT SUPERVISOR OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, NEWARK, N. J.

To be accompanied by Plastic Poses, Interpretive, Mimetic and Calisthenic Drills.

While the following two dances are being executed the orchestra and chorus are playing and singing the “Ode to Health” (“April Showers”) four times through. During this time the various groups are performing their exercises which are composed with considerable thought on the scenic effect of the whole picture. On the fifth repetition all groups sing and march to a final grouping in the center when the balloons are released and the poses held. At a signal all run to assigned places for exit bringing order out of seeming disorder, and then march off.

“SUNSHINE.”

To be danced with grace, gaiety and lightness, with a daintiness and smile that will breathe sunshine. Great care must be taken in perfecting the various poses. A gas balloon is held sideward in the right hand. The balloon is looped over middle finger by string about four inches long.

Music: “April Showers”—Played twice thru without repeats. Introduction played only first time.

% Formation: Single circle facing partners. No. 1 facing line of direction, No. 2 opposite.

Digitized by v^ooQle
3*4

FLOOR PLAN OF “FINALE”

“SUNSHINE, SHOWERS and S9NG”

3

3



£

&

o

I

s

100 Jr. High Girl* In Interpretive Dance with Garlands:

Arranged in a Large Oval

The Jr. High Orchestra and Chorus of 250, which furnished the Music was placed at this end.

Digitized by v^.ooQle

50 Jr. High Boys in Mimetics
3*5

Introduction: Raise arms slowly, from below in front to first and then to second position. The right foot is raised to point in 5th rear, knee bent.

DANCE VERSE—FIRST FIGURE.

Slowly raise arms to 5th (upw.) 1-2. Clap hands or. 3, lower slightly 4.

Clap hands three times in jth 5-6-7 lower to 2nd position 8.

Repeat 1-2-3-4 above i. e., raise arms to 5th 9-10 and clap on 11 lower 12.

Step sideward right, cross left in rear, step sideward right cross left in front (Bourre Change) 13-14-15-16.

Note: Nos. 1 bourre change outward from center and on 8 face outward. Nos. 2 bourre change inward and on 8 face center of circle. (Back now toward partners).

The arm work to be taken in this figure and throughout the dance for the bourre change will be—on the step right sideward (1) arms are held in second (sideward) on the cross step left in rear (2) the left arm is moved in small circle upward to 1st position (front of chest) on the 2nd step right sideward (3) the left arm is moved in small circle upward to 2nd position (arm sideward) and on the final cross step left in front (4) the right arm is moved in small circle upward to 1st position (front of chest.) Body is bent toward sideward arm.

On the step left repeat arm work vice-versa.

SECOND FIGURE.

Slide hop right away from partner 1-2 arms in diagonal position right arm high.

Step back on left and throw right forward 3-4, left arm in 5th, right in 1st.

Right foot slide, hop, hop, hop, 5-6~7~8.

Arms again in diagonal position as above.

Bourre change left to form double circle, facing partner 9-10-11-12.

Slowly raise arms to 5th position looking upward and changing weight to left foot 13-14-15-16.

Formation is now double circle with Nos. 1 outside, Nos. 2 inside, facing each other.

FIRST CHORUS. THIRD FIGURE.

Step right and curtsy 1-2.

Step left and curtsy 3-4 (arm work same as in bourre change.)

Nos. 1 (outside circle) bourre change right sideward to new partner j-6-7-8.

Nos. 2 (inside circle turns right about in four steps in place. Arms are raised to 5th position 5-6~7-8.

Repeat 1-8 above with new partner, the outside progressing while the inside turns in place. 9-16.

Repeat with next new partner. 17-24.

Repeat step, curtsy, step, curtsy with 4th partner. 25-28.

With body bent forward and right shoulders close, circle partner in 8 litt’e running steps 29-32. (This will hereafter be called “gypsy run.”)

FOURTH FIGURE.

Repeat 1-32 but begin step, curtsy, step, curtsy to left. On this repetition, however, Nos. 2 (inside) will progress on the bourre change

Digitized by L^ooQle
326

to the left while Nos. i (outside) turn left about in place. The 4th step, curtsy, step, curtsy will bring partners face to face 25-28, “gypsy run” left around partner 29-32 but only take circle in order to form single circle to start the dance from beginning.

No pause here.

Second Repetition oj Music—Verse and chorus without introduction.

FIFTH AND SIXTH FIGURES.

Repeat Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, but return after 2nd fig. to single cirde facing partner. 1-32.

SECOND CHORUS. SEVENTH FIGURE.

Cirde partner right shoulders close, in 8 small running steps (gypsy run) 1-2-3-4.

Clap hands three times upward, in 5th 5-6-7 lower to 2nd position 8.

Step right and curtsy, step left and curtsy 9-10-11-12.

Pirouette right 13-14-15-16.

Repeat 1-16 but start “gypsy run” to left. 17-32.

EIGHTH FIGURE.

Inside circle runs to center to join hands in circle 1-2-3-4.

Adjust circle, balloons, etc. 5HS-7-8.

Outside is interested in this posing, etc.

Outside circle runs to center to form basket 9-10-11-12.

Adjust circle, balloons, etc. 13-14-15-16.

NINTH FIGURE—POSE.

All slide right eight times in basket formation. 1-8.

Nos. 1 walk to center and raise left arm high (all balloons together.)

Point right foot and hand outward.

Nos. 2 kneel on left knee and hold balloon toward partner in both hands 9-16. Pause.

Hold this pose until signal is given to walk outward with partner to form double circle for the second dance (“Showers.”)

Introduction of music will be played for this walk.

Nos. 1 will now be on the inside.

‘"SHOWERS.”

(2nd Dance—3rd and 4th repetition of music.)

To be danced with vigor and sprightliness, making the movements large. A gas balloon is held in the outside hand.

Note: With short string it is unnecessary to shift balloon.

Music:	“April	Showers,”	played twice thru without repeats, the in-

troduction played only the first time.

Formation:	Double	circle	facing line of direction, inside hands joined,

outside hands held sideward about head high. A balloon is held on a string with outside hand.

Nos. 1 are on the inside in this dance. Nos. 2 outside.

Dance: Verse of Song.

figure 1.

Swing outside foot high forward, and backward while hopping twice on the inside foot 1-2.

Polka step forward outside foot 3 and 4.

Repeat swing and hop with other foot 5-6.

Polka step forward inside feet 7 and 8.

Repeat swing and polka outside and inside foot 9-16.

Digitized by LjOOQle
3*7

FIGURE II.

Face partner and take three slides in line of direction 1-2-3.

Nos. 1 point right foot toward partner on 4 while Nos. 2 quickly change the weight from the right to left foot at the same time pointing right foot toward partner.

Both right shoulders are now close together.

Both reach right arms around rear of partner's waist and with right foot slide, hop, hop, and jump to change places with partners. j-6-7-8 (on the repeating step in opposite direct’on.)

Repeat three slides and point in opposite direction (clockwise) with same foot and slide, hop, hop, jump, around partner, grasping rear of waist, 9-16.

(On the jump count 16, this time face in line of direction with inside hands joining (Balloons outside hands.)

CHORUS. FIGURE III.

Three step turn away from partner. Nos. 1 toward center. Nos. 2 outward 1-2-3-4.

On the 4 the inside foot is pointed in Jth rear. Arm work for three step turn—2nd, 5th, 2nd and on the pose (count 4) inside arm in 5th outside in 2nd.

Three step turn back to partner to join inside hands, outside hand holding balloon sideward with outside foot posed Jth in rear, j-6-7-8.

FIGURE IV.

Leap on outside foot rasing inside knee very high, leap on inside raising outside knee high 2, repeat leap outside and inside 3-4.

Pirouette outward releasing partner j-6-7-8.

Arm work—Inside hands joined; outside holct head high for the leaps and arms in jth for the pirouette.

FIGURE v.

Join inside hands and slide hop outside foot, raising inside foot in rear and facing partner.

Arm work: Inside arms backward outside arms forward upward 1-2.

Slide hop forward inside foot partners now back to back.

Arm work. Swing inside arms forward upward and outside arms back. 3-4.

Repeat slide hop face to face and back to back j-8.

FIGURE VI.

Face partner, join right hands and circle partner in four step throws starting left foot. 1-8.

Note: In order to start left foot Nos. 2 must make a very quick shift of weight to right foot.

Outside arm sideward liberal body bending.

Fig. VII, VIII, IX, X.—Repeat Chorus Steps, Fig. Ill, IV, V, VI. No pause here.

Fourth Repetition of Music—Verse and chorus without introduction.

Repeat entire dance from the beginning—Figures I to X, but instead of the step throw around partner the 4th or last time as the final in Fig. VI—take

FINAL POSE.

Nos. 1 run quickly to form a circle in center almost back to back, facing left about, bending slightly forward with arms held forward up-

Digitized by

Google
328

ward holding balloon high. Nos. 2 follow a moment later running to sit “tailor fashion” at the feet of Nos. 1 with arms held forward. Both look at each other and hold pose. Pause.

Fifth Repetition of Music—Music now repeated for 5th time when all inarch to grouping to be assigned while singing verse of song. For the chorus all are placed ready to sing and aqt words of song in pantomime. On the last word of chorus arms are held high over head and the balloon is released. ^

DANCE FINIS.

“AN ODE TO HEALTH.”

BY ERNEST A. SEIBERT.

Sung to “April Showers.”

Verse.

Life may be a highway strewn with flowers,

If you form good habits in your youth,

Exercise, good food and early hours Surely brings about this well-known truth.

Chorus.

Though troubles come along your way,

And bring dark clouds that seem to stay,

If you are healthy, have no regrets,

You have the greatest wealth in your good health That this old world begets;

And when you see clouds because you’re ill,

Remember this they stay until,

You will have formed right ways of living And working toward success.

Which lead to health and wealth and happiness.

MEDICAL SUPERVISION OF ATHLETIC SPORTS.

At the last session of the Societe d’ education physique et de sports, Dr. Diflfre, of Roubaix, proposed the adoption by athletic societies and clubs of a “physiologic index card” and of a method of medical supervision before, during and after athletic sports. This proposition was unanimously adopted by all physicians present at the session. From Paris Letter to “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc.” April 29^ 1922.

EFFECT [OF ALCCKCL CN PERFORMANCE IN SPORT

^ACTIVITIES.

H. Herxheimer discusses the effect of alcohol on functions of the body in general and more particularly in connection with sport activities. Experiments on thirty-one athletes showed that the ingestion of small quantities of alcohol (7 gm. of 96 per cent alcohol, diluted) four to six minutes before the men entered upon 100 meter runs and 100 meter swims reduced their performance considerably. Runners who received no alcohol ran the course in about two tenths of a second less than those to whom the dose of alcohol was given. The results for the swimmers who were given no alcohol were also correspondingly better. This corresponded to a gain of 2 meters in the course. Original Article in Muenchener medizinische fVochenschrijt, Munich Jan. ^7, 1922, 69, No. 4.

Digitized by CjOOQle
329

AMERICAN GIRLS WIN SECOND PLACE IN OLYMPICS.

America’s team of fifteen school and college girls made an exceptionally fine showing in the women’s Olympic games held in Pershing Stadium, Paris, Aug. 20. They gathered in 31 points, being beaten by the British team who secured 50 points.

It was the first occasion that a complete team of American women athletes had seen Europe and the youthful representatives created an excellent impression in fitness and grace, earning generous applause where they won two events, tied in a third and broke two world’s records. In competition noteworthy for the number of new records set in the women’s athletic world, Miss Flora Batson of the American team lowered the record for the 100 yards hurdles from 15 4-5 sec. to 14 4-J sec. in a trial heat, while Miss Camelia Sabie, another American, after lowerng the same record in 15 sec. flat in the trials, reduced it to 14 2-j in the finals.

Miss Godbold of the Americans also set a new world’s record for the shot put with 11 meters 27 centimeters for the right hand and 20 meters 22 centimeters for both hands. Previous records were 11 meters 25 centimeters and 18 meters 19 centimeters.

Points scored by Countries: England, jo; United States, 31; France, -29; Czechoslovakia, 12; Switzerland, 6.

The Summaries:

60-Meter Dash—Won by Mile. B. Mejslikova, Czechoslovakia; Miss Lines, England, second; Miss Callebout, England, third; Mile. Maugars, France, fourth. Time—0:07 3-5. (World’s record.)

100-Yard Dash—Won by Miss Callebout, England; Mile. A. Mejslikova, Czechoslovakia, second; Miss Lines, England, third; Mile. Prost, France, fourth. Time—0:12.

300-Meter Run—Won by Miss Lines, England; Miss Cast, England, second; Mile. A. Darreau, France, third; Miss Lucille Godbold, United States, fourth. Time—0:44 4-5.

100-Yard Hurdles—Won by Miss Camelia Sabie, United States; Miss Carrie Hatt, England, second; Mile. Therese Laloz, France, third; Miss Flora Batson, United States, fourth. Time 0:14 2-5.

1,000-Meter Run—Won by Mile. Bread, France; Mile. Lenoir, France, second; Miss Hall, England, third; Miss Godbold, United States, fourth. Time—>3:12 (World record.)

440-Yard Relay—Won by England; France, second; Czechoslovakia, third; United States, fourth. Time—0:51 4-5.

Standing Broad Jump—Won by Miss Camelia Sabie, United States; Miss Hughes, England, second; Mile. Comte, France, third; Miss Birchen-ough, England, fourth. Distance—2 meters 4.85 centimeters.

Digitized by Tooele
33°

Running Broad Jump—Won by Miss Lines, England; Miss Elizabeth Stine, United States, second; Miss Camelia Sabie, United States, third; Miss Carrie Hatt, England, fourth. Distance—5.06 meters.

Running High Jump—Miss Nancie Voorhees, United States and Miss Carrie Hatt, England, tied for first place at 1:45 meters; Miss Lowman, England, third; Mile. Gerner, France, fourth.

Putting 8-Pound Shot—Won by Miss Lucille Godbold, United States; Mme. Gouraud Morris, France, second; Miss Maud Rosenbaum, United States, third; Mile. A. Mejslikova Czechoslovakia, fourth. Distance— 20 meters, 22 centimeters.

Throwing the Javelin—Won by Mile. Paianzola, Switzerland; Mile. Gancel, France, second; Miss Flora Batson, United States, third; Mile. Groslimond, Switzerland, fourth. Distance—43 meters 25 centimeters.

Miss Helen Wainright, the 16 year old aquatic star of the Women’s Swimming Association of New York recently captured the women’s national A. A. U. mile swimming championship and also shattered five American women’s swimming marks. She covered the distance in 26 min. 44 4-5 sec. In accomplishing this she created new marks for the 1-2 mile, 1000 yards, 1320 yards and 1500 yards. The records follow:

Old mark	New mark

mile	13.31 4-5	I3-°^ 4-5

1 ocx) yds.	16.502-5	14*58 2-5

1320 yds.	19.58

1500 yds.	25.063-5

1 mile	29.33 2-5	26.44 4-5

This new mile record displaces the old mark created four years ago by Miss Claire Galligan Finney.

NEW SWIMMING RECORDS.

Miss Gertrude Ederle, 15 year old swimming star of the New York Women’s Swimming Association established six world’s records kept 4th in the Brighton Baths, New York. Miss Ederle swam to victory in the 500 meter swim in hollow fashion. She led Miss Helen Wain-right, a clubmate who holds the women’s all-around swimming title, by the impressive margin of 20 yds. after a test in which Miss Ederle led practically from start to finish.

Miss Hilda James of the Garston Swimming Club, Liverpool, England, JEuropa’s premier swimmer was third; Miss Ederle’s record follows:

300 yds.	4.08 3-5	3-58 2-5
400 yds.	6.02 2-5	5.22 2-5
400 meters	6.16 3-5	5-53 i-5
440 yds.	6.163-5	5-54 3-5
500 yds.	7.081-5	6.45 1-5
500 meters	No record	7.22 1-5

Digitized by CjOOQ Le


331

♦

NOTES AND COMMENTS «■ ■ ■■ ■■■■ - ■ 1

NINTH RECREATION CONGRESS.

The Playground and Recreation Association of America held its ninth congress at Atlantic City October 9, 10, 11 and 12. The meetings held morning afternoon and evening were very well attended. Afternoons as many as six sections met at the same time in which topics pertaining to all phases of recreation and even athletics were discussed. The meetings were attended by delegates from all sections of the country. We hope to be able to print some of the addresses given that will be of special interest to our readers.

On July nth the London (England) County Council adopted a resolution, as follows: “That, provided the convenience of the general public be not in any way prejudiced thereby, badminton, bowls, cricket, croquet, football, golf, hockey, lawn tennis, net ball, quoits, and other games be allowed in the Parks and open spaces on Sundays, subject to such regulations, under the control of the Council, as may be prescribed.”

LECTURES.

Mr. A. J. D. Lothian gave a lecture on Hygiene of the Emotions. He said that within recent times Psychology had passed from the books of philosophers into the hands of doctors, who were less concerned with speculation than with behavior and therefore with its driving emotip^. It was now possible to get a rough measure of emotional states by experiment. Various signs of emotion had long been known, and recently its effects on changing the composition of the blood had been demonstrated and measured. Jung and others had studied it by noticing its effect in checking the process of thinking. By measuring the delay caused he had even been enabled to detect the guilty conscience of the criminal. More recently still its effect in lowering the electrical resistance of the body had been much studied. A graph was exhibited showing the average emotional effect on fifty people of such words as “kiss,” “marry,” “name.” These were naturally exciting words, but sometimes emotion was detected in the presence of seemingly innocent words and objects, e. g.> “open spaces,” “yellow,” “cats.” Such peculiar reactions often occurred in people suffering from certain bodily and mental ailments; and it was often found that the illness was the symptom of emotional experience long ago expressed and now beyond the sufferer’s power of recollection. Such ideas or experiences were often, though not always, of a sexual character. Cases were quoted in illustration.

The general lesson appeared to be that we should resolutely face our experience as a whole, neither shirking the hateful nor brooding upon it; also that as educators we should so far as possible prevent such

Digitized by

Google
332

broodings and revulsions in children, first by honestly satisfying a curiosity which might otherwise become irritant, and secondly by a good physical training which would render less absorbing the concentration upon sex development of the child’s bodily and mental activities as it matures.

TO TEACR HEALTH, BE HEALTHY.

That a healthy, happy teacher is the first necessity in the teaching of health to children was the general opinion expressed at the conference called by the United States Bureau of Education and the Child Health Organization of America to discuss health education and the preparation of teachers. This conference was held at Lake Mohonk, N. Y., from June 26 to July 1.

The teaching of health should be one of the regular branches of the school curriculum, having as prominent a place as the three R’s, said Dr. H. Emmett Holt, urging health authorities and school authorities to cooperate. Dr. Caroline Croasdale told the conference that the teacher must understand that it no. longer suffices to be simply not sick; she must aim to be always gloriously well. That the teacher must be a physical success herself if she wishes to interest children in health work was the statement of Dr. E. V. McCullom.

Dr. Willard S. Small said that there are four essential things to emphasize in training teachers of health: Physical examination of the individual student, knowledge of hygiene, wholesome living conditions, and opportunity for vigorous, joy-producing exercise.

The results of the conference in regard to the preparation of teachers are summed up in the report of the Committee on Teacher Training for Health Education. This committee recommends that health education should include three factors in a training school, (a) A student health service, (b) healthful surroundings, and (c) content course or courses.

The student health service should include:	(a) A complete health

examination and such subsequent examinations as may seem necessary.

(b)	Health advice and supervision given to students throughout the course, (r) The correction of all remediable health defects, (d) The maintenance of a healthful regimen of living —“Healthful Living” shall be understood to include proper hours of sleep, proper food, clothing, bathing, and exercise, (e) As far as practicable, the student’s attitude and conduct in regard to the above points shall be a basis for recommendation for professional position. Living and working conditions need to be supervised by training school authorities, whether the students live in dormitories or elsewhere.

Besides being a living example of health the teacher must have solid scientific knowledge if she is to instruct her pupils properly in health matters. “Content courses” in the training school are necessary, and these should include personal hygiene, nutrition, social hygiene, mental hygiene, health and care of infants and young children, health of childhood and adolescence, first aid and safety, hygiene of the worker, home nursing and care of the sick, school hygiene, physical training and methods of teaching health to children. As a basis for health education, the student should be taught the general principles of applied chemistry, ap-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
333

plied biology, applied physiology, applied psychology, and applied bacteriology, either in the high school or the normal school.

Health education should permeate the whole curriculum, according to the committee's report. From the kindergarten to the fourth grade,, emphasis should be laid upon habit formation in a healthful environment and health principles taught in relation to actual situations. In the fifth and sixth grades, the course may become more broadly biological^ that the pupils may get an idea of the functioning of the body as a whole, the work being still correlated with health habits. In the junior and senior high schools, beside continuing the work of the lower grades, the instruction should stress the problems arising from group activities in school, home, and community, with the idea of service dominant.—SchooV Life.

CAMP SCHOOL FOR DELICATE LONDON CHILDREN.

Lessons in the open air, good and plentiful food, swimming, games,, and concerts are enjoyed by 300 boys from London elementary schools at the King's Canadian Camp School at Middlesex. To improve the health of schoolboys who are run down or delicate, the London County Council sends them to the camp school for a month, where they have spacious grounds, with large fruit and vegetable gardens, a swimming pool, a recreation room for quiet games, the services of a doctor, a nurse and a dentist, and other advantages. The children usually return to the city in good physical condition, ready for regular school work.

The school buildings include dormitories, bathrooms, a dining room, an open-air classroom, a recreation room, a sick room, and a concert hall. The grounds adjoin the famous Bushy Park.

Before a boy can be considered for admission to the camp school he must be at least 10 years old. As a rule, each boy stays at the camp-a month unless the doctor thinks a longer stpy is needed. Most of the boys are benefited sufficiently by a month's stay, and this allotting of time allows a large number of boys to be taken care of, 300 at a time. Parents are expected to see that the boys are clean before they start for the camp, and a final inspection is given by their own school authorities before leaving. The London County Council pays for their transportation by train, street car, or special motor bus.

School work is not omitted, but is made as interesting and enjoyable as possible, and except in bad weather most of the lessons are given in the open air. The work includes hand work, practical arithmetic, the geography and history of the district, and physical training, including, games. The boys learn and practice gardening in the school's own garden.

The teachers do all they can to make the boys enjoy their playtime. Sports, including athletic competitions, are arranged every week, and air kinds of games are played in the park. A concert is held every Thursday evening in the school concert hall, and the boys may take part in it. In the recreation room games of a quieter kind can be played, books and' newspapers read, and letters written home.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
334

Each boy has a separate bed in a large, airy dormitory and takes two hot baths a week and shower baths between times. An expert dentist attends to the teeth of those who need to have work done.

The boys take turns helping to set the tables for meals and to clear them. Parents are expected to contribute weekly, according to their means, a certain sum toward the food provided at the school. Warm clothing and strong	shoes are supplied by the	parents, but	if	lack of

means prevents this	a committee on school care	does its best	to	provide

clothes, so that, as far as possible, no boy need stay away from the camp school on this account.

This school is one of the many ways in which the London County Council is seeking to	care for children who are	below normal	in	general

health. It operates	a similar school for girls,	but much smaller, at

Margate.—School Life.

PHILOLOGISTS ADOPT RESOLUTIONS FAVORING DAILY PHYSICAL INSTRUCTION IN HIGH SCHOOLS.

Dr. Diem, secretary of the “Physical Education Society,,, Berlin, published in “Martion’s Health and Strength” some of the resolutions adopted by the committee of the “Alliance of Philologists” in regard to daily physical instructions in High Schools. They are of interest:

1.	To conserve and improve the health of our youth, more time should be available for bodily exercises. We would welcome it, if one hour daily would be provided for physical training.

2.	Philologists, with the ability to teach physical training, should be required to instruct their own classes in that branch.

3. Two hours every week should be set apart for games and plays.

4.	Teachers supervising “Hikes,” should receive allowance for their expenses.

j. We hope the government will soon issue a decree stating that one hour of physical training daily constitutes a part in the curriculum of the High School.

Deep breathing with arm exercises. It is an almost universal practice, after vigorous exercise to insert “deep breathing,” usually accompanied by arm-raising, either fore-upward or side-upward. This exercise often is accompanied by an explanation stating that these arm movements increase the depth of bjeathing; that the higher up you stretch the greater is the amount of inspired air. In the September issue of the American Physical Education Review Dr. R. Burton-Opitz has an article that proves clearly that any raising of arms in connection with breathing decreases the amount of inhaled air. Yes, that if you leave the arms at the sides, or place the hands on the hips you have a more favorable position for effective breathing than if you raise your arms. The article is recommended for study to those who do their own thinking in determining what is good or bad for the pupils under their direction.

Digitized by LjOOQle
335

“It pays to advertise” was the slogan that flashed through our mind when we read the following little article in the September issue of “The Nation’s Health.” The story contains a good moral for many teachers who often wonder why apparently trifling matters receive much publicity and many things that they are doing, things that have a great health value for the individual and community are passed over without a word. Change your publicity methods.

What’s the matter? said the Old Doctor to the Health Officer.

“I’m feel ng rather low in my alleged mind,” said the Health Officer. “Et pourquoiV* said the O. D., who had served in France and loved to pose as bi-lingual.

“The County Supervisors turned me down. I asked for a thousand dollars to drain that swamp west of town, the worst Anopheles breeder in the county. Said they couldn’t afford it because they had to put up fifteen hundred for Fourth of July fireworks. Great Scott! ! Fifteen hundred dollars to burn up in an hour and all I wanted was a thousand for sub-oil drainage which would have been protecting this town for the next century. I’m about ready to quit and transfer my laudable activities to some less benighted community.”

“Well, I wouldn’t take it so hard, if I were you,” replied the O. D. “You’ve badgered ’em into a new filtration plant. You’ve got in a sewer system for most all the town, and your privy ordinance covers the rest. You’ve started the medical inspection of schools and you have a visiting nurse. You’ve reduced the death rate slightly—or at least you think you have—and your ante-natal work is getting started splendidly—”

“Yes, I know, but if I could do this piece of drainage, I could reduce malaria in this town 30 per cent!”

“Sure, you could, and you’ll get that work done yet. You’re a persistent young man, all right. But what you’ve got to remember is that the dear old public which is paying the bills likes something shown for its money. Didn’t it contribute freely to erect a tablet to old Hi Transom who was the first settler of this town, a no-account ruffian with the disposition of a barbed wire fence crossed in love? Sure they did. Why? It made a show. That’s why you got your money for the Swat-The-Fly campaign which you know was all foolishness when every stable in this town was breeding flies faster than all the swatters could swat ’em. That’s how you got away with your Better-Baby-Week which worried a lot of health babies so that we O. D.’s had our hands full for a month afterwards. The public wants a brass band, a silver tongued orator, silk badges and a brand new sensation every time it parts with a nickel.”

“But it’ll reduce the mosquitoes if I get that subsoil drainage. The young fellows can sit with the girls behind the honey suckles on the front porch on summer evenings and put in their time to better advantage than in slapping blood thirsty Taoniorynchi and Anophelinae.” “Sure they can. Why don’t you get up an Anti-Anopheles-Week? Get the Rotary Club to dig the first ditch and put in the first tile. Have a race between our two Boy Scout Patrols as to which can dig the most ditch in an hour. Have the Women’s Clubs serve coffee to the workers,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
336

while the Silver Cornet Band furnishes the music, and our own corn-fed congressman supplies the words. Give the people a grand old Roman holiday and after they’ve messed around in the swamp for a while go back after the Supervisors. They’ll have to come through because you’ll have public opinion behind you.”

“Well that looks pretty good to me.”

“Sure it does! If you’d been curing afterpains with a beautiful red mixture of syrupus rubi and dilute hydrochloric acid as long as I have you’d know more about the general public.”

BOOK BBVIBW0.

“personal hygiene applied” by Jesse Feiring Williams, M. D. 412 pages, 5# by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by W. B. Saunders Company. Philadelphia, London. Price $2.50.

Dr. Williams who is associate professor of physical education at Teachers College, Columbia University in the preface says that the book is planned for college students, not only for students of health, but also for students of sociology, philosophy, and education. Its aim is to in-prove the quality of human life. To improve human living one must not only set forth the rules of health but also one must bring them in contact with that deep and overflowing source of human action where ideals, ambitions, attitudes, prejudices, hopes and aspirations are born. This the author has done in a masterful way. The book is a real guide to health. It will be valuable not only as a text book in higher schools but also as a book that can be placed in the hands of parents or of patients by physicians, teachers, social workers, and nurses.

The first five chapters consider the various aspects of the health problem in the meaning of health in terms of life, i. e. this part is a sort of philosophy of life. The remaining nine chapters consider in a systematic way hygiene from its scientific side presenting the latest accurate information. The book is warmly recommended to teachers and parents.

BASKETBALL

by

DR. WALTER E. MEANWELL

COACH, UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN AND FORMERLY, UNIVERSITY OF

MISSOURI.

A complete TEXT BOOK on all phases of the game, including equipment, training, and care of injuries; individual technique of defense and offense,' including guarding, passing, dribbling, shooting, the pivots, stops and turns; team defense, especially the modern five-man; team offense, both long and short pass systems, but emphasizing MEANWELL’S PIVOT and SHORT-PASS ATTACK; plays from scrimmage, tip-off and out-of-bounds. Illustrated by seventy cuts and diagrams.

The author’s Teams have been FIRST, or tied, SEVEN times, second once, and third twice, in a total of TEN CONFERENCE seasons.	price	$2.50—Postage 20c extra.

address BASKETBALL, men’s gymnasium, madison, wis.

Digitized by CjOOQle