PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. ii.

JULY, 1904.

No. 125

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Foj-t Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Muegge Institute, St.Louis, Mo. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to he sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOLS OF GERMANY AND SWEDEN*)

FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

(Concluded.)

II.	SWEDEN.

The public schools of Sweden, like those of Germany, are of two sorts,—the elementary, common, or folkskolor, and the higher, or allmaenna laeroverk. There is everywhere such uniformity in equipment, organization and method that if we make allowance for less favorable conditions in smaller cities and in country regions we may profitably confine our attention, for the sake of greater definiteness of treatment, to physical training in Stockholm, the capital and largest city.

Of the more than 35,000 children of school age in Stockholm over three fourths attend the thirty folkskolor. These are grouped in eight school systems, corresponding to the parishes or districts into which the city is divided, and at the head of every such system is placed a so-

*) Read before the Cleveland Physical Education Association, January 30, 1904.

Digitized by G.ooQle
-106-

called First Teacher. The different grades in a single building are cut up into parallel sections, so that the average number of children under one teacher does not exceed thirty-five. The great Kuogsholms folks-kola, intended to accommodate 3,500—4,000 children, and said to Ik the largest school building in the world, is in many ways typical of them all, in spite of its greater size. It consists of two L-shaped portions, each four stories high with a basement, their long arms forming the opposite ends of a rectangular graveled yard and separating this from the street, and their short arms turned toward each other on one side of the yard. At the center of this third side is an archway, flanked by one-story structures which contain offices and the janitor’s quarters Next to these the loftier gymnastic halls complete the front bv joining on to the ells. The area of the yard is not far from one and a half acres. The class-rooms, ninety-four in number, occupy the entire street side of the building, and open into *ong corridors which look out upon the central yard and lead down into it. On every floor drinking fountains and stationary wash-bowls supplied with hot and cold water are distributed at frequent intervals along these passage-ways. Besides the recitation rooms there are eight larger halls for pasteboard, wood, and metal sloyd and the sewing classes; three rooms to be used as cooking schools; two gymnasia; two bathing outfits, which include dressing-rooms, a hot-air chamber, shower baths and a pool seven by fourteen feet: steam disinfection apparatus, laundry and drying rooms; diningrooms, and counters where milk and bread are sold to the children ; the living appartments of the First Teacher, and a room for the use of other teachers; offices, and janitor’s quarters. The old wing is heated by steam and the newer one by hot air. The total cost, exclusive of the site, was over $200,000.

In the class-rooms of this building the single desks are arranged one behind the other so as to leave aisles between adjacent rows and next to the wall at the sides and rear. Space is thus afforded for simple marching exercises and for others which cither require no apparatus or may be practiced with the help of desks and seats. The two halls set apart for gymnastics measure about fifty-five by twenty-five feet, and have a height considerably greater than that of the other rooms. Their side walls are lined with stallbars, and the floor space is divided crosswise into three nearly equal parts by two pairs of Swedish horizontal bars, when these are set up; but the bars and central post of each pair can be dropped below the floor and concealed from view by trap-doors when not in use, and then the entire area from wall to wall is left free. The remaining equipment includes Swedish ladders, climbing poles, ropes and rope-ladders hanging from the ceiling, long benches for use at the stallbars, and bucks for vaulting exercises. Each of the other school districts has also its special room or rooms for gymnastic instruction.

The three lower classes of the various folkskolor have marching and other exercises without apparatus daily, in the sehool-rooin, the work alternating with other instruction and directed by the same teacher. In the case of higher classes special periods, three a week as a rule, are set apart for the gymnastic lesson, and this is given sometimes in the schoolroom, utilizing the desks and seats as apparatus, but at least

Digitized by ^ ooQle
-107-

once a week in the gymnasium, where its duration is commonly about half an hour. Little or no change of costume is attempted, beyond the laving off of coats by the boys. The school report for 1898 relates that “since many of the children wear wooden shoes, unsuitable for the gymnastic lesson, four hundred pairs of special shoes were bought and distributed among the districts for use in the gymnasia.”

As regards teachers in the folkskolor, the women outnumber the men five to one. All must have completed a four years’ course at one of the twelve Swedish normal schools for this grade of instructors, and of that course gymnastics everywhere forms a part, directed by a graduate of the Central Institute at Stockholm and occupying three hours a week throughout the entire four years. There is always a model school attached, which affords the future teacher an opportunity to test his skill and to acquire experience in this as well as other branches of instruction. In Stockholm teachers receive additional counsel and direction from a special instructor in gymnastics, who divides his time among all the folkskolor in the different districts; but the general guide followed is Liedbeck’s Manual of Gymnastics. Besides the formal exercises this book contains a large number of games. These are introduced occasionally as part of the gymnastic lesson, and are also encouraged in the school-yards during recess. Of the twenty-eight tables of exercises contained in the manual only six call for no apparatus of any sort, six can be given with nothing more than desks and seats, and the balance require a hall supplied with stallbars, Swedish horizontal bars, poles, ropes, ladders, benches, mats, etc.	\

Instruction in military tactics and target shooting is given to the older boys in the spring and early fall, under the general direction of an army officer who is assigned to this service in all the elementary schools of the city. There is drill by squads in exercises for the recruit, together with occasional company drill, a few longer marches in batallion, and training as subalterns for the most advanced.

Some other features of the Stockholm common schools deserve mention here, inasmuch as they bear directly upon the health of the children. School baths are found in all but two of the districts. The commonest form is the so-called Finnish bath, which consists of sweating-room, shower baths, and a small pool; but in two cases there is nothing more than a series of tubs, each with a douche overhead. Every child is given an opportunity to bathe once in three or four weeks as a rule. In connection with some of the school baths there is an outfit for disinfecting clothing by means of steam, in cases of skin or contagious diseases or general uncleanliness. The operatioii is completed while the child is in the bath. During the summer months pupils have further opportunity for bathing, and may also receive instruction in swimming, at a large swimming school in Lake Malarcn, near one of the city bridges. Over 3,000 boys and 2,500 girls availed themselves of this privilege in 1899, and a total of 6,000 in 1900. The number of those who could swim increased in the former year from 602 at the beginning of the season to 1,510 at its close.

Finally, the city has arranged with a number of physicians to examine into the condition of all the children of certain grades in the com-

Digitized by ^ ooQle
mon schools, and of such special cases as are referred to them by teachers on account of general weakness or suspected disease. Besides shedding light on important questions of development and general school hygiene this measure has prevented or checked the spread of contagious diseases in some of the schools, and secured proper treatment to many pupils in ill-health, who have been sent to hospitals, clinics, and district or private physicians, as the case demanded. Others have been required to diminish the amount of their school work, or to discontinue it altogether for a time.

There are seven higher shools for boys in Stockholm. At two of these the gymnasium is a separate building of brick, located at one side of a graveled yard at lea^t an acre and a half in extent. Each cost about $17,000 and consists of a lofty main hall, eighty by forty or forty-five feet, with a wing containing dressing-rooms, the teachers office, and a few shower baths. At a third school the gymnasium occupies a spacious two-story wing which projects from the rear of the main building; in two other cases a hall in the main building is fitted up for gymnastics, and pupils in the remaining two schools go for their exercises to the halls of the Normal School o( Gymnastics. The following list of apparatus noticed in the gymnasium of the Reallaroverk, or non-classical higher school for boys, is fairly representative: sixty sections of stallbars, seven Swedish horizontal bars, two vertical Swedish ladders and two horizontal ones, eight rope ladders, twenty-four climbing ropes and eight poles, two double inclined ropes, a few sections of stallbars continued to the ceiling as ladders, storming boards and short benches for use with stallbars, bar saddles, two Swedish horses, two vaulting horses, two bucks, jump stands with cord and pins, some thin mats about four feet by three, and a number of cheap fencing foils. The horizontal bars are arranged to drop beneath the floor. The inclined ropes are attached to the ceiling at either end, and to a hook beneath the floor, when in use, by means of a tackle block at the center. Near the ends they are crossed by vertica1 ropes, used bv the pupils in reaching or leaving the inclined ropes. All of these ropes can be hoisted out of the way readily, and a small trap door conceals the hook.

The royal statutes require that in every public secondary" school in Sweden there shall be at least three hours a week of pedagogical gymnastics, arranged in daily half-hour periods when possible. In Stockholm the division into half-hour lessons is the most common one. Less frequently" there are three periods of an hour each, and in a few cases a class meets1 twice for a half-hour and twice for an hour, or fifty minutes four times a week, or forty minutes six times, or in lour one-hour periods. In a majority of cases the time chosen for exercise lies between ten and one o’clock, though the hours from two to four in the afternoon are used not infrequently. Military exercises take the place of gymnastics for boys of the 6th—9th years in the early part of every fall semester, occupying three hours daily" for twenty days as a rule, and during this period their usual school duties are cut down by a corresponding amount.

Each of the seven schools has its special teacher of gymnastics, and

Digitized by LjOOQle
-109-

no one is eligible to such a position until he has completed a two-years professional course at the Royal Normal School of Gymnstics (“Gymnastic Central Institute”). At the present time these teachers and their assistants are all officers in the army, and five of the nine are on the staff of instruction at the Institute. One has the rank of major, and the rest are captains and lieutenants.

Occasionally a so-called “weak section” is formed from the whole or part of a school, but in general the division into classes is based upon school grade, the boys of the 6th—9th years exercising together as a rule, and the rest variously subdivided according to their numbers. The size of some of these classes is noteworthy. They rarely contain fewer than sixty or seventy, while 100—125 is not an unusual number, and 150—200 are sometimes seen together under a single teacher. To facilitate the handling of so many it is usual to separate them into squads of twelve, fifteen, or twenty, on the basis of physical fitness, and to place at the head of each squad one of the best pupils, who sees that liis portion of the lines is correctly formed at the beginning of the hour, reports upon attendance, and directs the work of his division when the teacher is not giving commands for the whole class. Before exercising it is the practice to remove coats, collars, cuffs and suspenders, and the dicky, or detachable shirt front, if a boy has arrived at the dignity of wearing that common article of clothing. Shoes are exchanged for rubber-soled canvas slippers, of the sort so often seen in American gymnasia.

The arrangement of exercises in a lesson period follows in general what has come to be known as the “Swedish day’s order”; but the application of this is found to vary considerably in different cases, depending upon such circumstances as the age of pupils, size of class, length of period, and kind and amount of apparatus at hand. In what we may regard as a typical lesson the entire class is first formed in one or two double lines down the room, each squad in its place and with its leader standing in front to hasten and correct the formation and to note any absences. The ranks are now opened into four or more lines and the teacher commands a series of simple introductory exercises which call for moderate activity and coordination of legs, arms and trunk, and are executed without apparatus. This part of the lesson commonly lasts only a few minutes. An arch flexion (I employ the technical names of the groups composing the day’s order) at the stallbars follows, and the class then breaks up into squads for the first heaving or climbing exercise, performed on Swedish horizontal bars, ropes, poles, ladders, or stallbars. If the balance exercises call for apparatus they may be done by each pupil as he finishes the heaving movement. Otherwise they are given after the class is reformed, and are succeeded by shoulder-blade, abdominal, and lateral trunk exercises under the teacher’s immediate command, sometimes with the aid of apparatus and sometimes without. It is the custom to introduce a short run before the squads again separate for a second heaving or climbing exercise and for the jumping and vaulting which follow. Afterwards they are reunited for a few quieting exercises, the ranks are closed as at the start, and the pupils leave the room by squads, or break
-1 lu-

ll p informally after they have responded in chorus to the teacher’s final “good morning.”

As an instance of the various modifications observed, in one half-' hour class of a hundred small boys the first fifteen minutes were taken up with free exercises which formed a small day's order by themselves, including leg exercises, arch flexions, arm extensions, balance movements, lateral trunk exercises, and jumping. After this the squad leaders took their charges for a variety of heaving, climbing, jumping and vaulting exercises, involving several quick changes of apparatus. At the close of quieting exercises by the class as a whole each rear rank boy suddenly sprang on the back of the one in front of him and was hurried into the dressing-room. In other classes fencing or a game took the place of the lateral trunk or the second heaving movement, or of both these groups, and not infrequently certain groups of exercises were omitted altogether. At the Latinlaroverk and the Reallaroverk the squad leaders learn from a glance at written schedules on the wall what particular apparatus and exercises they are to use on a given day, and these tabular statements are renewed from time to time by the teacher.

The ease and quickness with which apparatus is made ready or put out of the wav bv pupils must strike every observer. It is this which allows such frequent changes during a single lesson, and the great variety of forms given to the day’s order. Much of the teaching which I saw in Stockholm was remarkably well done. Perfect discipline and prompt and accurate execution of commands were secured, and yet there was no oppressive military strictness, nor anything but' the pleasantest relations between teacher and pupils. Opportunities for relaxed attention and brief outbreaks of high spirits were frequent, the boys took hold with a vigor which proved their interest, and many squad leaders, even the youngest, showed uncommon earnestness and ability to direct. In a few cases the control over a class was less perfect, and listless, slovenly execution was allowed. Where pupils are sent to the Gymnastic Central Institute for their instruction, and receive it largely from students at that school, the frequent change of leaders and the great variety of personality among them produce a natural mingling of good and bad teaching.

So far as the fencing instruction given to boys of the four higher grades was observed it formed a portion of the gymnastic lesson, and included brief practice in the fundamental positions and movements by the whole class, and an exchange of thrusts and parries between two opposing lines. It was of course elementary in character, and the large numbers and short time seemed to prevent much in the wav of results. The military exercises of the same boys in the fall semester cover target practice with the rifle, besides squad and company drill and the manual of arms. The school yard serves not only for these evolutions and for games, but part or all of the gymnastic lesson is often given out-of-doors when the weather is favorable.

In all Sweden there are only two higher schools for girls under public control. These are the Stockholm Higher Seminary for Teachers, and the model school associated with it. One of the halls in the school building used by the two in common is fitted up as a gymnasium, and

Digitized by CaOOQle
—Ill—

except in the lowest classes at the model school a half-hour of gymnastic instruction is given daily throughout the entire course of study at both institutions. In the case of private schools, the great majority of which are for girls only, or admit boys to none but the lower classes, there is no law prescribing the amount of phy sical training to be given, and the practice varies accordingly. Thus in 1899 there Were 46 such schools, with a total of 5,157 pupils, and out of this number 2,909, in' 83 schools, were reported as receiving instruction in gymnastics. The oldest institution of them all, wifh 240 pupils, has nothing but a small room some forty by twenty-five feet and nine feet high, supplied with a Swedish horizontal bar, six climbing ropes, three long benches with balance beams on the under side, a vaulting box, jump stands, and a rubber ball. Most of the lower classes exercise here for half an hour every* other dav, and the higher ones half an hour twice a week, under a special teacher. Another school for girls provides for nearly* the same number of pupils a room sixty bv twenty* feet and of good height, situated on the ground floor, and for its size as well equipped with apparatus as any* of the boys’ schools visited. Its gy*mnastic instruction is in the hands of Major Silow, of the Central Institute, assisted by* students in the course for women at that school. His capacity* as an organizer and his rare talent as a teacher render the quality* of work done by* pupils here quite as good as the best seen anvwhere in Stockholm.

No one can understand the sy stem of physical training developed on Swedish soil and introduced into all the educational establishments of that country* without investigating the source, i. e., the Royal Gymnastic Central Institute, or Normal School of Gymnastics, in Stockholm, to which every* teacher of phy*sical training throughout the length and breadth * of the land owes directly* or indirectly his special preparation. It is not possible in the present paper to treat the work of the Institute adequately, but any who are interested will find the facts regarding the buildings and equipment of the school, its organization, teaching force, pupils, and courses of study and practice related at length in the “American Physical Education Review” for December, 1900.

A TEACHER OF PHYSICL CULTURE HONORED.

Mr. H. Gregorius Brown, of Leeds, England, who is at present attending the annual festival of the French Union of Gymnastic Societies as the official delegate of the National Physical Recreation Society ol Great Britain, at Arras, was installed an “Officer de l’Academie Fran-9aise,” and received the decoration from the hands of President Loubet himself. This is the first time on record that an English teacher ol physical training has been thus honored. The decoration has been awarded to Mr. Brown for his efforts as a member of the Council of European Gymnastic Federations, and in the cause of physical education generally*. Mr. Brown was subsequently presented to President Loubet, and in the evening attended a banquet given at Arras in honor of the President.

THIS MEANS YOU!

“MIND AND BODY” free to you f*r receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

Digitized by CjOoq le
-112-

PEACH BASKETS SERVED AS GOALS.

HE game of basket ball has sprung into great prominence because

of its popularity and its popularity may be attributed to the place it now holds as the “King” of all indoor gymnastic games. Its invention dates back to about the year 1891 and the place that of the association Training School Gymnasium, Springfield, Mass. The inventor, if he may be so called, Dr. James Naismith, then a student in the above named school, now instructor of physiology at the University of Kansas, was following out some instructions of one of the professors of psychology in which he explained the value of logical thinking and intimated that there were certain conditions upon which the brain could with advantage be exercised and definite, valuable, results be obtained. This teacher challenged to present a concrete example in the form of play.

The conditions were the presentation of a new recreative game suitable for indoor use and confined to limited floor area, to be used by a defined and unalterable number of contestants and adaptable by both sexes.

Upon this hypothesis Dr. Nainsmith the same night evolved this new and extremely fascinating game. It was a thing of empirical practice the following day and was found to be a “great find” because of its value along play lines.

From this time on rules were being formulated which would govern the number and the manner of the players while thus engaged. The rules were first crude and few, and the playing partook more of football than of basket ball. Several years of revision of the rules and the untiring efforts of the men who have had the success of this pastime at heart, have brought it to the level it now occupies in the realm of true sport.

The early playing was characterized by the use of various receptacles or baskets and numerous shapes and sizes of halls. In the gym of the old Y. M. C. A. building on East Main Cross street, where the Courier office now is, peach baskets were hung upon hooks at either end of the gymnasium wall at a height that suited the tastes of the more enthusiastic players. Bushel baskets were also used and a box was once nailed up to answer the same purpose. Punching bags and Association and Rugby foot balls were used with fairly good results. The one object of the game was accomplished by this crude equipment, however, and the participants enjoyed the game as much then as they do now, if not more.

The Indians on reservations in the west used willow hoops, made with about the same circumference as the regular baskets, tied to trees and made to serve the purpose of the “goals.”

From a game with but a few players and played exclusively by the members of Young Men’s Christian Associations, it has come to occupy the place of greatest prominence in the number of indoor games, and to be played by Y. M. C. A.’s, colleges, high schools, academies, universities and athletic clubs all over the country and in many places across the water. The real importance of the game seems to have been

Digitized by

Google
—Un-

recognized by the men who are at the head of the sports at the World’s Fair, St. Louis, for it occupies a very prominent place and much space in the summers’ schedule.

The playing of basket ball varies in different parts of the country. The eastern game is much rougher than played by the western teams and they seem to have less regard for the playing rules than is justifiable for the highest ideals of the game. One reason for this is that more of the larger schools of the east use this game than do the western schools. From the ranks of the football “elevens” comes the bulk of the basket ball players who forget to leave outside the football tactics. It requires a whole season to eliminate the “rough house” ideas and as the indoor season is not of great length, hence the presence of roughness.

The present code of rules has been worked down to a fine point in so much that there is a penalty for nearly every possible foul, and if all points are not covered by them the referee is given power to rule according to his best judgment. It is certainly peculiar how the rules’ committee is led to swing from one extreme to another in making some rules. For instance, three years ago, one rule stated that a goal thrown from the field should count three points. This brought out of the minds of players a craftiness equal to the emergency and their game was deliberately to foul the man who was throwing tor basket because if the foul was called it would give the side fouled a chance for a free throw, which if made, would only count one point, which is better than having three points marked up. The following season the three point rule was re-adjusted so as to give only two points for a field goal. But the habit of fouling purposely had such a hold upon the men that it was almost impossible to stop it. Then last season the rule was made to read that if a man was fouled while trying for goal his side was given one point. If the player made the goal, that made three points and if the free throw was successful his side secured the four possible points allowed by this special ruling.

The duties of the officials are by no means small or in any wise insignificant for it lies with these men to make the game what they will. The referee being the man in charge during the entire playing time certainly has a difficult task in judging the ball and calling the fouls upon the players as this years’ rules require of him. He should be a fair, honest-minded individual who knows the game well and has the spirit as well as the letter of the rules upon the tip of his tongue. He must not be partial even in the last degree nor must he be lax in applying the rules where they ar needed even though the blow fall upon the best man of either team.

The umpire has a less difficult time and position than does the referee, for his sole business is to be specific in noting and calling any and all infringements of the rules. He is judge of the men and is greatly responsible for the presence of rough tactics and unclean methods.

To say just what kind of men should be chosen to fill the various positions on the team is not within the power of any one individual. We can only use our best judgment in the choice. Of course there are some men who could never learn to play a scientific game. A man of height is a good selection (if he can jump fairly well) for the position

Digitized by LjOOQle
-114-

of center but coupled with this “Jack Rabbit” qualification all around playing ability are greatly requisite. To the position of center belongs a very large part of responsibility respecting the success of his team.

The forward needs to be a man of quick judgment and celerity in passing the ball. He is responsible for the size of the score in his favor, and no matter how ardent and skillful the guards and center play, their efforts are all to no avail unless the “forwards” cage the ball. Level-headed ness and common sense with the ability to elude the opponent may be of valuable assistance in winning out. All brute strength is not essential for the best results but a maximum amount of head work should be dominant. Head work on the part of a snappy player will tend to thwart and break up team work of the opponents. Consistency and persistent effort along the best lines will do much to convert raw material into a finished basket ball product.—H. Hamnett.

BREATHING.

THE nose, larynx, trachea, bronchial tubes, lungs, and air cells are all included in the respiratory tract. Any affection of these involves more or less seriously the whole breathing apparatus. For illustration, a growth in the nose has caused asthma which has disappeared upon removal of the foreign body. Then, too, an inflammatory condition ot the bronchial tubes is liable to shut off the air from certain regions of the lungs.

Talking about the nose—why is it best to breathe through it rather than the mouth? There are at least three good reasons: First, it purifies the air, that is, the fine hairs in the nose strain out the particles of dust. Second, the air has a longer passage to travel to get to the lungs when inhaled through the nose and it is thus warmed before reaching the lungs—cold air is irritating. Third, by virtue of the same reason the air is moistened by contact with the mucous membrane.

The next question that is asked naturally is, why do we breathe? The maintenance of life depends upon the absorption of oxygen and the excretion of carbonic acid gas. The lungs in this process are only the medium of exchange, that is, they provide the oxygen and carry away the poison. The blood is the medium which carries the various parts of the body and gathers up the poisons and turns them over to the lungs for elimination. Therefore, the absorption of oxygen is dependent not only upon the lungs but the blood. If the latter is not rich in red corpuscles the blood is not able to take up the oxygen, no matter how much of it is supplied by the lungs.

Why do we need oxygen? To produce heat, to assist in the process of nutrition. There can be no combustion without oxygen. This it is that makes the fires of life burn.

Why is deep breathing valuable? Not because it supplies more oxygen to the blood. For the blood may be getting more oxygen than it can take up in an ordinary inspiration. In fact, men can live with one lung and many are living to-day with such a handicap and are well and getting enough oxygen. Then why breathe deeply? The greatest value of deep breathing is the effect upon abdominal circulation. The

Digitized by v^ooQle
-115-

diaphragm makes larger exursions upon the abdominal contents and thus causes a greater blood supply.

Then, too, the aspiration of the lungs affects the circulation. There is a great suction in the veins. The lungs no doubt are a factor in this. If a vein is opened and air allowed to enter, death occurs immediately. If then the heart is dissected air bubbles are found in the right auricle of the heart. In the next place, deep breathing fills up all the air cells in the lungs, enters the apex of the lung which is its weakest part, supplies more blood and makes it resist disease. Again deep breathing strengthens the respiratory muscles, and also, if done properly, helps to bring the thorax in its proper position, and enlarges its capacity giving the organs of circulation and respiration freedom to work.

I	notice again that because a man has a good chest expansion is not evidence that he has a good capacity. I note, too, that because he has a good expansion he is not in a position to flatter himself upon the fact of being a proper breather. I notice in the third place that a large lung capacity is not necessarily indication of what we commonly term “good wind.”

Many men have wondered what second wind is. The nearest to the truth that we have with regard to the physiology of second wind is that it is a matter of blood pressure. If a man runs in a short dash we find there is great blood pressure, his arteries are contracted and tense, and the blood is forced back upon the heart. Thus in the early part of a long distance race this condition is present in a less marked degree. After the man has run for a time the blood vessels all over the body become dilated and thus relieve the heart of the congestion and the blood flows more evenly and with less pressure all over the body, thus permitting the heart and lungs to adapt themselves to the conditions.—Geo. J. Fisher. M. D.

TURNERS GYMNASTIC EXHIBITION AT THE WORLD’S

FAIR.

The following program was rendered by the Turners of St. Louis on

June 18 at the World’s Fair. All of the foreign commissioners had

been invited as well as the chiefs of the various departments of the

Exposition, and also the foreign correspondents.

June 18—Gymnastic Societies of St. Louis.

1.	Gaines—A characteristic selection of games for all ages ol both sexes, under direction of E. Woerner and A. Nathan.

2.	Calisthenics—For boys and girls from 10 to 12 years of age, under direction of L Kittlaus.

3.	Marching and Dumbbell Exercises—For boys from 12 to 14 years, under direction of 0. Koenig.

At. Fancy Steps and Exercises with Hoops-For girls from 12 to 14 years, under direction of K. Heckrich.

5- Vaulting and Exercises on Parallel Bars—Juniors from 14 to 15 years, under direction of H. Osterheld.

6.	Exercises with Barbells—Ladies’ classes, under direction of A. E. Kindervater.

7.	Exercises with Iron Wands—Seniors, over 35 years, under direction of O. Boettger.

8.	Apparatus Work and Field Sports—Actives, 18 to 35 years, under direction of H. Lehrman and J. Huchting.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Mind and body * '

AY ViiV “A1Ly	1	1	FREIDENKER	PUBLISHING	CO.

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Ye&r.	Milwen Trett Wleconelai.

W Addre** all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THE CONVENTION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

BI-ENNIALLY the districts of the North American Gymnastic Union (Nord-amerikanischer Turner-Bund) elect delegates for their National Convention which is the governing body of the organization. This year this convention took place at Pittsburg in the days of June 26 to 28.

At the time we are going to the press the session has not quite ended, so we are unable to give a full account of its transactions. From the incomplete reports we learn that Indianapolis has again been entrusted with the Executive Board (Bundes-Vorort). This is a wise move for the reason that the large amount of work that has been done by the Turners of said city is most satisfactory, and furthermore because the next National Turnfest in 1905 is to be held in Indianapolis, thus simplifying matters for the arrangements to a considerable degree.

The most important business is the question whether or not there will be any changes in conducting the Milwaukee Normal School for Gymnastic Teachers.

Suggestions have been made for changes in the length of time and also in the curriculum of the normal course, the opinions differing widely. We prophesy that for the present very little, if any, change will be made.

Newark, N. J., has been elected as the next convention city. Immediately after this convention another one will be held in St. Louis, Mo., the “Turnlehrertag.” This is the convention of the gymnastic teachers of the Turner-Bund.

A GYMNASIUM AS A GIFT.

As a memorial to his son Frank, erected to continue the active influence of that young man’s life, A. C. Bartlett last evening formally presented to the University of Chicago the Frank Dickinson Bartlett Gymnasium, a beautiful new building which Director A. A. Stagg said was the “best in the world.”

Mr. Bartlett rose from a sick bed to go to the gymnasium, where an audience of 1,000, limited by the city building department to that' number, had gathered. After listening to words of eulogy for his son and appreciation Mr. Bartlett said:

“In the eyes of a fond father the son gave promise of years of usefulness, and we have placed here this building, this window and these

Digitized by CjOOQle
-117-

decorations as some indication of what he would have done had he lived. I wish to impress on the mind of every student that this gymnasium is the fruition of a young life, in which truth, loyalty, high purpose and kindly deeds were the cardinal principles. It has come not by the death of Frank Bartlett, but through his life.”

The memorial window over the entrance to the building was the gift of W. B. Hibbard, and the mural decoration covering a wall on the main corridor was the work of Frederick C. Bartlett, brother of Frank Bartlett. Dr. Frank W. Gunsaulus, in the address, “A Young Man’s Memorial,” spoke of these parts of the gilt. He repeated Frank Bartlett’s words to him of a desire to continue the influence in this community of his family’s life, and said: “Let this building be a temple in which each man studying in the University shall learn that his body is the temple of law.” He declared the gymnasium to be a fitting expression and continuance of the voung man’s life.

President W. R. Harper, in accepting the gift, told of the “vicarious suffering” of the students, who lor many years have waited until they could have a great gymnasium. He said that the building had grown to twice the size originally planned.

THE FALLACY OF TOO MUCH.

By W. H. KINN1CUTT, M. D.

We have frequent occasion through these columns to urge the value of exercise upon men whose interests in affairs is so great that their body’s needs are neglected. We find it necessary at times to have a few words to say to the man who is very zealous in his exercise. “There is reason in all things” as the proverb runs and because a thing may be good in certain relations to other things, it is not necessarily true that it is exceptionally good when carried out of relation to other things; in fact, it becomes harmful.

There are a good many young men who have the reactional spirit so strong that all their paths of least resistance seem to lead them into activities in which the play element is very strong. Business, self-improvement, mind and culture may all suffer because of the unequal attention given physical things. Exercise as conducted in gymnasia is artificial—let that not be forgotten. It is a means to an end, not an end in itself; it has the definite purpose of maintaining the right relation between mental power and physical support. It is very easy to have too much physique for city life, and the possession of big muscles will have a far greater significance than simply to excite the envy of friends—it may be a man’s physical undoing, A man in a city should have such physical strength as he needs—very little more. He should have vitality, and vitality is not measured bv strength.

If you are making the mistake of overmuscling your body, stop and think long enough to find out your duty to yourself, and do not let play interfere with the larger ambitions of life.

—The 7th Annual Conference of the Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors of Pennsylvania was to take place at Philadelphia from June 6 to 11. A large program had been provided.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-US-

strenuous GAMES.

By Dr. C. A. LANG.

MUCH is said about football, its dangers and evils. Lately the papers contain expressions of many college presidents who more or less learnedly discuss the subject. Each man sees things from his view-point, and, strangely enough, there are about as many viewpoints as there are college presidents. This might have been expected, because, really, they are not capable of giving expert opinions. If the subject were astronomy, biology, medicine or surgery, or any other of which the president was not a specialist, he would be very politic, refrain from committing himself, and leave the matter to the professors of the science under discussion.

It is not our purpose to settle forever the football policy, or even to discuss it, but to bring to your serious consideration the fact that basket ball is far more strenuous and far more dangerous than football, and right here in Trenton are numerous cases of men ruined in health by the game.

In football between each violent exertion there is a fairly long interval of rest, for it takes time to disentangle after a down, regain a formation and give a signal. The side with the ball often waits to get its breath after a few plunges or a long run. Time is often taken out to take a bit of water or have an injury, real or pretended, attended to, and there is no limit to the number of substitutes that may be played.

In basket ball there is practically no let-up during the entire time of play. It is a constant violent effort to outplay your opponent. Free throws at the goal from fouls take so little time that even when frequent no rest is afforded. A pretended injury and call of time only gives two minutes of rest, and two substitutes are only allowed in an entire game.

Physical trainers are all agreed that no game taxes the heart like basket ball.

Our attention has been called to this fact by several of our prominent physicians recently. Each of these has at present more than one case under his care of men with dilated hearts, hearts so bad that a single flight of stairs is too much for them. It is sad, indeed, to find a “basket ball crack” come to such a plight after two or three years of play.

SUMMER SCHOOLS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

CHAUTAUQUA.

July 11 to August 20, 1904.

Directors :	Jay	W.	Seaver,	W.	G.	Anderson.

Y. M. C. A., LAKE GENEVA, WIS. July 2 to 29, 1094.

Director: Henry F. Kallenberg, M. D.

SUMMER SCHOOL Of PHYSICAL EDUCATION, MONTEAGLE, TENN. July 4 to August 5, 1904.

Director: Miss Clara G. Baer.

Digitized by CjOOQLe
-119-

SWIMMING INVENTION FOR NOVICES.

Apropos of learning to swim, an art so eminently useful, M. Miller, of Grenoble, an hon. member of the French Gymnastic Union, has written to us of an ingenious and cheap means for learning to swim. He himseli learned to swim under the conditions described, and has since taught many others with success.

First procure a bicycle air-chamber (inner tube), even one which has been patched up, costing perhaps a shilling. Then, to adapt it to the body, pass it above the right or left shoulder, under the left or right armpit, and cross it, taking care to leave the valve behind the back so that it gives no annoyance; next make a sort of figure 8 in front of the chest whilst completing the surrounding of the upper trunk in such a way as to leave head and arms quite free. Thus you will have two collars, one under the arms, the other round the neck. This last will be particularly appreciated by the learner, because it will keep his head out of the water. With a few land movements, taught at the gymnasium or other suitable place, the novice should make very rapid progress.

This “air-chamber” will be found much more convenient than the usual cork belt, which occasionally gets detached from the person, or, on the other hand, fits him to tightly.—Gymnastic Fransais.

TURNERS’ INTERNATIONAL GYMNASTIC CONTESTS.

THE gymnastic contests held in the Stadium at the World’s Fair in St. Louis on July I and 2, and which constitute a part of the Olympian Games promise to become the banner feature of all the athletic games and meetings of athletes at the Fair. There will be in the neighborhood of one hundred participants and each class and individual the pick of the society he represents. It is going to be truly international for not only are the Turners of this country responding to the call for competition, but Berlin is sending a class of twenty to match their strength and skill with their American brothers. *

The program for these contests consist of apparatus work on Friday, July 1, beginning at 5 o’clock p. m.; running broad jumps and putting the shot on Saturday at 2 p. m., and after these are completed the 100 yard dash, running four at a time. Each runner will be watched by two timers so that each participant will be credited with his exact time.

The following societies are thus far represented: The Norwegian T. V. of Brooklyn; Turnverein Vorwaerts of Cleveland; Social T. V. of Indianapolis; Social T. V. of Kansas City; Central T. V. of Chicago; New York T. V. of New York; Passaic T. V. of New Jersey; Davenport T. G. of Iowa; Philadelphia T. G. of Pennsylvania; Labor Lyceum of Baltimore; Independent T. V. of Indianapolis; St. Louis T. V., South St. Louis T. V., North St. Louis T. V., Concordia T. V., West St. Louis T. V., South West St. Louis T. V. Rock Spring T. V., St. Louis.

W. A. Ocker, Sec’y.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-120-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools. ''Continued.'*

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game ‘‘Combination Beetle Chase and Wander Ball,” as explained in the December issue 1903. The preliminary as in any one of the former lessons.

Form ranks of sixes by marching sidew. 1. or r. from a flank line, the remainder of the class to follow in successive order after six steps, so that all ranks are formed at the same point where the first rank din.

The class to stand in order for the drill as here indicated.

LONG WANDS.

Note—Wands on the floor 1. and r. of the ranks. Bend knees and grasp the wands—1! Extend knees and lift the wands to starting pos.—2! Climbing poles may be used where the ranks are composed of six or more members, and where ever there are no long wands available.

1.	a) Raise the 1. and r. leg and respective wand forw. alternately—1 ,4! bl Bend knees and raise wand forw.—1! Pos.—2! c) a and b in successive order in six counts.

2.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise wands over shoulders—1! Bend 1. knee, bend trunk sidew. 1. and stretch arms outw\—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately—!, 8!

3.	a) Raise 1. and r. leg and respective wand alternately sidew.—1, 4! b) Jump upw., spread both legs wide sidew. and raise wands outw. (sidew.) and return to starting pos.—1,2! Repeat in lively rhythm fi or 8 times, c) a and b in successive order in six counts.

4.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wands forw.—1! Lunge forw. 1. and move wands outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Alternately—1, 8!

5.	Jump to cross-stride pos. (1. foot forw., r. backw.) and raise wands forw.—1! Bend trunk forw. (arms point downw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same with r. foot forw., 1. backw.—5, 8!

6.	Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise wands outw.—1! Lunge sidew 1., move 1. wand overh. and lower on r. shoulder, the forearm in front of the face, and place r. wand on hip—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Alternately—1, 8!

In place—rest!

7.	a) Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wands over shoulders—1 ! Raise heels and stretch arms upw.—2 ! As 1—3 ! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, S! b) Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise wands over shoulders—1 ! Kneel on 1. knee and stretch arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Alternately—1, 8!

8.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise wands outw.—1! Turn trunk to the 1. and raise arms overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r—5.8'

9.	Lunge sidew. 1., raise 1. wand sidew. 1., raise r. wand overh. and lower on 1. shoulder—1 ! Change kneebending, stretch r.

Tl	iTi	T
T|	ItI	T
T	iTl	
T	Ti	Tl
T	It	|T
T	It	T

Digitized by Google
CO to

—121-

arm sidew. r., move the 1. wand overh. and lower on the r. shoulder—2 ! Repeat in two counts 8 or 10 times.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wands outw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower wands outw. to starting pos. in one count.

Bend knees and place wands on the floor—1! Release the grasp and extend knees to pos.—2! The ranks march forw., than file to a flank line and to assigned places for the apparatus work. The last members of each rank to remove the wands and deposit the same.

First Division: Side horse and horizontal ladder.

Second “ Horizontal ladder and side horse.

Third	“	High parallel bars and high-jump.

Fourth “	High-jump and high parallel bars.

Change places.—Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division—Side Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to momentary free front rest and squat forw. with both legs to r. angle; after a short pause, turn 1. and lower to riding seat on the neck; front scissors; feint with 1. leg and rear vault 1. to cross-stand.

2.	Jump to momentary free front rest and screw mount backw. 1. on croup; front scissors; feint with r. leg and double rear vault mount r. on croup; raise both legs backw. and backw. scissors -dismount to front cross-stand.

3.	Jump to momentary free front rest, then lower to feint r.; flank vault swing 1. to rear rest, immediately Y2 circle r. with 1. leg, then scissors sidew. 1. and raise r. leg forw. to meet the 1. leg at r. angle (r. arm between legs); % circle r. with r. leg, transfer 1. hand to croup with V2 turn r. and rear vault r. over croup to cross-stand.

5.	Jump to front rest and immediately % circle 1. with r. leg, then % circle 1. with 1. leg, then % circle 1. with both legs to feint r. with both legs, and finish with triple rear vault r. over croup to crossstand.

Note—Repeat all movements to the opposite side.

5.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the horizontal ladder.

First Division—Horizontal Ladder (high).

In side hang on the nearest beam, ordinary grasp.

1.	Travel sidew. 1. with knees raised forw.

In side hang on farther beam, reversed grasp.

Travel sidew. 1. with lower legs raised backw.

As ex. 1, but move both hands simultaneously and the legs spread wide sidew.

In side hang, reversed grasp.

4.	As ex. 3.

In cross hang, hands in outside grasp on the beams.

5.	Travel forw. with legs held forw. at right angle.

Digitized by v^ooQle
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF

NEW YORK.

Office of the City Superintendent of Schools,

PARK AVENUE AND FIFTY-NINTH STREET.

May 9, 1904.

Dear Sir or Madam:

Your attention is called to the opportunities for useful service in the elementary and high schools of the city of New York for teaching physical training. The teachers of physical training in the elementary schools have supervisory work to do over a school district embracing approximately 25,000 children, and have relation to the regular grade teachers of the district. The high school teachers do actual teaching rather than supervisory work.

The salaries paid are as follows :

TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING,

ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

Men (per year) Women “	“

Men (per year). Women “	“

HIGH SCHOOLS.

Minimum.	Maximum.
.$1,200	$1,600
900	1,200
.$1,300	$2,400
. 1,100	1,900

A certain limited amount of allowance is made for experience beyond that which is required in order for the candidate to be eligible for license.

I believe that the future physical training is to be largely influenced by its ability to meet the conditions in cities, and hence the difficult problems presented in the city of New York are peculiarly attractive at the present time.

I enclose circular which gives definite statement in regard to eligibility and date of examination. Teachers will be needed in the immediate future for both elementary and high school positions. For those who do satisfactory work, these positions are practically for life. There is also a pension after thirty years’ service.

We shall be happy to have you come to this examination should you desire to undertake the work.	Sincerely	yours,

* Luther Halsey Gulick,

Director of Physical Training.

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK. Examination for License as Teacher of Physical Training in Elementaly Schools

or in High Schools.

New York, April 30, 1904.

A written examination for license as teacher of physical training in elementary schools or in high schools will be conducted by the Board of Examiners on Monday, June, 20, and Tuesday, June 21, 1904, commencing at 9:30 A. M., at the Hall of the Board of Education, Park Avenue and 59th Street, Manhattan. An oral and practical examination will be given at the call of the Board of Examiners. Applicants coming from a distance will be examined orally on Tuesday. June, 21. The oral examinations will include a practical test with a class in physical training, as well as individual performance. Applicants should provide themselves with gymnasium suits for the use in practical tests.

I.	License for Elementary Schools. No person will be eligible for this license whose age on June 20, 1904, is under eighteen or over thirty-six years. Under this provision an applicant will be regarded as eligible up to and including the day preceding his thirty-sixth birthday.

Each applicant must have the following qualifications:

(a) Graduation from a satisfactory high school or institution of equal or higher rank, or an equivalent academic training, or the passing of an academic

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—125-

examination; (b) the completion of a satisfactory course of professional training of at least two years in physical training; (c) three years’ experience in teaching physical training, which three years must not include the two years devoted to professional training; or six years’ experience as a class teacher teaching physical training a satisfactory portion of time, which six years may be inclusive of the years devoted to professional training.

The written examination will be upon (a) applied anatomy, physiology and hygiene; (b) history and literature of systems of physical education; (c) gymnastic games and athletic sports ; (d) the principles and the practice of physical training, including principles of education, methods of instruction and class management.

II.	License for High Schools. No person is eligible for a license in the high schools of New York City who is not over 21 and less than 41 years of age.

Each applicant must have one of the following qualifications :

1.	Junior Teacher.—Graduation from a college or university recognized by the Regents of the University of the State of New York, together with the completion of a satisfactory pedagogical course of at least one year, or, in lieu of such course, one years’ satisfactory experience in teaching in secondary schools. The pedagogical study here mentioned must amount to at least 210 hours, of which 90 may have been in logic and psychology.

2.	Assistant Teacher.—One of the following: (a) Graduation from a college or university recognized by the Regents of the University of New York, and not less than three years’ satisfactory experience as a teacher in secondary schools or in colleges. One year of satisfactory post-graduate work resulting in a degree may be accepted in lieu of one 3'ear of the required experience in teaching.

tb) Graduation from a college or university recognized by the Regents of the University of the State of New York, and two years’ satisfactory post-graduate work in the subject in which the applicant seeks a license and in the science of education, and one year of satisfactory experience in teaching in colleges or in secondary schools, or in the last two years of elementary schools, which year of experience must not be concurrent with said post-graduate work.

(c)	Graduation from a college or university recognized by the Regents of the University of the State of New York, and five years’ satisfactory experience in teaching, at least two of which shall have been in high schools or in the last two years of the New York City public elementary schools.

(d)	Graduation upon completion of a satisfactory high school course or an equivalent academic education; seven years’ satisfactory experience in teaching, including either two years of teaching in grades of the last two years of the New York City public schools, or five years of teaching in secondary^ schools; and the completion of satisfactory university or college courses in the subject in which the applicant seeks a license, and in the science of education. The courses here mentioned must amount to at least 120 hours, of which 30 must have been in the science of education.

(e)	Graduation from a satisfactory high school course or from an institution of equal or higher rank, and two years of professional training in the subject in which the.applicant seeks a license; and four years’ satisfactory experience in teaching such special subject.

The written examination will include physical training (as above) and the science of education.

General Regulations.

In the written and oral answers to examination questions, applicants must give evidence of ability to use the English language correctly.

All documents submitted as evidence of scholarship, training or experience must be originals, and must be accompanied bv duplicate copies. The filing of such documents is optional. No diplomas will be received, except in cases where the institution is no longer in existence.

No applicant will be licensed who does not pass satisfactorily a physical examination, to be conducted by one of the physicians authorized by the Board of Education. For applicants from a distance of 75 miles or more, the physical examination will be held on June 20 and 21 ; for all other applicants a special call will be issued. No person will be licensed who has not been vaccinated within eight years, unless the examining physician recommends otherwise.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-126-

The licenses issued under these regulations hold for a period of one year, and may be renewed for two sussessive years, without examination, in case the work of the holder is satisfactory. At the close of the third year of continuous successful service, the City Superintendent may make the license permanent.

Applicants to enter the examination should be filed prior to June 10, 1904. Blank forms for the purpose may be obtained by addressing Room 419 of this office.	William	H.	Maywell,

City Superintendent of Schools.

CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS EXAMINATIONS.

PHYSICAL CULTURE-HIGH SCHOOL PROMOTIONAL, III TO II.

Time: Three Hours.

1.	Prepare composition marching exercises (Roundel) to a song containing twenty-four 4-4 measures—96 counts. The number of pupils participating is thirty two. The starting formation is a flank circle divided into four lines, each line of two ranks. The composition must show four different figures The exercises must be briefly explained, and the figures sketched in free-hand.

2.	What are the aims and principles of physical culture?

3.	Give a brief description of the diaphragm and its action.

4.	What do you understand by:

(a)	Palpation,

(b)	Auscultation,

(e) Percussion ?

5.	What causes breathlesness ?

6.	What are the most important muscles of the neck, arms, trunk, and legs brought into action while climbing?

(a)	Name muscles,

(b)	State action.

7.	How can accidents be avoided ?

8.	What rules should a teacher of physical culture follow in regard to exercising with accompaniment of vocal music?

9.	Give a brief description of your work in the gymnasium during a school period.

10.	Prepare a set of Indian club exercises in such a manner .that they can be combined with trunk and leg movements.

N. E. A. AND GYMNASTIC TEAGHERS’ CONVENTION.

THE following is a program of exercises arranged for the Physical Culture Section of the N. E. A. by A. E'. Kindervater, Supervisor of Physical Culture, Public Schools, St. Louis, and Director of Gymnastics of the St. Louis Turnverein.

This model gymnastic exhibition of the classes of the various local gymnastic societies of the North American Gymnastic Union (Turner-Bund) and the Ceutral Y. M. C. A. will take place in the World’s Fair Gymnasium at the Stadium.

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29, 2:30 p. M.

1. Dumbbell and Marching Exercises. Boys of N. St. L. T. V. Otto M. Koenig, instructor.

2.	Barbell Exercises and Dancing Steps. Girls of the Concordia T. V. Karl H.

Heckrich, instructor.

3.	Classwork on Parallel Bars. Juniors of South St. L. T. V. Louis M. Kitt-laus, instructor.

4.	Dancing Steps and Posing. Ladies of Concordia T. V. Karl H. Heckrich. instructor.

Digitized by Google
—127—

5.	Marching Calisthenics and Figure Drill. Juniors of Central Y. M. C. A. Dr. Kennedy, instructor.

6.	Marching Exercises with Flags and Fancy Steps. Ladies of St. Louis T. V. A. E. Kindervater, instructor.

7.	Individual Work on Apparatus. Juniors of Concordia T. V. Karl H. Heck-rich, Instructor.

THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 10 o’clock a. m.

Primary, grammar and high school classes of the public schools of St. Louis, showing physical culture for the various grades as practiced in the schools.

1.	Calisthenics and gymnastic games for 1st and 2d grade. Class of Clinton School. Miss Martha M. Courte, teacher.

2.	Calisthenics for 3d and 4th grade, 1st and 11th lesson showing the progression of the year’s work. Class of Charless School. Miss Ella Ryan, teacher.

3.	Calisthenics and W'and Exercises for 5th and 6th grade. Class of Blair School. Miss Bertha M. Zollner, teacher.

4.	Wand and Indian Club Exercises for 7th and 8th grade. Class of Irving School. Miss Kate A. Jones, teacher.

5.	Classwork by 24 girls of the McKinley High School. Miss Elsa Pohl. instructor.

6.	Running and Classwork on apparatus by boys of the McKinley High School. Karl H. Heckrich, instructor.

7.	Classwork and Dumbbell Drill by girls of the Central High School. Miss Mary P. Ludlum, instructor.

8.	Wand Exercises by 24 boys of Central High School. Louis M. Kittlaus, instr.

CONVENTION OF TEACHERS OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION (Turner Bund).

THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 9 p. m.

Royal Reception at South St. Louis Gymnasium (Turnhalle).

FRIDAY, JULY 1.

9 a. m. First session in St. Louis Turner Hall.

2	p. m. International Turners Contest at Stadium.

9 p. m. Swimming by teachers and their ladies at Muegge’s Natatorium to be followed by a luncheon.

SATURDAY, JULY 2.

9 a. m. Second session in St. Louis Turner Hall.

2	p. m. Continuation of International Turners Contest at Stadium (Field Sports. 7:30 a. m. Distribution of prizes at the Tyrolese Alps in the World’s Fair Grounds.

SUNDAY, JULY 3.

9	a. m. Meet of the “Tumlehrerschaft.”

10	a. m. Repetition of Model Exercises as shown at the N. E. A. on June 29.

12 tn. Luncheon at Concordia Turner Hall.

2 p. m. Places of interest via Automobile.

8 p. m. Farewell at Delmar Garden.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—For the last twenty-five years a teacher of physical training in one society, Dr. Karl Zapp, director of physical training at the Germania Tumverein in Cleveland, 0., is now celebrating his silver anniversary as instructor of that society.

—We are in possession of the fifth annual report of the Bath Department of the city of Boston for the year 1902-1903. The work of the department embraces not (as the name would indicate) only public baths but also gymnasia and furnishes evidence of the advanced conceptions of public necessities in that city.

Digitized by LiOOQLe
- 128-

CORRESPONDENCE.

Mansfield, O., May 17, 1904.

Dr. F. Pfister, Milwaukee, Wis.

Dear Sir:—I note in “Mind and body’’ (which is always read with interesti that the amendments desired in the Ohio Physical Education Law are quoted in May number You will doubtless be interested to know results in finally settling the new school-code of the State.

The original law required systematic physical education, adapted to the various grades in all cities of five thousand inhabitants and over; also in all state educational institutions.

The law, as amended, stands as follows:

1.	The phrase—“physical culture which shall include calisthenics'’ has been

changed to “physical training.”

2.	Systematic work is required in all city school districts; also in all state

educational instutitons.

3.	Other boards may make the same provisions. This opens the door with the

sanction and recommendation of the state, in village and rural school districts. Much prejudice and indifference is thereby overcome.

4.	“The curriculum in all normal schools of this state (Ohio) shall contain

a regular course in physical education.”

We have as yet but two state normals coming under this provision; this requirement, however, will compel the many private normals that have had right-of-way so long in the state to adjust their curriculum accordingly. On the whole, we think desirable advance has been made.

This was accomplished very quietly by all societies interested. Bringing sentiment to bear upon the framers of the code and influential members of the committee in House and Senate I made a trip to the Capitol for conference, at which time the amendments were drafted.

One of the several school code bills introduced provided for repeal of tbt physical education law. Special attention was called to this fact.

Respectfully

Mrs. Frances W. Letter.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.'

—Exercises and Drills. Arranged for the use in schools by J. Leonard Mason.

The number of manuals for physical training is legion. It is, therefore, hardly a universal want for such a work that could have prompted Mr. Mason io publish this small book. The author disclaims any adhereuce to one or the other system and calls his own “eclectic.’’

We must decidedly disagree with his hap-hazard arrangement of exercises and especially find fault with his lack of succinct methodical and physiological viewpoints.

In this respect, however, the booklet must be classed with plenty of company among its fellow-publications.

-Twenty-eighth Annual Report (1903j of the New York State Reformatory at Elmyra, N. Y.

The reports of this institution are for this reason of extraordinary interest to us that phy sical training is given such an important place in the reformatory work. “Mens sana in corpore sano*’ has been interpreted as meaning just what it does.

Considerable space is again given to physical training in this _vear’s report, showing that this feature is beyond the experimental stage.

Digitized by Google
NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

1	i '

j MFW; HAVEN ___________SCHOOL

i ;;' • ; OF GYMNASTICS

!,	Normal School of Gymnastics)

h.H.



ARNOLD, M. D., Director,

i-i

. .	Offers

picoyears’ Course of | 1 fation for Teachers of I rd pasties.

Ml Post Graduate Course	Mas-

'p iaffe and.Medical Gymnastics. T. Summer Course German f|A-] fyyrhnastics, fencing, Gilbert * pancihg, etc..

j|£ t«r Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

Normal School of Gjnuiastics

696*660 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

oto. wimeK, 9>0ictor

I CATALOG

50 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE

Patents

I RAUL IYIAHRS

Designs ) Copyrights Ac.

Anvone sending a sketch and description may ‘	whether	au

?ommunlcn-

qmciciy ascertain our opinion free ▼ Invention is probably patentable. C< tlons strictly confidential. Handbook on Paten Sent free. Oldest agency foraecuring patents.

Patents taken through Munn & Co. reoeh tpedal notice, without charge, la the

Scientific American.

A handsomely Illustrated weekly, onlation of any scientific journal. icruiD. w m rear: four months, |L Sold by all newsdealers.

year; four months,

hlNNLCo.'

Largest cir-Tcrms, |3 a

________.86,B™*^ New York

Wnanah Office. fl25 F BL. Washington, D. C.

iTHLETIC GROUPINGS

TAK^f^rROM^LITE.

Arranged and Grouped by ROBERT NOHR, M. D.

They comprise the following positions:

1.	Greeting.

2.	Putting the shot.

3.	The Dash-start.

4.	The Dash-finish.

5.	Wrestling.

6.	Sparring—Tbc Attack.

:•! [•

. 1

J Price, postpaid, 25 cents.

Address

7.	Sparring—The Knockout.

8.	The Victor.

9.	Rugby Foot Ball (Start or lining up).

10.	“	“	“	Rush and tackle.

11.	“	“	“	The Touch-down.

12.	13 and 14- positions in wrestling taken from Catch-as-catch-can style.

FREIDENKER PUBL. CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wia.

Digitized by

Google
Gymnasium.

Outfitters.

if if



G-3mo.33.sistic

Apparatus.

I«i©c3s:ezs.

^=)la,37-grro'ULrLd.

Jipparatvls. SoTx^lirxg' ^l.11©3ts-.^.rxtlxropoxxxetric Apparatus.

WRITE FOR CATALOG’S.

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.,

PROVIDENCE, R. L, U. S. A.

THE

New York Normal School of Gymnastics

AT THE

Dr. Savage Physical Development Institute, Ltd.,

308-310 West 59th St., New York City.

A two years* course in physical training designed to give a thorough and practical preparation for men and women desiring to become teachers. Teaching scholarships awarded to 2nd year pupils each year.

For circulars a ldress

W. L. SAVAGE, A. M., M. D., President.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Milwaukee. 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by

Google