Vol. s.

NOVEMBER, 1898.

No. 57

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, Chicago normal school, Chicago, III.

WM.STECHER, Sec’y. of the technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, cor. 8rd a Chestnut 8t'8, St.L0UI8,M0. F. PFISTER, M. O., managing Editor, 700 Third 8t., MILWAUKEE, Wl8.

BRAIN-TIRE.

A paper read by JAMES MILLS, M. S., M. D., of Janesville, Wis., at the meeting of the Wisconsin State Medical Society at Milwaukee, May 4, 1898.

WHAT are the causes of this exhaustion in school work ?

How can the teacher best detect it ?

And how can it be overcome or prevented ?

Within the limits of a short paper it is impossible to do justice to this subject.

In order to develop a well-balanced mind, the physical condition, as well as the mental, should receive its full measure of attention. We cannot, with good result, separate these several lines of education for a moment, and when it is attempted, nature too soon asserts herself, and the man who has not received this ‘‘all-around’* training pays the penalty with a weak body, a wandering intellect, or a wavering moral character.

Every parent and every teacher should be strongly impressed that a “sound mind in a sound body” is necessary in all cases, if enduring results are desired or expected.

Are we now giving enough attention to these laws which relate to the physical well-being? Are our boys and girls growing up strong and beautiful, as youth should and can be ?

The clear-eyed Greek knew how essential to true education is physical culture ; and their beauty and grace of form have been the admiration and envy of succeeding generations.

First, let ns train the muscles, that we may make them fully developed, strong, and healthy. From infancy to mature age, play is a boon to all workers.

Digitized by boogie
—194—

The men of thought, as well as the men of action, double their efficiency by taking regularly helpful recreation.

We may easily quadruple the value of our school work by studying to keep pupils fresh in the operations of their minds.

They should not only know, but put into practice, the truth that proper food, plenty of oxygen, and frequent periods of relaxation in which to rest and change the activitirs of the brain, are of infinitely greater value to the child than the details of geography or history, or the memorizing of the rules of grammar or arithmetic, frequently drawn from principles not at all understood. Then, too, teachers and all others who have the direction of the intellectual and moral training of children, should have a clear and comprehensive knowledge of the laws and principles underlying and governing the development of the brain, as well as the mental and moral faculties of the child. They should know that the brain of the child, as compared with that of the adult, contains a larger percentage of water, is more unstable, more easily disturbed ; and that as a consequence long continued, monotonous work not only fails to strenghten the mind, but, on the contrary, weakens it, besides producing irritation of the brain, with a lowering of the vital powers and retardation of the physical growth. They should understand that the motor centers, which preside over and control muscular movements, act much as storage batteries; that is, they store up nerve-force, which is almost constantly being discharged in producing muscular movements.

We might just as well try to compel a normal, healthy child to stop breathing,as to remain quiet for any great length of time. The nerve-force, accumulating in its motor centers, has just as specific and important a function to perform as that which regulates the activity of its respiratory organs. Teachers should remember this fundamental physiologic truth, that the brain-centers are in an undeveloped condition.

Young children soon become fatigued, and so we make their periods of work very brief. These periods are lengthened as the}r advance in age. The fatigue-limit is a great practical study. Much may be done to keep pupils fresh by having easy work follow difficult work.

In this connection I desire to insist that, whenever the children of a class in their efforts to follow the recitation become tired, or whenever a strong effort of the will on the part of the teacher is required to keep their attention on the work in hand, it is time to stop. If this limit be exceeded, the unstable brain will be injured and infinitely more harm than good done.

The importance of relieving the strain on the brain and allowing it to equalize its energies ; that is, permitting the stored-up nerve-force of the motor centers to discharge itself in muscular activities, while the higher brain-centers are resting and accumulating force to carry on their proper work,—this fact is being recognized by the best educators and physicians, who advise frequent periods of relaxation and play.

I do not believe that there is anything else like getting good oxygen into the lungs and securing the benefits of sunshine.

There can be no doubt but that great injury is done where pupils are subjected to an everlasting grind of monthly examinations, term

- A

Digitized by

Google
-) 95-

examinations, and annual examinations, and are continually being reminded that if they do not do this, or do not accomplish that, they will fail to pass and not receive their coveted promotions. J believe that when pupils are placed under such a system, they are worried, annoyed, and kept in a constant state of excitement from the time they enter the primary department of the public schools, up to that when the doors of the university are closed to them.

What are the causes in school work of such tired condition of the brain ?

1.	Inherited or congenital brain-weakness or instability. Insufficient food, causing impoverishment of the blood, which in turn produces weakness of the nervous system.

2.	Improper food, or too large a quantity of it. This leads to disorders of digestion and assimilation, and produces ptomains or poisons, which, carried by the blood to all parts of the system, poison the brain, poison the muscles, poison every cell and tissue in the body.

3.	Insufficient outdoor exercise and play. This causes retention of broken-ddwn tissue poisons, the accumulation of energy in the motor nerve-centers, which lead to restlessness and disturbance in the school, or the inhibition of the normal discharge of this accumulating motor nervous energy, this requiring a strong effort of the will, and the expenditure of much nerve-force, which should be used in quiet thought and study.

4.	Failure to instruct the child as to the importance of attending to the calls of nature, or in many cases the refusal of the teachers to permit pupils to leave the room for this purpose. This causes constipation with retention of poisons in the system, and may lead to bladder and kidney troubles, and many reflex disturbances, which not only produce irritability of the brain, but weaken the mind.

5.	Lack of ability on the part of the teacher to arouse and maintain the interest of the child in the subject and the recitation.

6.	Too infrequent recesses and periods of relaxation, thus preventing the child from discharging motor nerve-force and eliminating the constantly accumulating toxins.

7.	Too long recitations, in which the young child is called upon to fix its attention on one subject for too great a length of time.

8.	Unhealthful sanitary surroundings.

How can the teacher best detect this weariness of the brain ?

By the restlessness of the child ; by its lack of interest in the work; by its inability to confine its attention to, or comprehend the subject under discussion ; and the dull, listless, and pained expression on its face ; by the loss of buoyant, mental, and physical health, which attend such a condition ; or by complaining of headaches and not feeling well.

How can this exhaustion of the brain be overcome or prevented ?

1.	Make the sanitary conditions as nearly perfect as possible. No child can study well in a poorly ventilated room with impure air. Open the windows during recess.

2.	Adapt the work to the age and to the physical as well as the mental development of the child.

Digitized by LaOOQle
—196—

3.	For young children especially make the recitations short and maintain interest in the work.

4.	Give all pupils frequent open-air recesses and periods of relaxation, thereby discharging stored-up motor nerve-force in muscular movements, eliminating accumulated toxins, and resting the higher brain-centers.

5.	All school children should have an abundance of plain, nourishing, and unstimulating food, and plenty of sleep, and be guarded against late hours, attendance upon parties, and all sorts of dissipations that lower their physical forces.

The physician is becoming interested in the schools, as at one time was the clergyman. As the physical basis, or at any rate the physiologic concomitants, of intellectual deficiences and moral defectiveness are coming to be more clearly understood, the physician’s function as an instructor of teachers, and as an examiner of children in respect to their sight, hearing, touch, and symptoms of fatigue or illness, in respect to their temperamental characteristics and “nervous” peculiarities, and in respect to their differentialities in age and sex, this function is in turn being more fully apprehended.

OUR CITY PLAY PARKS.

ONE of the most creditable of the new civilizing and humanitarian influences in Chicago life is the establishment of playgrounds for children in those districts of the city that are remote from parks and boulevards and contain an over-crowded population. . The subject is made the basis of an interesting article by Charles Zeublin of the University of Chicago printed in the current number of the American Journal of Sociology.

Six of these grounds, says Mr. Zeublin, have been equipped through a municipal grant of $1,000, the yards of public schools being utilized for this purpose. Some of the neediest districts, such as that immediately north of the river, the Harrison street region of vice and poverty, and the Fifteenth street and Wabash avenue section had to be neglected because the schoolyards were inadequate. The six schools chosen had, with one exception, satisfactory yards for playground purposes, although the schools were all located in portions of the city deficient in open spaces.

The least satisfactory schoolyard, that of the Washbume school, near Halsted and Fourteenth streets, is in the midst of a crowded quarter, notable for its rear tenements, ill-payed, unclean, and ill-sniel-ling streets; and the next nearest school had no yard whatever. This has been the most frequented playground, and the most difficult to manage, two attendants proving quite inadequate, several hundred children crowding into the small yard daily. Something of the need of this section and the way it has been met by the playground is seen in the transfer of the bovs frointthe narrow alley to the more attractive, if not spacious, playground.

The Walsh school, Twentieth street, near Halsted, is furnished with

Digitized by u.ooQie
-197-

good double yard, rectangular on one side and triangular on the other, thus enabling the younger and older children easily to be separated. The attendant at this playground is a skilled turner, and has won the affection and admiration of the boys by the feats he teaches them on the buck. Although the Turngemeinden had kindly offered a variety of

equipment, this was the only yard in which the committee felt justified in using leather apparatus. The result, however, showed a keen appreciation by the boys of the privilege. Considerable gymnastic work was also done by the girls here.

At the Washington school, on the northwest side of the city, a playground had been conducted the previous season under the patronage of a West Side Woman's club. The familiarity with the object of the playground thus simplified the work at this place. At the two North Side grounds and at the Bridgeport ground, on the South Side the attendance is rather disappointing. In each case there was a fairly spacious yard, and the schools were in the midst of populous regions—the Holden school of Bridgeport has a school population of over 2,000. Various explanations may be given, as will be noted later, there appearing to be no question as to the need of playgrounds in these sections of the city.

Each of the playgrounds is supplied with a sandbin, wood paving blocks for building, swings, see-saws, and parallel bars. In addition, some of them have ladders, climbing ropes, ring-toss, and other games and apparatus in accordance with the needs of the children and the capacities of the attendants. Various organized games are introduced by both the men and the women, the various helpers being able to suggest, in addition to well-known American and English games, some of the national sports of the Germans, Russians, Scandinavians, and Japanese. No pains are spared to interest the children and educate them in rational play. Every fortnight a meeting is held of the playground committee and all the attendants, so that each yard has the benefit of the experience of every other.

In addition to the playgrounds, there was opened at the Foster

Digitized by

Google
-198-

school in the Jewish quarter a playroom with a trained kindergartener in charge. This proved to be altogether too popular. It was continually taxed beyond the capacity of the young woman, several, rather than one, being necessary. However, various indoor games were used, and, if the janitor of the building had done his duty, the room would have been a great success, even with inadequate equipment. This experiment was financed by a small private gift and indicated a most urgent need, but to meet which both funds and skill are necessary.

The experience of these two months in municipal playgrounds suggest three questions: 1. What have been the difficulties? 2. What has been the success? What of the future?

1.	Difficulties.—In the seven school buildings used five janitors were most obliging, exhibiting sympathetic interest in the work, but two seriously hindered the success of the playgrounds by their antagonism. Although the school board and Superintendent Lane were most courteous and granted all the necessary privileges, it is apparent that the use of the schoolyards as playgrounds implies the education of school officials and

a reorganization of the janitor service. The only duties of the janitor were the usual care of the buildings and grounds and the extra duty of general superintendence of the property, and the cleaning of the room used in rainy weather, and the toilet rooms. For this he received, in addition to his salary, a considerable fee from the playground committee, but—to mention only one grievance—always in the case of one ground, and sometimes in others, it was impossible to have the use of the yards Saturday afternoons, a serious inconvenience, as can readily be imagined



Digitized by CaOOQle
-199—

2.	Success.—The need, which had been seen and met in other cities, and which all students recognized, of systematic play, was manifest from the beginning and has been met in the case of hundreds of children through these six playgrounds and the playroom. Even in the most difficult cases—the older boys without initiative—there was diversion for a time and at least a momentary interruption to cigarette smoking— itself probably a contributory cause to lack of initative. The amount of juvenile criminalty prevented it would be difficult to state even approximately, the proportion of the population reached being so small, but it is generally thought to be considerable. In spite of the occasional accidents in the playground, none of them serious, there was unquestionably a contribution made to the health of the community by these* oases in the midst of arid streets. While the playgrounds seemed not to be so much used by mothers with babes as is reported from orher cities, a great relief came to the mothers by the occupation of so many children during the much-dreaded vacation time.

3.	Future.—This short experiment will indicate both negatively and positively the methods to be pursued. It must not be supposed that we are limited for suggestions to the experience of this two-months’ attempt in six playgrounds. The three settlement playgrounds in Chicago and the accomplishments of other cities will also guide us. The most evident need of the future is that all schools shall be provided with yards. They are fairly well supplied already, but those schools which are deficient are often in the most needy districts. The yards should be open after school hours during the school year and all day in vacation, preferably under the direction of the school board. The number of attendants should be proportioned to the number of children, but relatively fewer will be necessary when the children become accustomed to the use of the yards. The necessity will be rather to provide more skilled attendants or introduce play into the educational system. The school playgrounds may be looked upon as a continuation of the educational system. There is also need of public places for recreation, where the family may be united in its pleasures. These the small parks would supply, without necessitating in them such provision for play as would annoy older people.

PLAY IN EDUCATION.

From “The Intelligence.”

(Concluded.)

Great changes have occured within the last 50 years in the matter of school discipline. But, during all the changes, the combined wisdom of the people has been that a reasonable amount of real solid work is necessary in the securing of an education. But if the same result can be secured, the same ability attained through games and light frivolities, “What fools we mortals be.” He believed that the happy-minded, pleasant teacher secures the best results.

Principal Lawrence, of the Ray School, deprecated any trifling with the subject (referring to the jocose remarks of Mr. Byrne). The

Digitized by C.ooQle
-200-

educational value of play has long been recognized. The little child is educated almost entirely through play. His growth, like all growth, is through action. He imitates and clothes upon himself the scenes about him, and especially the life of his elders, and acts all this out. We may call this the ‘‘line of least resistance” for the child’s activity, or a divinely implanted instinet, as we choose, but we must agree in considering play as nature’s process of development.

Yet while all the great thinkers through the ages have recognized the educational value of play to some extent, it may be fairly said that the educators of the world are only just beginning to thoroughly understand the proper place of play in the training of youth. The play movement of recent years in Germany has started a like movement in France and England, and to some extent in America. TJae problem is before us ; we must study it and solve it as best we can. In this direction Mr. G. E. Johnson, of Clark University, has recently made a list of some five hundred games, and classified them according to their educational value.

In the opinion of the speaker there is a marked distinction between the English view of play, and the German view. This was strongly set forth by Inspector Hughes, of Toronto, two or three years ago, when he said : “The Germans had the philosophy of play, the English the love of play ; and love is a greater impelling force than philosophy. The English youth does not play to strengthen his lungs, to gain strength and agility of muscle, or a fine carriage of body ; he plays for the simple love of play and these gains naturally follow.”

This idea of play, emphasizing the spontaneity and the pleasure element, accords more nearly with the American idea ; yet we have much to learn from our kinsmen across the sea. Not for our youth alone must we learn it, but for the “children of a larger growth.” A most reliable American correspondent, who visited England last summer, states that in London there are more than four hundred public playgrounds, large and small, and that it was estimated that in a single day during the recent festivities over five hundred thousand persons took part in out-door play. Think that over, ye Chicagoans, with your beggarly dozen or so of public playgrounds ! Fortunately at present we have many vacant lots where our youth are free to play, but what of the future ? It is a question that concerns not merely our children’s happiness, but our municipal and national welfare as well. We Americans need to play more ; not simply to go out to see rival teams compete—hiring our playing done, as it were—but we should play ourselves.

Mr. Lawrence expressed a high opinion of the German insight into the educational value of play. The Germans claim that play differs from work in aim rather than in kind. German boys and girls doubtless enjoy their plays as heartily as the youth of other nations; but, besides the element of pleasure, their plays have generally a well-defined purpose, being directed to some desired end by parents and teachers. The optional course for sense training in the course of study he thought was a distinct advance educationally. Doubtless it is better to make the work optional at first, as the course does, so that only those principals

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-201-

and teachers will undertake it who are genuinely interested. If these succeed, others will be glad to take up the work

Mr. Lawrence closed with the expression of his strong conviction that this problem of connecting the first grade more closely and organically with the home and the kindergarten must be solved mainly by the first grade teachers themselves. It cannot be done simply by putting the games and occupations of the kindergarten into the school. For kindergarten children this would be a stale and unprofitable repetition ; moreover, these games are specially adapted to children younger than those in the first grade. The true solution will lie, rather, in applying the philosophy of the kindergarten to the conditions in the higher grades. Who can do this so well as the intelligent and skilled teacher, accustomed to work with large groups of children ? The speaker felt sure that there are enough such teachers in Chicago to do much toward the solution of this most important problem.

Mr. Colin Scott of the City Normal School asserted that the present movements indicate that educational thought is converging on the problems of play, and that we may hope to see some practical outcome of this movement, especially in Chicago, where the opportunity for sense training with other modifications of the stated curriculum leave the door open for the study of the child’s spontaneous activities. Play is not simply a waste of energy or an escape of steam, at least for the child. With the adult it may be that relaxation and recreation are relatively more important ; but even here it is what the adult really takes the deepest interest in, in his best moments, that is the homolog of play in the child. Play is much more an experience of deep hereditary instincts which need expression in order that the child be not disinherited of his natural birthright. Real play is thus the deepest thing in education. The plays of children are, however, often only larvated forms of what they might become if the school and home realized their privileges in this respect, and instead of merely formalizing these plays, as in many kindergartens, allowed their fullest developments, encouraging them and heightening them by real participation on the elders’ part. Upon the tissue of interest thus obtained the teacher or parent would find it possible to embroider patterns suggested by what he knows of the culture theories and ideals of humanity ; it is needless to say that such embroidery must suit the fabric of which it forms a part.

This matter was illustrated by a description of children’s doll play when they had spontaneously invented continents inhabited by dolls dressed as Chinamen, Negroes, etc.; had represented their habits, cannibalism, etc.; had got tea, sugar, etc., from their parents, built paper ships and organized a commerce between these different countries. In this play it had never occurred to these children that their teacher could be of any use, although they worried their parents to obtain information about these various countries.

Prin. Miss Maud Summers, of the Kinzie School, said they had listened to the plea of psychology for sense training and play in the schoolroom. Industrialism and sociology are not silent upon the subject. Together with psychology they demand a radical change in existing schoolroom methods.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-202-

Within the past fifty years the scientist has revolutionized the industrial world. In pioneer days the child watched the wheat grow and knew the whole process whereby it was converted into flour and bread. He saw the wool cut from the sheep’s back, saw it spun, woven, and utilized for family clothing. Keen observation and acute senses were his because of home environment and training. He went to school for the purely formal training—the so-called three R’s. Invention has followed invention, removing much that was formerly done in the home to the factory. Home is now a place where people eat and sleep and have their social being. Educators have failed to note this great change, but have gone on perfecting the formalism of the schoolroom, until to-day a great chasm exists between the home and the world where the child must some day take his place, a chasm which can only be bridged by the right kind of school.

Sense training, mental training, familiarity with nature—call it what you will—is the effort of progressive educators to substitute the creative method for memory culture and information giving methods which are soon to be banished forever.

The power to think quickly, observe accurately, act decisively, can find a better field for development in playing certain games than in any other exercise ever mentioned in a school course. The purpose of the play belongs to the teacher and is hers by virtue of years of study and and experience. Nor should this knowledge be foisted upon the child. What the teacher does consciously, the child should do unconsciously.

MILITARISM IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Oration, delivered at the St. Louis High School by ROBERT RETZER, Active Member of the Carondelet-

Germania Turnverein.

WE have now in our school the so-called or rather the would-be cadets. To think that a public school, a high school, such as ours should have military drill ! I have been a member of this school for nearly four years, and only once before has any attempt been made on the part of the boys to introduce military exercises. At that time, thanks to the good judgment of the boys here, the plan proved a flat failure.

I propose to talk about military drill, not military education. You readily see that the latter must not be allowed in a public school, because a public school should not consider what profession or business a pupil may eventually take up.

The advocates of military drill give as arguments : the boys like it,# it is free from danger of accident, it is conducive of patriotism, etc., etc.

Boys like it ? Well, boys like many things that are not good for them. They do not like the drill as much as the uniforms. Free from injury? Military drill, as performed by our regular soldiers, could be of great injury, because the exercise is too difficult for boys. If the drill is carried on the way boys generally do, it is one-sided and does not give enough exercise to show any beneficial results. A professor of Harvard University says that military drill is not sufficient means of physical development to arouse any moral or mental earnestness.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-203-

It is conducive to patriotism ? Do we, the citizens of a republic, need the uniform of a soldier to make us patriotic ? In this age of arbitration should not our diplomats, our statesmen be greater patriots than our soldiers ?

This scheme of introducing drill into our school did not originate with our teachers, but with the pupils. Our boys did not think of any benefit or harm that military drill might bring. You cannot deny, boys, you thought of your uniforms and guns that might make you look like heroes of the late war. Your real purpose in organizing this was to make a show of yourselves. You wish people to applaud you and say : ‘‘There goes a high school cadet !”

What we need here at school, girls as well as boys, is a graded system of gymnastics. We need exercises which quicken the circulation and respiration and which develop the muscles of the body equally. In one word, we need a gymnasium under the direction of a competent teacher. When we have once attained this point, I am sure that sickness and headaches will be reduced to a minimum, and that the old proverb will be true : “A healthy mind in a healthy body !”

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

THE care of the body has been, up to comparatively recent years, strangely neglected in the public schools of this country. It has been considered a quite sufficient educational training for the young to cram and overload their brains with a quantity of matter difficult to digest, and in too many instances even when assimilated of little use in after life. Numbers of delicate, highly strung children have broken down under the strain, and the dreary daily grind of the monotonous cramming system, undergone in unhealthy surroundings, has developed many of the nervous diseases to which the present generation is so peculiarly susceptible. What does knowledge profit a man if in the gaining of it he loses the still more precious gift of good health ? The nations of the old world, notably Greece and Rome, understood and appreciated much more clearly than do the people of these times the fcarmfulness of unduly forcing the mind, to the lasting hurt of the body. The gymnasia of ancient Greece probably reached, in their methods of training the youug, a higher ideal than have any of the educational systems how in vogue. In the face of this condition of affairs it is pleasing to note that the people of America are rapidly becoming alive to the pernicious effects'^ f developing^ the mind at the expense oTThe body. The more rational mode of educating^ tbe young would Appear to be that of so training the body and mind that both advance, as far as possible, at an equal rate. Thus, if a child is of weak constitution but possessed of unusual mental capacity, it should be the aim of his teacher to strenghten his physical powers, and until that object is accomplished to let the mind take care of itself. On the other hand, if the reverse is the case, to adopt contrary methods. The individuals should be studied separately, and children should not be lumped together in a body and put through the same course without regard to

Digitized by c^ooQle

/■
-204-

their different temperaments, dispositions, and constitutions. It is Sow about ten years since German gymnastics were introduced into public schools of this country. Since then physical training has held a place in the curriculum of almost all the large cities of the East. The report ot the director of physical training in public schools of Washington has lately been published. According to this report the beneficial results of systematic daily exercise have been marked, but, as the writer of the paper truly remarks, “It is impossible to test the full measure of success or failure of our efforts. It is in the remote future, with school days long past, that the lasting influence of such work will be felt by the individual child.99 However, one thing seems certain, namely, that the introduction of physical training into the public schools of America is a step in the right direction, and, if intelligently carried out, should result in producing a stronger race mentally and physically. The fact should not be forgotten, though, that physical training may be abused. Gvm-nastics should not be permitted to take the place ofjdav, but rather the two should go hand in hand .—Medical Record.

AGAIN THE BICYCLE.

AT more or less regular intervals the medical journals discuss the use and ^ abuse of the bicycle. That the latter is a valuable aid as a promoter of and restorer to health the active partisanship of the bicycle world will testify, regardless of any and every attack made by physicians. Like every other therapeutic resource, it should not be applied indiscriminately to all cases; such a course would soon establish an abu*e. No one would advise a patient afflicted with organic heart disease to become a professional “scor her,* or to exercise to the extent of a fifty or a hundred mile run, any more thin he would countenance a hundred yard dash as a daily exercise, yet we can easily see how an easy ride of five or ten miles or a walk of the sime distance would be of great advantage to such a patient. Every individual is a law unto himself. Where one would look upon a century run as but a pleasant bit of exercise, another, m apparently equal physical health and with the same training, would be incapacitated for several days by such an effort.

A number of years ago, before cycling attained its present popularity, medical writers warmly discussed the terrible results this sport would have upon the female pelvis, especially as re. ards child-bearing. The manufacturers qui kly took advantage of this state of affairs, and reape 1 the rewards of their industry in the sale of various patterns of sanitary saddles, so-called. We are not aware that the obste'ncians are having any greater d fficulty in delivery than former y; po sibly it is due to these very saddles, possibly not. The heart was the next to claim the a’tention of the bicycle enemy. We read the dogmatic statements of -a medical brother that no one with organic heart disease should ride a wheel; we were impressed with his reasoning and no Ided sympathetically as we perused his doughty arguments; and we turned contemplatively the pag^s of the Journal and were soon absorbed in Professor A’s article on “The Use of the Bicycle in Organic Heart D sease*'; and perhaps as we glanced out of the window we observed that infatuated Dr. B., with his aortic incompetency, wheel smilingly by as he makes his rounds, happily unconscious of his deadly peril.—Journal of the American Medical Association.

\

Digitized by v^oogle
-205-

MlSP ftND BODY. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

'm Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

lvdl.l-wafa.lcee, iscoaa.slaa.-

* Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

MORE CONTRIBUTORS !

WHILE we appreciate and duly acknowledge the kindness of a round number of friends and advocates of physical education who are faithful contributors, wc must confess that it seems strange to us that such a large number of able ladies and gentlemen do not avail themselves oftener of the opportunity to inform our profession of their experiences and their ideas on this subject.

We are convinced that no other branch of education can boast of as many ardent and original workers within its ranks as ours; still our literature is comparatively scant as yet. One does not do justice to one’s self by becoming a colleague and simply doing good work in some institution.

We want it to be known what is being done in our province in all parts of the country and how it is done, for the knowledge of such facts and the collection and comparison of data and results are the true means by which we can build up and form new plans for the further propaganda of physical education. Anything that is good is worth to be made known to all of us.

It is, therefore, our intention to extend a special invitation to all followers of physical education, no matter of what school they are, to come forward with their contributions, either in the form of original articles, or reports, or discussion of questions.

“Mind and Body” gives assurance to lend every assistance and protection that may be desired of its contributors.

The time of the state teachers’ meetings being very near, we solicit especially th? assistance of the respective secretaries and other friends in furnishing and otherwise securing interesting papers for publication.

SINKINS.

SMALL pieces of ground, or lawns not large enough for tennis, may be used for the game of “sinkins,” the actual space necessary being only a square of twenty-four feet. Having the ground, all that is required is a center pole of iron or wood, some very strong string, and two tennis rackets and a tennis ball. An iron center pole is often preferred on the score of economy. It should be eighteen feet high and about three inches in diameter, ending at the top in a ring or loop, to which string can be attached, while the other end is pointed to facilitate its being driven into the ground, and it may be painted black.

Digitized by
—200-

Any blacksmith will make one of these for a moderate sum. The cost of a wooden pole is much greater, owing to the length required. It is also necessary to have it thicker than the iron pole, and it must be quite smooth. The pole is driven into the center of the ground three feet down, so as to be perfectly secure, thus leaving it fifteen feet high. It nevertheless sways slightly at the top, but this only adds a pleasant difficulty to the game. If a wooden pole is used a piece of zinc piping three feet long is sunk into the ground, into which the pole must fit. A metal loop is fixed at the top, to which the string is fastened. Whether the center pole is of iron or wood, a wide red band should be painted round it four feet six inches from the ground. The court is divided in halves by white lines from north to south, and again from east to west, each line measuring exactly twelve feet from the center pole. The intention of this is to keep each player to his own side, the reason of the double set of lines being that a change may be made in case of light or sun, and to wear the ground evenly. But each player must always be in possession *of half the court, as shown bv the lines.

The string which is attached to the fixed ring or loop at the top of the pole must be very strong or it will constantly be breaking, but it should not be heavy enough to impede its winding action. Having secured the string to the top of the pole, a ball is attached to the other end by inclosing it in a coarsely netted string case. The string must be long enough to allow the ball to hang six inches from the ground. The game consists solely in trying tq wind the string round the pole by hitting the ball attached to it with the rackets. The player who wins the choice hits forward, while his adversary has to be content with back-handed strokes, each trying to wind up the ball and thus prevent the other from doing so. A player may reach over the dividing line to take the ball, but his feet must always remain on his own side of the court ; if he poaches the game does not count to him even if he wins.

The player who first succeeds in winding up the string wins the game, but when wound up the ball must be above the red band; should it hang below it must be unwound again. If, as sometimes happens, the string gets caught across the racket, the ball is thrown to the other player, yrho may “hit off” from his own hand. A game generally lasts from twenty minutes to half an hour, but it is quite possible when the players are evenly matched for it to last an hour and a half. On hearing a description of “sinkins” people are apt to exclaim : “Is that all ? What a silly game !’’ But once they see it played, or, better still, try it themselves, they soon change their opinion, and end by declaring it the best game in the world. It is wonderful what an amount of exercise can be got out of this apparently simple sport, and a little practice soon shows that there is really a great deal of “play” in it, and almost as many “strokes” as in tennis.

—Hygiene in Schools. The recent French Congress for the Advancement of Science passed resolutions urging the teaching of hygiene by a physician in all the schools above the primary grades.

Digitized by Google
—207-

MAN LY SPORTS IN SCHOOL.

A WELL-ROUNDED education includes both mind and body. If boys ever acquire physical strength, agility, grace, and courage, they must do so during their school days. So much of a boy’s life is now passed in the school that it is absolutely necessary that his body should receive the teachers care and discipline. It is unfortunate for young boys in some respects that they generally have women to take care of them in their earlier years of life. Women are, as a rule, too tender, cautious, and timid to direct the bodily exercises of boys, especially youths. Montaigne, in his inimitable essays, speaking of mothers, says: “They will not endure to see them (tjieir boys) return all dust and sweat from their exercise, to drink cold water when they are hot, nor see them mount an unruly horse, nor take a foil in hand against a rude fencer, or so much as discharge a carbine. And yet there is no remedy: whoever will breed a boy to be good for anything when he comes to be a man, must by no means spare him when young, and must very often transgress the rules of physics :

Vitamque sub dio, et trepidis agat In Rebus.

“Let him live in the open air, and ever in movement about something.” While this passage throws doubt on a woman’s fitness to direct the physical sports of boys, it throws light on the character of manly sports which should exercise boys. Say what we may against the brutality of football and other sports, it is not good for boys to have no exposure and no risks. Effeminacy is more to be dreaded than hardships and dangers. Boys need sports that try their metal. Running, jumping, wrestling, boxing, fencing, riding, and countless other bold and courageous sports must be engaged in, or boys will lack manliness and heroic bearing. We are in a world where trial and struggle await all who live worthily. Every playground should witness such sports as will develop the courage as well as the muscles of young men and boys. A boy does not get the physical training he needs in doing work about home. The farmer’s son needs to participate in manly sports as well as the city-bred lad. Indeed, in some particulars there is even greater need of training farmer boys in gymnastics than city boys. The country boy’s stiffness,^awkwardness, and gracelessness can be counteracted only by skillful training. We do not undertake to name the kind of sports that are best suited to physical development, but boys’ sports must never lack the element of manliness and prowess. A phgsical coward is contemptible everywhere. There is nothing that tries manhood so much as exposure to heat, cold, hunger, thirst, and, danger. All really great men have had great powers for endurance. Caesar and Napoleon could suffer hunger or the loss of sleep without annoyance. Boys ought to be trained to meet just such hardspips as men have to encounter in daily life. They love sport and it has been so ordained that they should get training for a life of toil while engaged in play. We conclude this paragraph with another apt quotation from Montaigne : “Now to be inured to undergo labor, is to be accustomed to endure pain ; ‘labor callum obducit dolori.’ (Labor hardens us

Digitized by Tooele
- 120S-

against pain.) A boy is to be broken in to the toil and roughness of exercise, so as to be trained up to the pain and suffering of dislocations, colics, cauteries, and even imprisonmet and the rack itself, for he may come, by misfortune to be reduced to the worst of these, which (as this world goes) is sometimes inflicted on the good as well as the bad.”— From ”American Journal of Education

BICYCLE HEART.

SEVERAL well-known French cyclists have lately, it is said, been rejected as unfit for military service by reason of hypertrophy and other diseases of the heart. A contemporary, representing no doubt lay opinion, professes astonishment at this result. But medical men will be rather surprised that the numbers are so small. There must be few of us who have not seen the ill effects of over-exertion on a bicycle. The commonest is palpitation and temporary dilatation ; but even this is sometimes very difficult to cure. In a case which occurred recently, a lady, ordered for a fortnight’s change of air after influenza, chose to spend it in bicycling about fifty miles a day. As a result, she has ever since that time—now nine months ago—had a pulse which on the least exertion rises to 120, though she has not ridden again. That temporary dilatation occurs is enough to show the great strain put upon the heart, and it is an added danger that the sense of fatigue in the limbs is so slight. The rider is thus robbed of the warning to which he is accustomed to attend, and repeats or continues the strain upon the heart. As in other similar cases, the effect is to render that dilatation permanent which was at first but temporary, and to cause an increase in the muscle of the heart by repeated exertion. The heart produced is of large dimensions and of thick walls—a condition which may, perhaps, give little uneasiness to its owner, but which a medical man will view with considerable distrust and apprehension. Weakly and elderly people cannot be too often told that no exercise is more easily abused, though, if taken in sensible measure, few are more healthful or enjoyable.

A SOMEWHAT PECULIAR OPINION ON BICYCLING.

THE bicycle is a nuisance and a curse instead of a blessing. While it may have a beneficial effect physically upon a few, yet the ill effects upon the many ten thousand times overbalance it. The deaths and the maiming from wheel accidents almost equal perpetual war. The injury to heart and kidneys of thousands must be added. Then what of the nuisance of the machines on street and sidewalk everywhere ? In the public thoroughfare they are a constant menace to teams and footmen, and as there is no bounds to the impudence and effrontery of these wobblers, they presume also to usurp the sidewalks in most cities, whether permitted or not by law. Think of such ungovernable vehicles approaching foot-people on sidewalks every few rods as they proceed, at a speed of twelve to fifteen miles an hour, jingling their little bells, warning you to jump aside or be run over or maimed ! And when one

Digitized by CaOOQle
-209-

steps aside there is no telling but the cranky thing will make a dive for his solar plexus or coccyx, since all sorts of wobblers presume to usurp the walks that were in times past, before we became so civilized, supposed to be for footmen only.

The advent of this horrid means of locomotion is an instance in which the inventive genius of man has overtoppled itself, or at least he has invented a machine that causes a great many individuals to be overtoppled. Here in Seattle bicycle riders pay a license and are permitted by law to ride on the sidewalks, so footmen step aside as they whiz by or take the chances of suddenly converting the momentum of one of these machines and its rider into beat, light, and electricity.

A. C. Simonton, M. D.

WOODEN RING EXERCISES FOR GIRLS’ AND LADIES*

CLASSES.

By R. MELLER, Instructor of Buffalo Tumvcrein.

Remark.—Ring is carried in right hand, left hand on hip. In all positions ring is vertical.

Ghro-up I.

Exercise 1. a. Raise ring to chest, arms bent 1—2.

b.	Straighten arms forward and step position forward right 3—4.

c.	Back to position a 5—6.

d.	Starting position 7—8.

Left 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2. a. Raise ring to chest, arms bent 1—2.

b.	Straighten arms sideward right, step position sideward right, and Vs turn of body to the right 3—4.

c.	Back to position a 5—6.

d.	Starting position 7—8.

Left 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3. a. Raise ring to chest, arms bent 1—2.

b.	Straighten arms upward and step position backward right 3—4.

c.	Back to position a 5—6.

d.	Starting position 7—8.

Left 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Raise ring to chest without stop and continue.

Exercise 4. a. Straighten arms forward (turn ring, knuckles inward) and step position sideward right 1—2.

b.	Turn body right (*4 turn), position of feet unchanged 3—4.

c.	Back to position a 5—6.

d.	Starting position 7—8.

Left 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

GKro-up XX.

Exercise 1. a. Cross step position forward right and raise right arm sideward left, ring over (in front of left .shoulder), left hand on hip 1—2.

Digitized by
-210-

b.	Step position sideward right, right arm swings through down and side position over head, left moves sideward over head, both hands hold ring, arms slightly bent, knuckles backward 3—4.

c.	Cross step position forward right,' left arm with ring swings through side and down position sideward right, ring over (in front of) right shoulder 5—6.

This exercise to continue till 16. The right foot continuously executes cross and side step position, the rings changes from right to left and at 16 is in left hand.

Exercise to begin left 1—16.

Exercise 2. a. Step position-sideward right, bend left knee, and raise arms sideward (palm of hand in front) 1—2.

b.	Fundamental position and swing arms forward, both hands grasping ring 3—4.

c.	Step position sideward left, bend right knee, and swing arms side-ward, ring in left hand 5—6.

This exercise to continue till 16. Ring is then in left hand.

Exercise to begin left 1—16.

Exercise 3. a. Step position forward right, right arm obliquely for* upward, left hand on hip 1—2.

b.	Step position backward right, bend left knee, right hand swings through down position backward, left hand moves backward and grasps ring 3—4.

c.	Step position forward right, left arm swings through down position obliquely forward upward, right hand on hip 5—6.

This exercise to continue till 16.

Exercise to begin left.

Exercise 4. a. Lunge sideward right and raise arms sideward 1—2.

b.	Bend left knee, swing arms over head (slightly bent), left hand grasping ring, knuckles backward 3—4.

c.	Bend right knee and lower arms to sideward position, ring in left hand 5—6.

This exercise to continue till 16.

Exercise to begin left.

G-r0-a.p XXI.

Exercise 1. a. Step position forward right, weight resting on both legs, and raise arms forward, both hands grasping ring 1—2.

b.	Bend right knee and raise arms upward 3—4.

c.	Back to position a 5—6.

d.	Starting position, ring in left hand 7—8.

Left 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2. a. Step position sideward right, raise arms sideward upward, both hands grasping ring, knuckles backward 1—2.

b.	Bend right knee, lower arms to sideward position, ring in right hand 3—4.

c.	Back to position a 5—6.

d.	Starting position, ring in left hand 7—8.

Left 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-211-

Exercise 3. a. Lunge sideward right and raise arms sideward 1—2. h. Bend left knee and bend trunk forward, swing arms down in front of left foot, left hand grasping ring 3—4.

c.	Back to position a, ring in left hand 5—6.

d.	Starting position 7—8.

Left 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4. a. Lunge sideward right and raise arms sideward 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk sideward right 3—4.

c.	Straighten body and right leg (side straddle position), raise both arms over head slightly bent, left hand grasping ring 5—6.

d.	Starting position, ring in left hand 7—8.

Left 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

(From “The Gymnast and Athletic Review.”)

VOLUNTARY EXERCISES,

SHOWN AT THE HAMBURG GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL, JULY 24, 1898.

Abbreviations: R—Right; L = Left; N=Neck; S=Saddle; Cr. = Croup. HORIZONTAL BAR.

Swing with ordinary grasp, make V2-R turn in front swing, changing L hand to reversed grasp and back-up to handstand, giant circle forward, turn to giant circle backward, turn to giant circle forward, and squat over bar to ground.

P. Zohsel, Munich.

With reversed grasp, circle to handstand, giant circle forward, V2-turn in handstand and giant circle backward, back-up with V2-turn in front swing to handstand with combined grasp, and make at once a further Vk-turn to ordinary grasp, giant circle to momentary free rest, underswing with turn and with change of grasp of both hands, upstart to rest, roll forward to handstand, giant circle backward and free somersault backward in the front swing (/. e., turn around horizontal axis) to ground.	C.	Seidel,	Hannover.

Reversed grasp, back-up to handstand, ^-turn in handstand and giant circle backward, back-up with V2-turn in front, swing to free rest with ordinary grasp, clear circle to the hang, squat under bar and ^-seat circle forward to momentary back rest, clear circle backward, squat under bar and short upstart, clear circle to giant circle backward to handstand, sink, short upstart, and squat over bar to ground.	Alf. Koerting, Hannover.

PARALLEL BARS.

From the outside cross stand, short upstart to legs Vfe-lever, straddle back to cross stand, immediately straddle in and swing to handstand, pump and travel to handstand in centre of bars, come to double shoulderstand, roll forward and back-up in upper arm upstart, circle R of L leg over L bar, circle L of R leg over R bar, straddle forward over both bars and swing to handstand, sink, and high front vault over both bars to ground.	F. Zohsel.

From the outside cross stand at ends facing inwards, jump and Vfc-L circle of R leg over R bar, and MrL circle ot L leg over L bar, Vfe-L circle of both legs over R bar, and swing to handstaud, pump and travel forward, swing to handstand, lower the legs and free overthrow (somersault) backward on the front, swing to upper arm hang, upstart to rest and straddle forward over both bars, swing back to handstand and high front vault wich a V2-turn over both bars to ground.	C. Seidel.

From the cross stand at ends facing inwards, drop-upstart to handstand, bend arms and travel forward in the handstand, roll forward to upper arm hang, back-up and straddle over both bars to cross rest, pump swing to handstand, roll backward to the rest, indicating front lever, upstart, and rear vault over both bars to ground.	Alf.	Koerting.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-212-

HORSE, SIDEWAYS WITH POMMELS.

From the sidestand, jump to rest, feint R, R circle of both legs, Mj-R circle of L leg, V^-L circle of R leg, L circle of R leg (under L), V2-L circle of both legs, V2-L-circle of R leg and front shears L and R, back shears R, Vfe*L circle of L leg and feint R, rear vault over N, S, Cr. to ground.	F. Zohsel.

With Pommels.—With a run, jump and indicate free front lever, squat over S to legs in ^-lever, L circle of R leg, MrL circle of both legs, MrL eircle of R leg, shears L, V2-L circle of L leg, feint R, two R circles of both legs, and triple rear vault over S Cr. to ground.	C. Seidel.

With Pommels.—Half-R circle of L leg, V2-L circle of R leg, ^-L circle of both legs, y2-L circle of R leg, shears L, R and L, Vz-R circle of L leg on completion of last L shears, two circles to the R of both legs, and double rear vault over S Cr. to ground.	Alf.	Koerting.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—We call special attention to the excellent chart of Mr. F. W. Froehlich of St. Louis in our last (Oct.) issue. It is one of the best we have seen yet, and is a proof of the superior results of the gymnastics as carried on in the Turnerbund. It exemplifies what we call harmonious development.

—Little Rock will be the place for the annual festival and tournament of the St. Louis District of Turners next year.

—The Chicago Physical Education Society which was organized last winter, announced a meeting on November 19. The main subject on the program was a discussion of the results of vacation work on physical recreation and playgrounds. Prof. Stein of the Chicago Turn-gemeinde introduced, in connection with the meeting, classes of girls in a varied program of exercises.

—According to the communication from the Chicago public school authorities, published in this issue, that city has the distinction of being the first to introduce apparatus work on a larger scale in its public schools. Over 80 buildings are furnished with the necessary gymnastic apparatus. We are promised a detailed description and also some illustrations.

Dr. Simonton must have been run over by a bicyclist more than once, otherwise we could not account for this severe case of bicycle-phobia. There is a possibility that he, instead of in the solar plexus or coccyx, has been struck considerably higher up. The fact that bicyclists are allowed to ride on sidewalks in Seattle, however, serves as an excuse for him.—Ed.

“Where is your mother, Johnnie ?”

“Playing goll.’’

“And your aunt?”

“She’s out on her wheel.”

“And your sister?”

“She’s training for the foot-ball game.”

“Then I’ll see your father, please.”

“He can’t come down now. He is upstairs giving the baby a bath.”— Life.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—21J-

BOARD OF EDUCATION,

OFFICE OF SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SCHILLER BUILD.NG.

Chicago, 111., Novevember 21, 1898.

Dr. Franz Pfister, Milwaukee, Wis.

Dear Sir:—In accordance with your request I write you in regard to Physical Culture in the Chicago Schools.

Principals and teachers are more and more convinced that the same attention ought to be given to physical as to mental training. The Board of Education in our city, as far as I know, never intended to abolish physical culture. On the contrary the board has greatly elaborated the extent of physical training during the last year by equipping about eighty elementary schools with apparatus for heavy gymnastics. Four of our high schools have well equipped gymnasiums, and the board has granted authority for the equipment of two additional high schools with gymnasia to cost $2400.00 each.

At present physical exercises are practiced in the normal, high, and elementary schools, and all pupils participate. Our physical training instruction consists of light gymnastics, heavy gymnastics and games. Apparatus for light gymnastics are wands, Indian-clubs and dumb-bells. For heavy gymnastics in elementary schools, climbing poles, horizontal bars, adjustable ladders, swinging rings, and balance boards.

Physical culture was introduced into the Chicago schools in November, 1885, and the instructions are based upon the German system. The exercises are practiced in the class-room9, corridors, and assembly halls. Length of time depends upon the exercises, whether light or heavy gymnastics, and from 10 to 20 minutes daily are devoted to physical training. The teacher of physical culture visits the schools as often as possible, to give instruction to teachers and pupils, thereby enabling the class-teachers to carry out the work during his absence.

Yours very truly,

Henry Suder, Superv. Phys. Cult.

JAPANESE SWORD PLAY.

N. Y. Mail and Express: If you are ever asked to engage in a duel with a Tapanese, being the challenged party, Select any implement rather than the single stick, for unless you are proficient in thrusts and parries yr>u will be “done up” in short order. In feudal times every able-bodied Japanese was obliged to become an expert swordsman, so that in the event of war he could go to the front and do his share of fighting. But with the improvements in methods of warfare, which the Japanese were quick to adopt, the short sword has been relegated to the backyard and the shdp of a bric-a-brac dealer, and fencing is merely a pastime known as gekken. In the civil war in Japan, eighteen years ago, however, there were certain Companies of guards, armed with swords, who did some very effective and bloody work with them.

There is a club in Honolulu, with headquarters on Maunakea street, whose members have an instructor in the use of the single stick. The organization is for amusement, rather than for business, though there is probably a desire on the part of the leaders to perpetuate the old-fashioned methods of their forefathers in quelling rebellions. Just now this club, the Sunrise, is without an instructor, so that there is tjut little practice and no exhibitions. Yamashita, who has filled that post for the past six months, is at present in Japan. He was a member of the army in his native country, and has been given medals for bravery on different occasions.

The headquarters of the “Sunrise Single Stick Club” is on the lower floor oi the building occupied by the Japanese newspaper of the same name. Through the kindness of Editor Satto and Hiraoka, business manager of the paper, a reporter was given an opportunity to witness an exhibition between Yajimai and Kari-kawa, two expert handlers of the sticks.

By way of introduction the combatants removed their kiminos and donned loose skirts and a helmet with strong iron bars across the face. Then they

Digitized by L.ooQle
—214—

sheathed their bodies with stiff bamboo breastplates. Heavily padded gloves with gauntlets finished the costume. The “short sticks” are about five feet long, and are made of several pieces of bamboo fastened together. There seemed to be no call of “time” by a referee ; the men stepped to the center of the room and saluted each other by a motion of the arm, and then one uttered a guttural sound, signifying his willingness to begin the fray, and they crossed sticks, the point of each being held on a level with both hands. Yajimai led, and throughout the bout was acting on the offensive, while Karikawa braced himself so as to resist and ward off any blow that might be directed toward him. Once he was thoughtless; Yajimai gave him a crack on the helmet that resounded through the room. All the time the men were fencing they were shouting, as if warning each other to look out for what might be coming.

To the stranger who is not familiar with the rules there seemed to be no rest for the men. If one should receive a blow which, under ordinary circumstances, would warrant his going down for a few seconds, long enough to recover, it must simpty end with the desire, and his next move will be to get back at his opponent. In this exhibition Karikawa, who was rather more stockily built than his foe, had the best of the fight, but the end was a draw, and the men retired windless and with the perspiration pouring from their faces.

The wrist seemed to be the part of the anatomy oftenest aimed at, and while that part of the arm is protected by a padded gauntlet, the humerus is bare, and a strong blow means a heavy welt and a sore arm. At the end ol the contest spoken of here Yajimai carried a mark which was quite blue. If a blow on the wrist is severe enough it will disable a fencer and the fight ends, and if it can not be accomplished in this way, a fencer will raise his stick high above and inclined toward the back of his head, very much after the style of ancient executioners in the chopping block process, and bring it down with all his strength on his rival’s head—if he can. Celerity marks every movement of the fencer, so that the observer’s eye is taxed to the utmost to keep track of the men.

Single-stick fencing among the Japanese is so different from anything attempted by the white people that it is difficult to make comparisons or draw conclusions. If quickness in an attack or parry is the secret of the game, Yajimai and Karikawa should be entitled to positions as experts. Their endurance, too, is remarkable, considering the thickness of the clothing worn. Swathed as the\r are in heavy padded suits, evidently much depends upon the eye, and it is when one of the fencers catches the e3'e of his opponent off his guard that he attempts a blow, but to ascertain when the eye is not attending to its business is much too difficult for a stranger to solve—shielded as the fencer’s face is with iron bars set closely together.

There are four points in a match with single sticks between Japanese—a blow on the back of the head, a fair one, for glancing strokes do not count, a thrust at the throat, a stroke on the wrist, and a stroke on the side. There is no ruje as to the position a fencer must occupy in delivering any one of these blows—it may be from either side and from one or both hands. If it is a “chopper,” it is apt to be one that will make the man receiving it wince, even though he be protected by all sorts of grotesque contrivances.

BASEBALL FOR THE BLIND.

SOW far-reaching the game of baseball really is, is shown by the following interview with Prof. B. B. Huntoon, Superintendent of the Kentucky Institute for the Blind. To a reporter Prof. Huntoon said :

“All of the inmates athletically inclined take great pleasure in playing ball. There is as much rejoicing among the victorious as there would be among a crowd of other schoolboys not handicapped with a great affliction. Formerly trees were used for bases, there being three large ones on what was then known as the diamond. 01 late, however, different ball grounds have been chosen and the bases are made of bags. This diamond is not of regulation size. The infields are stationed just the same as in the National League game, with the exception that there is a right shortstop. In the outfield any number may play, each taking his turn at the bat. The catcher sits on the ground just behind the bats-



Digitized by LjOOQle
—215—

man, in such a position that when the pitcher delivers the ball it will fall just between bis knees. To guard against injuries be wears a mask and breast protector.

“The batsman takes his station, being armed with a heavy flat bat, shaped from the handle somewhat like a cricket bat. The pitcher stands at a close pitching distance, and when all is ready he counts one, two, three, slowly and distinctly. As he says three he pitches the ball in old style, the object being to give the batsman a ball he can hit. When the batter thinks sufficient time has elapsed for the ball to reach him he strikes, and it is surprising how often a hit is made. If the batsman should miss, it bounces into the pad in the catcher’s lap. The catcher then returns the ball to the pitcher without rising, the pitcher hearing the ball in time and almost invariably catching it on the bounce. If a ball should be lost the aid of some one who can see wholly or partially is called into requisition. When the ball is batted, the umpire, who is chosen because be sees rather than for his eminent qualifications, calls to the players to watch out. If the batted ball be what is termed a ‘hot liner’ the umpire calls to the player in whose direction it is coming to dodge. The man instantly ducks, leaving the ball to the outfielders. It is almost impossible for the ball to be returned in time to throw the base runner out at first, yet this is sometimes done. When the ball is thrown to first the player who is attempting to assist in a put-out calculates the distance to a foot and throws the ball with such accuracy that it strikes the ground a few yards in front of the baseman. The latter hears it coming and usually gets it without aid. Running bases used to be a difficult thing, the runner starting with outstretched arms to the first tree, which was then called first base. Since bags have been substituted for bases the blind runner usually has some one who can see partially run the bases with him. Once a base and it is only a question of time until the runner scores. Of course the game is not played in any way appertaining to the scientific, yet it is really astonishing, everything considered, that the players manage to play with such skill. All of them are virtually blind, some totally without sight.”

CORRESPONDENCE.

R. Meller, Buffalo.—Thanks for contribution.

O. L.—We are surely not a court to adjust your difficulties with your institution.

J. G.—You will gain nothing thereby.

Miss McG.—Your letter was referred to the publisheis.

BOOK REVIEW.

—Horse, Parallels, Horizontal, by G. W. Ehler, C. E., and A. B. Wegener, B. S.; published by The Young Men’s Christian Association of Chicago, Central Department. — Based upon Puritz’s Code Book and prefaced by an explainatory introduction the compilation of the two gentlemen, who are well known in the ranks of the Y. M. C. A., is intended to be an aid to instructors and leaders in outlining their work and bringing the same more to a uniform standard. The book contains a series of exercises on the above named apparatus, well graded and well arranged for the end in view. The exercises are all printed on loose leaflets, which admit of being used directly on the gymnasium floor. We believe such an aid to be very valuable for leaders and do not hesitate to recommend the work enthusiastically. If we had any criticism to make, we would have the leaflets numbered. In our opinion, moreover, the presumption that buck, exercises on which are also included, is only a preparatory apparatus to the horse, is erroneous, for this apparatus admits of exercises fully as difficult as those that cdn be performed on the horse.

—The Elements of Physical Education, a Teacher’s Manual, .by David Lennox, M. D., and Alexander Sturrock; published by Wm. Blackwood and Sons, London and Edinburgh. Price $1.50. —A typical English publication, it is

Digitized by LjOOQle
-216-

arranged in a somewhat different form from that used in our country. It is divided into three parts: Part I. The Physiology and Psychology of Muscular Exercise.—Part II: Physical Drill, containing general directions to teacher, definitions, arrangement of class, preliminary marching drill, direct lung or breathing exercises, combined marching drill, figure or maze marching, free movement of exercises with light dumb-bells, movements with cups or hand-bells, trunk movements, rod or wand exercises, exercises with bar-bell or rod, ball exercises, balancing drill, skipping drill, Indian club exercises.—Part III. Musical Accompaniments.—In the whole, the book may be readily recommended; it is worth reading. It is handsomely gotton up and rather profusely illustrated. The chapter “Musical Accompaniments” gives more information in this line than any other publication in the English language that we know of.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Frank Hudson, the captain and quarter-back of the Carlisle Indian football team, has made a great reputation as a goal kicker this season.

—It is reported that the leading cricketers of Philadelphia are deserting cricket for golf.

—Creegan, Princeton’s crack sprinter, has been disqualified by the A. A. U.

—Chauncey Seaver is the college tennis champion of Williams College.

—Arrangements are being made to send an American association football' team to South Africa after the close of the season in this country.

—W. Dalzell, who was bow oar in the Cornell ’varsity crew last year, won the single scull championship of Cornell University recently.

—An idea of the magnitude that the coursing game has assumed on the Pacific coast can be gained from the fact that $50,000 has been awarded in prize money to dog owners in the last six months.

—Miss Beatrix Hoyt is the champion lady golfer, and this is her third successive year as holder of this proud title.

—J. C. McCracken has been elected captain of the Pennsylvania track team.

—Andover College, Andover, Mass., has raised $38,000 of the $50,000 needed for the new gymnasium.

—The Boston Fencers’ Association has planned an extensive program for this season.

—In a recent match in England Latham, the English court tennis player, readily defeated Pettit, the American.

—By a unanimous vote of the rowing committee ot the University of Pennsylvania Ellis Ward has been retained as coach for the Pennsylvania crews.

—Bartow S. Weeks of the New York Athletic Club has been prominently mentioned as the next president of the Amateur Athletic Union. Harry McMillan of Philadelphia is the present head of the A. A. U.

—Robert Kerr is secretary of the Golfers’ Association.

—Now that professionalism in football is attracting attention, football coaches should not be overlooked, for they figure quite as prominently as the players.

—Americans interested in rowing are satisfied that, had Americans gone on losing, they would have been welcomed every year at Henley, but the victories of Ten Eyck and Howell probably influenced the stewards in shutting off foreign competition.

—The “American Field” makes a nice distinction between “sporting men’’ and “sportsmen” when it says: “Whippet racing in this country has not been a success. It might do for sporting men, but we are strongly of opinion that it is not a sportsman’s game.”



Digitized by tjOOQle