MIND AND BODY

Vo I 16.	OCTOBER, 1909. No.	189

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

HABIT BUILDING IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Emil Rath, Dean of the Department of Theory and Practice of Physical Training, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Some authority on psychology has said that we are a bundle of habits. The truth of this statement has no doubt dawned npon many a person at one time or another. Nearly all the tasks of our every day life have been formed into habits and are done automatically requiring little or no mental effort. The amount of energy thus saved is inestimable. But it happens frequently that we become possessed of habits detrimental to our welfare and these must carefully be guarded. They steal upon us gradually and unawares, but silently and effectively wear ‘pathways through our nervous system’ until they have established a tyrannical supremacy controlling and guiding our daily thoughts and actions. Sometimes a true friend points out our faults to us; sometimes there is a sudden awakening to the hideonsness of their character that greatly astonishes us. It is not intended to dwell upon the many habits which ali physical directors take part in shaping, or should take part in shaping that are of considerable benefit through life.

Wm. James says in his “Talks to Teachers”:	“All our life so far

as it has definite form is but a mass of habits—practical, emotional, and intellectual—systematically organized for our weal or woe, and bearing us irrisistably onward toward our destiny, whatever the latter may be.” Many a pupil enters the gymnasium with an ungainly walk, an unelegant standing position (a correspondingly bad sitting position), and a general lack of poise of body and ease of movement that point to most unfavorable influences upon his health, and tend to give him an awkward and clumsy appearance of which he is entirely unconscious.

The gymnasium may be looked upon as a workshop—a foundry— in which . human beings are moulded or recast into harmonious, symmetrical figures, but it should withall equip those figures with smooth and accurate 'movements and postures pleasing to the eye, in order to make the human body an instrument that lends itself readily, accurately, and gracefully to the performance of all forms of movements at a minimum expenditure of energy.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-210-

When pupils enter the gymnasium with many such deleterious habits that seem to be, alas! “s}stematically organized for their woe” it is not an easy task to break them up and replace them by new and good habits. The teacher should have mental pictures of correct forms for all gymnastic work—ideals—toward which he leads his class by constant21 correction and suggestion and eventually the habit of performing work both in and out of the gymnasium in an easy graceful manner will become fixved, the ungainly walk, awkward standing position and slovenly carriage will be replaced by habits that give pupils the appearance of new individuals so far as their general bearing is concerned. The difference in the appearance between the young man enlisting in the army and later leaving it clearly illustrates this point.

To accomplish this requires continual vigilance and correct teaching on the part of the instructor; a thorough understanding of the faulty habits and a concentrated mental effort toward the to-be-acquired habits on the part of the student during the first months in the gvmnasium.

Later, the merest contact with an apparatus should, and if a proper •position is always associated with every exercise taught, will suffice to awaken -an impulse to correct posture and good form; in marching, free exercises, and dancing the first volitional movement must discharge a train of sensori-motor habits that unconsciously guide the body through esthetic and correct positions with little mental effort. The habit of “correct form” should be one of the most important elements of all activities taught in the gymnasium and must be constantly kept in the foreground of consciousness until it becomes automatic.

A person learning to skate or ride the bicycle concentrates his mind ppon these activities to such an extent that he can think of nothing else. But gradually it requires less and less mental effort and when he lias thoroughly mastered them, he can carry on a conversation while skating or riding. His mind is at leisure and seems to have nothing to do with these activities beyond furnishing the impulse to start them agoing. They have become automatic, habitual, and the lower nerve centers direct and control them.

Frequently one sees athletes whose smooth, accurate, energy^sayijig style of executing their specialized sport is a conspicuous contrast to their awkward, slouchy walking and standing position. These young men practice months, yes years, to develop the habit of performing their special sport in perfect form. The runner pays constant attention to his start and stride; the jumper studies his run, take-off, flight; the shot-putter has other difficulties to master, etc.; all endeavoring to make habitual and automatic movements that tend to increase their ability in a particular line of sport, but evidently no attention whatever is paid to their common daily activities and yet these are of no mean importance to their physical welfare.

What an admirable figure the wrell trained soldier presents. There is something strikingly different in his%general appearance from the average individual; and this noticable difference is the result of good habits of carriage and posture firmly established. The gymnasium, where such a great variety of exercises are performed, is the place where pupils

Digitized by v^ooQle
—211—

should acquire good sensori-motor habits by developing correct form Fn all their activities. Few pupils become excellent all-around gymnasts or specializing athletes; the majority never get beyond the elementary grade; but notwithstanding this all should acquire a neuro-rouseular control that lends to the activities of every-day habits a gracefulness and precision not found in individuals lacking this training, and the teacher by proper methods of teaching can do much to assist his pupils in acquiring this.

FACTORS CONCERNING SATISFACTORY INDIVIDUAL EDUCATION.

By D. M. Ferd.* Krogh, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa.

(C«mpetitive Essay: Group D. Awarded a first prize at the Turnfest of the N.

A. Gymnastic Union, June, 1909.)

Motto: “It is not a soul, nor a body we want to train,

but a human being ; we must not make two of it.” (Michael, Seigneur de Montaigne.)

In order to attain the best results in our effort of the rearing of children to manhood and womanhood, and thus to secure good citizens, it is, first of all, of importance to bear in mind the necessity of a healthy and strong body. The physiological functions of the body must be normal because mental capacity, activity and endurance are dependent on the physical wellbeing. The physical welfare of the individual should, therefore, be the first consideration in satisfactory individual education. To secure this we must begin with the infant, in fact, it has been said, that the education of the individual must begin with his grandfather. Proper home-care is a primary necessity. The infant and child must get appropriate dietetic and hygienic treatment. Human milk is the best and should be the only food for the first year of the child’s life, but, at the same time, it must never be forgotten that a baby gets thirsty as well as an adult and the infant should be given a drink of water at least four times daily. The child should have a daily hath from the day of his birth, be protected from sudden changes of the weather by appropriate clothing, flannel garments next to the skin are best. Exposure to unfavorable temperatures and draughts must be avoided, but plenty of fresh air is essential for physical growth and development. When the child gets older it must spend most of the time out of doors at playing games, especially running games, thus facilitating proper oxygenation of the blood by increased respiration, and to promote combustion and metabolism. Easily digestable, nourishing food must be given and special precaution should be taken to prevent indigestion, which would retard the normal development of the body to a great extend, and this, in turn, would have a detrimental effect on the development of the psychical faculties.

It is well to extend the period of the child’s play and not send him to school when too young. Children of five, five and a half, and even six years of age should not be sent to school unless half of the

Digitized by L^OOQle
-212-

time is spent for play and especially out-of-door activities. Five hours a day in school, as is customary to-day, for a child of from five to six years old, with a minimum of recreation and natural activity is entirely too long. The first grade children should really have one session only and be given plenty of time for exercise and games of a simple and enjoyable nature, under the guidance of an up-to-date teacher. The time the child is not in school should principally be spent Out-of-doors, especially on the municipal playground under proper supervision.

Teachers, besides being able to teach the required curriculum, should have the ability to study each and every child individually. Progress or retardation is largely dependent on the ability of the teacher to individualize. Locke’s maxim, that teachers must study the individuality of the pupil, must never be lost sight of. Satisfactory individual education can, therefore, obviously best be secured in classes that are not too large. The smaller the number of pupils under the charge of a teacher the greater is the opportunity to study the individual, and good results are most probable, provided, of course, the teacher is a pedagogue in the widest sense of the word.

In studying the individuality of the pupils, the physical condition of each child gives the teacher a vast amount of knowledge concerning the capacity and capability of the individual. This is particularly of importance in the lower grades, where physical defects, unobserved, frequently retard the progress of the child. Observations, constantly made, will therefore aid the teacher in the difficult task of rearing children to cultured individuals.

These observations or examinations of pupils may be made in a systematic manner. First, the pupil’s appearance, his general build, nutrition and development, his ways and movements should be noticed. His response to questions, his phonation and articulation should be tested. The questions may thus be answered: is the child tall, short or medium in stature for his age; is he well nourished; are the various parts of the body normally developed or is there some abnormality; is the head abnormally large or small, or, are any parts of it peculiarly shaped. Has he any abnormality of the mouth, including the teeth, or of the eyes, ears, nose or throat.

A child may be retarded mentally on account of any or several physical causes and the teacher should know these to a certain degree. It must also be borne in mind that abnormalities may be inherited or acquired, they may be prenatal or uterine; or, they may be postnatal, acquired after birth. Thus the child may be poorly developed on account of alcoholism, uterine disease, kidney trouble or tubercular disease in the mother. Brain injury at birth or subsequently may cause retarded physical and mental development. Severe illness during infancy or early childhood may also be the cause of retardation. Meningitis often causes the formation of cicatricial tissue in the brain, which produces undue pressure on the surrounding cerebral cells, leading, if extensive, to permanent deficiency. If retardation is due to an injury of the cortex cerebri from instrumental delivery or undue pressure

Digitized by
*	-213-

during birth, the child can usually readily be trained, as the brain cells surrounding the injured or destroyed area take, up their function, there is then a compensatory function. This is also true after diseases or postnatal injuries, if the area destroyed is not too extensive.

Other conditions affecting the child’s mental progress are the sequelae of diseases of childhood, such as measles, whooping cough, scarlet fever, diphtheria, croup and pneumonia. Congenital syphilis also causes mental deficiency. Diseases of the nervous system, such as epilepsy, hysteria, chorea or St. Vitus Dance and anterior poliomyelitis, or infantile palsy, are also frequently responsible for a retarded mental development.

Subnormal mentality may be due to physiological causes such as the malnutrition found in rickets and marasmus. A form of malnutrition, uncommon in this country, and especially found in Switzerland and other countries of high altitude, is a condition known as cretinism. Although uncommon in the United States it is well for pedagogues to recognize this condition.	Cretinism is characterized by physical and

mental nondevelopment.	People thus afflicted are small in stature,

have a large face; there is a jelly-like swelling under the skin, called myxoedema; the tongue is laTge and protrudes from the mouth; the teeth are usually carious; the lower jaw droops; the eyes are puffy; strabismus —squint—is frequently present; the hair is dry and thin; the abdomen is pendulous, a typical potbelly; the lower extrimities are very short; the gait is wabbling and heavy, the Germans call it “Baerengang”; the forehead is flat and retracted; the head is flat on top, and the occiput is poorly developed, giving the head a box-shaped appearance. The nose is short, broad and flat. Hearing and speech are. often defective. The muscles are weak, and there is a mental state of idiocy or imbecility.

Sporadic cases found in the United States usuailv show no myxoedema but there may be a diminution in size, a thickness of the neck, shortness of the lower extrimities, prominence of the abdomen, large face, thick lips, large and protruding tongue and mental degeneracy or uondevelopment. The cases respond readily to treatment with thyroid extract, animal food and cod-liver oil. (It is, of course, always required to consult a physician, psychiatrist or psychologist, according to the nature of the case and the degree of the physical and mental status producing the slowness, sluggishness and retardation.)

Spinal curvature is another physical abnormality needing correction on account of the injurious effect, the unnatural pressure produced on the vital organs interfering with their function. The curvature is usually lateral and is recognized by the child’s posture, one shoulder being higher than the other and one scapula protruding. Scoliosis is very amenable to treatment by certain gymnastic exercises if the child is not beyond thirteen years of age.

Microcephalic and hydrocephalic children have been operated on with varying success. Some surgeons state that operation should be tried in every case, as good results have been secured in some cases.

Cleft palate and hare-lip should be remedied by operative procedure. If the teeth are not in their proper relative position, or, if they are

Digitized by LjOoq le
-214-

diseased, parents should be notified by the teacher, school nurse or medical inspector, that the child needs the attention of the dentist, as the teeth are of special importance for the welfare of the child.

Phonation and articulation, if defective, should be improved by patient instruction. Stammering and stuttering children must be properly trained. These defects are often due to imagination or imitation. Speech can frequently be improved bv teaching singing. Stuttering children should be taught correct coordination of the jnuscles of the pharynx and larynx and stammering is curable by breathing exercises.

The hearing of a’child may be tested by the teacher noting the distance at which a watch can be heard ticking. It is best to make this test without the child seeing the watch. Or, the hearing may be tested by means of a tuning fork, by clapping hands, dropping a marble on the table or by blowing a whistle. It should be borne in mind that a child may not be sound-deaf but it may be word-deaf, which may be due to middle-ear disease. The test for worddeafness is best made by using monosyllabic words while the mouth of the examiner is covered to guard against lipreading.

The eyesight of a child is often defective. Poor spelling and reading is frequently due to inability to see the letters distinctly on account of myopia or astigmatism or both. Defective vision is readily tested by the teacher by means of the test-cards now in use in most of the schools. Defective eyesight should be suspected in every case complaining of headaches after some exertion or loss of interest. The child with some optic defect may pay attention for a short while and then, become totally apathetic on account of fatigue of the ciliary muscle which is in a state of constant tension during the accommodation necessary to clearly distinguish near objects. If a child has strabismus— squint—or any other defect of the eyes, he should wear glasses. On the other hand, all inflammatory affections of the eyes should receive prompt appropriate treatment. Teachers should never forget to write plainly and distinctly on the blackboard and so that the writing is clearly seen from the greatest distance in the room.

.Among the most common afflictions retarding pupils are nasopharyngeal obstructions such as adenoids, hypertrophied tonsils, nasal or pharyngeal polypi, hypertrophic nasal mucous membrane, nasal spurs and deviation of the nasal septum. Any of these, if present, prevent the entrance of a sufficient amount of air into the lungs, and inefficient oxygenation of the blood is the result. Such a child is very prone to catch cold, and dangerous diseases may be the consequences, because tKe air inhaled is insufficient and most of it is breathed through the mouth instead of ‘the nose where it would be cleansed, moistened and warmed by the nasal mucous membrance. The most common obstructions found in children are adenoids or hypertrophied tonsils. One of* the most frequently observed symptoms of obstruction to inhalation is the open mouth of the child, particularly during sleep. Other symptoms are the turned-up nose with a flat bridge; the face may have a sullen, expressionless appearance; the child looks silly. The chest is often flat

Digitized by Google
—215—

and there may be a depression at the seventh rib, the so-called Harrison*s groove. The scapulae stand out prominently. The child looks at you but is apathetic. He cannot fix his attention on a subject for any length of time, a condition called aprosexia. This is combined with a poor memory. Headaches may also be complained of, with a feeling of fullness and pressure in the head due to an engorgement of the nasal veins with stagnant venous blood full of carbon dioxide. There is an autointoxication from a superabundance ofC02. At night there is great restlessness, tossing from one position to another; the child snores in his sleep, has bad dreams and may have night terrors. It is asserted by some writers that this may lead to serious nervous conditions such as chorea an$ even epilepsy. The carbon dioxide in the body irritates the nervous system and may be the cause of enuresis. Imperfect articulation, stammering and stuttering have been attributed solely to adenoids. Dr. Moritz Schmidt has reported two cases of pseudo-meningitis occur-ing in young children due to adenoids, being entirely cured by nothing but the removal of the growths from the pharyngeal wall. Cases have been diagnosticated as idiots, which, after the operation for adenoids, became perfectly normal mentally. Incorrigibles and irritable children have been entirely changed in their behavior after the adenoids were removed. A child afflicted with adenoids may have a defective hearing on account of the extension of the growths, or the swollen mucous membrane occluding, partially or entirely, the pharyngeal orifice of the eustachian tube, thus preventing the equalization of air pressure on the eardrum.

An examination of the throat in a suspected case is not always easy and should be left to the physician or specialist in doubtful cases. However, teachers may, on account of circumstances, have to make the examination. In most cases this may be done by wrapping a bandage or handkerchief around the index finger, to guard against the child biting the finger of the examiner. The finger is now passed back to the posterior wall and roof of the pharynx where the adenoids can readily be felt. They feel like velvety protuberances and bleed easily on the slightest pressure of the finger. They are usually massed together like bunches of grapes.

When adenoids or hypertrophied tonsils—which are often found to exist simultaneously—or any other obstruction to the free entrance of air into the lungs, are found in the naso-pharyngeal passageway, the superfluous tissue should be removed most thoroughly. But it must always be borne in mind that adenoids have a tendency to recur and should- be removed as often as they present themselves. Although they usually disappear at puberty, they should be removed before this period of life sets in in order to avoid the serious and undesirable consequences observed in a great many cases.

Teachers must also study the mental capacity of the child and derive all knowledge possibly attainable concerning the pupil’s traits, temperament and character. The ability of paying attention, the willpower and memory of the child should be known to the pedagogue. Teachers should let the pupils rise for some form of recreation-

Digitized by L^OOQie
-216-

exercise whenever jt is noticed that the power of paying attention vanishes; this stimulates the circulation of the blood and thus nourishment is carried to and effete matter is taken away from the brain. We must also remember that every mental process is connected with every other one and, interpret the sum total of our observations by analysis, and, to a degree, draw our conclusions of the child’s attention, endurance, willpower, memory, acuity of perception and emotions by our experience, power of observation and judgment. The study of the child’s mentality and character is of great moment to direct his mental progress. Teachers should always remember the end in view, to make a self-supporting individual of every pupil for the benefit of himself and the entire community.

, In order to secure these desirable results discipline is of first importance and should in some cases closely approach suggestion, but prison-discipline should not be resorted to except in special cases and in classes of defectives. The mentally deficient require a firmer discipline than the normal pupils.

In teaching strongheaded, stubborn childen a great deal can be done by persuasion. Obstinacy may cause defective speech and even mutism. This is, however, only a trait of character and non-pathol-ogical, as egomania is a selfish trait of character. Jealousy may also merely be a trait of character and is then amenable to treatment.

The proper rearing of a child is, then, dependent on the personality of the teacher and his, or her, ability to study, handle and teach the individual pupil. Pedagogues must know whether the child is alert, willing or willful; firm or flexible; stubborn or vacillating. The stubborn child is not so difficult to train as the flexible. The vacillating must be changed and directed in the right paths before puberty or evil results are usually inevitable. It is also well to know whether the child is amiable or quarrelsome, responsive or passive, sullen of complaicant. Every trait must be treated accordingly. Emotional dispositions must be found out and properly dealt with. It is well to have a great deal of affection for our pupils but this must not become too obvious to them, we must not pour affection over them.

To attain the elevation of mankind to a higher level our efforts must be directed in two distinct lines, the mental and the physical; but they must never and can never be dissociated, they should go hand in hand and side by side, as the mental is largely dependent on the physical. Therefore, physical training ought to form an important part of the curriculum of every school, and must be handled as a branch of education in a thoroughly pedagogical manner in all its parts. Hence, teachers must be familiar with physical education in all its subdivisions. Special attenton should be given out-of-door exercises and particularly games suited for the respective grade. More was accomplished in our efforts to introduce our educational methods into Porto Rico by the playing of base-ball than by anything else, according to the statement of our first commissioner of education in Porto Rico. Gymnastics properly taught are of great aid to the teacher and help the pupil .in his

Digitized by Google
-217-

progress on account of the enhancement of physiological functions, maintenance of health, creation of endurance and general physical vigor. Games are particularly destined to promote good fellowship, subservience to rules and laws that must be obeyed, thus laying a strongs foundation for altruistic democratism with the motto: all for one and one for all. But this is not all; physical education is also of psychical value, it promotes and improves discipline and attention, memory and judgment, alertness, volition and courage, and the sense of morality is at the same time strengthened.

In conclusion the following may he said: to secure satisfactory individual education these factors must be kept in mind:	'

1.	Proper attention to the physical welfare of the child, including diet, hygiene and physical exercise.

2.	Pupils should be given the best environment possibly, attainable, including the home, the school and the company of the child.

3.	Children should he examined for possible physical defects and treated accordingly.

4.	The child’s characteristic traits should he studied.

5.	Pupils should be classified according to their ability and. character.

6.	Overcrowding of rooms and too many pupils for one teacher should be guarded against.

7.	The best guidance of the pupils at the hands of the fittest trainers obtainable,, regardless of expense, should be secured.

8.	Nothing should be spared, The best is just good enough’ in the task of rearing useful, self-supporting, mentally and physically highly cultured citizens.

USEFUL DANCING FROM THE STANDPOINT OF PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By Dudley A. Sargent, M. D., Hemenway Gymnasium Harvard University.

(Conclnderl.)

Of all the rhythmic exercises in which mankind have participated, the time honored dance has first place in the universality of its practice. All peoples, savage and civilized, in all ages have had some form of dancing, and the variety of movements that have been performed under this term are almost as numerous as the peoples who have indulged in them. I do not propose, however, in this brief paper to say anything of the history of dancing. According to the Encyclopedia Britannica the term dancing in the widest sense includes three things:	(1)	the

spontaneous activity of the muscles under the influence of some strong emotion, -such as social joy or religious exaltation; (2) definite combinations of graceful movements performed for the sake of pleasure which the exercise affords to the dancer or to the spectator; (3) carefully trained movements which are meant by the dancer vividly to represent the activities and passions of other people, such as are shown in pantomime. It seems to me that it is the second variety—that is, the

Digitized by L^ooQie
definite combination of graceful movements performed for the sake of the pleasure which the exercise affords to the dancer and the spectator —which most concerns us as physical educators. In analyzing the state of mind which this measured dancing produces, we must first of all allow for the pleasant glow of excitement caused by the excess of blood sent to the brain. In this respect, however, dancing does not differ in its immediate effects from running, horseback riding, swimming, and some other exercises. But apart from the exhilaration caused by an excessive flow of blood to the brain, there is an agreeable sense of uniformity in the succession of muscular efforts and in the spaces described, and also in the period of their recurrence. This agreeable exhilaration is also experienced by children in swinging, teetering, etc. Even if the steps of dancing and the intervals of time be not precisely equal, there is still pleasure, depending on the gradually increasing intensity of motion, or the undulation which rises in order to fall. Undulatory movements, says Herbert Spencer, are habitually generated by feeling in its bodily discharge. This is the reason probably why Florizel says to Perdita in Shakespeare’s “A Winter’s Tale”:	“When	you dance I

wish you a wave of the sea.” The mind feels the beauty of emphasis and cadence in muscular motion just as much as in musical notes. This is especially true in what is termed esthetic or classic dancing and is shared bv the dancer as well as the teacher or the spectator. Other sources of pleasure to the mind are the lingering, graceful movement, curves of trunk and limbs, the transition steps and pirouettes, the beautiful gestures, and the perfect poise that accompanies every figure of the dance. All such efforts are greatly intensified by the use of music, which brings a perfectly distinct set of pleasurable sensations to dancer and spectator, while the control of dancing produces an inexpressibly sweet harmony of sound and motion. Another secret source of the esthetic pleasure of classic dancing to the spectator is, in my opinion, the absence of an attempt on the part of the performer to play his or her own accompaniment on tambourine, bones, or castanets. All musical sound should come from the piano or orchestra and not from the hands or feet of the performer, as in certain of the Spanish dances and the jigs, clogs, and double shuffles with which all of us are more or less familiar. This style of dance, though rhythmic, is essentially noisy and jerky, and affects us very much as does the wearing of loud colors, or the beating of time with hands and fingers, or stamping with the feet. It does not appeal to our esthetic sense and we soon tire of it. As to the physical effects of dancing: ordinary dancing as an exercise does not compare favorably with rowing, swimming, and many other forms of gymnastics and athletics. The action is confined chiefly to the muscles of the thighs, calves, and feet, while the muscles of the arms, chest, back, and shoulders are quite neglected. The ballet girl’s calves and the blacksmith’s biceps have long been held up to us by the physiologists as example of highly specialized development. As a general thing, when a few muscles are so highly developed others are likely to fall below the normal, and we have again in the ballet girls examples

Digitized by

Google
—219—

of emaciated arms and shrunken chests, which have made this class of artists an easy prey to consumption and like diseases. While it is undoubtedly true that thin arms and a light, slender trunk may render it. easier for the ballet girl to do much more difficult manoeuvers with her feet and legs, the physiological effect of the exercise is greatly lessened by so neglecting the upper part of the body, The modern gymnasium dancing complies more completely with the requirements of good exercise, because the arms, trunk, and legs are brought more generally into action. While the exercises for the feet and calves are not so intense or concentrated as those of the ballet girls, the range and extent of movement in the gymnasium dancing is greater. Not only are the chest, shoulders, and back muscles considerably developed by the free use of the arms, but so many of the muscles of the lower back, abdomen, and thighs are used that great respiratory power is required to sustain the extended action—hence the chest walls are expanded by the effort. Undoubtedly the breathing function is also greatly improved by the abandonment of the corset during the practice of dancing exercises. The constriction of the waist in the ordinary ball room costume interferes decidedly with the action of the heart and lungs and makes it impossible to get much good exercise out of social dancing. The physical effort required is still further reduced by waxing the floor so that one may easily glide and slide over its surface as if upon ice. With modern gymnasium dancing the foot grips the floor as tenaciously as in boxing or fencing, and a smooth floor renders artistic execution impossible. The good solid work that may be done under these conditions, i. e., with a rough floor, makes dancing as trying on the respiration as running or swimming, and consequently as good a developer of the heart and lungs as these exercises.

Girls in good physical condition can keep up t]ie esthetic dancing for an hour with very few rests or pauses. It would trouble a university athlete to keep up the same kind of dancing twenty minutes unless he was accustomed to it. The work done in one hour is equivalent to a walk of about ten miles. From a developmental point of view the most pronounced effect, as might be expected, is produced upon the muscles of the calves. If these are small they are rapidly increased in size and strength. If they are fat they are as quickly reduced to normal proportions. The strength of these muscles in women who have practiced dancing together with other form of gymnastics for two or three years ranges from 300 to 600 pounds. At the same time the muscles of the feet and ankles are strengthened, the arches are elevated, the insteps raised, and the individual toes so developed as to give one a much firmer hold of the ground and consequently a much more graceful poise in walking, running, or social dancing. The quadriceps muscles grow hard and firm, and if the thighs and hips are inclined to be too fat this excess of flesh is soon reduced. The muscles of the arms, chest, abdomen, and back, aside from the work that they do in forced respiration, do not get as much employment from dancing as they ought to get to keep them in good condition. For this reason dancing should always be supplemented by other forms of gymnastics, such as are fur-
- 220 -

nished by dumb-bells, clubs, wands, free exercises, and the German and Swedish apparatus. It is a great mistake, even from a dancer's point of view, to neglect the ordinary forms of gymnastics and athletics. The dancing helps to give'the gymnast more grace, poise and finish of movement, and the gymnastics give the dancer more health, strength, and endurance.

One of the principal objects of the introduction of dancing into our gymnastic courses is to use these rhythmic exercises as a means of attaining grace, suppleness, and an easy carriage in our pupils. Many of our gymnastic exercises as they are- practiced, I regret to say, tend to give just the reverse. The first essential in the attainment of grace is to avoid short, angular, and jerky movements, and to learn to do everything, even the most difficult exercises, with the least expenditure of power and .energy. This implies considerable muscular strength and great muscular endurance and control. As soon as the dancer loses her balance or poise, holds one arm too straight and bends the other one at to sharp an angle, or puts too much stress on this movement and too little on that, or makes too much effort altogether, the harmony is lost, gracefulness is not attained, and the figure produced is liable to be a biirlesque or a caricature.

A few years ago, when the classic dancing was first used in our gymnasiums, some of the more proficient pupils undertook to imitate the tour de force of the ballet girls and to dance on the points of their toes. Their efforts failed to receive the desired appreciation, not because they were not well executed but because the performances gave the impression of a pamful effort on the part of the dancers. In standing or walking on the points of the toes, the feet and the legs must necessarily be held stiff and straight. There is no bending at the toes, ankles, and knees, and consequently no easy and graceful flexions and extensions of the feet and legs,, but all the stiffness and non-elasticity of a person walking on pegs or stilts. This kind of dancing may be gratifying to those who are fond of seeing "stunts” or acrobatic performances, but it can not be called esthetic dancing, because it does not appeal to our esthetic sentiments. If the reader will contrast the "fixed knee” dancing of Miss Duncan and the "straight toe” dancing of Miss Genee, the illustration will be to the point.

The emotional effect of esthetic dancing is very pronounced Upon the dancer, the teacher, and the spectator. Just what this emotional effect really is I must leave for the psychologists and metaphysicians To' decide. There is no doubt, however, that dancers, when in perfect accord with all of the requirements of their art, sometimes feel that joyous thrill of exhilaration that singers, actors, orators, and musicians frequently experience when they have given expression to some soul-stirring passage, or struck a sympathetic chord with their audience. I have fancied that I experienced the same joyous thrill in making a home run in baseball, or in accomplishing some difficult feat in gymnastics that I had been a long time practicing. Most of us have seen an audience wild with emotional excitement over a close contest in foot-

Digitized by L^OOQie
-221-

ball, and I have seen a German audience equally stirred emotionally by witnessing 3000 turners go through a wand drill simultaneously.

Analize it as we may, there is something that occasionally comes % back to pupil and teacher in their efforts to attain artistic results that is worth all the hard labor that must necessarily be gone through before such results can be realized. I have long pleaded for more artistic work in general gymnastics and athletics. I am pleased to note that in all forms of light and heavy gymnastics, there is at the present day a growing tendency to give more attention to precision of movement and to grace, finish, and beauty of performance than ever before. This is a consummation devoutly to be wished. I do not know of any one thing that has contributed more to the general tendency to strive for artistic results than the practice of esthetic dancing.

Athletic Competition of College or Preparatory School, or Competition Preparatory to Entering College/

By William F. Slocum, President of Colorado College, Colorado Springs, Col.

It is only about fifty years since the revival of scientific physical education and training. In fact it was not until after the Civil War that much attention was paid to the subject. As late as 1855 President Stearns of 4m It erst in his annual report to the trustees says, “The waning of the physical energies in the midway of college course is almost the rule, rather than the exception and cases of complete breaking down are painfully numerous.”

In 1859 he returns lo the same subject in his report of that year and says, speaking of the breaking down of the health of the students: “Physical exercises is neglected, the laws of health are violated. The once active student soon becomes physically indolent, his mental powers become dulled, his movements and appearance indicate physical deterioration. By the time Junior year is reached many students have broken down in health, and every year some lives are sacrificed.” This is a fair representation of conditions in all the American Colleges until 1860 when the first gymnasiums in this country were built at Harvard, Yale and Amherst Colleges. ITp to that time athletic sports were hardly in evidence in the United States, and yet it is admitted bv all that physical instruction is at the basis of education and enters in a most important manner into the mental and moral training of all children and youth. That much has been accomplished in the last fifty years is very apparent, and it is just as clear that there is still very much to he done and also there are at the present time some very unfortunate tendencies, especially as the outcome of the intense competition in the athletic sports of the present day which are taking the place which ought to he given to scientific physical education.

A solution of the problem growing out of this intense competitive *

* National Educational Association, Denver, July, 1909. Address before Department of Physical Education.

Digitized by v^ooQie
—222-

spirit can be reached only by a careful examination of the true and of physical culture. The aim should always be to produce normal men and women and not abnormal. A normal person is one who conforms to an essential type or form, and that type or form accords with nature's authorative standard. A normal heart will perform its proper function as nature intended it should. An enlarged heart is not a normal heart. A muscle greatly enlarged beyond its natural size, and which ;s not coordinated with the other functions of the body, nor with the natural and legitimate claims that life makes upon a man.

The Greek idea has not been surpassed which, as Charles Kingsley put it was “To produce health, that is harmony and symetry and grace, in every faculty of mind and body/’ ,This Greek idea was to harmonize soni and body. Dr. Sargent of Harvard University reminds that according to Grote, Greece devoted more time to physical training of her youth than to all other branches of education combined. This was one reason why the training for the Greek games was so carefully regulated, not only in regard to diet, bathing, hours of rest and practice, but also to one's intellectual and moral associations.

Perfect normality exists where each function of mind and body performs its function just as nature intended that it should. It should also be kept distinctly in mind that one finds a perfectly normal human being only where there is a perfect interaction of all physical organs as well as of the mind. A distinguished writer upon physical culture says that “Physical education has to do with the nerves as well as the muscles ” It should be added, however, that normality can be obtained only as there is a proper interaction of mind and muscles and nerves, and some day it will be recognized that the teacher of physical training is just as much a trainer of the mind and of the moral nature as is the instructor of logic, psychology or ethics. Dr. Paul Dubois in his “Psychic Treatment of Nervous Disorders” has made clear that the interrelation of mental and physical education is very .close and of vast importance. “Every organic disease has its counterpart in nervousness”, and this distinguished physician adds, “The characteristic thing in nervous cases is not their pains, but their mentality.” He tells us further that what is called fatigue has a psychic element and that this has not been sufficiently recognized. True fatigue is doubled by the autosuggestion of fatigue. “Soldiers on a forced march declare often they cannot take another step. Let the music of the regiment be played, and you will see these men resume their march almost at a quick step.” He adds. “They were fatigued, but under the influence of fatigue, their morals had awakened, and they saw their fatigue through the magnifying glass of their unhealthy pessimism.” To this Dr. William Gilbert x\n-derson. Director of the Yale University School of Physical Education adds, “The trained man brings to the aid of his intellect entire control of a strong and adaptable body: and therein lies the value of judicious physical training. “Many people commit the error’, he tells us, “of thinking that the production of a muscular giant, at the expense of the intellect, is the chief object of systems of exercise. As a matter of fact, modem physical education aims to assist the whole man towards symmetrical development, mental and moral as well as bodily,” and to that
—223—

Dr. Edward Mussey Hartwell, than whom there can be no better authority, adds, “Professional athletes through their special training are a class apart by themselves and are proverbial for their stupidity and brutality.” While it is true that the body is an essential and cooperative ally in developing menial activity, it is even a more important truth that the mind is an essential and cooperative ally in developing a healthy body. Such men as Wundt, Helmoltz, Muller and Harvey have made it clear that “Not a feeling can arise, not a thought pass, without a set of concurring bodily processes.” Juvenal’s time-worn saying, mens Sana in eorpore sano has taken on a very far reaching meaning under the scientific investigations and spirit of modern study of the inter-relation of psychology and physiology.

The ultimate end of physical training is to develop the power of •self-control, a control which is positive and not negative. It enables the individual to yield and utilize all his mental forces and his physical powers for a high and definite end.

Recognizing this to be true it is not difficult to discover some of the defects in the system of physical training which is the outcome of athletic competition in colleges and preparatory schools. Without doubt foot-ball, as now played, has trained men in self-control and given them power which has counted in the bringing of things to pass in after life; hut the underlying fault in the game as at present conducted is that it is not so much true sport as it is a fight conducted on the basis of war-, fare. The men are trained to win a victory over someone else; they are coached, trained, scolded, ordered about, not to say abused, often by men intellectually and sometimes morally inferior to themselves, for the one definite purpose of fighting another set of men in a physical conquest which always has as a dominating element in the minds of the players, the defeat of the enemy in a battle. When a certain number of these fights have taken place then the real end of all the physical training having been fulfilled, the contestants “go out of training” just as does the prize fighter. Meantime there has not been physical training for the many, but. only for the few who are preparing for the contest. The instructions of the trainer, the conversation of the players and those who take sides, often with wagers of money wrhich intensify their feelings, are much the same as one might hear on the eve of a great pugilistic fight, where the purpose is for one man to knock down another with his fist. There is much skill no doubt in these contests, and powers of endurance is tested to its limit. Sometimes the opposing teams, after a while, will have friendly conferences, just as old soldiers do who have fought each other on the battle field; but all that does not change the mental and moral attitude which takes possession of whole institutions including faculties, and the student body and all who encourage chem in the contests.

Without doubt such training does develop will power on the part of the players and so carries out the German idea of athletics, but that it is the true method of producing men who are mentally or physically normal, no one with the true conceptions of the end of human life can possibly claim.
Aside from the moral and intellectual influences which are the outcome of these undesirable competition sports, there is the very serious fact in both college and secondary schools, that a large part of the work done in our gymnasiums is adjusted to the training of the men who are to enter these contests, and too often the great mass of students who most need normal physical training secure very little. It is only the strongest and best developed men who are wanted for these teams and they are the ones who least of all need the gymnasiums.

It too often happens that the great mass of young people who require painstaking “Corrective work” under well-equipped instructors and medical advisers are neglected. ' When one considers the surprisingly large number of young people who have curvature of the spine to a greater or less degree, how many shoulders need “corrective work”, how many of the vital organs should have special physical exercises for the normal activity, and when also one recognizes the admirable work that is done today along these lines for the betterment of human life, it is easily recognized that there are grave faults in the physical training of many of our schools and colleges.

If it is true that health means holiness, as Dr. Stanley Hall claims, it is also true that this “holiness” is dependent upon “the wholeness” which comes when the human body is made to act and re-act in all its delicately inter-related organs and functions.

While it is true that fresh air, sunlight, cleanliness, good food, good water are necessary conditions of physical vigor, yet these of themselves will not correct a curvature of the spine which requires special physical’ apparatus and the direction of a thorough-going, well-trained instructor. The question which should ever be kept in view is, what will best prepare the pupils and students, men and women, for the work and the responsibilities of life? Is the intense competitive spirit engendered by such games as foot-ball, as carried on between the schools in America, producing the broadest, the noblest and the sanest results? That is the question which must be answered in the attempt to meet the important and fundamental problem which we have been asked to discuss.

In this connection there is another question which it is well for us Americans to consider as we discuss physical training. That is, have we as yet learned how to enjoy sufficiently true sport for its own sake? Our English friends in opposition to the German idea that muscles must be developed through the will, maintain with much good sense, that the best physique is secured unconsciously by means of athletic sports, especially in the open air. That is why the man at Oxford or Cambridge who is not devoted to some one sport at least, like tennis, cricket or rowing, is not regarded as quite normal or in “good form”. Certainly much of that wholesome, manly, anglo-Saxon vigor of old England which has led to great achievements throughout the world, is the outcome of the good health that one finds in a certain class of Englishmen who all their lives have enjoyed good sport. They of all other people have learned, especially at their secondary schools and universities, to enjoy sport for its own sake, and while they have not done as much as the Americans in the establishment and conduct , of gymnasiums, yet they
-225-

have gained much by the healthful games which they play in the open air. Out-of-door sports are coming into vogue more and more in America, hut our cousins over the water still excell us in this respect.

The corrective and constructive work of modern scientifically conducted gymnasiums is essential, but nature will do her 'work for both mind and body when the strong play instinct is given opportunity to work out its beneficent results, when with joyous exercises in the open air, one forgets himself in his sport and lets nature have her own way of working out her own results with brain, nerves and muscles.

Discussion.

By Ira B. Fee, Deputy State Supt. of Public Instruction, Wyoming.

This discussion is confined to the competitive phase of athletics, of which there are three branches which particularly attract the boys of the hiirh school, foot-ball, basket-ball and track, which in some places is displaced by base-ball or is jointly given attention. I shall briefly consider the three first mentioned.	»

Foot-ball in secondary schools is played by undeveloped boys from fifteen to nineteen years of age. The game in itself is exciting and abounds in opportunities for good “team-work”. A great mental acumen can be developed bv the training that it gives. But I believe the benefit derived is more that counterbalanced by the risk of physical injury and this is the almost unanimous verdict of the physicians with whom I have talked concerning this branch of athletics

Track athletics in some of the events, such as throwing of weights, jumping, hurdling and vaulting are splendid. The long distance runs, however, I unqualifiedly condemn for boys of the school age. The long and grualling contest is a painful tax on the heart and lungs, and cases have several times come under my own observation where boys, competing in the distance runs, have as a result become incurably afflicted with valvular hearty trouble.

Basket-ball, for competitive sports, I regard the ideal game. It has all the advantages of team work and quickness of decision that accompany the game of foot-ball without the inevitable wick of injury.

There are two chief objections, however, to the whole system of competitive athletics, and these I regard as serious. First, the custom of selecting for our teams the well-developed, powerfully built boys, with no provision for the physical training of those less fortunate. Second, competing teams must at frequent intervals be absent from school in order to make the journey to the home of the opposing team.

I w ould advocate the encouragement on the part of our great N. E. A. of compulsory physical training for boys and girls, and the aim of this training he such as to develop mind and body alike and to produce normal men and women. This training should be consistently given not only in the high school but in the grades of the entire school system. The teachers in all the departments of the schools should be required to he able to supervise this physical training successfully before a certificate is granted. I would advocate that the better forms of eom-

Digitized by v^ooQle
—226—

petitive athletics, such as basket-ball, base-ball, and track with the exclusion of the distance runs be retained. With the stamp of approval given hv the National Educational Association to this plan 1 believe that the true aim of physical training, the production of NORMAL MEN AND WOMEN, will not long be delayed.

THE WORTH OF ATHLETICS.

Dr. E. H. Nichols, of Harvard, lectured recently before the Harvard medical school on “Competitive Athletics/7 summing up the values ana! faults of intercollegiate sports. Dr. Nichols said he believed the virtues outweighed the evils and that he was a strong believer in competitive athletics in colleges.

Developing tenacity of purpose, encouraging a spirit of fair play sometimes, teaching obedience, combination, co-ordination and co-operation, self-sacrifice, and the training and managing of men and teams, and chiefly training the men to do their duty under pressure, he sums up as the valuable points of competitive athletics. The objectionable features, Dr. Nichols finds, are that too great publicity and notoriety is given to successful athletes, too much money is spent in big colleges on sports and the maintenance of teams, the likelihood that health will suffer from over-devotion to games, and last of all the modern coaching-system.

Dr. Nichols says he believes that competitive sports do not develop physical courage, as currently they are supposed to do. “Physical courage, that is, the willingness to take knocks and endure pain for a cause—is one of the commonest traits in the world/7 says Dr. Nichols. Elesewhere he remarks:	“The	amount	of	physical suffering incurred

in the games, excluding accidental injury, is enormously exaggerated. It varies, to be sure, in the different games. The man who rows four miles does suffer from extreme fatigue and from shortness of breath, but the extreme test of a long row occurs but a few times during the season.

“The track man who runs a violent short sprint is ‘run out7 for a few minutes, but so is a man who runs to catch a trolley car. The man who runs a long-distance race suffers much as does the oarsman. Tho base hall player, if skillful, suffers no pain, unless accidently hit by n ball. The foot ball player, of course, runs the greatest risk of physical injury, but the fact is that the skilled foot ball man does not, as a rule, suffer pain.

“On the whole, the amount of pain and suffering endured is not as great in any of the games as is popularly supposed, and if that is true, the resulting development of physical courage also may be less than is ordinarily estimated.77

The drudgery of keeping in training for an athletic contest is a thing which helps to develop the athlete7s tenacity of purpose, Dr. Nichols says, and the uncongenial things he has to do to bring out the best side of his character in those lines. As to fair play, he notes that

Digitized by v^ooQle
-227-

this is not always present, and he speaks of language and actions by athletes which are of the most ungentlemanly sort. “These meannesses are more commonly, but not always, performed by members of losing teams/’ he says. “This, I suppose, is due to the fact that almost any one is able to be a graceful winner, but to be a graceful loser is not so easy.”

The obedience to orders he classes with the military training that the Continental young men get in their enforced service, and this and the necessary team work of most of the games he endorses as good things. He says he thinks little of the theory that athletics keep young, men out of bad habits. That makes the chances of their going bad in later life, when they are out of college or school, much too strong, he says.

Proselytizing—that is doing missionary work among school athletes --he says, is one of the worst features of the present day sport. He deplores, also, that so much attention is given by the newspapers to important college contests—so much that the athletes get an exaggerated idea of their own importance. The large amount of money spent on sport also gives the athletes the idea that they are entitled to anything they choose to ask for and encourages a luxury which rightly should not exist.

The strongest point made is against the present coaching system in sports. Of this system he says:	“'This	has arisen in two very natural

ways. In many cases it appears to have •started from the accidental presence at one or more colleges of an intelligent, unemployed former athlete, who naturally enough was consulted by the succeeding captains. As a result of the exercise of trained intelligence and of superior experience the team of such an institution begins to win an unusual proportion of victories, and the defeated competitors later endeavor, with more or less success, to introduce similar methods into their own games. By extensive imitation this process has become almost universal throughout the country.

“At first the graduate coach gave his services from a sense of loyalty *to his college, but as competition became keener and more time had to be given only rarely could a competent athlete be found who was able to give an adequate amount of time, and then began the period of paid graduates. Then it appeared that graduates who were adequate to the task of developing successful teams could, in most cases, succeed better by exercising their brains along more important lines. Thereupon arose the tendency, now marked, to replace the paid graduate bv paid professionals, who are much more easily obtained and can be retained permanently. In other cases the coach, in that case called a Trainer/ wras originally a professional, engaged to have a semi-medical supervision over men engaged in special sports. As a result of these two methods it seems as if soon all the sports will he directed by paid professionals.

“Now when it comes to coaching there may be some difference of opinion as to which is best, the unpaid graduate or the paid professional. A graduate, because of his reputation and social standing and the deference which the hoys pay to his opinions, undoubtedly has a
-228-

greater chance for good influence upon under-graduates than does the professional. On the other hand an unscrupulous graduate has a greater chance for doing harm, as the undergraduates are more readily influenced by him. The whole thing depends upon the character of the man, the moral effect of some graduates being poor, while that of some professionals is good. The present coaching system is an outgrowth of the need, not of avoiding physical injury, but of the necessity of winning.

“This entire coaching system seems to me an undesirable development of what is really a boys’ game. Dean Briggs has said that ‘athletics have grown to be something more than a boys’ game,’ but to my mind they should not be allowed to be anything more. The really great good of the boys’ games seems to me to lie in putting the boys on their own responsibility and making them work out their own salvation. For that reason I am opposed to all coaching of teams, by graduates or professionals, because the employment of paid coaches implies that the games are of greater importance than they really are.

“It wrould be said in answer that the teams would in that case be not as good. That is granted, but what of it? The attraction of the games is not their perfection, but lies in the fact that we are all partisans. I have no objection to professional coaches, or to teachers of the technique of games for individuals, but I am extremely opposed to their having the control and development of the teams.

The difficulty in changing this system is great. . The custom of employing coaches, graduate or professional, is nearly universal. No one college can, by act of legislation, change the point of view of the American public. Hpwever, if one college makes this step, and continues to compete in athletics, it is a great disadvantage in its competition, and ds certain not to win a fair or reasonable percentage of the victories.

“I agree with Dean Briggs, that a continued series of defeats by competitors is a bad business, not only for the development of the boys * on the teams, but for the college itself, and for its graduates; it implies, in the mind of the world, which sees only results and not the means by which they are attained, a general inefficiency of the methods, brains and men of the defeated college. I believe, also, how'ever, that a very small number of leading colleges could combine and make this step, and that they could in this way accomplish much good. The undesirable factors in athletics have grown up by imitation; T believe that desirable factors also would be imitated.”

Dr. Nichols’s conclusion is that the good far outweighs the bad, “especially so since the evils seem to me controllable—the extravagance by the removal of the money which makes it possible, the excessive work and injury by adequate medical supervision, the coaching evils by the abolition of the system and the distortion of relative values by changes in the points of view of parents and by increasing requirement of work by faculties.”

Digitized by booQle
Mind and body. #

SibMriptiOH Price, $1.00 per Year.

—Published Monthly.

»Y

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO. ^tgH-CTSL-uJc**, WUconein..

«“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

—HERE IS A REFRESHING bit of news, showing that the great fresh-air agitation of the past few years is at last beginning to bear fruits even in out of the way places. “Fifty weavers employed in the Meridian, Miss., cotton mills, struck and refused to work because the management refused a request that the windows be kept open. The mill officials declared that the open windows interfered with the operation of the humidifiers.’* May the the time soon come when the average school teachers will do likewise when school architects, business managers, janitors etc. try to make them believe that they have a better way of getting fresh air than by means of the windows.

—ONE OF THE ENCOURAGING signs showing the modern tendency to shield children from bad influences of all kinds in order that they may grow up healthy and strong is the stand taken by many judges of the juvenile courts. In New Orleans the factory inspector (a woman) brought before Judge Wilson the proprietor of a ten cent vaudeville show charging him with having violated the child labor law by allowing a ten year old girl named Rosemary Shields to take part in the show.

Amid the floods of sentimentality in which this subject has been drowned of late, it is refreshing to find a judge laying down the law as follows :

There can be no doubt of the proposition that the power to legislate for the protection of children is lodged in the legislature, that a broad and safe discretion is permitted, and that unless a law is cruel, unjust, arbitrary or unreasonable, it should be accepted by the people of the stale and enforced by the courts . . .

On the other hand, from the humblest performance to the most magnificent, everyone represents toil and labor and work of the hardest and most exacting nature and stands for self-sacrifice and effort, and physical as well as mental toil, and labor that only professional men and women can appreciate. That it does develop into professional work, and that the stage most honorably and creditably has risen to a professional standard is true, but that it does not stand for hard work, and labor and constant toil, physical as well as mental, I cannot and will not accept. The beautiful child involved in this matter had six days of training preparatory to her appearance, and has appeared twice daily for a half hour. As I said above, I cannot accept the proposition that even for this dear little girl her efforts have not been as labor and work, and I conscientiously believe her employment and occupation as charged is violative of the statute.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google
PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR GIRLS OF HIGH SCHOOL AGE—THE BIOLOGICAL POINT OF VIEW.*

The goal of education in our public schools is not merely learning or mental discipline, but power and efficiency. A century ago, when farming was almost universal, the home could furnish physical and manual training; could teach nature study, agriculture, and the care of animals; and could educate to efficiency, industry, ingenuity, and responsibility. The disappearance of farm life has crippled the educational efficiency of the home, and the whole burden of education is thrown upon tl e school.

Meanwhile the complexity of our civilization has increased vastly the wear and strain of life. We live mostly in cities and large towns, work in hot, ill-ventilated rooms, and use our brains almost to the exclusion of our heavier muscles. This, as Dr. Baxter has taught us, necessarily means increase of disease and weakness. The strain falls heaviest not on the tough muscles, but on the delicate nerves. It is an unhealthy life, winch wre cannot well avoid or greatly improve. We must train our boys and girls to meet and endure under unfavorable conditions a strain vastly greater and more severe than fell to the lot of our ancestors. Hence our system of education must make it its first business to train young men and women of overflowing vitality, of sturdy and abounding health, of toughness and endurance, of great power and efficiency. They must possess the largely physical virtue of courage, hope and faith: of strong purpose and persistence; of dogged endurance in overcoming obstacles; of calm confidence in emergencies. These qualities 1 call physical virtues because they depend so largely upon the physical condition of the vital organs of the body, especially of the muscles and viscera.

The physical trainer deals directly and immediately mainly with the muscles and sensory organs. But indirectly or directly he can reach and mould every organ in the body from the digestive system to the highest centers and powers of the brain. /‘Health”—whether phys cal, mental, moral, or religious—‘homes in through the muscles and dies out through the nerves.” Physical trainers should do vastly more educational and missionary work in insisting upon the vital importance and wide scope of their grand calling.

But our muscles are of different kinds and ages. We have central muscles of "trunk, shoulder and thigh, inherited from ancient fish or worm. They are fitted for the heavy work of life, far from precise in action, simple in movement. In their use a slight nervous effort or impulse calls forth a great muscular response. Their use reacts mainly upon the vital organs, stimulating heart, lungs, and viscera; and is largely though not entirely, hygienic.

* Read before the Philadelphia meeting of the American Physical Education Association.

By Prof. John M. Tyler, Amherst College.

Digitized by
-231-

As we pass outwards toward the fingers or upward toward throat, mouth, and face, toward more peripheral muscles, their character anil use gradually change. They are smaller and lighter, far more precise in action, capable of many and complex combinations and movements. Their use involves far more nervous strain or-activity; and reacts, partly through the accompanying use of the sensory organs, on the higher centers and powers of the brain. Their exercise is far less hygienic, and far more educational in the narrow sense of the word.

The human neuro-muscular system may be compared to a great cathedral organ. It has its fundamental bass and its peripheral upper register. It has its bass pedals, and its three banks of keys, which we may compare in our fancy to Hugh lings-Jack son’s three levels of nervous activity. There' are simple stops, and combinations. Think well before you pull. Attempts of a novice only discords; under the touch of the master a grand symphony rolls out.

So in physical training we must consider the individual, his or her daily work, need of relaxation or stimulus, age and calling, weal: and strong points, and many other things. We must know just what results we are working for, and what combination and shade of exercise will attain this; we must pull the right stops and touch the right keys. System is of less.importance than the results. By these we shall be judged. Let us now, therefore, glance at the high school girl and her needs.

In the life of every individual at least three periods are distinct and well marked. Infancy and childhood form a period which should be devoted mainly to healthy growth. This is even more essential and fundamental than development. If growth be hampered, there will be less, perhaps very little, substance to be developed. The size and power of the man depends primarily upon how fast and far he can grow. A half-grown or stunted organ cannot possibly develop fully and normally, and remains a source of weakness and probable center of disease. Hence, in the lowrer grades we need mainly play and games to stimulate physical growth, and just enough wrork to stimulate the development of the sensory organs and the growth of the higher centers of the brain. Intellectual fatigue during this period is sin. Any output of energy which does not result in physical growth, especially if it demands the combustion of food and material which might be added to the growing tissues, is a permanent loss and injury to the organism. Hence, dm mg this period the playground is a better means of education than the, schoolroom; the game, than desk and book.

Even in the young adult, growth has ceased and development is slackening fast. 'Now comes the definite and final use of the organs built up during childhood. The aim of life is now' the largest possible output of energy. The heart is large, the blood-pressure high, the tissues are less wratery and far more resistant than in childhood. The adult expends freely what the child has put in the savings bank of growth. Thus the habits, life, structure, and constitution of adult and child are altogether different and in some respects quite opposite.

But at some time the child must put away childish things and change into the man or woman of very different qualities and powers.

Digitized by booQ le
—232—

This time of changes, so profound that they have been compared to the metamorphosis of a tadpole into a frog or of a caterpillar into a butterfly, is the period of puberty.

The girl enters it during her stay in the grammar school. At about ten her increase in height and weight falls to a minimum. Nature has begun to save and economize.^ Then come three or four years of very rapid increase in height, followed later, but partially overlapped, by a similar period of increase in girths. She enters the high school long, lank and awkward, as if she had been violently stretched; she may leave it a few years later rounded and graceful as a woman, with full height and weight, but with tissues still immature. You all know how great and profound are the changes during this period—especially in the girl.

The growth in. height has been an expensive process and has necessitated changes in the form of all the muscles, arteries, veins, and nerves. Nearly all the organs of the body are remodelled at the same time. Very large amounts of waste products are poured into the blood. This threatens to clog and poison every organ. Hence, the pubertal period, while one of very low death rate, is one of maximum morbidity; one of a very large amount of disorder, if we do not wish to call it sickness. Anemia or poverty of blood and pallor are often very apparent. The appetite for healthy food sinks. The clogged brain may become so dull that even a bright girl may temporarily be almost stupid. She suffers from cold, and is disinclined to the active exercise which she sadly needs. Constipation, headaches, and other disorders are altogether too frequent. The weakness of the muscles and bad habits of posture may have started spinal curvature.

In almost every city where a careful examination has been made of the health and physical condition of the girls entering the high school, there is'surprise and often alarm at the results of the examination. Yet there is no reason for surprise or ground for great alarm. All these evils have been, and can be, completely cured or greatly mitigated by a rational course of physical training. If they are neglected and become deep-seated, disease or a period of invalidism is the logical consequence.

The first year in the high school is a trying and critical time for the average girl. If she has inherited any weakness of constitution or bad tendencies, if growth has been hampered by unwise training or overpressure at home or in the earlier grades of school, if any disorders in the system consequent upon the pubertal changes have become more or less firmly established, the results of past evils will now become apparent. The first year of the high school demands close application and hard mental work just when she is least able to meet this demand. Frequently home duties occupy more or less of her time, or lessons in music or painting add to the already heavy burden. The results of over-pressure or of physical disorder pass unnoticed or neglected by parents, who, like most, think that the critical period comes much later than it really does. Often the young woman of twenty or thirty pays the penalty of mistake? made ignorantly at ten or fifteen.

If at this time health can be thoroughly established and maintained, and is not now or later undermined by social enjoyment and excite-

Digitized by AjOOQle
-233-

ment, and the late hours of parties and theaters, her health and strengtli will steadily improve. This would seem to be a fair inference from the study of abundant statistics carefully gathered here and abroad.

The seat of the difficulty in the girl entering the high school seems to be that the waste is not rapidly and completely removed from the •blood, the appetite is poor, or disordered; hence, the tissues of the body are not properly nourished at the very time when the most nourishment is needed to enable the organism to successfully complete the metamorphosis. The waste can be removed only when and as it is completely oxydized; hence, lung capacity is of essential and fundamental importance. The averge girl at this period has for each pound of weight hardly more than three fourths of the lung capacity of the boy of the same age; and he certainly has none too much. Dr. Anderson’s experience in a New York school seems to prove that rational and regular physical training will give the girl of twelve of fifteen lung capacity at least 30 per cent above that of the average girl of these ages. The exercise increases and improves the appetite, and stimulates all the vital organs by flooding them with pure and healthful blood. The nervous system is “toned up,” the tissues are nourished properly, disorders already started on their evil course are corrected.

The pubertal period of the girl is usually somewhat oy considerably shorter than in the boy. Hence the changes are more rapid, and the period is likely to be stormy. The boy is saved from the worst disorders by his open-air games. As a result of his freer and more healthful life, the waves of increase in girth and lung capacity occur with striking regularity about fourteen and sixteen. This increase in trunk capacity, and in size and power of the vital’organs, enables him to meet all emergencies. Hence, at fourteen and sixteen the amount of morbidity falls sharply.

The average girl has no open-air games. As a rule, she never learns to play vigorously and properly, or to use the heavy muscles. She is very fortunate if her mother and aunts are not continually discouraging tom-boy play, and insisting on quiet, refined, dignified, and ladylike behaviour. As a result of these differences of habit and of sex, the development of the high school girl is quite different from that of her brother of the same age. The periods of rapid increase in girth and hmg capacity, which should correspond to those of the bov at fourteen: and sixteen, clo not appear in her case or are very irregular. Hence, there is no marked decrease in the amount of morbidity or disorder, which remains high from twelve or thirteen until eighteen or even later. The physical trainer must discover or invent suitable plays for girls, and must teach them to play. But this will avail little unless suitable places are provided where, free from all prying observation, the girl may play with all the freedom and abandon of her brothers.

When the biologist has analyzed the case and conditions, and has presented the problem, his work is done. Tt remains for you to suit the remedy to the girl’s needs. But possibly you will pardon a few suggestions.

Puberty is a peculiar period, and demands a peculiar training..

Digitized by L^OOQle
—234 -

Systems admirably adapted to the needs of the adult woman or of the college girl may be altogether unsuited to the needs of the younger classes in the high school. Hence, we may well be cautious about holding too close to any system, however admirable for adults or highly recommended, until we have asked ourselves carefully whether it is just what the girl needs and how it should be modified for her case. THe ideal system for young girls will come only from long and careful experiment. Otherwise we may increase the fatigue and disorder which we would remove. Our aim is very largely hygienic; hence, we use mostly the heavy muscles. To stimulate the lungs the exercise must be vigorous. The girl is anything but strong and mature; hence, our exercise must be light. The girl has little endurance; hence, active exercise and rest periods should alternate rapidly as in any good game. If we exhaust or even fatigue, we have probably done more harm than good. The best time to stop is probably when the girl feels that she would like to continue the exercise forever. “Too much of nothing,” not even of the best, is a very wise old Greek motto. The light or moderate dose of exercise should be practiced frequently; hence, we should make it so interesting and enjoyable that she will repeat it at home.. The more like play we can make it, the more of play we can put into it, the better.

We wish to give refreshment and recreation from the nervous strain and long sitting of school hours. We introduce plays and games. But when in interclass games we allow or encourage competition to run high, we are inducing the worst form of nervous fatigue. We may very easily exhaust rather than stimulate. Interscholastic and interclass basket ball games, even in college, are probably more harmful than beneficial: they are surely worse for high school girls.

During the last years of high school life we may rightly hope for more vigor, strength, and endurance; and the exercise may well be made somewhat more difficult and strenuous. But the high school girl is not yet a woman, like her teacher; her tissues are far from mature, and her heart far from strong. Our question is not, How much, and what kinds of exercise can she endure without evident and positive exhaustion? but, How much and what will best stimulate, without forcing, a healthy development? Finally, if we are to ha^e healthy school girls and women, \we must have a wise system of physical training in all the lower grades.

GUTSMUTHS’ TEN COMMANDMENTS.

THE 9th COMMANDMENT.

Thou shalt train thy body, and use it, in moderation, in order that thou mayest remain in health and conserve thy vitality for the further development of thy power and skill.

INTERPRETATION'—Moderation applies in all things, at all times. Thou shalt not tax thy powers to exhaustion. Therefore shalt thou alternate thy exercises, of limb and muscle, at the proper time, that rest may be assured them.

Digitized by kjOOQie
INDIANAPOLIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL TRAINING and SCHOOL HYGIENE.

Special Exercises for Gymnastic Exhibitions.

ARRANGED BY

Third Grade.....................................

Fourth Grade....................................

Filth Grade.....................................

Sixth, Seventh and eighth Grades................

EXPLANATORY NOTES.

The exercises are arranged in three groups. The double count is to be used, namely, two counts for each movement. All exercises are to be executed left, right, and repeat left and right. Between each group a sixteen count period of rest takes place.

Music—For Grades Three to Seven, a march or two-step, 2-4 time.

For the Eighth Grades, a waltz, % time.

Starting Positions—For the ring exercises, the ring is carried in the left hand.

For the-reed exercises, reeds vertically upward, arms bent, hands before shoulders.

Wands, dumb-bells and clubs, the usual starting position.

Rings can be purchased at any department store. Ordinary towel rings are used.

Reeds should be 8 feet long, and cost about 5 cents each.

Rings and wands are best trimmed with ribbon streamers.

The reeds can be trimmed with white, red and blue cheese cloth, or with paper flowers.

The pupils stand in ranks of four, two girls and two boys, as follows: Girl boy, girl, boy.

....Mr. Allen.

....Mr. Toll.

Mr. Ruther. .Dr. Fischer.

Reed Drill for the Fifth Grades.

GROUP 1.

Exercise 1.

a.	Point step left forward, extend arms forward 1—2.

b.	Point step left backward, raise arms upward (reed vertical) 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Point step left sideward, extend arms sideward 1—2.

b.	Cross point step left backward, extend arms upward, crossing reed 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Point step left backward, extend left arm upward 1—2.

b.	Point step left forward, reverse arm position 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Bend knees, extend arms forward (reed horizontal) 1—2.

b.	Straighten knees, rise on toes, raise arms upward, crossing reed 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Q* O

-236-

GROUP II.

Exercise 1.

a.	Step left forward, extend arms sideward, reed across chest t-—2.

b.	Bend trunk left sideward, raise arms upward, reed vertical and crossed 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Step left sideward, extend left arm sideward and right upward 1-2.

b.	Turn trunk left, swing right arm forward, reed vertical and crossed 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Step left backward, extend arms upward, reed vertical and crossed 1-2.

b.	Bend trunk forward, swing arms sideward, reed hopizontally forward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Cross step left forward, extend left arm forward 1—2,

b.	Turn trunk left and reverse arm position 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

GROUP III.

Exercise 1.

a.	Charge left forward, extend arms sideward, reed across chest 1—2.

b.	Bend alternate knee, turn trunk left, raise right arm, bend over head 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Charge left sideward, extend arms upward, reed vertical and crossed 1-2.

b.	Bend alternate knee, bend trunk sideward right, arms sideward (right down, left up) 3—4. Return to position a 5—6. Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Charge left backward, bend trunk forward, extend arms forward (reed horizontally forward) 1—2.

b.	Alternate knee bending, straighten trunk, reed obliquely forward upward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Charge left forward, extend arms sideward, reed across chest 1—2.

b.	Bend alternate knee, bend trunk backward, raise arms upward, reed vertical and crossed 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 8—16. Repeat 1—16.

Pose—Boys : Rise on toes, arms sideward, reed vertically overhead 1—8 Girls: Kneel, arms forward, reed horizontal 1—8.

Digitized by CjOOQie
-237-

Wand Exercises for the Sixth Grades.

GROUP. I Exercise 1.

a.	Step left forward and raise wand forward 1—2.

b.	Bend left knee, cross arms, left arm over 3—4.

c.	-d. Return 5—8. Right 9—15. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Step left sideward and raise wand sideward left 1—2.

b.	Bend left knee and swing wand sideward to the right (through

the upward position) 3—4.

c. -d. Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Steo left backward and. raise wand upward 1—2. b Bend left knee and lower wand back of shoulders 3—4.

c.-d. Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—1G.

Exercise 4.

a.	Step left forward and wand in front of chest 1—2.

b.	One-fourth turn right, wand vertical in front of body (left arm up) 3-4.

c. -d. Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

GROUP II.

Exercise 1.

a.	Charge left forward and raise wand forward 1—2.

1). Kneel on right knee, cross arms, left arm over 3—4. c.-d. Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

.Exercise 2.

a.	Charge left sideward and raise wand sideward left 1—2.

b.	Bend alternate knee, swing wand sideward to the right (through

the upward position) 3—4.

c. -d. Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Charge left backward and raise wand upward 1—2.

b.	One-half turn left, kneel on right knee, wand behind shoulders 3—4.

c. -d. Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Charge left forward and wand in front of chest 1—2.

b.	One-fourth turn right, bend alternate knee, wand over right shoul-

der (striking position.)

c.	-d. Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

GROUP III.

Exercise 1.

a.	Charge left forward and raise wand forward 1—2.

b.	Bend alternate knee, bend trunk backward, cross arms, left over 1-2.

c.	-d. Return 5—8. Right 9-*16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Charge left sideward and n..ise wand sideward left 1—2.

b.	One-fourth turn right, bend alternate knee, bend trunk forward,

lower wand horizontally downward 3—4.

c. -d- Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Digitized by CjOOQie
-238-

Exercise 3.

a.	Charge left backward and raise wand upward 1—2.

b.	Bend alternate knee, bend trunk backward, lower wand behind;

shoulders 1—2.

c.	-d. Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Charge left forward and raise wand in front of chest 1—2.

b.	One-fourth turn right, bend alternate knee, bend trunk sideward left,.

wand vertically up on the right side 3—4.

c.	-d. Return 5—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

POSE.

Boys : Stride stand, wand upward 1—8.

Girls : Kneel on right knee, wand vertically in front of body.

(To be concluded.)

Track and Field Work In the New Haven Normal School ot

Gymnastics.

In the New Haven .Normal School of Gymnastics this past year there has been a large amount of effort and enthusiasm in track and field work as is shown by the records broken and the victories won. During the two interclass • meets seven records of previous years were surpassed. Standing high jump—42 in. Time for pole climbing, 10 seconds. The 100 yd. dash, 12 4-5 seconds. Running broad jump 12 ft. 7Vfe in. Standing broad jump, 7 ft. 5 in. Hop, step and jump, 27 ft. 7 in. Baseball throw 161 ft.

The practice gained at these meets was a good foundation for the more important track meet with Rosemary Hall, New Haven’s ancient rival. The result, 42 to 37 points in favor of N. H. N. S. G, brought with it a large silver cup and four individual cups for first places. The 42 points for New Haven were made by seven competitors, while the 38 for Rosemary were gained by 15 girls.

Positions for Graduates of N. H. N. S. G.

Miss Mary L. Thomas, ’05. Appointed Secretary for South America by National Board of Y. W. C. A.

Miss Elizabeth Broomall, 07. Teacher of Private Classes and Athletics at N. H. N. S. G.

Miss Frances Streeter, ’07, teacher of Physical Training at Friends Academy, Locust Valley, L. I.

Miss Maud MacDonald, ’08, gymnastic instructor in the Akron, O., Public Schools. Miss Elizabeth K. Eyre, ’07, teacher of physical training at Indiana, Pa., State Normal School.

Miss Catherine Sullivan, ’08, -teacher of gymnastics in St. Louis Public Schools. Miss Ethel Rees, ’09, teacher of gymnastics and athletics at the Honan School for Girls, Philadelphia, Pa.

Miss Elizabeth Carr, ’09, Starkey Seminary, Lorchmont, N. J.

Miss Elsie Philips, ’09, Y. W. C. A., Youngstown, Ohio.

Miss Ruth Swem, ’09, Y. W. C. A. at Washington, D. C.

Miss Delia Kingsley, ’09, Public Schools, Lonsdowne, Pa.

Miss Marguerite Gillmor, ’09, Sayre Institute, Lexington, Ky.

Miss Anita Morrison, ’09, Mrs. Seguin’s School at East Orange, N. J.

Miss Eliza Foulke, ’09, “Miss Bang’s and Whiton’s School,” New York City. Miss Eleanor Barr, ’09, Y. W. C. A. at Pittsburg, Pa.

Miss Park, ’09, State Normal School Emporia, Kansas.

Miss Williams, ’09, State School for Feeble Minded Woman, Vineland, N. J.

Miss Bean, ’09, Campbell-Hageman College, Lexington, Ky.

Miss Helen Case, Y. W. C. A. at Duluth. Minnesota.

Miss Logie, Y. W. C. A., Akron, Ohio.

Miss Cullen, ’09, High School, Erie, Pa.



Digitized by L-OOQle


PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

RELATION OF PLAYGROUNDS TO JUVENILE DELINQUENCY.

By Allbn T. Burns, Dean, Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy.

That playgrounds and public recreational facilities have a very great influence in diminishing juvenile delinquency is a proposition in support of which countless opinions and instances are brought forward. The case of Tony or Joe, who ceased to be a neighborhood problem when the playground was opened, is known to the social worker in almost every city which has a playground. And the almost unanimous opinion of judges, probation officers, neighborhood policemen and experienced social observers satisfies us that the playground goes far toward sol zing the general problem of juvenile delinquency. Facts and statistics, however, have been noticeably absent from the discussion. These should be increasingly available as a result of the attention which is now being given to careful investigation and study of social and city conditions

Chicago is the city in which the juvenile court has been longest established, and it is likewise the city in which the greatest playground development has taken place. It is therefore appropriate that Chicago should contribute the first comprehensive stuclv measuring the relation between playgrounds and juvenile delinquency and gauging the relative efficiency of various playgrounds in preventing and correcting juvenile delinquency. This study was made possible by a general inquiry made last year by the Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy into the social status nnd methods for the reformation and prevention of juvenile delinquents. The data for’ the inquiry were found in the records of all the cases brought into the Chicago Juvenile Court in the first eight years of its history, July 1, 1899, to June 30, 1907.

This paper will consider three types of recreational facilities:

First, the large metropolitan parks such as are common to our bigger cities, containing ballgrounds, football fields, tennis courts, facilities for rowing and wading and large commons for general games. Second, the small playgrounds such as those conducted by the Special Park Commission of Chicago. These are equipped with swings, sand pile, giant strides, some outdoor gymnasium apparatus, a basket ball court, teeters and a small open space for such games and sports as do not require a large field. To construct and equip such a playground costs from $10,000 to $20,000 and the operating expenses for a year average $1,800. Third, the small parks neighborhood recreation centers conducted by the South Park Commission* which have been so generally described and discussed as not to need further comment before this body. They are the ones “unparalleled in scope and equipment,” providing all sorts of recreational facilities for young people and adults as well as for children. A typical one cost $220,000 to construct and $29,000 a year to maintain.

The general inquiry making possible this paper has not been completed so far as girls are concerned. Consequently, juvenile delinquency as used here is confined to hoys. And it applies only to hoys who have

Digitized by CjOOQle
—240—

been apprehended in such wrong doing as to bring them under the care of the Juvenile Court. The offences accounting for most of these cases * are, in the order of their frequency, stealing, incorrigibility, disorderly conduct, assault and malicious mischief. The offenders3 ages range from seven to seventeen, the great majority, however, being more than eleven years old and the largest number of any age being between fifteen and sixteen.

The court records supplied, as the only data pertinent to our subject, the location of the delinquents. In addition to the material furnished by the court, however, all the cases for the fifth year, July I, 1903, to June 30, 1904, were personally traced, their development noted, their family economic and social history ascertained, and. from this mass of material have been selected such facts as relate to the question in hand.

An additional detail of the general method was especially useful for the purposes of this paper. With the exception of the farthest, outlying cases, some ten per cent, all the cases for the first, fifth and eighth years of the court were indicated upon maps of the city by tacks placed in the blocks from which the delinquents came. Different colored tacks were used for the different years. Ey this device it was possible to determine exactly the distribution of juvenile delinquency and the geographical relation, at least, between juvenile delinquency and playgrounds. For the year specially investigated, all the successful cases were plotted on the same maps. By successful cases are meant those so improved as to be qualified for release from the jurisdiction of the court. The statistics are compiled from actual counting of the cases on these maps for the different years, and thus it has been possible tG determine the increase or decrease of delinquency and the percentage of successful cases in neighborhoods where the various kinds of playgrounds have existed or been introduced.

Two other limitations should be borne in mind. First, the relation between playgrounds and delinquancy can be, as the result of the method, only geographical except so far as the cases specially investigated furnished information based upon capable and reliable judgment. Second, the general inquiries reveal that there are two distinct classes of delinquents,- the casual and the chronic. The chronic present the most difficult phases of the problem, and the importance of parental neglect and mental defectiveness as causes of delinquency, leaves very little place in this class of cases for the influence of either the lack of or possession of playground facilities. Playground's, therefore, have their appreciable influence in the less difficult cases, that is to say, the casual, and must be considered as thus* largely limited in their beariiig upon the whole juvenile delinquency problem.

With the above considerations understood I shall endeavor to show from the statistics the extent to which the presence of parks and playgrounds in a neighborhood is co-incident with a decrease in the number of cases of juvenile delinquency’and with an increase in the proportion of cases successfully cared for by the court. The three kinds of parks and playgrounds will he separately considered.

Digitized by
-241-

LARGE PARKS.

It will be recalled that by large parks are me&fct the parks most common and longest established in our cities and which cannot be increased in numbers in the districts from which most delinquents come, no matter how important they are in this connection. For Chicago, it cannot*be shown that there is less delinquency in the neighborhood of such parks than in other neighborhoods where other things are equal, because there are no such other neighborhoods The large parks are in the districts of least congestion, more intelligent parenthood, greater protection from police interference, fewer mothers compelled to leave children in order to find them bread, fathers having more time with their families, more yards and other recreation facilities, more varied educational agencies and a quicker detection of defectiveness. In tnese neighborhoods, delinquency is scarcer in common with most undesiiable external factors in life, and as a result of this scarcity and of the presence of desirable features among which are the parks. Inasmuch as these parks are involved with so many other good influences, and as they have not been established within a period in which special study of juvenile delinquency has been made, it is impossible to say how much they account for the scarcity of juvenile delinquency it their neighborhoods. There is no such basis for comparison as if one such large park had been established in a neighborhood during the period for which juvenile delinquency statistics could be obtained. You may have yoiiT opinion as to the influence of the parks in this connection as I have mine but the object of this paper is to stick to facts which can be proved.

We are not quite so much at a loss in reckoning the contribution of such parks to the successful care of cases by the court. While for the whole city, thirtynine per cent of the cases are successful, the proportion of successful eases within one mile each of the six large parks to the total cases in the same areas is forty-six per cent. It still might be said that these cases would have improved anyway because of the large number of other helpful agencies surrounding them, but many of the cases in this forty-six per cent were those which indved into the vicinity of these large parks after the child was first declared a delinquent. And probation officers and parents have recognized the park as an important element in the child’s improvement. Here is a typical case:

A boy nine years of age was brought into court on a charge of stealing and committed to an institution for a short term. A year kter he was again arrested for incorrigibility but left under care of the officer to whom he had been paroled from the institution. Three years after the second arrest he was again brought into court for incorrigibility and committed to the institution where the less hopeful cases are sent. After his release his family moved from a neighborhood entirely destitute of recreation facilities to a location near Lincoln park which the boy has since used constantly to spend his leisure. He has improved sufficiently to be released from court and causes no further trouble.

Digitized by t^ooQle
—242—

Such cases as this, of which many are found among the cases traced, indicate that the better showing of park neighborhoods as to successful cases is due in part at least to the parks themselves. Thus we have in the matter of successful cases a possible index of the park’s influence such as we could not have where there was no opportunity to Pleasure the decrease of delinquency in connection with the establishment of the park.	(To be concluded.)

Report of the Committee on a Normal Course in Play of the Playground Association of America.

Reviewed from advance proofs especially for “Mind and Body.”

By Everett B Mero, author of “American Playgrounds.”

The Committee on A Normal Course in Play, which started work for the Playground Association of America in 1907, has completed a “tentative report” which is now in process of publication in book or pamphlet form. The report is divided into sections to cover various phases of The general subject, namely:	“A	Normal Course in Play for

Professional Directors”, “An Institute or Training Course in Play”, and “A Course in Play for Grade Teachers”. Of these three courses the latter two will be published first, probably early in October, on the ground that these are the courses especially needed now.

The committee says:	“This	report	is	provisional.	It	is	hoped that

educators and others interested in the play movement will studv the r report carefully, experiment with it, and aid the committee in its future work by suggestions and constructive criticism.”

Some twenty printed pages are devoted to a “Preliminary State- • ment” in which the committee outlines its deliberations and shows how it reached the conclusions presented in the formal courses later in the report. Starting from a suggestion by Dr. Henry S. Curtis, at the first playground congress in Chicago, the committee had his outline of the function and value of play as follows, upon which it started work:

“1. Playgrounds to be effective must have supervision, directors, teachers, who have had such training that they understand the child and can direct his activities so as to bring about the best results mentally, morally, physically and socially.

“2. Play, being the chief activity of children during infancy, contains the beginnings of all subsequent development and culture. Its function is educative, and its forms are derived from hereditary adaptations and coordinations pleasurable to us from their usefulness m the distant past of the race. We consider the chief purposes of the playground to be:

a.	The promotion of robust health through the encouragement of a free and enjoyable life in the open air.

b.	The development of nervous coordinations and the normal functions, especially of the vital organs, through the vigorous activities of the playground.

c.	The arousing of the deeper interests, emotions and the enthusi-

Digitized by v^ooQle
- 243-

asms through those activities by which the central nervous system was developed in the past of the race and to which it responds alone with full effectiveness; thus determining the energy of nervous discharge and consequent vigor of all after life. '

d.	The training in courtesy and good fellowship through those social relations of play in which friendships are chiefly formed.

e.	The establishment of a normal trend to life through the cultivation of right habits and those loyalties on which social morality and good citizenship chiefly depend.

f.	The cultivation of a sense of the joy of life, by which the soul is harmonized and unified and a play spirit for life's work is acquired.”

In getting down to actual work, the committee endeavored to determine, tentatively at least, the preliminary problems confronting “any diversified group of playground thinkers because of differences in viewpoint and lack of precedents or standards for a normal course in play.” These problems are set forth as follows:

1.	The type and function of the playground for which play leaders are to be trained.

The standard type adopted by the committee is that “of a size and organization to accomodate all ages.” The function of a playground was similarly standardized to mean a place in which play is guided so as to eliminate the undesirable features and make of it a place for the expression of child nature in wholesome manner. “The playground is a recreative center where the impulse for recreation mav he satisfied most wholesomely”, by adults as well as by children. “The standard playground teacher must be able to lead and guide these activities according to the best standards of which the age is capable to conceive.”

2.	The classes of play leaders and their duties.

The committee classifies them thus:	Supervisor	of a system of

playgrounds; director of a playground; assistants to director; special instructors suclT as story-tellers, librarians, industrial teachers, etc.; janitors, mechanics, guards.

Their duties are similarly classified. The duties of a supervisor are: Planning system, administrating plant, selecting sites, selecting and securing concession of vacant lots, dealing with property owners, planning, grading, surfacing and landscape gardening, caring for equipments and grounds; administration of finances; establishing relationships with outside interests such as civic movements, parents, various municipal departments; administration of staff, selecting and training teachers, settling disputes; administration of activities, arranging exhibitions. Tn like detailed manner the duties of all employees and officials are outlined hv the committee.

Bv resolution formally passed by^the committee it was agreed that “it is desirable to have on every playground a man and a woman director; that the woman director should have training to take charge of all the children under ten where there are only two directors, and that the man director should have training in the special work for hoys of all ages with special preparation to take charge of those over ten.”

Digitized by L^ooQle
-244-

Regarding the “kind of training required” for playground instructors the committee states that he should have an intellectual grasp of the social and educational functions and possibilities of play, administrative abilty, be a resourceful leader of children, should have “two years above the high school in a state normal school or normal school of physical education or in a college. For the smaller children only graduates of kindergarten normal schools should be accepted. These requirements are only general and should not be accepted as adequate unless special training has been taken in preparation for playground work. To supply immediate demands for directors in large city systems the committee is of the opinion that such applicants should be placed in the training course and apprentice system organized by and under the supervisors. The committee is further of the opinion that playground instructors of demonstrated ability and successful experience should be accepted, though they have not the general educational qualifications stated.”

“There are no schools at present that are offering courses that give an adequte training for the development of the needed leaders, whose personality and training will play an important part in the success or failure of the play movement. It is essential for the best interests of the playground movement that adequate courses for each class of teachers be developed in the form of syllabi so that they may be introduced into the curricula of the various training schools with as little delay as pOvS-sible”, says the report.

Coming to the outline of courses, we find Course One, “A Normal Course in Play for Professional Directors”, divided into seven syllabi as follows:	Introduction, Nature and Function of Play, Child Nature,

Hygiene and First Aid, Social Conditions of the Neighborhood, Playground Movement, Practical Conduct of Playgrounds, Organization and Administration. “This course is intended to give the training which is needed by those who wish to become professional directors of playgrounds. It is considered by the committee that not less than two years time would be required to master the subjects herein outlined” but for the present “until such time as there shall be a larger demand for permanent directors, at larger salaries, it may be necessary to present this material in a much briefer form.”

The" intention of the committee to make the “play movement” cover a very wide and comprehensive scope is evident from the list of activities for which instruction is provided. These activities include not only play and games, outdoor gymnasium work and the usual features of playground, but “tramps and excursions, bicycle trips, trips by trolley, trips by railroad, trips by steamer”, all of which radiate of course from the playground as a recreation center, or equally as much as a social or neighborhood center.

Course Two, “An Institute or Training Course in Play”, is “especially designed for the assistance of the playground supervisor in training the teachers whom he already has, or applicants who desire to take positions for a brief period only.” The ground covered by this course is: Syllabus One, Play and Childhood, Hygiene and First Aid, Socia1 Conditions of the Neighboorhood, General Reading (for which there are

Digitized by AjOOQle
-245-

numerous references to books and articles), Syllabus Two, The Practical Conduct of Playgrounds.

Course Three, “A Course in Play for Grade Teachers,” is intended to be “a -minimum course which will give that fundamental training which it has seemed to us every grade teacher should receive”, for these reasons:	“That	play is the most fundamental activity of childhood and

a knowledge of it is essential to an understanding of the child; that it is only through play relationships that the teacher enters into such an intimate touch with the child as to secure strong personal influence over him; that children get their physical, social, and moral education largely through play and derive from it their most fundamental interests, on which education must largely depend; that playgrounds, equipped with apparatus, are being provided for many schools and that there is a very great demand for teachers to take charge of these and other playgrounds during summer vacation.”

This course has the following sections:	Introduction;	syllabus	one,

Play and Childhood, Hygiene and First Aid, Social conditions of the Neighborhood, General Reading; syllabus two, the Playground movement; syllabus three, The Practical Conduct of Play; Appendix— games, athletic tests, organizing field days, play festivals, industrial work, nature study, general recreation.

It is obvious that the committee has done a great deal of work in preparing this lengthy and exhaustive report on- the subject. Coming as the first of its sort, and, as the committee states, without precedent to guide, there are openings for criticism, but it must be a great aid to normal school directors as well as to playground supervisors to have something tangible to fall back upon.

The great emphasis placed upon play as the essential feature may not be approved in full measure by all physical training people, but the play and playground promotors have at least the advantage of not being backward about pushing forward their ideas, .which is more than can be said of the physical training profession as a whole. In this committee report physical training or gymnastics has its place, and a fundamental one, even if play and recreation of other types are mostly referred to. It is very difficult to dodge gymnastics in playground or recreation center conduct and no sensible supervisor will attempt to do so. Certainly this committee gives little encouragement to such a course. As the normal schools of physical education are likely to be leading sources of supply for coming playground supervisors and directors, the ideals of such schools are sure to be fixed in playground administration.

These comments are intended to aid physical directors to see their way to give the playground movement hearty stipport. There is not the slightest reason for opposition from one to the other. Each has its part in the advancement of the physical welfare of the people and each should work in its own way toward the common goal until such time as both can be absolutely united, meantime giving hearty support to all allied helps.

The printed books or pamphlets containing the normal courses hefe roughly summarized will soon be ready for distribution. The exact

Digitized by C^ooQie
-246-

method of distribution has not been determined at this writing, except that members of the Playground Association of America will receive copies as soon as ready.

The Committee on a Normal Course in Play is composed of the following:

Chairman, C. W. Hetherington, professor of physical education, Univ. of Mo Secretary, Dn H. S. Curtis, vice president Playground Association of America. Sadie American, council of Jewish Women.

Dr. E. H. Arnold, president New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

Thomas M. Balliet, dean School of Pedagogy, New York University.

Allen T. Burns, School of Philanthropy, Pittsburgh.

E. B. DeGroot, director of South Parks. Chicago.

G. W. Ehler, secretary Public Athletic League, Baltimore.

Dr. L. H. Gulick, president Playground Association of America.

L. F. Hanmer, secretary Playground Association of America.

A. Ross Hall, president University of Missouri.

Amelie Hofer, principal Kindergarten Training School, Chicago.

G. E. Johnson, superintendent Playground Association, Pittsburgh.

Dr. H. F. Kallenberg. Institute and Training School of Y. M. C. A., Chicago.

Dr. J. H. McCurdy, Y. M. C. A. Training School, Springfield, Mass.

E. S. Martin, principal McMynn School, Racine, Wis.

Dr. G. L. Meglan, professor of physical education, Columbia University, New York City.

Dr. J. E. Raycroft, professor of physical education, University of Chicago. Charlotte Rombold, secretary Public Recreation Committee, St. Louis.

Dr. D. A. Sargent, director of gymnasium, Harvard University.

Carl L. Schrader, gymnasium instructor. Harvard University.

Dr. M. T. Scudder, head master Rutgers Preparatory School. New Brunswick, N.J. Seth T. Stewart, assistant superintendent, public schools, New York City.

Physical Training and Playgrounds.

(From the second, enlarged edition of “Americaft Playgrounds,” by Everett B.

Mero, published by the The Dale Association, Boston.)

The present interest in what are generally called playgrounds is an outgrowth from the older work of physical training which was, until a few years ago, confined to gymnasiums. But the playground movement was not directly started in America by the physical training profession nor by any member of it; it got its initial impetus from social workers, educators and those men and women who were free enough from conventional methods of procedure to recognize the value of play and recreation when rightly used and guided. Now directors of physical training are alive to the value of the newer form of what is naturally a part of their work and are becoming prominent in advancing its interests. This points to the time when the present occasional combination of gymnasiums and playgrounds will become the general rule, all under the supervision of technically educated and fully competent instructors. Time is required to make necessary adjustments between new and old methods but the tendency is in the right direction.

Play always belonged to physical' training and belongs to it now. Playgrounds are the laboratories of the physical training profession quite as much as the gymnasiums and athletic fields.

Digitized by ooQle
247

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

—The Public Schools Athletic League of New York City has recently published its Year Book. It is elegantly gotten up, showing in detail the results achieved in the various branches of activities conducted by the League together with a number of photos of trophies presented to the League. A copy of this hook may be had by addressing the Public Schools Athletic League, 500 Park Ave., New York City.

—Olympic Games in Athens in 1910. The committee in charge of the Olympic Games has definitely decided to hold the same in the spring of 1910 at Athens, Greece. The program and other detail announcements will be issued within a very short time.

—The first Field Day of the Public Schools of Fort Wayne, Ind., was held May 28 at the Driving Park and proved a great success. Over 2000 children took part in the Mass Drill before an enthusiastic assemblage of over 8000 fond parents, interested relatives and friends of Fort Wayne’s school children. The program consisted of track events for the girls and of track and field events for the boys of both elementary and high school. The meet was in charge of Henry Meyer, Director of Physical Training and his able assistant Miss Carrie A. Snively.

—The fourth annual Field Day of the San Diego Elementary Schools Athletic League was held May 8. The program consisted of 3 classes of events, as follows:	Senior	Events	open to all children under

17 years of age; Juniors Events, open to all under 14 years, and Midget Events, open lo all under 11 years.

GYMNASTICS OH ATHLETICS—WHICH SHALL IT BE?

Much has been written on the above, but few were the facts presented which would prove to the lay person the results achieved by an all-around training and development of the body as compared to the specializing now so prominent among the athletes.

Our daily papers contain column upon column of individual athletes who have won a 100 yd. dash or some other “event” at a Field Day or Athletic Meet. They are heroes as long as they win in their specialities, hot are instantly classed among the “has-beens” when beaten by a younger and stronger man. How long does a good athlete remain in the lime light? How long can he get out on a field and hold his own among the new material that is constantly joining the ranks?

This department of Mind and Body will endeavor to make a comparison of the work of the athlete and the gymnast, setting forth as far as possible the number of years that they have taken active part, the number of prizes won and the list of events in which the same have been won. In order therefore to make this a success it will he necessary

Digitized by C^ooQle
-248 -

to have the cooperation of instructors, teachers and directors of Physical Trainig in Turn Vereins, Y. M. C. A.s etc. and of coaches and trainers of Athletic clubs. Any information bearing on the above will be gladly received.

The following are the records of two Gymnasts: Fred. Engelhard, member of the Brooklyn E. D. Turn Yerein. Age 37 years. Has participated in the various meets as follows:

1900 Philadelphia Turnfest. Won first prize in a triple event competition consisting of pole vault, rope climbing and hop-step and jump.

1903	Metropolitan A. A. W. Championships. Won the broad jump with a leap of 23 ft. Also won a place in the hop-step and jump with a leap of over 47 ft.

1903—1907 he participated in the chief athletic meets in the East winning many medals, loving-cups, etc.

1905 Indianapolis Turnfest. Won four first prizes and was placed in five other events. The events which he won and for which he created new records among the Turn vereins were: broad jump 22 feet 1 inch; hop-step and jump 45 ft. 7 inches ; 100 yd. dash 10 2-5 seconds, and 220 yd. dash 23 sec.

1908	Frankfurt, Germany, Turnfest. Received diploma in all around athletic competition.

1909	Cincinnati Turnfest. Won 3 first prizes and was placed in four other events.

Engel hart has been a member of the North American Turner Bund since 1882.

Max Hess, member of Philadelphia Turn Gemeinde. Age 31 years. Participated in the following Gymnastic Meets:

1897 St. Louis Turnfest. Was a member of the class but did not compete in the individual contests.

1900 Philadelphia Turnfest. A winner in the sextuple and in the triple contest.

1903	Nuernberg, Germany, Turnfest. A winner in the sixtuple attd in the triple contest.

1904	St. Louis Turnfest. A winner in the sextuple contest.

1905	Indianapolis Turnfest. A winner in the sextuple, also in the quintuple contest. First in the pole vault and second in the high jump.

1908	Frankfurt, Germany, Turnfest. A winner in the sextuple and in the quintuple contest.

1909	Cincinnati Turnfest. A winner in the sextuple, also in the quintuple contest.

Hess, now 31 years of age, has been a member of the Philadelphia Turngemeinde since his fifteenth year.

— England will again send a representative Soccer Football Team to this country under the captaiucy of Mr. F. H. Milnes of the Pilgrims. Games have been scheduled in Brooklyn, Baltimore, Washington, Philadelphia, Pittsburg, Cleveland, Gillespie, St. Louis, Chicago, Milwaukee, Boston, Fall River, Niagara and Toronto. At Baltimore the Game is scheduled to begin at midnight by electric light. On October 23 the Pilgrims will play a match against All America for the Cochrane Cup.

These games will offer admirable opportunities for our readers to see real football games, games where the ball really is kicked and not carried across the field. We hope that the simplified forms of soccer football as published in Mind and B^dy last fall will be put to good *ise this year, and that they may lead to a better understanding of this great game.

Digitized by (^.ooQle