MIND AND BODY

JANUARY, 1914.

Yol. 20.

No. 22&

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newirk, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Ma*f.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa*

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnson St, Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—Are you making arrangements to attend the St. Louis meet-' ing? If not, just read the following and prepare your plans:

Arrangements for the A. P. E. A. Convention to be held at SL Louis on April I, 2, 3 and 4, have by this time passed from the initiative to the formative stage. The various committees thus far appointed are working along their own lines with enthusiasm, and all report splendid progress. The St. Louis Business Men’s League has given its hearty financial as well as moral support, and is working with the committees in a manner that can point only to a successful convention. The hotels promise concessions, and are helping in other ways. Detailed information regarding headquarters, meeting places, and rates, will be announced in a later issue of Mind and Body.

The committee has decided to offer three practical demonstrations, all of which are to be held in the Coliseum. The programs for Thursday and Friday afternoons will be in the hands of the Grade and High Schools of St. Louis, While the Friday evening demonstration will be of a more variated character, illustrative of the physical activities of the Turnverein, Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., Playground and Recreation Association, Boy Scouts, School of Blind, and educational institutions other than the Public Schools.

Headquarters will, most probably, be at the Planters Hotel, where the general reception and entertainment will be given to the visitors on Wednesday evening, April 1.

The tentative program, in so far as the local committee is concerned, follows herewith:

Wednesday evening, April 1:—Receotion to visitors at the Soldan High School or Liederkranz Club.

Thursday, 9 a. m.:—Public School Section meeting in the Central High School.

■■land at (he Milwaukee Poet Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google
— 378 —

Thursday, 2 p. m.:—Therapeutic Section meeting in the St. Louis Medical Society! Bfd^. ' f .

Thursday, 4 p. m.:—Practical Demonstration, Grade Schools, Coliseum.

Thursday, 8 p. m.:—General meeting, Planters Hotel.

Friday, 9 a. m.:—General Meeting, Soldan High School.

Friday, 1 130 to 3 130 p. m.:—Secondary School Section and College Physical Directors at the Harris Teachers’ College.

Friday, 8 p. m.:—Practical demonstration, Turnvereins, Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., etc., Coliseum.

Saturday, a. m.:—Unfinished business, Planters Hotel.

Saturday, p. m.:—Sightseeing.

The St. Louis committee is working in the hope that a large number of persons in the Physical Training profession will avail themselves of the opportunities which will be afforded by this convention, as it is the aim to make it the largest and most fruitful in the history of the association.

—The American tour of the Stockholm Gymnastic Society created considerable comment among physical training teachers in the different cities visited by these gymnasts. The team consisted of twenty-four men under the leadership of Lieutenant Oswald Holm-berg, the director of the tour being Captain Carl C. Silfverstolpe, adjutant to the Crown Prince of Sweden.

The exercises shown in the cities visited lasted about an hour and consisted of the forms always found in a typical Swedish day’s order. They were performed in excellent form and finish by-the team in response to the sharp military commands of the leader. To those who also saw the equally splendid work shown by the two German teams that visited us, one during the St. Louis World’s Fjair, and the other at the 50th anniversary of the N. A. Turner-bund in 1905, one characteristic difference must have become apparent. While the Swedish gymnasts were in command of army officers, and five members of the team were lieutenants, the Germans had no military members and were in command of school teachers.

. . The Stockholm Gymnastic Association was founded in 1875 and has done much to make Swedish gymnastics known in other countries by visiting them. To those who have studied the growth of the national gymnastic union of Germany, the German Tumer-schaft with approximately 11,000 societies and a million and a quarter members the thought has often come “Why is it that in spite of the excellent work done in the Swedish schools its gymnastics has never entered prominently into its national life, like in other countries?”

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 379 —

—The International Committee of the Young Men’s Christian Associations has just published a study upon the physical directorship which will be of great value not only to the interested associations, but to all other organizations employing teachers of physical training. Many of the points emphasized will apply with equal strength to organizations employing men (and women) in all fields of social service. With this study before it, the large and rapidly growing playground and recreation movement, for instance, will need to survey its field soon if it expects the leaders it is developing to remain in its employ.

Then again, for the man (or woman) who needs to be awakened to the fact that he has stopped growing, and that instead of being a help to his employers he is a hindrance, the report should be illumim ating.

The physical training profession is deeply indebted to the commission for its painstaking labor in laying before the public the good and the bad sides of this branch of education. For the emphasis the commission places upon the social service, which every organization has a right to demand from its teachers, it deserves special praise. Physical training, in its modern interpretation means more than muscle culture, irrespective if it is done in Y. M. C. A. work, in playgrounds, in schools, in Turner societies, in settlement work, or in clubs. It is the whole man in whom society is interested, not merely his muscles.

NEWS-NOTES.

FROM THE STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, LA CROSSE, WISCONSIN.

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

The foot-ball season closed with two tie scores, two victories, and two defeats. The basket-ball season will be officially opened with the annual game with the Alumni, Sat., Dec. 20. The prospects for a strong team are bright.

An ample supply has been added to the gymnasium equipment. All parts of the equipment are arranged with the “four in a series” plan so we have now four horses, four bucks, four rings, four parallel bars, etc. All the necessities of a modern gym are in use.

The physical education class was entertained royally by Dr. Carl B. Sputh, head of the physical education department, at his home on Dec. 10th. Dr. Sputh gave a lecture before the German Club Thursday, Dec. 11, on “Gymnastics in Germany, and the National German Turnfest in Frankfurt-on-Main, 1908.”

The Wisconsin Players and Dr. Wiley have appeared in the excellent lecture course maintained by the normal school. Dr. Wiley appeared on Dec. 15, and lectured on “Public Health and Hygiene.”

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 380 —

PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN NEW YORK CITY.

The Board of Education has established swimming pools for elementary schools in the three public swimmjng pools in Manhattan. Swimming teachers have been assigned to each pool. Ninety-twd schools in Manhattan with a total registration of fifty-eight thousand boys have registered.

The Board of Education will present to all boys who accomplish the required standards, a bronze button with the figure “diver.” The following are the standards:—

20 yard swim—Breast stroke—20 seconds.

20 yard swim—Overhead stroke—16 seconds.

Each stroke must be executed in good form throughout.

Simple forward dive. This must be executed in good form, to be passed by the judge assigned to the test.

Plunge for distance—Distance, 25 feet.

The reports of the standing in the Class Athletic Competition in the Standing Broad Jump, show that 41,107 boys have trained and made records in the Standing Broad Jump during the last month and a half. This shows a 22 per cent increase over the previous year.

This form of athletics requires 80 per cent of the class to work for the class average which is compared with similar averages received from the whole of the greater city for the purpose of determining the holders of the championship banners for the coming year.

This form of athletics was introduced by the Public Schools Athletic League and extends the benefits of athletics to all the boys instead of a few. It reaches the weaker boys who have no chance in the ordinary form of competition and stimulates them to train. The following is a detailed report:—

No. of schools No. of classes No. of boys

Borough	competing	competing	competing

Manhattan ............... 34	501	17021

Bronx .................   15	240	5998

Brooklyn ...............  34	428	11571

Queens _________________    33	290	5428

Richmond ................  8	68	1089

124	1527	41107

P. S. 62 Man. has just completed a soccer tournament in which every class in the school competed. 32 games were played, with a total of 960 competing.

The following is the athletic after-school program as it is followed in 160 schools in New York under the direction of a regularly appointed instructor by the department of physical training:—

Digitized by Google
— 381 —

MONDAY.

3 too to 3145—Squad basketball games, handball.

3	45 to 4130—Instruction in track and field athletics.

4	^3° t° 5 :°°—General training.

TUESDAY.

3 too to 3 115—Talk on ath letics.

3 115 to 3 t45—Squad baseball games.

3145 to 4130—Squad basketball games.

4130 to 5 too—Instruction in soccer football and handball.

WEDNESDAY.

3 too to 3 t3G—General training.

3:30 to 4*. 15—Instruction to squad captains.

4:15 to 5 too—Tournament games; handball and track and field athletics.

THURSDAY.

3 too to 3 t30—Tournament games; track athletics.

3	-.30 to 4 too—Tournament games; soccer football.

4	too to 4 30—Tournament games; handball.

4:3° t0 5 :0°—Special activities.

FRIDAY.

3 too to 3 t30—General training.

3 t30 to 5 too—Athletic meet for all boys in the centre.

SATURDAY.

9	too to ic too—Instruction in baseball and basketball.

10	too to 11 too—Squad games baseball.

11	too to 12 too—Squad games basketball.

12	too to 1 too—Baseball game.

2	too to 3 too—General training.

3	too to 3 t30—Soccer football instruction.

3t30to 4 too—Track and field instruction.

4	too to 5 30—Athletic meet for all boys at the field.

Saturday program is for the Open Air Athletic Centres only.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN PHILADELPHIA.	:

Section 405 of the new school code specifies that the Board of Education shall adopt and enforce such reasonable rules and regulations as it may deem proper, regarding the management, control, or prohibition of exercises, athletics, or games of any kind, taken part in or played by any pupils as members of or in connection with any public school, and regarding the organization, management, supervision, control, or prohibition of school publications, and of organizations or societies of the members of any class or school, and may provide for the suspension, dismissal, or other reasonable penalty in the case of any superintendent, teacher, appointee, employe, or pupil who violates any of such rules and regulations.”

To carry out the provisions of this section the Board of Public Education in May 1912 adopted the following resolutions:

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 382 —

Resolved, That the following rules for the government of athletic activities be approved:

1.	All matters pertaining to the regulation, authorization and conduct of athletic sports, games or contests of any kind, played or taken part in by any pupils as members of or in connection with any public school in this School District during any school year, shall be subject to the specific regulations provided in these rules, and shall be under the further supervision, management and direction of a Supervisory Committee on Athletics.

2.	The Supervisory Committee on Athletics shall be appointed by the Superintendent of Schools, and shall consist of seven members, two of whom shall be members of the Department of Superintendence, and the others shall be employees of the Board of Public Education, at least three of whom shall be connected with the higher schools.

3.	It shall be the duty of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics to regulate and approve the number and nature of the contests or games arranged for or played under its jurisdiction, the various schedules for such contests or games, the eligibility of the participating officials and contestants or players, the length and character of the games or events, and the basis and mode of awarding honors to the participants.

4.	No athletic team composed of pupils in any public school or schools of this district, or in any capacity representing such school or schools, shall enter into or play any contest or game of any kind with any team of or from any organization or institution located outside of this School District, unless the proposed arrangements for such contest or games shall meet the approval of a majority of the Committee and the Superintendent of Schools, provided no team shall be allowed to remain away from the city over night without the approval and consent of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics.

5.	In order to be eligible to participate as an official, player or contestant in any game or contest under the jurisdiction of the Supervisory Committee on Athletics, a pupil in a public school in this district must maintain in school such standards in conduct and scholarship, of a grade not lower than satisfactory and passing, as may be prescribed by the Committee, and, provided further, that no pupil shall compete in any athletic event whose physical fitness so to do is not duly certified to the Committee.

6.	The kind, number and nature of athletic exercises to be permitted shall be determined by the Supervisory Committee on Athletics.

7.	The direct control of competitive athletics in each school shall be vested in an authorized body, which authorized body in the case of any school having an incorporated alumni body may be its

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 383 —

Committee on Athletics as now constituted, subject in each case to the rules laid down by the Board of Public Education and the above named Committee, and approved by the Supervisory Committee on Athletics and the Superintendent of Schools.

Under the guidance of this committee the participation in appropriate athletic activities for girls as well as boys has been greatly increased.

In December the results of a study undertaken by the supervisory committee during the year were sent to the members of th$ Board of Education with the view of influencing them to set aside a per capita sum for athletic material, similar to the per capita sum now set aside for other school needs. It was found, for instance,* that in the high schools the amount spent for every boy who participated in athletics varied from 23, 40, 41, 45, 91 cents up to $1.76, the great difference being caused, first by the number of students taking part in athletics (many students decreasing the per capita cost), and second by the number of different sports indulged in. 3250 boys took part in athletics. For these $6515.00 were spent for the upkeep of grounds, for uniforms and for coaches, while $1408.00 were spent for what strictly might be called play material.

In the elementary schools 34819 pupils, boys and girls, participated in sane forms of athletic competition, while the amount spent for material was $973.00; i. e., cents per pupil.

In sending the compilation to the members of the Board of Education the supervisory committee concludes its report with the following words:

The figures given in the table represent for the high schools the amount spent on teams which pi?” inter-school contests. No account has been taken of the money spent on inter-class sports. For the elementary schools about two-thirds of the amount was spent on basket balls, etc., which are used for inter-class contests and class games while the other third was spent on base ball or other material used only by the school team and those trying: for the team.

In compiling these figures, many interesting facts were brought to light. The following are representative:

(1)	The Board of Education, by law has assumed control of public school athletics, but has as yet made no provision for supplying the necessary finances for the proper support of school athletics.

(2)	The schools, especially the elementary schools, obtain the necessary money in any way that suggests itself—sale of candy and pennants; holding of entertainments; voluntary contributions of pupils, faculty or neighborhood.

(3)	Neither high nor elementary schools are able to supervise the athletic work properly. As an instance, the Central high school is trying to supervise the athletic work of fifteen hundred pupils with one athletic director and one assistant. The elementary school

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 384 —

people best able to do this work are in many cases unable to do it, as their time is taken up with college work. The college degree gives a higher professional standing than a play-ground certificate secured by taking care of pupils after school.

If the committee be permitted to offer suggestions in this connection, we would recommend:

(1)	That an increased number of assistants be given the Director of Athletics in each high school.

(2)	That in such elementary schools as the Board of Education may designate, one member of the faculty of the school be appointed with salary to take charge of the play-activities of that school.

(3)	That every year the Board of Education appropriate the following amounts for the purchase of play material:

Per primary pupil (grades 1 to 4) . ................  $.02

Per grammar pupil (grades 5 to 8) ............. .08

:	Per	high or normal school pupil (female)...............08

Per high or normal school pupil (male) .... .........  .15

PHYSICAL TRAINING AT WEST POINT.

Extracts from th© report of the Superintendent, September, 1913.

The physical training at West Point has been so successful during recent years that I give below a special report from Captain H. J. Koehler, U. S. Army, instructor of military gymnastics and physical culture and master of the sword at the Academy.

Special attention is invited to the recommendation in the closing paragraph of this report which is heartily concurred in. While the usual military drills and duties of the enlisted men are generally sufficient for good health, they fail to give him that all-round development and training given by the system used at West Point, which not only does this but gives as a result with it that perfect confidence in one's physical ability, that keenness to detect and take advantage of an opponent's weak points that help so much toward courage and self-control. The man that has been trained to box, wrestle, fence with gun or sabre, run, jump, vault, and swim, and knows that his muscles are trained in these and that he has physical endurance in them, cannot fail to be a valuable soldier in field or action. West Point is turning out graduates capable of giving such instruction and it is believed that a more extended use of these can be made in the Army, greatly to its advantage:

“In a military establishment such as this the physical fitness of a student is undoubtedly paramount to everything else; not only on account of the important role it plays in the profession for which these young men are being prepared, but also on account of the balance between mental and physical effort which must be maintained if the highest degree of efficiency of the student body is to be attained during this period of preparation.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
— 385 —

The curriculum of the Academy, more pretentious now than ever before, requires closer application than is required at any other institution, and this constant mental exertion which the successful mastery of this curriculum imposes would be fraught with danger to the welfare of cadets if this balance was not adjusted to a nicety-How remarkably well this has been established is borne out by the high standard of scholarship and the excellent physical condition of the Corps of Cadets, and the fact that since the introduction of the present system of training there has not been a single case of mental or physical collapse.

But counteracting the evil effects attendant upon a too close and constant mental application is but one of the results obtained through this training; other equally important results, such as the building up of the physically weak so that they may have an equal chance with the naturally robust; the quickening of the cadet physically so that his intellect may be at its best; maintaining him in a sound healthful condition and providing him with a reserve of strength, energy and vitality, against which he may draw when the exigencies incident to his profession demand it, are also attained in a very marked degree.

While accomplishing these results the method of the application of the means is such that other important soldierly qualities, such as grace of poise, agility, endurance and self-reliance, are given the prominence due them.

The means embrace only such exercises that through long experience have proven their worth; every movement having a well-defined purpose; those of doubtful value and those in which the danger of over-exertion or injury is likely are eliminated.

The splendid success of the system must be attributed to the rationality of the methods pursued; insistence upon precise and conscientious effort; the exclusion of all excesses, and the fact that the demands are always well within the capabilities of those upon whom they are made.

The system was introduced in 1885, being constantly under the supervision of the same instructor up to the present time.

From the time of its introduction up to the year 1905 it was confined to the members of the Fourth (freshman) Class only, and consisted of gymnastics, fencing, foil, sabre, bayonet and swimming. In 1905 it was extended by order of the President to include all classes, and boxing and wrestling were added to the above branches. This order also made it mandatory upon the authorities to instruct cadets so that they may qualify as instructors in these branches when they are commissioned.

In pursuance of this order the entire course was reorganized and as a result the Military Academy to-day possesses a system of training that taken in its entirety is acknowledged to be superior to any in force anywhere.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 386 —

The work in the lower three classes is entirely practical; that of the graduating class being devoted entirely to the practical application of the theories of the system with a view to enable the members of this class to fit these theories to the needs of the service.

The Academy is thus furnishing the Army at large with an abundance of material well qualified to direct the physical training of the enlisted men, but up to the present time no well regulated method of procedure has been adopted by the War Department to make use of this material for the benefit of the Army.

Since this system of training has achieved such remarkable results at the Academy and since the same system may be modified to meet any condition, it can be most advantageously applied to the. Army, and it is recommended therefore that this part of the soldiers’ training be entrusted to these young officers under orders from the War Department. If this be done the Army will possess a well defined, well regulated and uniform system of physical training that cap not fail to prove of the utmost benefit to the entire service. If, on,.the other hand, no use is made of the knowledge imparted to these young men while at the Academy, or if it is to be left optional with regimental commanders, to use it as they see fit, or not at all,

.. the President’s order remains inoperative, and since the value that attaches to any particular portion of a cadet’s practical training is in direct proportion to the value set upon it in the service, it will be difficult to impress cadets with the seriousness of this unless it is treated seriously in the service.

The sea-coast practice with service charges was held as usual at Sandy Hook.

The construction of gallery ranges in the basement of the gymnasium for rifle and pistol is now under way and it is expected that, with their use during the coming winter season, valuable instruction can be given preliminary to range practice in the summer.

Very successful results were obtained in the course of military gymnastics and fencing. The physical set-up and bearing of cadets in and out of ranks is satisfactory. It is regretted that, due to the reduction of the length of the academic course from four years and three months to four years, it was found necessary to curtail the courses for the First and Fourth Classes. Special importance is attached to the first class course as it is during this period that every efifort is made to qualify the cadet as an instructor in gymnastics. All members of the First Class are placed in charge of sections made up of their own and other classes. Unusual interest is displayed by them and results obtained that, it is believed, will enable them to enter the service well equinned to cope with this part of the enlisted man’s training. It is believed that the general results obtained in fencing have proven the wisdom of the withdrawal of this institu-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 387 —

tion from the Intercollegiate Fencir- Association and the Inter-collegiate Competition. The instructor makes the following report on this subject:

“Since the withdrawal of the Academy from the Intercollegiate Competition, interest in fencing in the corps in general has taken on proportions never reached here before.

With equal advantages to all, every cadet now has the privilege of oerfecting himself in swordmanship to the limit of his possibilities and inclinations by devotinp* his leisure time to its practice, all this under the supervision of the instructor.

“The results have been decidedly gratifying and the large number of cadets taking advantage of this opportunity is the best proof of the wisdom of the withdrawal from the Intercollegiate Competition.”

Increased attention has been given to the matter of sabre fencing, bayonet exercises, and fencing with the musket; foil fencing being taught only to establish a basis for sabre work. It is believed that the results of this and the special training given to the First Class, referred to above, will eventually be of benefit to the service at large.

Instruction in polo was given to the First Class three times a week throughout the Summer and twice a week in the Fall and Spring; and during the winter in the riding hall in indoor polo with good results to the horsemanship of the entire class and in the development of a number of very good players.

MENTAL HYGIENE IN THE SCHOOL.

By WILLIAM H. BURNHAM, Ph. D., Clark University, Worcester, Mass.

I have no apology either to hygiene or to pedagogy for choosing this subject. From the point of view of hygiene it is better to prevent mental disorder in the school than to cure mental disease by re-education in the sanitarium. If education is necessary for the mental health, it is better to give it before rather than after nervous breakdown. As far as pedagogy is concerned, I hope to show that there is no conflict between a sound doctrine of pedagogical efficiency and the scientific teachings of mental hygiene.

Let us take the principle of a suitable alternation of periods of work and rest for illustration.

The vast number of investigations of the optimum conditions of work and the causes of fatigue made during, the last twenty-fiv^ years I have not time to enumerate. Some of the important results

* Read at the Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene, August, 1913r Buffalo, N. Y.

Digitized by

U.ooQle
— 388 —

will be presented in other papers; but one outcome of the whole investigation has been this, to suggest emphatically the following points. It appears that work as well as rest is necessary for the health of the human organism, that both function and relaxation are necessary, that the expulsion of energy as well as the storing up of energy is a condition of health, that by working hard with close concentration some degree of immunity to fatigue may be attained, and on the other hand that rest is equally important for efficiency; finally, that in mental work the pace is quite as important as the time spent in study. Recent psychological experiments have shown the great improvement in efficiency effected by regard for these principles. Let me recount this somewhat in detail.

Some years ago I had the onnortunity to make a brief study of Retroactive Amnesia, of that class of cases where a shock or the like obliterates the memory for a brief period preceding the accn dent. Such cases are familiar to everyone perhaps. The following probably represents a typical one.

A farmer spent his morning in his usual vocations. Then he shelled some corn, afterwards worked in his garden, then harnessed his horse and took a ride for a mile. At the end of this ride, he was thrown from his wagon and seriously injured his head. He remained unconscious for some time, and then when restored remembered the work of the early morning, dimly recalled the shelling of the corn, but remembered nothing of what occurred afterward. Why was he unable to recall the events of his conscious life just preceding the accident?

From the study of cases of this kind I found evidence that led to the tentative conclusion that the amnesia was due to the fact that the memory was never completely organized. In order that new impressions may become a part of the permanent store of memory it is necessary that a certain period of time should elapse, so that a process of organization or consolidation may take place. In normal memory these processes of organization are continually going on; and that ideas may be permanently remembered sufficient time must elapse for the organization to be completed. If a shock or the like arrests these processes of organization, the partially organized memory of recent events drops out, the amnesia is retroactive.

Bergstroem and others have since found experimental evidence of this process of consolidation. Mueller and Pilzecker found that in learning nonsense syllables less was retained if immediately after learning a series the observer was required to concentrate attention on some other task—the careful observation of a picture or the like —and they assumed that the mental strain of the latter checked the consolidation process necessary for a permanent memory. This result strongly suggests also that interference of association occurred due to the task requiring attention.
— 389 —

That time for the organization of a permanent memory is actually necessary and that interference of association is especially likely to occur in the first few minutes after anything has been learned, i. e., before the process of organization is complete, seems to be most strikingly illustrated by the experiments of Mueller and Pilzecker. After learning a series of nonsense syllables by the method of paired associates (Treffermethode) they gave the observer a task requiring concentration of attention a few seconds after the learning of the original series was completed. Again in another experiment the task requiring attention was given six minutes after the original series was learned. A test was made of what was retained an hour and a half afterwards; and it was found that of the first series only 28 per cent was remembered; of the second series, with six minutes interval, 49 per cent. This is remarkable evidence that a process of consolidation requiring time does occur. In the case of the latter the process of organization or consolidation of the original series had been largely completed. In the first series there was not time for organization before the distraction was given, hence less was remembered, largely probably on account of the greater interference of association. The mere rest of six minutes made it possible to retain nearly twice as much as without it.

The fact, which seems well established, that before the material learned has been thoroughly organized there is likely to be interference of association, with all methods except the recognition method, and the further fact that when the new material has been thoroughly organized no interference is likely to occur, are distinctly significant for the hygiene and methodology of school work.

The practical bearing of this is obvious on a moment’s reflection. Haste in learning defeats its own end, and a short rest may frequently be distinctly more advantageous than continued work. For the organization of a permanent memory and to avoid confusion it is especially necessary that suitable periods of rest should occur between the learning of disparate topics. In the school room, for example, from purely pedagogical reasons, not to mention hygiene, it is usually wTise to give a rest of five or ten minutes at least after one recitation or the study of one subject before taking up a different one.

Especially after the learning of a fact or principle of prime importance a rest of a few minutes to give time for the organization of the memory may be a distinct advantage. Dr. Book tells me that in his laboratory experiments in learning, all his subjects instinctively stopped after a difficult passage. In the school we feel that there is not time for this; but the hurry from one topic to another in the ordinary classroom does not usually mean efficiency. Many points arc crowded into the lesson, there is little or no time for drill and the application of principles. One minute before the close of the

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 390 —

hour the lesson is assigned for the next day without explanation or illustration.

In the modern study of science, especially in the laboratory, a better method has often been adopted; but even in the study of science, the old methods of dictation, crowding and hurry, creep in. The following description of a class exercise in chemistry, written; by a student as a mere exercise in English composition, has fallen into my hands and will be recognized as typical of what happens in many classrooms.	i

“The gong strikes, and the class comes to order. Every one has pen ready and notebook open to take notes on the coming lecture in Chemistry. The teacher begins by passing around specimens of iron, cobalt and zinc. How fast she talks, and how nervous the class gets in trying to take all the notes. These specimens too, they are handed at the very moment when the instructor is dictating the Periodic Law. A whisper arises, “Please repeat the Law, we did not hear the whole of it.” Then, there are experiments. One experiment does not work well. We shall have to leave that and return to it On we go to another demonstration, and still another, our pens flying all the while. The bell strikes, and the class leaves, wearied out by trying to grasp all the details of the properties of the three new elements.”

From the point of view of hygiene such methods mean interference of association, confusion and worry. It is not a matter of indifference to health whether five or six hours a day for the long period of school life be spent in hurry, nervousness and confusion, or in developing habits of concentrated attention and orderly association. It is precisely such conditions in the schoolroom and often in the home that have developed that nervous irritability and instability that is proverbial among Americans. It is the disgrace of the school that its graduates so often have to be re-educated in the hospital and the sanitarium.

A wise and successful superintendent told me some years ago that he sometimes thought his best teachers were doing the least for their children because they were doing too much for them and gave them little opportunity for self-assertion and self-activity. This is typical of many schools; and so it has come to pass from the point of view of hygiene, that often those who teach least instruct the' most, and the poorest teachers do the most for the children. The oft quoted and frequently resented words of Kraepelin, that the inattention of children is their salvation, and that uninteresting teachers are a hygienic necessity, have assumed a new significance. Kraepelin might have added that uninteresting teachers are often a pedagogical necessity, because they alone give children the periods of idleness necessary for the organization of a permanent memory of what has been learned. The result of all this haste in the school and in Amer-
— 391 —

ican life is that many of the best and most highly cultivated people have neither time to learn nor the ability to rest. They are in such a condition of hurry and of strain that it is impossible for them to take a vacation. A vacation is a state of mind and not a situation; and only a radical change in the mental attitudes of such persons would make rest and recreation possible.

It is hard to give practical applications of mental hygiene to school work in a brief paper; but one is obvious: All this shows concretely what observation and the study of health conditions in the school have already suggested, namely, the need of far more time for recess in the schools of this country, and of a better distribution and arrangement of the recesses, and the advantage of a short pause after a specially difficult or specially important point.

I have given this merely as an illustration. The emphasis in modern education is shifting from the time spent in study to the ^*ace of work, from ground covered to essentials mastered, from methods of teaching to methods of learning, from books read to ability to do and habits of healthful activity, from instruction to training.

The business of the school is supposed to be learning, but learning means the acquisition of new material, its assimilation, its organization as a part of permanent memory. The essential conditions of this process, however, are concentration of attention, orderly association, freedom from hurry and nervousness, mental poise, and an attitude of leisure. These are the conditions we should strive for in the school. Modern studies of efficiency have shown that in lifting pig iron some four times as much work is done when the worker rests half the time. If children can learn more by resting and playing a fourth of the time, why not let them do it ?

SUMMARY

1.	The need for rest and recreation is based on a fundamental characteristic of the nervous tissue.

2.	Both for health and for efficiency the pace of work seems to be quite as important as the time spent in study; on the physical side this means within certain limits immunity to fatigue, on the mental side it means a habit of concentration and attention to the present situation.

3.	A short period for rest after the learning of important points and between recitations in the schoolroom is often of great value in fixing what has been learned, in organizing it as a part of the permanent memory; and this in turn is likely to be of importance for sound mental development because it tends to produce habits of orderly association and freedom from confusion and worry.

4.	Thus from the point of view of hygiene and of efficiency, hurry defeats its own end; and, on the other hand, there is no conflict between the principles of scientific hygiene and the doctrines of sound pedagogy.

Digitized by
— 392 —

THE RELATIVE VALUE OF GAMES AND DANCING TO THE GYMNASTIC PROGRAM OF HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS *

By MABEL McN. WRIGHT, Schurz High School, Chicago, 111.

It is not the purpose of this paper to discuss in detail the values of games, dancing or gymnastics, nor is it necessary in this place to state the theoretical province of each in the day’s program.

The questions that are apropos in the consideration of this subject are those which deal with the physical and mental influences operating for or against the pupils getting the most good out of the exercise. We should know how the average girl employs her time out of school. How much time does she spend daily in study, piano practice or other kinds of work? How much and what kind of physical and mental recreation does she take daily? How is the pupil’s attitude toward the program, and how are the results she obtains from the work influenced by her environment? How, in turn, may this influence the teacher of physical education in making out her program? Should the aim of the day’s program be to relieve, or has the work as taught any definite corrective influence on the contributing causes of the strain under which the child works? In other words should the aim of gymnastics be to relieve or shape the conditions ?

Not long ago an effective and enthusiastic teacher of physical education was heard to remark, “The longer I teach the more I am convinced that games and dancing are the only feasible forms of work for our high school girls. They come to us so overworked and in such peculiar nervous condition that they cannot get what they should from formal work.”

In order to determine what this condition might be and find the significance it might have on the content of the lesson in physical education, the situation was approached from the standpoint of the pupil. A list of questions bearing directly on the amount and kind of work and study, the mental and physical recreation taken out of school, and the most beneficial type of exercise, in the pupil’s judgment, taken in the gymnasium were submitted to about seven hundred representative high school girls. No names or other means of identification were placed on the papers, so there was no incentive for answering otherwise than truthfully.

The consensus of opinion would indicate that in the choice of types of exercise, involving not pleasure alone, but with emphasis on real physical benefit, the majority of the students favor games and dancing. The answers to the questions regarding this work fall into one of four types of physical exercise, the exceptions being less than one per cent. The types selected were games, dancing, apparatus work and free exercises.

* Read at the meeting of the Middle Western Conference on Physical Education.

Digitized by C.oooLe
— 393 —

In the freshman year, 8 per cent preferred free exercises, 20 per cent preferred dancing, 32 per cent preferred apparatus work, 40 per cent preferred games.

Sophomore year, 12 per cent free exercises, 27 per cent dancing, 23 per cent apparatus work, 38 per cent games.

Junior year, 25 per cent free exercises, 25 per cent dancing, 12 per cent apparatus work, 38 per cent games.

Senior year, 15 per cent free exercises, 35 per cent dancing, 10 per cent apparatus work, 40 per cent games.

Average, 15 per cent free exercises, 27 per cent dancing, 19 per cent apparatus work, 39 per cent games.

The reasons for such preferences are characteristic. In the freshman year games and apparatus work rank highest. The reasons were not always clear and were sometimes confused, but there seems to be great faith in the body-building and strength-giving qualities of such work, while the factors of interest and excitement have a wonderful appeal at this age. One freshmen expresses her feelings as follows: “I cannot choose between games and apparatus work. I like them both because they get my nerves excited and then I feel very strong and free.”

That the heart of youth goes out to play as to nothing else in the gymnastic line is obvious. The percentage is not affected by the change in year, forty per cent of freshman and seniors alike, finding that play best satisfies all their needs, for while receiving a great deal of exercise they experience mental relaxation as well. One girl says, “I get the most benefit from games because then I am happy and can forget the toil of the day.” Another gives a little different opinion. She says “games cheer me up for the whole day and that means I do better work.”

G.	Stanley Hall makes clear that “play incorporates all the elements and combinations oldest in muscle history,” that in play “the child lives over again the activities of the past, the habits which have been formed generations ago.” This fundamental appeal, the zest, the vigorous action, the spontaneity of play and the training in objective control, together with the obvious mental and moral lessons involved in games, make play the ideal type of exercise under ideal conditions.

Next to play, dancing was found to be most appreciated. Preferred by never less than 20 per cent as in the freshman year, and reaching as high as 35 per cent in the senior year, dancing it would seem has claimed a permanent place as a factor in physical education. Like play its development is based on the activities of primitive people. Many of the folk dances are imitative of the occupations with which the race has been most occupied. Then there is the emotional outlet. National dances typify the emotional life of their people. All the inhibited emotions due to the oppression of the Russians
— 394 —

find an outlet in the abandon of their dancing which is perhaps, the most fascinating and gayest type to be found.

Dancing like educational gymnastics is essentially subjective in development but the rhythm of dancing and the musical occompani-ment relieve the neuro-muscular system to a great extent, and unlike educational gymnastics the effect is recreative and leads to nervous poise and balance.

The pupils are not unaware of these facts as the reasons for their preference show. One girl writes, “Dancing allows expression of the mind and appeals to the sense of the beautiful, besides giving one the exercise they need.,, Especially in the Senior class' and among the freshman as well were many who feel that dancing is the best means of developing grace and poise. One Senior writes, “I work at dancing very , hard because I realize I am awkward.” From the mental viewpoint such claims as that dancing “rests .the mind,” “makes one feel light and happy,” were frequently mentioned. As with those who favored games the majority include in their answers such statements as these, “Puts more life into me,” “livens me up and makes me feel less asleep.”

Because of its positive effect in the development of subjective control with a minimum of nervous expenditure, because like games it is fundamental in its activities and because of the emotional outlet dancing is considered by many to be the most liberal form of motor education. Compared superficially with other forms of exercise this might seem to be true.

Heavy apparatus work which holds third place in the estimation of the girls has a large following in the freshman year, then falls off very rapidly. The fact that the gymnasium is new to an appreciable per cent of the freshman may account for its popularity in that year. In the two upper classes apparatus work is the least appreciated form of exercise. There are frequently reasons given why they do not prefer this work, such as that it tires them too much and they dislike the muscular soreness which is a frequent result.

There is an appeal in certain forms of apparatus work, similar to that found in games and dancing, in that the exercises are natural, they represent the same activities that were developed in the early history of the race: climbing, jumping, vaulting, etc. In no other form of exercises are the results so tangible. In pole climbing for example the child measures just what she has done, and can see how her work compares with that of others. In other forms of work one cannot easily judge the progress they have made, but there is no mistaking the distance one can jump or the height one may climb. There is the constant measurement of one’s efforts, the comparison of results with others and what keen satisfaction there is when one has mastered a particular vault, or climbed the pole to the top.

Digitized by CnOOQle
— 395 —

With the freshmen, aside from the development of strength, the main interest lay in the excitement of this work. The upper class girls no longer feel the novelty of this kind of exercise and those who prefer it do so because of the satisfaction it brings them in greater strength and control, and the practical value it has in the advantageous handling of their bodies under all circumstances. !

Free exercises while in the minority when the total is considered, ranks third with the three upoer classes. The greatest number, who are aware of the value of free exercises is in the junior class 25 per cent preferring that type of work. The reasons given and the pleasure expressed in this form of work were the most sane and thoughtful answers received. There was a very definite relationship between the results obtained from this work and their practical ap^ plication to the work of life. One girl whose home life was unusually full of burdens said she “worked with a will” on those ex^ ercises because she had been stooped, but now realized she was getting straighter and stronger too, for her work at home did not tire* her nearly so much.

That outside influences rather than the character of the work taught, is responsible for the attitude of the child toward the gymnastic work is evident. It was determined at the Schurz high school that it is necessary for the average student to spend two hours and twenty minutes in home study each day if she would measure up to reasonable standards expected. While urban life has deprived th^ boy of much useful training to be had in the execution of home duties, the girl still has numerous tasks to perform about the house. The reports on house work show that an average of one and one-half, hours on school days and one-half day on Saturdays is spent in such work. This makes a total of about four hours necessary work orr school days, which must be done after school.

Considerable time is spent in mental recreation, usually taken5 in the form of light reading, moving picture shows, week end parties/ etc. That the attendance at moving picture shows has become s' habit with many is to be deplored. Several girls admitted attending the five cent theatres regularly three and four times a week. The' habit seems more prevalent among freshmen and sophomores thanr among the upper class girls. There was a definite relationship be-' tween the freshmen who frequent moving picture shows and those who prefer the more exciting forms of physical exercise as games* and certain kinds of apparatus work. Of the total number of girls1 reporting 35 per cent were found to take no physical recreation out^ side of school save walking. The reasons given for this were lack of time, lack of playmates, or because the available space for play' was usually occupied by boys. Only a very few had no inclination to play.

Of those who did take recreation more than half the number
— 396 —

combined this with some definite duty to be done, as going to the store and doing other errands on roller skates, or playing with younger brothers or sisters, at the same time being responsible for their care and entertainment. It was found that not more than 25 per cent of the girls included the proper kind of regular physical recreation in their daily program, and in this group the time was not sufficient, averaging considerable less than an hour.

We find then after investigation of the situation as it is in a fairly representative high school that the average girl is not in condition to do good work in the gymnasium where there is any special demand made upon the attentive powers.

1st. Because she is overworked mentally and physically, not necessarily because the assignment is too heavy,* but because of faulty mental habits, and poor management of time.

2nd. Because she has not within 50 per cent the amount of physical recreation necessary to offset the fatigue and strain incident to the life of a high school girl.

3rd. The time for mental recreation is often unwisely spent in idle pleasures which incapacitate the mind for effective work.

The pupil is usually either in a state of high nervous tension due to work and worry or passive mentally, while physically there is a similar condition, either a strong desire to throw off all inhibitions and let down or a sluggish condition quite foreign to exertion of any kind. Dissatisfied with the routine of work and study it is only to be expected that the pupil will choose and apparently find the greatest benefit from the type of work that is fundamental in its appeal, and requires little conscious effort in its performance. This explains the popularity of games and dancing from the pupil’s standpoint.

It also explains the preference of many teachers for such forms of work. A poor or overworked teacher can get fairly good results with little effort from games and dancing because they are fundamental activities and the latent interest in them will carry the work along once they are started. On the other hand it takes the best work of a sincere, enthusiastic, well trained teacher to bring tired children to a realization of the joy in the performance of free exercises, the nature of which is of necessity not fundamental but artificial, entirely the product of civilization.

And this in turn may explain the nopularity of games and athletics at certain schools, where the whole time for physical education is devoted to such work, or the immense popularity of dancing which in many places has practically taken the place of the more formal types of work. Only recently “The Dance as a Day’s Order” was presented for comparison with the Swedish Day’s Order and the Day’s Order in German free exercises. Even the casual observer could not fail to see the ineffectiveness of dancing in obtain-

Digitized by O-ooQle
— 397 —

ing the positive results which follow the other kinds of exercise. The reason is because the one is rhythmic play, while the other is work.

In conclusion let me say that efficiency in action whether physical or mental can only be attained through real work. Failure on the part of the pupil to understand the place of work in life and realize that the only permanent joys have their basis in the satisfaction of work well done, is responsible for the unrest and lack of efficiency and poise in our pupils. Professor Ash very aptly says “Few realize the horror and even the phobia of real work that rules in the depths of their own souls.,,

It is true the child needs play even more perhaps than all other forms of. exercise, and dancing too, but the time limit of the gymnastic period would not allow the teaching of sufficient good form of play and dancing, were the whole period devoted to such work. The time given for physical exercise should be doubled, and as is done in some colleges e. g. Bryn Mawr, two hours a week of outdoor work be made compulsory and two hours then devoted to the various forms of gymnasium work. With our present arrangement we can but start the interest in out-door recreations and trust that the games we play and the dances given will not contribute to the interests of the moment alone, but will impress upon the pupil the necessity for the continuation of such exercises out of school.

That the real mission of the gymnastic lesson is something more than “to cheer one up,” “to make you forget the toil of the day,” is clear to our profession, but not necessarily so to the pupils or even to many educators. We do need far more recreative work and time must be allowed for this, but we also need more exercises for poise and control.

It is the failure on the part of the pupil to win success in work generally, which causes the unrest and dissatisfaction in school life today. It is our duty to bring our pupils to see that only by a faithful persistent attitude toward work can one even hope to achieve or succeed. That this loyal attitude toward work can be developed, in free exercises, especially in corrective gymnastics and that the results bring greater joy and more real satisfaction than in any other form of work, both to the teacher and pupil, has been proved by Miss Jessie Bancroft in her work on posture in the Brooklyn schools.

Let our main efforts then be directed toward such corrective and educational work that will win our pupils to the attitude which brings about success in work both at school and at home. When faulty habits of work both physical and mental are corrected there will be time for recreative forms of exercise outside the school period, and we shall no longer be the victims of the family habits of others, which tend to make the mission of our profession that of hygiene rather than education.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 398 —

THE HYGIENIC AND PEDAGOGICAL IMPORTANCE OF PLAY DURING SCHOOL.

Address Before the iFourth International Congress on School Hygriene, Buffalo. August, 1913. By ERNST HERMANN, Supt. of Playgrounds, Newton, Mass., Director Physical Education, Cambridge and Boston.

(Conclusion.)

THE SOCIAL VALUE OF PLAY*

All students of social conditions must be convinced by this time that a mob spirit is very rapidly developing in all our cities and towns. We must conceed that our American “mobs” are made of very young people, and we must further, to our shame, admit that these young people have received their education in our American schools. True, many of them live in a home environment which is Still elementally foreign.

It is truly astonishing to observe the rapid deterioration of the manners of our young people almost as soon as they leave the school building. It is remarkable how soon even the school youngsters degenerate during vacations when they are out of their glad school clothes.

They very soon seem to turn into a crowd of young unmannerly rowdies with nasty speech and nasty manners. Those who are students of social conditions and those who have come into contact with the “gangs” in our parks and playgrounds are astounded by the fact how rapidly boys and girls, who have only recently graduated as “angels” turn into a tough lot of loafers. Not all of them by any means, and not even a majority of them, but enough to make us wonder what is wrong with our school system.

The real culture which a boy and a girl get in school will show itself best if he turns into a self-respecting wage-earner, if he turns into a self-respecting citizen, if he becomes an honest voter and a law-abiding citizen.

What is wrong then with our schools? Is it per chance the hard-working teacher or is it the system? Is it that the teacher has no real chance to know the boys and girls sufficiently long enough tc let their sweet example bear fruit? Can it be that the average teacher has lost her or his hold over the boys and girls because the disciplinary powers have been taken away from them and the “bad” boys do not get spanked sufficiently because the father may have a political pull. This is all more or less true. It all has more or less contributed to the ineffectiveness of overcoming insubordination and vicious habits. But the greatest fault lies in our ridiculous system of marshalling the children in the schools from the first minute to the last. It is a straight-jacket discipline with the desk as the jacket, the room as the cell, and the magnificent “aesthetically” furnished building as the prison, where no boy may shout nor step alone from one room to another, where they are marched two by two in
— 399 —

lockstep to the basement and finally out of the building. Where the teacher comes a half of an hour earlier than the children and where they leave a half of an hour after the children have left, and where the children-come noiselessly and on tip toes into the class room to step into the straight jacket for the day. Never a chance for the teachers to see their pupils in a truly uncontrolled state.

There is to-day hardly need for more arguments in favor of more outdoor school work, but there is still much need of a better understanding by the general public of the high educational value of motor-activities in the development of an efficient central nervous system, and the great influence which organized play may exert in the building of character. Organized recess exercises not only insure an equal opportunity for every child, be he weak or strong, but it gives the teacher an opportunity to know the real child—the child as he unbends during spontaneous action, as he unfolds during intense application and when close to nature. The school-room child is a product of an artificial environment. The playground child is a product of fundamental emotions and hereditary instincts. To get hygienic results with normal children no means can possibly surpass in value such vigorous outdoor activities as running, leaping, skipping, bending, twisting, and reaching, especially if they are the result of spontaneous interest and unconscious application. We have, therefore, in the plays and games of children and the sports and athletic activities of youth a most excellent agent in maintaining physiological efficiency during school hours.

Play, then, as a method of recreation and of physical training is unsurpassed, because it uses established co-ordinations and fundamental muscles, especially, if a variety of games are practiced. It develops vital and functional strength rather than mere muscular strength, on account of the large extent to which the majority of the big groups of muscles are involved. It is at least equal to gymnastics as far as these are used as preventive measures, because play and games are a fundamental demand in the life of young children, and it is only because school interferes too much with these fundamental elements of child-life that later corrective measures become necessary. If our educational methods and laboratories and machinery conformed more to elementary child life, less corrective measures would be needed.

But we appreciate also, since the advent of experimental psychology and pedagogy, that a rational, wholesome, safe and sane motor-life throughout childhood affects beneficially not only the child's health, in the commonly accepted sense of this term, but that it affects equally as favorably the intellectual and moral life. We appreciate more than ever that moral strength is dependent upon physical health, that character is in the main a “Plexus of motor habits,” that “Man is what he does,” in other words, we know that in order to be really efficient men, we must not only be healthy in

Digitized by t^ooQle
— 400 —

body but must have a healthy and rational mind. Rational, safe and sane mentality is the outcome of a rational motor-life, i. e., rational play-life. The motor experiences of childhood determine to a large extent our habits and our character.

Plato said, “The play of children has the mightiest influence on the maintenance or non-maintenance of laws.” It is this emphasis on the benefit of play, this great ethical force, which the judges of juvenile courts see in the playground activities, and it is for this reason that I believe in making play a part of our school education. Unlike other cultural agencies, for the development of the moral side of man, we return to the fundamental activities of the bodv to get the highest type of character. If we once appreciate that mind, body and soul are interdependent, we shall see that the soul can best be reached through well directed and organized physical activities in which the whole child is interested. Physical education offers more opportunities for ethical culture than any other ethical agency because it never separates these three parts. Through play, the mind accumulates knowledge; by learning to abide by rules and laws of the game, we strengthen the will; by playing “fair” we develop character; by conquering odds, we grow in courage; by supporting our mates, we foster co-operation. It is by “playing the game” that one acquires chivalry, fosters civic virtue, and develops loyalty.

Self-management of play is the only management worth living. To bring this about, our play teachers must not only have the right point of view, but also the right capacity for organization. To organize the children into self-managing group units around various and diversified activities must be our main purpose. This will insure the broadest possible ethical influence. If our play leaders are merely teachers, if they merely direct the entertainment of the children, without bringing them hourly nearer the goal of self-management, they fail to attain the ultimate goal. If. the sociability of the children and the enjoyment of play implements, etc., depend upon constant direction of teachers or leaders, if plays and games depend for their successful termination upon “umpiring” of instructors, if our present school methods of constant marshalling prevail on the playground, yes, even if the behavior of younger children is constantly controlled by older children, we have simoly a modification of a police force.

Our school recesses offer a splendid opportunity for the development of good habits of play. To be sure, the large number of children which have to be accommodated makes this a hard problem during school hours, yet I find that organized recesses lead up to better free play and to good habits of recreation. It is the teacher’s principal means of reaching the whole child. It helps the child by counteracting the evil effects of sedentary occupations, it fosters character and civic virtue, it develops the motor brain, makes intel-
401

lectual training easier and the whole school life more attractive, and last but not least, it makes the teacher more attractive to the children, becoming as much a boon to the one as to the other, and last but not least it helps in the development of rational habits of recreation and of a wholesome physical life.

We are more than ever learning that education for service demands on the part of the teacher a knowledge of the whole child and not a knowledge of his capacity for academic training alone. How are we going to know about the “wrinkles” in a child's character and how can we find out the “queer” habits he may be developing, unless we give him a chance to expose them? It is a teacher's business to iron out the wrinkles and to train away the queer habits.

One recess every morning and afternoon is, however, not enough for growing children. We have undoubtedly taken a decided step towards better school hygiene in the establishment of two organized recesses. I would most earnestly recommend the establishment of fifteen minutes with every forty-five minutes of sedentary work, for both grammar and high schools. If we had these hourly recreative intermissions, we could devote one recess to organized recreation and one to free play, and spontaneous relaxation. A forty-five minute period of close application intellectual work, with insufficient muscular activity, is the limit to which children should be subjected. If this were done in our schools it would soon be found that these hourly recreative intermissions would lead to a much more effective intellectual capacity, owing to greatly improved physiological efficiency. For this puroose it would be wise to lengthen the session both morning and afternoon, in order to retain the requisite time for book work. A growing child 'has but very limited powers of endurance, either purely physical or mental. It is incapable of a prolonged passive or semi-passive position of the body, and continued sitting postures are bound to put an unequal strain upon tender and undeveloped tissues. The central nervous system is as yet undeveloped and quite easily exhausted. Only frequent changes with wholesome and vigorous general muscular recreation can possibly bring about a safe and sane school life. It has been proved that even an additional five minutes added to ten minutes hourly recesses will result in greater mental efficiency.

—Dancing for the Aged.—The following newspaper item just received emphasizes the point made in our comment last week regarding the danger for old persons of the newer dances:

Shortly before midnight last night at his home, occurred the

death of Dr. -------, who for more than forty years had practiced

his profession in this city. His death is all the more tragic because a short time before the summons came, he had been with his wife
— 402 —

in attendance at a dancing party at Cronkhite Hall, where he had been learning the tango and other new dances. The strenuous exercise, it is thought, somewhat affected his heart, causing his death. -—Current Comment, Journal Am. Medical Assoc.

GOITRE AND TRUNK EXERCISES. *

By DR. F. A. SCHMIDT, Bonn.

Translated from Koerper und Deist, January 1913, by George Altmann, Minot,

North Dakota.

In volume io for the year 1912 of the Gymnastic Monthly, Mr. Vogel of Furth has an article “Trunk Exercises and Flatulent Neck/’ in which he presumes that certain trunk exercises, especially forcible bending backward of the head, produce goitre, and in which he takes issue with both Mr. Schroeder and myself. He maintains that certain exercises which we prescribe are harmful “under certain conditions.”

I will not waste time over the term “Flatulent Neck” as used by Vogel—it is a relic of times when men believed in an “Air goitre,” which was thought to be inflated from the air passages. This theory has, of course, been exploded. The experienced person avoids such misleading terms.

The thyroid gland is an organ which still offers many problems to us. It is true that we know- definitely the powerful thyroid extract which is prepared by this vascular organ. We also know definitely that this substance plays an important part in metabolism and surmise that it neutralizes certain toxins in our systems. If the thyroid is stunted in childhood, or remains undeveloped, there results great impairment in the child's growth, especially a stunting of the sex organs, of the mental powers—indeed cretinism. When the thyroid is removed in adults, as when the organ becomes excessively enlarged, we find that unless a sufficiently large part of the organ or of the parathyroid is left in place, a peculiar sickness, “Myxodaema,” with a puffy swelling of the skin, especially of the face and increasing stupidity, results. If thyroid extract (taken perhaps from a calf’s thyroid) is administered, these symptoms are held in check.

The thyroid is, on the average, larger in the female than in the male, which fact is of considerable importance according to certain authorities. Of virulent tumors, the best known is the great swelling and deterioration of the thyroid in goitre. Goitre seems to be endemic in certain localities as in the Alps, in the Black Forest and also in lower countries as on the Danube and on the Mur. By far the greater proportion of those affected are women. The cause of

* This paper is an answer to an attack made upon an article written by Dr. Schmidt in which he advocated certain vigorous exercises for women’s classes.

Digitized by
— 403 —

this swelling we now believe to be due to certain substances in the drinking water which contains certain bacteria or their toxins. The wide-spread belief that the congestion of the blood in the thyroid during mountain climbing, glass blowing or carrying heavy loads on the head may cause goitre, is a very improbable one. For instance, the peasant women here (on the lower Rhein) carry very heavy baskets of vegetables, grains, etc., on their heads day after day and for long periods of time, and still there are verv few cases of goitre.

What interests us here and what Vogel seems to have observed least is the occurrence of a slight swelling of the thyroid in girls who have just passed through puberty. These slight enlargements are but a provision of nature and have nothing to do with goitre; they do not affect the health and usually disappear of themselves. Very often they appear with the beginning of the menstrual periods. In addition—it is an old and well known truth that if this enlargement occurs during pregnancy (according to Freund, the celebrated gynecologist, in 80 per cent of the cases) it is no sign, as Vogel presumes, that it is caused by the pressure at birth. Number 102 of Goethe’s “Epigrams of Venice” runs—

My throat has swollen slightly,

So she said uneasily.

Be quiet child and listen here,	\

Tis but the touch of Venus’s hand.

It may not be amiss to mention an old custom used in southern France to determine whether a girl was chaste or not. A veil was placed about her neck and then tied. She then took the veil in her mouth and tried to slip her head through it. If this was possible, that is if the neck was much enlarged, the girl was not considered chaste. It is unnecessary to add that this trial had little value and that many innocent were thereby misjudged.

For the past twenty years, I have examined the girls who each fall take the state examinations in gymnastics, in all over 1500. Even between the years 1890-1900 when trunk exercises according to the Swedish system were used much less than now-a-days, I found, among these girls ranging from eighteen to twenty years of age, that from five to ten per cent of all had a slight swelling of the thyroid. This I noticed twenty years ago. However, I know of no instance where the health of the girl was in any way affected by this slight swelling.

Anyone who examines art with the eyes of an anatomist can not but notice that, through a slight swelling of the thyroid gland, a pronounced curve is formed in the lower part of the throats of the models of the masters. One has but to examine Raphael’s “St. Cecelia” in Bologna, or the “Madonna” in Florence. The profile portrait of a princess by Pisanello in Louvre is especially mentioned.

Digitized by O.OQQle
— 404 —

By Albrecht Durer, I mention “Eva” in the Prado in Madrid, by Hans Holbein the valuable likeness of Dorothea Offenburg in the museum in Basel. In these as in innumerable other portraits of women, we find as Goethe says, the throat is slightly swollen. One certainly can not consider these slight swellings as evidences of sickness.

Let us consider the supposed connection between this enlarge-ment of the thyroid and trunk exercises as Mr. Vogel sees it. He is not the first to make this discovery as we shall soon see. He writes—“in this type of trunk bending backward, the head is also bent forcibly backward. As a result there is a great tension on the anterior muscles of the neck; these press upon the large blood vessels in the neck and cause the thyroid to protrude.”

We wish to say that Mr. Vogel does not execute this type of trunk bending backward properly if he bends the head forcibly back-ward. In our book cited by Vogel “Orthopedic School Gymnastics,” Schroeder states clearly in the explanation of exercises on page 53— “Through the raising of the chest, the spine in the thoracic region will be bent backward. The head follows the movement of the trunk—avoid bending the neck,” etc.

Therefore I hold that Mr. Vogel is wrong in his statement that the pressure of the front and side muscles of the neck on the large blood vessels therein causes the protruding of the thyroid. The opposite of this is true. In the first place, a: backward bending of the neck is brought about by the extensor muscles of the neck—obviously possible only when the antagonistic muscles, in this case the anterior neck muscles which flex the head and elevate the ribs— offer little resistance and are relaxed. The muscles which flex the head, working in unison, draw the head as a whole forward and cannot be tense when the neck is bent backward. Such a case would be similar to having a horse hitched in front of and one in back of a wagon and then whipping both.

Secondly, if these flexor muscles were tense, they would not cause the lateral lobes of the thyroid to protrude but, on the contrary, to be forced inward toward the air passages. The truth is that an enlargement of the thyroid tends to disappear when the anterior muscles of the neck are tense.

The opposite of what Mr. Vogel says is therefore correct. What he says regarding the “pressure of the neck muscles on the large blood vessels,” requires no serious refutation. No one can logically discuss this matter unless he knows accurately the anatomical structure of the neck; the location of the fascia, etc. For authoritative material relative to the pressing inward of the thyroid through the neck muscles, especially the head flexors, I wish to refer to the much prized “Textbook of Surgery,” by Wullstein & Wilms, 3rd edition, 1912. In Volume 1, page 405 under “Surgery of the Neck,” by
— 405 —

Professor F. Querlain of Basel we find two photographic illustrations. The first, figure 33, shows the accessory muscles of inspiration in the neck and especially the head flexors, relaxed—and the enlarged thyroid shows very plainly. Figure 34 shows the same person with the head flexors forcibly contracted—and the enlargement has apparently disappeared.

But if such were not the case, the logic of Mr. Vogel would still remain the same. We admit that during a backward bending of the head—but with relaxation of the head flexors—the lower part of the throat will protrude and a thyroid that is slightly larger than normal will become more prominent. But where is the evidence that this movement which makes the enlargement more apparent is the cause of it? Mr. Vogel has not presented the slightest shadow of proof. He cannot do it because the questions here involved are such as a professional man attempts to answer only after much investigation and study. It is also not enough merely to suspect valuable exercises, as the balance stand frontways and trunk lowering backward in sitting of being detrimental to health, to brand them as harmful. It is also not sufficient that because one merely suspect such exercises that he should suggest their harm to the girls and to their parents and have such girls as have throats slightly enlarged appear, as they did before Mr. Vogel, with black velvet neck bands as evidence of this enlargement.

As I mentioned above, there is no proof presented by Mr. Vogel that forcible trunk exercises are the cause of these enlargements. On the contrary, in such cases where I noticed a swelling in the throats of girl gymnasts, I asked them if they were aware of this swelling and found that usually such was not the case. I never failed to say that this was a condition often met with and having no significance. My observations always had this result and when in 1901-1902, we began to equip several of the city gymnasiums with stall bars and Swedish booms, my remarks were remembered and helped to quiet many who became alarmed because of a misunderstood remark of a physician who was reported to have said that these exercises were the cause of the enlargement of the neck in the cases of many women. In the years following I had Dr. Weishorn, the instructor of anatomy in these courses take accurate neck measurements before and after the six months’ course. The following conclusions were reached:

1.	That often the girls had a slight enlargement when they began.

2.	That in a number of such cases, the swelling disappeared during the course.

3.	That in a certain number, a slight enlargement took place during the course due to a swelling of the thyroid.

4.	That in the great majority, there was not the slightest enlargement noticeable.

Digitized by Google
— 406 —

In this connection, I wish to mention that the severe physical strain of the course caused a disturbance in the regularity of the menstrual periods which up to this time had been regular. I have not observed any connection between this disturbance and the swelling of the neck — however, I will observe more carefully in the future.

I had the above experiences year after year, observing that many girls came with a swelling—that with some it remained, with others-it disappeared. I also observed that in many instances at the end of the course, a slight swelling of the lower part of the throat was-present which the girls had not previously noticed and then only by the use of a mirror after I had mentioned it. In the great majority of the girls—I judge 85 per cent to 90 per cent—the shape of the neck was perfectly normal. This was after the girls had been taking part at least two hours daily and during the fall vacation four to five hours daily in active gymnastics—to a large part-orthopedic school gymnastics. In all the lessons, trunk exercises? were an important part.

Therefore, I maintain that the fear of certain trunk exercises,, especially bending backward of the upper spine and head, being the cause of an enlargement of the thyroid is a mere shadow which disappears when it is approached. I maintain further that with young" girls after puberty, the slight enlargement of the neck which not infrequently appears with menstruation is a harmless sign which-eventually disappears.

Of course it is possible that among these numerous cases there may be one that has some connection with the beginning of a so-called diffused goitre. In such a case there is however a decided swelling and the person comes from a locality where goitre is endemic—where it is at home. It may also be that the swelling is a symptom of exopthalmic goitre (Basedow's disease.) Then it must be accompanied by disturbances in the heart action as palpitation, and by large staring eyes. Girls who have this ailment do not. come to us for gymnastics.

At all events, it is clear that our trunk exercises have not the slightest connection with this matter; all proof is lacking. We know that parents and, unfortunately, also physicians who know, nothing of gymnastics for girls, are apt to lay the blame for all possible disturbances in girls on our gymnastics. Here it is an abdominal rupture, there a case of appendicitis which is laid to gymnastics. Gymnastics instructors should not tolerate such rumors. This is. the more necessary because these very parents and girls do not take the slightest care when they play tennis, which certainly is not as-Mr. Vogel says a “dawdling” activity but on the contrary a very strenuous one, or when they take part in excessive dancing while laced in a corset, or in other activities of like character which are
— 407 —

"without doubt more harmful than a well directed gymnastic lesson possibly can be. It is understood, of course, that the trunk exercises spoken of are properly executed and combined with proper respiration.

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.

By ALEXANDER A. HARWICK, Supervisor Physical Education, Reading, Pa.

PUBLIC PARKS AND THE PHYSICIAN.

The value of public parks and playgrounds to the great mass of city dwellers is now generally recognized, but in the rapid growth of our cities timely provision for parks is usually overlooked until business and material interests have so much encroached on the available spaces that their conversion into parks is so expensive as to be almost prohibitory. As a consequence, these lungs of the cities are, too often, utterly inadequate. While it is true that the health of the workers in a city is one of its most valuable assets from a purely material point of view, as conducing to efficiency and increased output, yet it is a matter of Slow and difficult progress to bring the business portion of the community to realize the direct importance of a matter, which, at first sight, seems to affect them so remotely. The movement for parks and playgrounds belongs to preventive medicine, in the modern conception of that subject. It is. therefore, the opportunity and the duty of the physician, as a public-spirited citizen, to exercise foresight in this matter, and to use his influence in securing adequate parks, playgrounds and breathing-spaces for the people. Physicians have not been entirely remiss in this matter; on the contrary, in many places they have been the leaders in this work, as they should be everywhere. Many American cities have realized the value of parks and playgrounds and have spent large sums of money in providing them. Some are splendidly equipped in this respect; so much so that in the recent meetings in Europe, concerning the town-planning and city beautification movement, some of our cities were cited as models to be imitated by the older urban centers of Europe. Berlin is one of these cities that has recently taken up the matter of providing a system of forest reserves or parks just outside the city, as well as several within the city limits, to give greater opportunity to the people for outdoor air, exercise and recreation—a receptaciilum oxy-genii, as they have been termed. The chairman of a committee having in charge this park promotion enterprise in Berlin recommends that the physicians, with the architects, should be the leading spirits in the hygiene of the masses, and says that it is a matter of reproach that millions are spent oii sanatoriums for the treatment of tuberculosis, while no adequate provision is made for giving the masses the air and light and opportunity for recreation which would

Digitized by v^ooQie
— 408 —

largely help to prevent the condition which these sanatoriums try to cure at such great expense.—Journal A. M. A.

—The Board of Education of New York City has just secured an appropriation of $79,000 with which to operate during the coming year after-school play centres in 163 of its school buildings. Each of these play centres will accommodate from 250 to 350 school children. The school yard and the school gymnasium will be used for this purpose, and will remain open from 3 130 to 5 130 p. m. The expense consists of $2.50 for the director of t.he centre an*i $1 per session for extra janitor service, making a total of $3.50 for an afternoon centre accommodating approximately 300 children, or about one and one-sixth cents per child. The appropriation will allow these centres to be open 140 days.

BASKET-BALL LEAGUE WITHIN THE EAST TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL, CLEVELAND, O.

By GUSTAVE I. KERN.

There are thirty-eight rooms represented in the league, no room being allowed to enter more than one team. The games are played after school, thereby limiting the time for practice to some hour before school. Some teams report as early as 6:30 A. M. and others give up their time on Saturday for practise.

These games not only afford many boys a chance to play the game, but have a tendency to develop good material for the Varsity team. The schedule arranged allowing the boys of so many rooms play, and to pick the winners, is as follows:—

Division Number I	II	in	IV	V	VI	VII	VIII	IX
Room Number 105	313	205	115	314	114	116	220	14
44 “ 213	204	103	19	207	412	18	107	219
“ 44 13	113	409	201	119	310	214	203	121
44 44 117	215	8	106	206	101	408	108	209

118

413

The winners of the first eight divisions in playing off shall be known as numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. The winner of division number 9 shall be known as number 9.	1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, 6, 7, 8

shall play a series of three games. The winners shall be known as 10 and 11 and shall play number 9 for the championship.

The rules and regulations governing these contests are as fob lows:—

RULE I.

Any bonifide member of the respective Home Room is eligible to play with the following exceptions:

(a)	A boy who has received a letter in this sport.

(b)	A boy who has received three TPs the preceding month.

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 409 —

Each Home Room teacher shall send eligibility list to Mr. Kern, Room io.

BULE II.

Sec. I.—Officials, assigned in pairs, must alternate in the capacities of referee and umpire.

Sec. II.—The officials shall be a referee, an umpire, a scorer, a timekeeper.

Sec. III.—The referee or umpire shall not be a member of a Home Room of either of the competing teams in their division.

Sec. IV.—Referees and umpires shall be students appointed by Mr. Kern.

Sec. V.—Timers and scorers shall be students appointed by the management of both teams, subject to the approval of Mr. Kern.

Sec. VI.—Referees shall report in writing the result of the game to Mr. Kern by 7150 A. M. on the day following the game.

RULE III.

Sec. I.—Captains shall be representatives of their respective teams.

Sec. II.—The captains shall toss for choice of baskets, and the)r only shall be entitled to address the official regarding any mattei arising during the game.

RULE iv.

Sec. I.—Each team to play its game as per schedule.

Sec. II.—Teams failing to appear at the appointed time shall forfeit games.

Sec. III.—All players as well as officials must be attired for active work.

Sec. IV.—Only those participating in the game shall be allowed on the floor* Spectators shall remain on the running track.

Sec. V.—The game shall consist of two halves of ten minutes each, with a rest of ten minutes between the halves.

Sec. VI.—The teams shall change baskets at the beginning of the second half.

Sec. VII.—A game must be decided by the number of points scored in the playing time agreed upon.

Sec. VIII.—In case of a tie, the referee shall order the game to continue (without change of baskets) until either side has made two-additional points.

RULE V.

All protests shall e in writing and addressed to Mr. Kern,. Room 10, whose decision is final.

A banner donated by A. G. Spalding & Bros, will be awarded' to the team winning the championship.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 410 —

ELECTRIC LIGHT CLUBS.

By EDWARD T. BOZENHARD, Dayton, Ohio.

After experimenting with several methods of construction for -electric light clubs with changeable lights, the writer concluded that the plan of having the switch controlled by an assistant is the most practical one. It permits of a simpler construction of the club and -allows the performer to centre his whole attention on the swinging. After some thought a pair was made which were simple and inexpensive in construction and thoroughly practical. The writer has endeavored to embody the main mechanical features in the following short paragraphs:

Figure I shows the plan of wiring. It is obvious that when the arm of the switch is in contact with plate a, lamps I and 2 will be lighted; while if it is in contact with plate b, lamps 3 and 4 will be lighted; also if the arm is set across a and b so as to be in contact with both, all four lamps will light up.

Figure 2 gives the switch in detail. The base is a wooden board about 5x7 inches. The contact plates a and b are copper or brass, and the arm c is a broad piece (about 1 Y\ inches) of spring brass. The contact plates are set close together so that the arm c may span them and thus make contact with both when desired. Three wires lead from the switch to the performer and are led to the clubs in the ordinary way, up the trouser leg and down the sleeves.

The elimination of the floor plates allows of some freedom of jnovement on the part of the performer, a very decided advantage when his audience is seated on two or three sides of him, as he can then turn while swinging.

Figure 3 shows the club. The handle and end pieces are turned from some soft clear wood. The framework is completed with soft iron wire, the club being given about the same shape and size as an ordinary club. In the two wooden pieces are bored large holes into which are set the inner parts of two Edison sockets. Smaller holes for the wires are bored through the handle, etc., for the wires. The wires for the lower lamp are carried down one of the pieces of the wire framework to the lower socket. Another large hole is cut into the handle piece from the side into which lead the wires which come through the handle and also the wires to the lamp sockets. They are connected in this hole which is covered by a metal plate. The object of this is to simplify the rewiring of the club when the wires break off at the handle, which happens rather often owing to the constant bending and twisting of the wires at this point.

Two candle power lamps are used. Red, green, amber and blue make a very nretty combination, the first two and the last two being paired. By using the switch independent of the club, as described, more than one pair can be controlled by the same switch.
— 411 —

Beautiful effects can be secured by having three, four, or even five performers with various colored lamps, all worked from the same switch.—Physical Training.

flG. Z

Digitized by LaOOQle
ALUMNI THREE STEP.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia.

Music: “The Dorothy,” by J. B. Lampe. Published by Jerome

H.	Remick Co., New York and Detroit.

part i—(16 measures.)

Hands at waist (knuckles on hips).

A.	Left sideward.

I.	Glide-cut-leap .................................................. I

Right foot to fifth	in	rear and bend knees, courtesy. 	2

3-4. Repeat 1 and 2 sideward to the right.......................... 3-4

B.	Left sideward.

1.	Two mazurkas................................................... 5-6

2.	1-2 of A....................................................... 7-8

C.	Right sideward.

1-2-3^ of A.....................................................9-12

D.	Right sideward.

1-2 of B....................................—.................13-16-

Note:—The change step may be substituted for the glide-cut-leap, to make this part easier. To increase the difficulty the opposite arm may be raised in the fifth position while executing the mazurkas. (Fifth position—half circle overhead) .

part 11—(16 measures.)

Arms in third amplified position. (Sideward.)

A.	Obliquely left forward.

1.	Three glides.................................................     1

2.	Balance (waltz or	mazurka)	left sideward....................... 2

3.	Balance (waltz or	mazurka)	right sideward...................... 3

4.	Balance (waltz or	mazurka)	left sideward....................... 4

B.	Obliquely right forward.

1-2-3-4 of A..................................................   5-8

C.	With a slight turn left, obliquely left backward.

1-2-3-4 of A................................................... 9-12

D.	With a slight turn	right, obliquely right backward.

1-2-3-4 of A.................................................  13-16

Note 1:—During the balance steps the arms are in the intermediate position (intermediate position—one arm in fifth, the other in first.) During the balance step left sideward the left arm is in fifth and right in first, and during the balance step right sideward the arm positions change.

Note 2 :—During the balance steps the arms may also be in the lateral position. During the balance step left sideward the left arm is in the third amplified (sideward) and the right arm in third (front of chest). During the balance step right sideward the arm positions change to the opposite side.

part hi—(like part 1—16 measures.)

Digitized by

Google
— 413 —

part iv—(Trio. 16 measures.)

Arms in third amplified position.

A.	Left forward.

1.	Three steps (left, right, left)............................ i

2.	Point right foot in fourth position, (forward) bending • trunk forward and lowering the arms fore-downward to

third position (circle in front of chest—third position) ...	2

3.	Straighten the trunk, and move arms to third amplified

position.........•.......................................... 3

4.	Bend the trunk right sideward, raise the left arm to the

fifth position (half circle overhead) and place the right hand at waist.............................................. 4

B.	Right forward.

1-2-3-4 of A.............................................. 5-8

C.	Left backward.

1-2-3-4 of A...........................................  .9-12

D.	Right backward.

1-2-3-4 of A. . .........................................13-16

part v—(16 measures.)

Hands at waist.

A.	Obliquely left forward.

1-2. Two mazurkas............................................. 1-2

3.	Glide-balance-turn-left in 2 hops (Arabasque turn).......	3

4.	Two stamps (right, left).................................... 4

B.	Obliquely right forward.

1-2-3-4 of A............................................... 5-8

C.	With a slight turn left, obliquely left backward.

1-2-3-4 of A. .............................................9-12

D.	With a slight turn right, obliquely right backward.

1-2-3-4 of A..........................................    13-16

Note:—The opposite arm may be raised to the fifth position (half circle overhead) during the mazurkas. During the glide-balance-turn the arms are raised in the intermediate amplified position (Intermediate amplified position—one arm obliquely forward outward, the other arm obliquely backward outward.) During the glide-balance-turn left the left arm is raised obliquely left forward and the right arm obliquely right backward— on the turn right the arm positions change.

During the two stamps the hands are at the waist.

part vi—(like iv (Trio) 16 measures.)

parts vii, viii and ix are like 1, 11 and ill.

(Repeat these parts of the music.)

Digitized by CjooQle
The Dorothy

Three Step Mazurka or Redowa

by J. BODEWALT LAMPE

Mareato

<d*T'rr*F.- H		1.* « . . -r_. 	r »	1 s	r- r j - ~~
				
br nrr =	—^ -		J fri—	
[ ^Lr t r =	r j *	J r r ■ ■	g r | ■■	J r-T-^

>5 1 3	2	4  f r	i- j« —|	i, £	
^.--j f -				A	

Note:—The use of this copyrighted niece of music was kindly allowed by its publishers, Jerome H. Remick Co., Music Publishers, Detroit and New York. Price of the piece, popular edition, is ioc..

Digitized by ^ooQle
*=s





i i a r

4

5 i

m

m

m

m

m



M

!



S



§	§	ft

J	f	3	A

,	\	1i	I,	t	3

mmmm m



m

w

m

Sr?

m

m

m

p^p

hmd	piJ		U*J	mm

Digitized by Tooele
Digitized by
Mwrcato

2	4

!■

mm

m

[Lri^’ii tuu-



i 1 P r7

■





wm

#

w

>5

uk firtri-.			iW	gm
m g J. J J; J  s	X '«X-	J'.-- *=dz+±J:z	—J	4-J  _-,p. p	fazzjz r J. d  _p. . p , .
f\ i \	*1 \  Jl	N ait-j-T	r^i /I	r=^ ^	1 3l

Digitized by Google
— 418 —

THE IMPORTANCE OF FORM IN SWIMMING---------WHAT IT IS.

By THOS. G. WHITAKER, Coach, Missouri Athletic Club, St. Louis.

It is the usual thing for athletes participating in the more strenuous forms of sports, to think of themselves as through when they pass the quarter century mark in years; of course there are exceptions to this, but taken as a general proposition, the amateur athlete who is found competing after he passes his 25th birthday is thought of as an exceptional man.

Swimming, however, seems to be no respector of ages when it comes to competition; and if judged by the championship performances of swimmers of all ages during the past year, there is no clearly defined age at which a swimmer is at his best.

In far away Australia we have the spectacle of a swimmer making a come back by winning a championship which he had held 11 years previously. Cecil Healy, long known as one of the best in the Antipodes, won an Australian championship at the age of 36; while our own “Bud”' Goodwin, a champion when most of the present title holders were in swaddling clothes, still goes on swimming championships year in and year out, always seeming to have just a little more speed and a little more endurance, always enough to keep him in front of his younger rivals, and at that Goodwin is not so far behind Healy in the race with time.

Going to the other extreme we find Gilbert Tomlinson, a Phila.. youth of fifteen summers, the holder of an American championship, and runner up in two more, in one of which he forced the redoubtable Goodwin to break the American record by 18 seconds, himself swimming under the record by five seconds.

This leads us to think that strength is not everything in swimming, and that form must amount to something. Strength coupled with form is unbeatable, strength without form is not to be so greatly feared, for the slim youth of tender years with correctly developed form has little difficulty in drawing away from the burly, muscular giant. This one fact accounts for the record breaking performances of comparative children in the swimming world in the past two years.

The coaches the world over have emphasized form, form before anything else. The elements of form are instilled into the youngster who has aspirations for honors, from the very day he makes his initial dive into the water under the watchful eye of the coach.

He must breathe in a way that will eliminate all unnecessary movements of the head, at the same time getting a sufficiency of air. j His shoulders must move thus, and so. His arms must go into the water at a certain point, they must be withdrawn at a certain point. He must kick in a manner to derive all the possible benefit of the propelling power in the feet and legs. He is taught the easiest and fastest method of making the turns while going at full speed; just how far to push off the dive which will carry him the farthest with

Digitized by VjOOQle
— 410 —

the least resistance, and last but not least, he is drilled thoroughly into the merits of pace* just what he can hold for a given distance, to know when he is swimming too fast, or too slow; in fact hardly a thing is left to guess work, nothing is haphazard.

When a youth has acquired the elements of form he is ready to be trained for any distance, and not until then. The form being acquired the work which follows develops his latent strength so that his career is one of steady progression. He is swimming in a way to get everything possible out of his increasing strength, and in the course of a few years’ time we find him either a champion or a runner up.

With the way in which the crawl stroke is swum today, no age seems too young for the novitiate to start. It is the simplest of strokes, but to swim it correctly, it requires special muscle training, owing to its demands upon muscles that the average swimmer has never used before, and in the case of older men whose muscles have; become set is it is generally understood, they find that they can get nothing out of the legs and feet, becoming quickly exhausted.

Coaches the country over have at times been surprised by the performances of their pupils ranging from io to 15 with the crawl stroke. The potent possibilities in the stroke have been disclosed to them through witnessing what special training will accomplish.

The stroke at its inception was supposedly one in which little foot work was used, a slight up and down movement of the legs being advocated merely to keep them near the surface, but in the last^ few years a strong vigorous kick has been advocated, and this for the swimmer whose muscles have been trained one way is almost impossible, exhaustion following in a short time.

The muscles have the faculty of adapting themselves to the needs of the body, so that if a lad is started with a fast vigorous kick he is constantly developing the muscles required for such a kick, so that by the time he passes his adolescence stage his muscles have been trained to stand a strain that would lay low a man who was-his superior in any strength test.

It is just a case of training a muscle for a special task, and it is just this painstaking and thorough training that has made the American athlete the peer of all athletes, in any branch of sport, especially in auqatics.

—Overcrowded Street-Cars.—A narrow car, seats filled with persons attempting to read newspapers while the car swings and jolts along its way ; aisles jammed with men and women, boys and. girls and tiny children, swaying and rubbing, one against the otherr coughing and sneezing, pushing and pressing—what a sight for a progressive age; what a sermon for the moralist; what a despair for the student of public health and hygiene! Endless problems are-

!

Digitized by

Google
— 420 —

presented by this picture, seen daily in nearly every American city. Most important is the menace to health from the thousands of bacteria, hidden in the throats of diseased men and women, and sprayed directly into a stagnant air, moist and unmoving in the absence of sufficient means of ventilation. Virulent organisms are inhaled into the throats and lungs of tired workers and tiny babes, who form, an •excellent host for their quick cultivation. The fare for the ride is small, but the cost cannot be estimated in terms of dollars and cents. Current Comment Journal A. M. A.

LADDER PYRAMIDS AS MODEL EXERCISES BY THE SOZIALER TTTRN-VEREIN OF KANSAS CITY, MO., AT THE NATIONAL GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL, DENVER, COLO., JUNE, 1913.

Digitized by (jjOO^Ic
— 421 —

PASSING “COLDS” AROUND. “Come on out—the air is fine!”

WILiLIAM BRADY, M.D., in The Independent.

We shall have to stop passing that “cold” around. Everybody now agrees that “colds” are contagious, regardless of contributing factors. Many health departments now require physicians to report all cases of pneumonia, just as they do diphtheria, and this action has given a great impetus to the campaign against the great indoor plague.

By “Indoor Plague” we mean the much too common “cold.” It is so positively an indoor infection that good authorities declare we cannot possibly catch any of the respiratory diseases out in the

Digitized by
— 422 —

open. Proximity to a “cold” sufferer indoors is essential to the production of fresh cases of coryza (“head cold”), sore throat, ton-silitis, quinsy, bronchitis, pneumonia, 'diphtheria, tuberculosis or pleurisy. That is, proximity to a careless patient.

The reason why these diseases cannot be acquired outdoors regardless of the weather, is that the well recognized causative bacteria cannot survive outside the body in a cold place or in direct sunlight. Nothing is so hateful to a pneumonia germ, for instance, as snappy cold air or bright sunshine.

This pneumonia germ, called the pneumococcus, is the worst enemy of civilization to-day, causing more illness, discomfort and deaths than does the notorious tubercle bacillus itself. Not only is it the seed of pneumonia in children and adults, but also of most cases of tonsilitis, quinsy, simple “head cold,” bronchitis, pleurisy, chest abscess; and a frequent cause of mastoid and ear inflammations, abscess formation in the sinuses or skull cavities, even inflammation of the appendix, valvular heart inflammation, and sometimes fatal peritonitis.

The versatile microbe does not stop there, but in many instances infects the joints and produces a characteristic attack of inflammatory rheumatism! We could truthfully paint the character of the pneumococcus in darker hues, but enough has been said to show that he has much to answer for. The pneumococcus, aided by minor collaborators, is briefly the germ that puts the catch in “catching cold.”

The most startling thing about this much too commmon “cold” germ is, however, the fact that he resides habitually in virulent, that is, businesslike form, in the mouths, throats or nasal passages of twenty per cent, of all adults. In a tame form we find him present in practically every mouth—especially where the teeth are neglected or the tonsils diseased.

How shall we stop spreading “colds?”

Stop spittine, except in proper -receptacles which will dispose of the expectoration in a sanitary manner. Don’t sleep two in a bed. No open-face sneezing or coughing. Let “cold” sufferers use separate dishes and utensils. Boil their handkerchiefs before tossing them into the wicker basket. See that children swap neither pencils nor gum nor candy. Don’t isolate the “cold” victim as you would a leper; just be infinitely clean—medically aseptic—in your relations with him.

But most important of all, forget your weather-phobia. Come on out—the air is fine!

NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.

We kindly request our subscribers when reporting changes of address to give both the old and new one.
— 423 —

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark N. J.

—The Ventilation Problem. It is a commonplace that “bad ventilation” and close rooms produce discomfort and more or less injurious consequences to the persons subjected to their influence. The inquiring mind at once asks two questions, related but distinct:

i.	To what external factors is this effect due? 2. What are the physiologic changes in the human organism to which these factors give rise ? In what does poor ventilation consist and how does poor ventilation affect the human body ?

Experimentally, it has been demonstrated repeatedly that neither insufficiency of oxygen nor excess of carbon dioxid can account for the sensation of discomfort experienced in a “close” room.

It was next believed for a time that some organic poison in expired air was at the bottom of the trouble, and most of the “standards” of ventilation long in vogue were drawn up on the assumption that carbon dioxid, although not itself harmful in the proportion that obtained in rooms inhabited bv human beings, was nevertheless an index of the organic impurity of the air.

The investigations of Flu^e, Leonard Hill, Hough, Benedict and Milner and others have emphasized the physiologic importance of high temperature, moisture content and air stagnation in their bearing on the ventilation problem. All these experiments agree in placing the resnonsibility for the observed physiologic effects on these physical factors. Certainly so far as the available evidence goes, these factors are adequate to explain all we know about the influences of good and bad ventilation. Hill has recently declared that he is “convinced that the whole of the effect of open-air treatment is due to the movement, temperature and moisture of the air, and has nothing to do with its chemical properties.”

It may be true that other influences than the physical ones mentioned are concerned in the ventilation problem, but at present and until positive evidence is available it is more practical as well as more scientific to deal with the demonstrated and the tangible rather than invoke the existence of unknown and undemonstrable “possibilities.”

We cannot at present do more than touch on the way in which these physical factors affect the physiologic mechanism of the human body. Whether by interfering with the heat-eliminating function of the skin as maintained by Flugge, Hill and others, or by inhibiting the process of oxygen secretion in the lungs, as recently suggested by Henderson, warm, moist, stagnant air does in some way prevent the human machine from doings its work properly.

Practically there is still much to learn about ventilation in the actual control of temperature, humiditv and air movement. Little or nothing is yet known, for example, about the degree of humidity

Digitized by Google
— 424 —

most favorable to physiologic well-being under ordinary working conditions. Extensive experiments on a sufficiently large number of persons will undoubtedly throw light on this and other obscure points. The ventilation commission appointed by the state of New York and provided with ample funds has an unrivaled opportunity to solve this and kindred problems.

Finally, it may be pointed out that all the discussion and investigation of the factors concerned in ventilation and of the precise-nature of the physiologic response does not affect the necessity for good ventilation. Fresh, cool, moving air is just as good as it ever was for the human organism, whether we believe that its virtue is-due to the fact that it contains no “toxic substance/’ or simply that, it is fresh and cool and moving. The bad effect of close, stuffy rooms and the good effect of the open air are facts, no matter how we explain these influences or what measures may be found best for meeting the problem of practical ventilation.—Abstract from editorial in J. A. M. A.

—A Thought for the Aged.—A cheering thought as we advance in life is that many illustrious examples show the possibility of conserving the intellectual and moral character to a great age. Isaac D’lsraeli said that there has been no old age for many men of genius. Titian and Michael Angelo among artists, Voltaire and Littre, Goethe and von Ranke among literary men, Palmerston, Thiers, Beaconsfield and Gladstone among statesmen, Wilks and Paget in the medical profession, testify to this, and there is reason to believe that not only is advanced age consistent with mental activity of a high order, but that such mental activity tends to the preservation of the body and makes for happiness as well as for longevity. The advice of Cicero is sound, that “old men of all things should especially be careful not to languish out their days in unprofitable idleness.”—Saundby: Old Age.

—Hygiene Among Barbers.—At the last session of the Societe de prophylaxie sanitaire et morale, Dr. Charles Fouquet, who had been commissioned to report on methods of diminishing the danger of infection from barbers, made the following recommendations, which are to be submitted to the barbers’ organization: (i) that customers known to be sick or apparently sick should supply their own implements; (2) that the barber should wash his hands with soap and water before waiting on a customer; (3) that only clean and sterilized instruments should be used. It must be admitted that the first of these demands is unreasonable, since the barber cannot be expected to have this knowledge. For the cleaning and sterilizing of the instruments the following are the rules to be recommended :	Edged	tools	should	be	washed	in	a	1	per	cent,	solution of sodi-

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 425 —

aim carbonate and dried; hair-brushes, shaving-brushes and combs should be cleaned every evening with water, soap and ammonia; metallic instruments should be passed through the flame; basins and shaving-brushes should be immersed in boiling water each time used; Thrushes and combs should be kept hermetically closed in a compartment in which stands an uncovered saucer containing a 40 per cent, •dilution of liquor formaldehydi; the powder-puff should be replaced T>y a pad which should be thrown away after use, or by a shaker; rock alum should also be replaced by powdered alum applied with a pad; also the barber should not whet the razor on the palm of the band.—Front Paris Letter to Journal A. M. Assoc.

—Automatic Reflex Movements. P. Marie and C. Foix, in the Tremaine Medicale, Paris, state that they have been studying the reflex movements which occur after the brain has been cut off from communication with the limbs, as in decapitated frogs. They conclude from their research that these reflex movements are not for the purpose of defense but are mainly the automatic movements of locomotion. The limbs are drawn up as in walking, the spinal cord functioning automatically when the brain is cut off. The reflex flexing of the limb is thus a sign of injury of the pyramidal tract. This assumption was confirmed at necropsy in three typical clinical cases. The reflex movements are generally moderate when the pyramidal tract is not much affected, but they become extremely pronounced when all the conducting routes are interrupted more or less completely, as by transverse myelitis or with paraplegia from compression. The tendon reflexes are exaggerated in the former, and the reflex automatic gait movements in the latter. These reflexes can even locate the site of the lesion in some cases. Study of them shows the connection between isolated facts which have hitherto seemed incomprehensible separate phenomena. These automatic, falsely styled “defensive” reactions fit into the great group of sensory-motor reflexes; they show the close connection between human pathology and experimental physiology and throw new light on the complex problems of reflex action and contractures.

REHABILITATION OF BOILED MILK.

By ALICE HAMILTON, M. D.

So well have we been trained by the- child specialists and the •sanitarians, that most of us look on boiled milk as a simply impossible food for babies. But it is the boast of medical science that she never stands still and what we look on with horror one day, we may have to embrace the next.

Boiled milk has always maintained its place as food for infants on the continent, but has had few champions in England or Amer-

Digitized by CiOOQle
— 426 —

ica, Dr. Abraham Jacobi being almost the only pediatrician of note in this country to use it. Recently, however, it has been subjected to an exhaustive examination in England and has come through with flying colors.

One of the government Blue Books contains a report on The Biological Properties of Milk made by a woman doctor, Janet Lane-Claypon. That boiled milk forms in the baby's stomach a much more delicate and friable cu5rd than raw milk is a well-known fact and in Germany, where its use is general, physicians have always claimed that less trouble was experienced from infant diarrhoea in bottle-fed babies than here or in England, where raw milk is used (pasteurized milk has not gone through the changes which boiled milk has and counts as raw in this report). Even in America boiled milk is sometimes used to check diarrhoea.

However, we have been taught not only that bpiled milk is constipating, but that the heat has destroyed ferments and other biological substances essential to nutrition, and that babies will starve on a diet of boiled milk.

As for the first of these objections, it is now asserted that constipation is so light an evil, compared with diarrhoea, that the physician hails it with something like relief.1

As to the second, Dr. Lane-Claypon goes exhaustively into the question of the heat-sensitive biological substances in cow's milk and concludes that the ferments which have always been looked upon as so essential are really not present at all in pure milk, but are always derived from bacteria.

The other substances, those concerned in producing immunity to disease, are found only in the colostrum and if they appear in any quantity in the later milk, it is as a result of inflammation of the mammary gland. But even more, the capacity to absorb these substances from the digestive tract is lost after the first few days of life and therefore, “the oft repeated assertion of the value to the infant of raw cow's milk fades away when the facts are examined, since in cow's milk it is found that these so-called biological substances are not absorbed in the alimentary canal, but are destroyed there."

On the whole the conclusion of the report is, that between raw cow's milk and boiled, the advantage is with the latter, as boiled milk is germ-free or nearly so, does not form a hard curd and if not raised above the temperature of boiling water, the heat has not destroyed or apparently injured any of the chemical substances necessary for the health of the child.

It must be remembered that the comparisons are between raw milk and cooked milk of another species. The results would be quite other if we compared raw and boiled human milk.

One or two evangelists are not enough to bring about a re-
— 427 —

formation and we shall not see pasteurized milk giving way to boiled milk at once. But it would be a happy day for municipal health authorities, for institutions, and for visiting nurses if the results of this English report came to be generally accepted and the complications of pasteurization were succeeded by the simplicity of boiling. —The Survey.

1 Brennemann, Journal American Medical Association, 1913, Volume LX, p. 575.

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High School, 59th Street and 10th Ave., New York City

COL. TOWNLEY OF WEST POINT MILITARY ACADEMY WANTS FOOT-

Col. C. P. Townley, Superintendent of the West Point Academy, sounds a note of alarm in his annual report to the Adjutant General of the Army at Washington which followers of football fear may bring about the abandonment of the sport at West Point. Col. Townley calls attention to the large percentage of injuries in football as compared to other sports, and emphasizes the fact that “football serves no useful purpose in the physical development or training in the corps,” but is simply an entertainment.

It is pointed out in the report that 75 per cent of the injuries received by cadets are due to football, while not more than fifty of the 600 cadets engage in this sport. Col. Townley says the sport has no special value as a physical training aid to warrant its continuance. The discipline at West Point is very severe, and permanent injuries to cadets may result in their being declared unfit for active service. According to the report of the medical director, during the season of 1912 sixty-one cadets were injured, eleven injuries being of a character liable to cause future trouble. In his report Col. Townley says:

“Attention is specially invited to that part of the following report submitted by the surgeon relating to football injuries. In considering that 75 per cent, of all injuries are due to football during its season it should be recalled that these come from but forty or fifty cadets who train and engage in this sport, while all other injuries come from the entire corps of over 600 cadets and are principally caused by work in the gymnasium, such as athletics, wrestling, boxing, etc., and from mounted drills in cavalry and field artillery. The game of polo in which first and second class-men engage also furnishes a few injuries.

“As injuries from football are so frequently of a serious and permanent character it is a question whether this form of sport is of sufficient value to the corps to warrant its continuance and the tremendous expenditure of time and money involved. Of the sixty-one injuries due to football and treated at the hospital from Sept, r

ATHLETIC NOTES.

BALL BARRED.
— 428 —

to Nov. 30, 1912, eleven were of a character that are liable to cause future trouble; six were synovitis, three were sprains, one separation of adhesions, and one a fracture of fibula. In other words, 18 per cent, of the injuries were of a serious nature. Football certainly serves no useful purpose in the physical development or training in the corps, as it is voluntary and attracts to its squad only the few who are already physically strong, active, and well developed. Its value, if any, lies mainly in the interest, entertainment, and excitement it affords to other members of the corps and the thousands who attend its principal contests and are willing to contribute toward its support.”

Col. Townley submits extracts in support of his attitude from Lieut. Col. F. R. Keefer, Medical Corps, which in part .follow:

With reference to the subject of injuries, (which were responsible for the greatest number of admissions to the sick report,) the table which follows gives some interesting information. It will be noted that injuries received in football are responsible for a very •great amount of disability. Moreover, these injuries are largely of a more permanent character, a considerable percentage of them being twists of the knee joint, with resultant synovitis. Such an injury practically invariably leaves a permanent weakness of the joint. Injuries received in football have constituted nearly three-fourths (75 per cent.) of traumatisms from all causes during the football •seasons of the past four years.

The digestive disorders, are mainly gastric and hepatic catarrhs of moderate character, consequent upon hasty eating and neglect to

Season 1911	1912	1913

41	66	61

107	159	268

73	7i	75

13	27	46

-exacuate the bowels regularly.

FOOTBALL INJURIES

Three Months Period, Sept. 1 to Nov. 30.

1910

Number of football injuries, hospital and

quarters.................................. 85

Number days lost in hospital from football injuries.......................... 198

Percentage of football injuries to all injuries in hospital...................... 59

Percentage of days lost in hospital from football injuries to days lost in hospital from all causes............................. 25

—Dr. Herschman, the Austrian athletic envoy, who recently visited the United States to become acquainted with American training methods announced shortly before his departure to the other side that the Austrian Olympic Games Committee has engaged “Al” Gopeland as trainer in track and field events for the next Olympic ■Games in Berlin in 1916.

Digitized by ^ooQle
— 429 —

Thus far three American coaches are employed by European athletes to prepare them for the 1916 games. Ernie Hjertsberg in-Sweden, Dr. Kraenzlein in Germany, A1 Copeland in Austria. Will these American coaches be able to prepare their athletes to beat the Americans? Time will tell.

—The challenge of the Hurlingham Club of London for a series of international polo matches in this country next year was accepted by the polo association. The date for the first match was set for Tuesday, June 9.

—The Irish-American A. C. of New York has decided to send a team of ten men to the Athenian Olympic Games to be held at Athens, Greece, next year. Melvin W. Sheppard, the hero of several Olympic series, will head the list. It is expected that men from-Boston, Chicago and San Francisco will be included in the make-up of the American team, the expenses of the team to be met by the dubs they represent.

—It has been definitely decided that the United States will be represented by an amateur soccer football team in the Olympic Games, in Berlin, in 1916. We hope they will be as successful in this newly adopted sport as they were in alkother athletic activities.

—In response to an invitation from the Pennsylvania University management, Oxford University, England, has decided to send a four-mile relay team to the Relay Races to be held in Philadelphia-next April.

—The National Cross Country Championship was won Dec. 6 by Abel Kiviat carrying the colors of the Irish-American Athletic Club of New York over a six-mile course in 33 min. 52 sec. The Irish-American and the New York A. C. tied for first place for the team honors with 32 points each.

A RECORD TO BE PROUD OF.

After a period of 13 years during which time he has competed in every gymnastic contest of any note, our friend John Bissinger, Jr., of the New York Turnverein still finds himself at the top of the ladder.

Bissinger started his gymnastic career away back in 1889 as a pupil in the German-American Turnverein in New York. As a junior he showed remarkable skill in both apparatus and field wort and always managed to carry off the lion’s share at the various meets in which he was entered. But it was in 1900 when Bis-singer’s name could be heard in every gymnastic association through-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 430 —

out the country, for in this year he captured the championship at the Biindes Turnfest in Philadelphia. Since then he has taken part in all district, national and A. A. U. championship gymnastic meets in this country. On two occasions he represented the North American Gymnastic Union at the German Turnfeste, in Nuernberg (1903) and Frankfort (1908). At both these meets he made a remarkable showing.

At the Bundes Turnfest in Denver last June he was beaten for first place by 1-10 of a point by his own pupil, Paul Krimmel. Nevertheless, he succeeded in carrying off five individual prizes.

During the past 13 years Bissinger has also succeeded in carrying off the championship of the A. A. U. gymnastic meets not less than five times. In the past six years he has coached the gymnastic teams of the New York University with signal success. Out of 84 prizes he has won during his gymnastic career 41 were for 1st and 24 for 2nd places. The rest were scattered.

As an all-around gymnast Bissinger is certainly in a class by himself and deserves all the honor and credit due him. His training certainly proves the advisability of an all-around physical development as compared to the specializing of the athlete.

—“School Health Administration ” by Louis W. Rapeer, M. A., Ph. D., of the New York Training School for teachers. 360 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Published by the Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York City. Mailing price $2.15.

A scientific study of the administration of school health provisions in American school systems, including: Medical Inspection, School Sanitation, Physical Education, the Teaching of Hygiene, and the Hygiene of Teaching.

This volume includes an investigation of our grave national and school health problems, a study of existing health agencies in this country, and a survey of the school health and physical development agencies in twenty-five cities selected from fortjr visited for field study.	'	.......

The last section of the book, nearly seventy pages in length and reprinted in a separate volume, develops a tentative standard plan for the administration of this health work, especially medical inspection in school systems, with necessary blank forms such as health record cards, reports of doctors and nurses, etc.

—“Physiology of Exercise ” by George V. N. Dearborn, M. D., head of the department of physiology, Tuft’s Medical College.

This publication is the syllabus of the lecture course given by Dr. Dearborn at the Sargent Normal School of Physical Education.

BOOK REVIEW.
— 431 —

It deals with the effect of exercise on growth, nutrition, the nervous system, blood and circulation, vasomotion, body-heat and work, epithelium, bones and joints, muscle, reproduction functions, childhood and senescence, respiration, sleep, fatigue, the mental processes and recreation. The syllabus is in the form of 87 closely typewritten pages bound together by fasteners in stiff covers. To students of physical training as well as to teachers the syllabus will be a great and welcome aid. It' is published by the author, and can be had from him postpaid for $2.50.

—“Vacation Camping for Girls/’ by Jeanette Marks. Illustrated. Published by D. Appleton and Company, New York. Mailing price $1.10.

A practical manual, for the knap-sack and for every camp where women are. It gives detailed check lists for camping, tells the woman camper what to wear, what food to take; it describes camp cooking and gives many recipes for camp use; it tells where to camp, how to build camp fires, how to guard against forest fires; it gives information regarding the fitting up of the camp, tells where to buy things and what they cost; it devotes several chapters to physical training out of doors, the formation of camp habits, cleanliness, the secrets of the woods, canoeing, fishing, following the trail, a complete index for ready reference, etc., etc. It tells how really to enjoy camp life.

While there are quite a number of camp books for men and boys, the special problems that confront girls when camping are here treated for the first time.

THEORY

mrnrniimmmr

FENCING WITH THE FOIL

IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

BY

GEO. HEENTTZ, SR.

j *

Assistant Master of the Sword at the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. ■ * Price, 25 Cents.^r-*—

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING COMPANY.

HEROLI> BUILDING, MILWAUKEE, WIS.

Digitized by L.ooQle
“Dancing and Art Appreciation Should Be a Part of Every School Life.”

Dr. Montessori.

Elizabeth Burchenal, A. B., Organizer and first chairman of the Folk-Dance committee of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, Inspector of Girls’ Athletics for the Board of Education of the City of New York, Executive Secretary of the Girls’ Branch of the Public Schools Athletic League of New York.

FOLK-DANCES AND SINGING GAMES

Containing 26 Folk-Dances of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Russia, Bohemia, Hungary, England, Scotland and Ireland. With music, directions for execution and illustrations.

Price, paper $1.50, cloth $2.50.

DANCES OF THE PEOPLE

Containing 27 Folk-Dances of England, Scotland, Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland. With music, directions for execution and illustrations.

Price, paper $1.50, cloth $2.50.

Elizabeth Burchenal, A. B., and C. Ward Crampton, Assistant Director

of Physical Training, Board of Education, New York.

FOLK-DANCE MUSIC

Containing 76 characteristic dances of the people of .various nations adapted for use in schools and playgrounds for physical education and play.

Price, paper $1.00, cloth $2.00.

Melvin B. Gilbert.

SCHOOL DANCES, edited by Susan H. Gilman.

With music and detailed instruction as to execution.

Price, paper $1.00, cloth $2.00.

GILBERT DANCES. Vols. I and II, edited by Susan H. Gilman.

With music and detailed instruction as to execution.

Price, paper $1.50, cloth $2.50.

{Catalogue giving contents sent gratis on request.)

G. SCHIRMER <ino

3 EAST 43d STREET	NEW	YORK

THE BOSTON MUSIC CO.	BOSTON

Digitized by