Vol. 6.	JULY,	1899.	No.	65

Editorial Committee :

WM.STECHER, Sec’y. of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, Cor. 8rd a Chestnut8t’8, ST.LOUI8,Mo. F. PFISTER, M. D., managing editor, 760 third 8t., Milwaukee Wis.

DEGENERACY OR OCCUPATION STRESS.

RECENT analyses of prominent literati and scientists exhibit a tendency to confuse the neuroses arising from acquired neurasthenia with the neuroses of a similar type produced by degeneracy. The discussions of Zola's mental and physical constitution by Lombroso, Nordau, and Arthur McDonald betray traces of this confusion between congenital and acquired nervous states. The imperative ideas or obsessions are common to both, and it is on these that most stress has been laid as evidence of degeneracy. The occurrence of obsessions is largely due to the disturbance of the ego: that co-ordination of clear states of consciousness and of physiologic states which, though unaccompanied by consciousness, are not less but even more effective than the conscious states. The automatic mental inhibitions last mentioned exercise an enormous influence in removing to the unconscious mental background ideas foreign to the general training of the individual or to his sense of major or minor morality. Many of these ideas are, however, mentally registered, unconsciously to the individual, to be reawakened in states of nerve tire produced by physical exhaustion or disease. In this way is produced the so-called subliminal consciousness of the psychologist, which is a lower and not a higher phase of consciousness. Many of the linguistic and other marvels narrated of this subliminal consciousness fall under the category of automatic remembrance, like the case narrated by Coleridge: A 24-year-old servant was seized by a nervous fever with delirium, during which she incessantly spoke Latin, Greek, and Hebrew with a very distinct enunciation. The girl, before her illness, had been a simple, unlearned, harmless creature. The attendant priest referred her case to “possession of a very learned devil."

Digitized by
-122-

those who are just beginning, idealize their work too much, and when brought face to face with the facts of actual life, quite different from their rosy dreams, lose heart. The fact is we live in a very real sort of world, wherein we have to deal with conditions, not theories. In theory a class should come into the gymnasium all eager anticipation : it should do everything it is told to do and only what it is told, and should try its best, knowing that it is for its own good. But as an actual fact a class seldom or never enters the gymnasium in that heavenly frame of mind. With boys at least it is a welcome relief from the confinement of the class-room, but—‘and a very lively “but” it is— they want to have a good time, they want to play, and they do not want to work—they have been doing that all morning. So there is an unexpected stumbling-block, and a very real one, too, right at the start. Here is where practical knowledge of many exercises comes in. Now is the time to bring tact into play. Can you get good hard work out of a class, maintain discipline, sustain interest, and yet make them think they are playing ? A bright, cheery manner, combined with an air of authority ; sympathetic appreciation of class needs ; continual action en masse with no idle minutes for mischief to creep into *10 more or less bright heads, and the problem is solved, and with one good swing of the foot stumbling-block No. 1 is kicked out of the path.

Teaching gymnastics takes brains, disdainful pedants to the contrary notwithstanding. And it takes tact, and firmness, and quick apprehen-It is no bed of roses—neither is it a bed of thorns but just a happy medium, and pretty much about what you make it yourself. Make your scholars like you, and they will like their work. But do not make the mistake of trying to gain their good-will by concessions. (Stumbling-block No. 2.) They will see your weakness immediately and despise you for it,—and without respect there eannot be regard. The teacher who fails to promptly face any emergency ; who through fear of offending a pupil and precipitating an unpleasantness, allows him to shirk his duty, is lost. Children, like animals, scent the disposition of those in authority over them. They respect, admire, and like a teacher who maintains order with a firm hand, but who at the same time is always fair, who understands them and is friendly and sympathetic. Firmness and fairness should be the golden rule which directs the relations of a teacher to her class. This matter of discipline is a bugbear to most teachers. How to secure the respect and co-operation of a class without being severe, or without being weak, will always be a fresh problem to every teacher. And each must solve it in her own way. Here the personal •equation is absolute. Granted the necessary tact and firmness, there are a few general laws, sanctioned by experience, that are of great assistance. First, whenever a command, of whatever nature, is given, it should be given in that tone of voice which means to be obeyed. Not in a tone of truculent authority, productive of rebellion in spirited hearts, but, while authoritatively, not harshly, yet with that “matter-of-course” ring to it, which leads a pupil to do what he is told without thought, instinctively, as if of his own initiation. That tone of voice is worth acquiring, it is worth working for, it is resonant with willpower, and it enforces obedience. Second—whenever a teacher says that

"v

Digitized by CjOOQle
—123—

she will do a thing, be it a threat of punishment (to be avoided if possible—better punish without threatening), or the promise of a little recreation, she should do it. A teacher’s word must be as sacred as the laws of the Medes and Persians. When once a class learns that a teacher means exactly what she says, a great deal is accomplished. Third—and here is one of the great secrets of class discipline—when you must punish a pupil, do it in a good-natured manner, if the offence permits. “Well, Johnny ! He who dances must pay the fiddler, you know. I guess you will have to go over in the corner and turn your nose to the wall.” And Johnny hangs his head sheepishly and goes, while the teacher, changing shortly afterward, as if by original intention, from the regular work, gives the class something it particularly enjoys. One such lesson lasts a long time, not only for Johnny, but for every prospective Johnny, and the teacher, by a little self-control and tact, has given the class a warning and punished the offender without arousing in his breast a feeling of rebellion against her. If the offender be a large boy or girl, and the offense a deliberate and malicious breach of order, which will seldom be the case, however, the penalty must be a different one and applied in a more impressive manner. But above all things (4th cardinal law and stumbling-block No. 3) a teacher should never allow herself to get angry before the class. It is a confession of weakness. Boys, and men too, fear that quiet, determined, inexorable firmness that impales the delinquent with a glance, that sends him to the principal without fuss, that follows him up and sees that the punishment is severe.

Fresh from graduation, filled with enthusiasm, bubbling over with ideas, we are apt to burn all our sticks in the first fire. That is to say, to enliven our classes and stimulate their interest with every variety of stock in trade in rapid succession. (Stumbling-block No. 4.) Boys, and girls too, I suppose, soon become blase. After they have had a thing a few times it is an old story, and palls. Once taught to expect a great variety of exercises, they soon come to demand them, and the more they get, the more they want. Soon the best runs out, the teacher begins to repeat, interest wanes, and result—a discouraged teacher and a spoiled class.

One of the most valuable lessons that a teacher can learn is to hoard her exercises ; to give much time to perfecting one before introducing another ; to keep along one line as long as interest can be maintained,—and children will work with interest as long as they think that they are making progress, as long as there is something to look forward to. When one line of work has been used up th» elementary features of another should be introduced as a relish, stretching out, as it were, the stock of physical pabulum. To give a concrete example :— With an elementary class, I should not, in case I had them three times a week, give free gymnastics one day, dumb-bells another, and wands or clubs another: but they would get free gymnastics, varied with occasional exercises partaking of the nature of play, for three months, and I demonstrated this winter with 100 boys, that by proceeding gradually from item to item of the free drill, by arousing a spirit of emulation by alternate praise and censure, by permitting different
-124-

ones to lead, and allowing the class to discover and correct mistakes, that three months is none too long for a properly constructed drill. And at the end of that time the class in question not only knew the order of the exercises, but executed them in a manner delightful to witness. This method of procedure leaves something new for the next three months (either dumb-bells, wands, or clubs), and the two drills can be alternated with a little larger admixture of the play element in the last two months of the school-year, with interest maintained throughout. With more advanced classes the same general plan with, however, larger modifications can be successfully followed.

The vital principle is “continual advancement, with healthy variety.” “Variety is the spice of life,” but no one wants a whole meal of spices. In proper proportion it is the salt which seasons the whole loaf of gymnastic work: profusely employed it disintegrates the class-work and leads to confusion and dissatisfaction.

It seems hardly necessary to refer to the difficulties which arise from incomplete technical equipment, from inability to demonstrate in your own person, on the apparatus and in the drills, by your carriage and action, the advantages of gymnastic training ; from a limited stock of drills and exercises, and those but partially understood and poorly classified ; or from an imperfect or vague comprehension of the general principles of gymnastics. It is apparent that a teacher, imperfectly equipped, cannot do good work, yet too few of those who aspire to teach appreciate the necessity of personal gymnastic ability. For elementary work an elementary training is sufficient—but who is willing to do elementary work all his life ?

The general public is pretty ignorant as regards gymnastics—about as ignorant as it can well be, and what it does not know about this subject would fill a book : but it does somehow instinctively discover when a teacher is doing good work, even if it does not know when his work is poor. When the president of a college or the principal of a school is about to engage a teacher of gymnastics, he looks first of all for practical ability. With men at least he who is a good living example of the doctrines he promulgates ; who has a fine physique, and can perform difficult feats, requiring fine neuro-muscular co-ordination and a certain kind of nerve, always admired by boys, — such a one gets a much more ready and rapid response from men and boys than a less perfectly equipped and less accomplished teacher. A certain amount of theoretical knowledge is essential to good teaching, but the emphasis should be put upon practical power.

Finally, the personality of the teacher is everything. A good teacher, who understands her business, who is in sympathy with her pupils and knows how to attach them to her by friendly interest, without allowing it to degenerate into familiarity, with its consequent loss of personal dignity and influence, can do good work with very crude materials, and will find few stumbling-blocks in her path. Let each take as her motto, “Works, not words,” and we should take our work seriously, but there is not the slightest necessity for taking ourselves so.

—It is rumored that President McKinley has become a golf enthusiast.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-125-

PHYSICAL CULTURE IN OUR COUNTRY.

By ROBERT BARTH, Instructor of San Francisco Turnverein.

WHILE no one nowadays disputes the necessity of a careful and diligent training of the intellectual powers of man, still there are not a few who think it not worth while to waste any time in educating and developing the body. The body of man not only is the receptacle in which the mental qualities are stored up, but also is the direct source of their origin. Knowledge can be compared to the rungs of a ladder, the health of body to the side-bars. According to the strength and length of the bars, the ladder can be built and the number of rungs increased. If we have a strong, healthy body, we can develop all the mental qualities which nature has bestowed on us, we can accumulate wisdom, strive for lofty aims, and we can enjoy our life. If our intellectual qualities are fostered at the cost of our health, an early collapse of the individual is the inevitable result, and life at its best is but a burden. As there is a constant interchange between our motor and sensitive nerves, it is evident that a physical instruction, based on anatomical and physiological principles, tends to animate and nourish the brain matter of the individual, as well as all the other parts of the body. How physical instruction influences our mental capacities will be shown later on.

All over the civilized world efforts are made by the wisest and most far-seeing statesmen and pedagogues to introduce into the plan of public as well as private education a system of physical culture which should not only counteract the unhealthy results brought about by the prolonged and unhealthy positions of many pupils in a narrow seat and in a more or less small and poorly ventilated school-room, and develop and strengthen their body, but also have a refreshing and stimulating influence on the mind. With all the nations that have taken a prominent part in the history of mankind, physical culture has been sometimes a pastime, sometimes a means for certain aims. About 2300 years ago the classic Greeks with their system of physical culture created a race of people, which, in regard to physical beauty and strength, stood uppermost among all the classical nations, and has not been equalled since. In those times the child, when about the age that the children of the present day are brought to school, was sent to the “Gymnasium” and received a physical education, which in the course of time harmoniously developed all parts of the body so symmetrically and gracefully that the sculptors and painters of to-day extend and deepen their esthetical science by studying the perfect architecture, statues, and paintings that have come down to us from the.se remote times, as the everlasting proofs of the culture of the most enlightened nation of classics antiquity. There were no “Public Schools” in those times in Greece, there was no mental overworking for the growing generation. The wise men of the age came to the Gymnasium and there they lectured to their adherents. And still that" age not only had strong athletes, who, in their Olympian games created records in the different branches of athletics which to-day seem to us incredible, but also the deepest

Digitized by U.ooQle
-126-

thinkers, the wisest statesmen, the profoundest philosophers, the finest architects, the best painters and the greatest sculptors of all times.

It is not the object of this essay to give a history of the progress of Gymnastics, therefore we will enter at once upon the description of the state of physical culture in modern times, and in our own country. In the United States of North America there are at present three different systems of physical culture in vogue—the “American,” the “Swedish” and the “German.”

In order to make the reader capable of forming a correct opinion as to the value of each of these systerrs in regard to the harmonious development of the body, it is necessary to state here briefly how they differ from each other.

The American system seeks to promote physical development by describing certain movements for certain muscles. To make this idea clear let us follow a beginner through his course of training. At his first lesson he will be measured carefully in all his dimensions. The measurements, taken of the incipient, will be compared to those of the so-called “typical man,” i. e., an imaginary perfect specimen of man, whose mathematically correct proportions were artistically worked out by having taken the measurements and drawn the average of thousands of pupils. Now if the beginner, who measures, say 5 feet 9 inches and should weigh according to this typical man, say 155 lbs., and his biceps should be 14 inches in circumference, does weigh more than these 155 lbs., he will receive instruction that will tend to reduce his weight. If his biceps is not up to the standard the instructor will prescribe for him certain exercises which should tend to develop this muscle, until it reaches in its measurements the normal size.

To the casual observer this system seems to be the very climax of excellence; but if we study it a little closer, some very prominent faults become apparent. Let us point out a few of these in order to show the correctness of this statement.

The idea of the “typical man” to be found by measurement is fallacious. The originator of this idea seems to have forgotton that man consists of at least two very distinct parts, a physical and a psychical. The physical part of the individual can be measured, but even the most penetrating scientist in human anatomy must despair of measuring adequately correct the psychical part of an individual. Thence the fallacy of the theory of the “typical man.” In creating this imaginary fellow, his psychical part did and could not find consideration, consequently, to develop a pupil after such a model must be erroneous and can never bring the required results.

It is an indisputable fact that no special group of muscles can be developed without influencing other groups of muscles located near the one to which special attention is paid, or, without influencing the action of lungs and heart and nervous centers. The consequence of this fact is, that in attempting* the development of certain parts of the body, a general effect is also brought about, which is of decidedly greater benefit to the individual than the local development of the -muscles in which he is deficient, according to the standard set for him and for which effect the system should not be given credit as it was not considered in detailing the lesson to the pupil.

- >

Digitized by C^ooQle
-127-

There is one more point which may be mentioned briefly. As all instruction is given to the single individual only, the natural outcome of this is that every person, going through his daily pensum of physical culture, practices exclusively for himself. The exercises prescribed for him sometimes differ from those of another visitor at the gymnasium practicing at the same time. It is true that members of the same athletic society sometimes practice for years together and never become acquainted. The one treats the other as a perfect stranger. Now this state of unsociability is not so much the fault of the members alone, but rests to a great extent in a system which does not consider any mutual and general results, but only aims at individual development. Nearly^ all the gymnasiums in which the American system is taught exclusively-are but sparsely frequented, although they are the very acmes of health promoters, splendidly equipped with all the latest and most ingenious apparatus, and furnished with accommodations to suit even the most exacting sybarite.

A central interest is lacking. There is no common aim to strive for, which would incite harmonious co-operation and the spirit of comradeship among the members. Those who are eminently gifted^ soon follow special branches in the gymnastic line which are to their personal liking, developing abnormally certain parts of the body at the expense of others, and frequently ruining their health permanently by overexertion.. Those who were less favored by nature with extraordinary physical qualities, soon drop off, as they find.no amusement in their gymnastic work and as there are no other interests which tend to keep them active-members of their respective association.

With pleasure it is stated here that in several athletic societies attempts have been made recently to eradicate some of the evils pointed out above and that the most prominent instructors of the system in question are adopting much of the German system, which avoids most of the faults enumerated here.

The Swedish system of Gymnastics differs widely from the American. It is based on well grounded co-operative principles of hygiene and education. It intends not so much the development of muscular strength, as it attempts to create a general healthy state of the body. It does not strive to develop physical specialists, but to train the different organs of the body in a manner that may serve the double purpose of promoting the efficiency of the circulatory and respiratory functions and of increasing the volitional control of the whole body. In the arrangement of the exercises the Swedish system uses a certain number of movements succeeding each other in a well-defined order, calculated to produce certain effects in a certain succession, all these movements together being designated to bring about a distinct hygienic result.

Now, unquestionably, a physical education, based on such principles, cannot fail to be of the most beneficial effect to the student. If the normal development of the body, according to hygienic principles alone, were the ideal of physical culture, we would not hesitate a moment to declare ourselves the most ardent proselyte of the Swedish system. But with the physical instruction interwoven are intellectual and moral interests which also must be considered if we want to define an ideal system

Digitized by
—128—

of physical culture, and while we have nothing but praise for the hygienic side of that system, the intellectual part of it seems to us somewhat deficient. Where the originators of the American system individualize too much, those of the Swedish generalize more than sufficient. In their ‘‘Gymnastic day’s order” they have arranged for a certain number of movements which follow each other invariably in every lesson in the same routine. School tactics, leg movements, arm movements, balance movements, movements for the back, movements for abdomen and forepart of the body, followed by running and jumping is the fixed gymnastic program; the pupils, during the lesson, are reduced almost to automatons, they are supposed to move only at the spoken command of the instructor, and the instructor himself is bound to remain with his teaching within the limits set for him in the ‘‘Gymnastic day’s order.”

Now, a lesson in Gymnastics composed in such a manner, tends to bring about an automatic execution of the commanded exercises, suppressing individuality in an undesired degree, and to limit the variety of exercises to such a degree that the lessons gradually become monotonous and the pupils lose the interest for their work; which to establish and maintain is urgenly necessary, if satisfactory results in physical education are to be accomplished.

While in the American, as well as in the Swedish system, the physical education exclusively is the foremost thought, and the intellectual and moral results derived from a gymnastic instruction are scarcely sonsider-ed, it is different with the ‘‘German system of physical culture.”

In the first decade of this century Germany was suffering under the yoke of the all-conquering French emperor Napoleon. The ‘‘fatherland” was divided into a great many parts, governed by princes, who, in their petty jealousies, were antagonistic to each other. German valor and German patriotism seemed to be extinguished, and the once mighty German nation was on the brink of utter dissolution. At that time Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, who was a scholar and a patriot, conceived the plan to create a system of physical culture which he hoped should assist in arousing his nation from its stupor, to implant the sense of harmony v and co-operation, to incite enthusiasm for one united German nation, to reawaken the dormant courage and strength of his compatriots and to break the unworthy yoke placed on an intimidated population.

The hopes of Jahn were realized. Not to a small degree did he and his followers assist in shaking off the reign of the foreign war-king Napoleon, and Jahn became one of the great men of his country, honored and respected everywhere, and well liked at the Prussian court. At these times uncounted masses of men from the city of Berlin daily flocked to the “Hasenhaide,” a public place situated nearby, where Jahn, assisted by such able educators as Eiselen and others, taught ‘‘Die deutsche Turnkunst,” his system of physical culture. Soon his system was introduced all over the country and everywhere Turnvereins sprung into existence. In these Turnvereins the ideas of Tahn were cultivated and fostered, not only in regard to bodily development, but especially to the immortal thought which he had embodied in his system, the thought of a free united German nation, of a government by the people for the people. Such an enthusiasm was created that the Prussian king

Digitized by L^ooQle
-129-

and his aristocratic councillors, for whom Jahn and his proselytes had fought, bled, and conquerred, became frightened at the fanatics for political* and intellectual freedom. The Prussian government, after having been firmly re-established, did not intend to fullfill the promises given when powerless. The ideas of Jahn, which, but a few years previous, were praised as patriotic, were declared to be high treason. Jahn was incarcerated and held a prisoner for many years, the Turnvereins were dissolved and political reaction held its full sway in the fatherland. Although suppressed and seemingly eradicated, Jahn’s creation outlived all persecution. In the remarkable year of 1848 the cry for political freedom rang through all the monarchies of Europe and made the crowned heads tremble for their thrones and lives. In these troublesome times the seed sown by Jahn brought its harvest. Countless “Turners” gathered around the banner of liberty, and as of yore fought and bled for the sacred cause of mankind. The Turnvereins sprung into existence again, so to say over night, and became centers for political agitation against tyranny and suppression.

Too soon this noble intoxication, which had inflamed the entire civilized world, died out and in political affairs matters became worse than before. All those ideal men who took up arms against their oppressors and battled for equal rights were severely persecuted; a great many were arrested, tried and shot as political rebels and traitors to their country, a great many more escaped to foreign parts, the majority of these emigrating to England and the United States. Those political fugitives are the originators of the “North American Turnerbund,” an association standing in the foreground of this country for propagation of a rational physical education.

The reader will kindly pardon this brief outline of the history of the German “Turnkunst.” The deviation from the principal theme of this essay was necessary in order to plainly demonstrate that the German system of physical culture is more valuable than the other two.

The ideal thought of a harmonious development of both body and mind is so inseparably linked together, that the one cannot be developed without affecting the other. The German “Turnkunst” is the practical expression of the famous quotation of the Roman poet Horatius, “mens sana in corpore sano,” i. e., sound mind in a sound body. This double thought is the reason why it takes such a high stand as a means of education, and why the best and wisest men of all nations have given their attention to it, and are enthusiastic in introducing it to the entire civilized world. The German system of physical culture not only comprises the preferences of the other systems, avoiding their defects, but also far surpasses them from a moral point of view. Its popularity is proved by the official festivals of the “Turnerbund.” In the year 1893, at Milwaukee, Wis., besides tens of thousands of spectators, about 3,200 athletes, all members of the Turnvereins, took part in the competition for prizes. And these athletes, having come from all parts of our vast country, were not, as one might suppose, sons of wealthy people, living in luxury and ease, but the great majority of them were workingmen who not only gave their precious time but also defrayed the greater part of their personal expenses out of their own scanty means. They

Digitized by CjOOQle
—130—

did not gather for the purpose of acquiring material gains, no showy golden medals and heavy purses were awaiting the victors. A simple laurel-wreath and a diploma was all they could expect, besides several days of hardship and privation; and still they came, animated by a wonderful spirit of comradeship and by the thought to demonstrate to the public at large their adherence to a system which satisfied their physical and moral wants. If one compares the festivals of the 1 ‘Turners* * and the tournaments of other athletic associations, he will at once come to the conclusion that the former rank immeasurably higher than the latter. It is true, the Turnere are not breakers of world’s-records in the different kinds of sport. They do not attempt it, but they are very fair all-around athlete^. The winner at a Turner’s festival must be a good horizontal and parallel bars performer, he must be a splendid vaulter and an excellent runner; he must be far above the average iff all styles of jumping, such as high jump, broad jump, hop, step and jump, pole vaulting, etc.; he must be able to put the shot with right and left hand to no inconsiderable distance, to lift the heavy weight, and to climb the rope hand overhand, all with perfect control overall the muscles of his body and a faultless execution.

Even the uninitiated must concede that such an athlete is better by far then the one who is on the very top of one kind of the sports mentioned above, and has neglected the others, and that a systeni of physical education which aims at an equal development of all qualities of the body is preferable to the one which finds its highest aim in promoting one-sided record-breakers.

Speaking from a practical standpoint, it can be said safely that no other system is more adaptable to cater to the physical wants of all classes of people. Contained in it is such a multitude and variety of exercises, that to everybody, from the infant child to the man in the maturest prime of human strength, work can be given suiting his individuality, besides the class-work arranged for normally developed pupils. Hundreds of books were written in its behalf, and the conscientious instructor finds in them an inexhaustible source of attractive variety for his work. In no other system intellectual and moral ideas are more considered. Prom the gymnastic games for the youngest pupils, which not only help to make the lesson amusing, but also tend to develop the just awakening intellect, from the class-work which suggest fraternity and independence and mutual submission for joint benefit and common success, to the severest work for the fully developed athlete, testing his perseverance, his presence of mind, his self-reliance, and his personal courage to the utmost; educational, moral and intellectual interests are thought of in each lesson, making it far more valuable than it appeals at first sight. Much more could be mentioned to prove the utility of the system just described. The statements made undoubtedly will convince the reader that the German system of physical culture can claim with fullest right the acknowledgment of public as well as private institutions, that the schools of the “Turnvereins” are in fact preparatory schools for life, and it should be a sacred duty of parents and guardians to send their children to them. The young man of the present day, who considers the elevation of his individuality to a higher

Digitized by
-131-

standard, cannot find a better association than the “Turtiverein” to transform him into a strong, free man, in the noblest sense of the word, strong and free in every respect, not hampered in his actions with a weak and sickly body or narrow-minded political or religious prejudices.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN NORMAL SCHOOLS.

A Paper read by Miss KATHLEEN ATKINSON, Brooklyn Public Schools, before the Alumni Association of the Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics.

IN speaking of physical training for the normal student we are considering not only the student of the present, but the teacher of the future, with a very large field before her. At first view her prospects seem so vast that an exhaustive knowledge seems necessary to cover it. but if we will look at physical training not from a professionally comprehensive standpoint, but from the view of the average public school teacher, simply as another subject to be taught, we get our true insight into the preliminary training necessary for the class teacher. Perhaps it is the fault of youth and inexperience or of an enthusiasm not limited by age to try to teach too much, but the temptation to cram the normal student seems to obtain in other branches than gymnastic. It is no doubt in many schools due to the limited time and very limited means of most normal students and to their general eagerness to acquire and absorb all that is given them.

Starting out with the two-fold idea of assisting the students’ wellbeing, and of giving her a working knowledge of gymnastics, we manage the first more or less successfully, and anxiously overdo the second.

If we stop to consider that few teachers will use gymnastic work without supervision and that it is useless to try to prepare them thoroughly in the theory of physical training, we will abandon the attempt to instruct not only in gymnastic theory, but necessarily also physiology, psychology, and anatomy and confine our efforts to the more practical aspects of the work, with only so much theory as is absolutely necessary. The insufficient preparation hinted at ' above has sometimes ludicrous results :	One	student’s	description	in	an

examination of how the fall-out position developed the spinal cord was a mortifying revelation of the depth of his anatomical ignorance. Another gravely asserts that we have two sets of muscles, one “to make us graceful” and the other for hygienic use. I disclaim all responsibility for that instruction.

If we can give the normal student a knowledge of the aim of physical training for the public school child, a general idea of the means to be used, and then teach her to use those means intelligently, we have given her all that is necessary for a class teacher who is not asked to prescribe exercise or plan a gymnastic lesson, or even to; teach without occasional help from the supervisor. The ability to obtain results from the work presented means a convincing presentation, a clear and compelling method of command, and a critical eye for posture. A teacher who can, with the work prescribed for her grade, successfully correct

/

Digitized by
-132-

piositural defects is worth many times one who has delved deep into physiological and psychological reasons for each exercise, but fails to get strong and beneficial work from her pupils.

A course of gymnastic instruction, which extends through the normal student’s course, reaches its culmination when she does her practice teaching, and then the important touches come in. Close supervision and criticism of her work and a study of results will be of more value than twice the amount of theoretical instruction. As to the course of preliminary study, it would be a fine thing if, in a single state where physical training is used in the normal and public schools, there could be a more or less uniform method pursued, or if, at least, the several instructors in the various normal schools might meet and plan a course of study broad enough to include principles from whatever systems are used in the public schools of the state, so that the new teachers who come in and take up the work may neither be all at sea with any form of gymnastic work, nor too strongly imbued with the value of the particular system they may have studied to intelligently administer any other.

Normal school work means the assumption of such responsibility and such unceasing hard work that there seems to be no room for such an apparently useless thing as play. But I would plead for more careless enjoyment and actual fun to be somehow squeezed into the normal student’s work-day life. They work so hard over their good times— there ought to be incorporated into their course in gymnastics a course on how to be young and frisky ; and if their physical training can be made a less serious and painful affair to them, perhaps, when, they come to impart ft in the public schools, it may then be a more enjoyable and less painful affair to others.

LUNG GYMNASTICS.

By ALBERT ABRAMS, A. A., M. D. (Heidelberg), San Francisco.

Dr. W. H. Weaver describes a new method of securing forcible alveolar expansion of the lungs by directing the patient to take as full an inspiration as possible, then bearing down just as if straining at stool fur a few seconds, so as to increase the tension of the air in the upper chest. In performing this act, he claims, that greater effort is expended in the muscles of the abdomen, and consequently the air is forced upward. He cites another method, that of blowing through a small tube to increase the depth of respirations. The latter method, he maintains, defeats its own purpose, because in the effort of blowing the expiratory muscles of the chest are brought more strongly into action, compressing equally over the chest, but not in any particular direction, the air being driven out without any alveolar expansion. What Weaver regards as faulty in the latter method applies with, equal cogency to his own. Theoretically, his method is certainly ingenious, but it does not respond to the corroborative test. For some time I have occupied myself with different methods of lung gymnastics, which have fi r their object effectual distension of the lungs, and I have summoned to my aid in the study of this subject the Roentgen rays.

I have already reported a few of these methods. In health the lungs

Digitized by Google
—133—

appear in the fluoroscopic picture as light areas. In disease, on the contrary, the lungs are hot easily traversed by the rays, and in consequence we find opaque areas, which may indicate a tuberculous patch, a neoplasm, a hemorrhagic infarct or consolidation from whatever cause. In health the brightness of the lungs will \ary not only in different individuals, but also in the same individual. Obese and muscular individuals show a pulmonary area less bright than in those of reverse development. The lungs are brighter during inspiration than expiration.

The thickness of the bones constituting the tholax must not be forgotten, nor the dark reflexes cast by the spines of the scapulae. In increased distension of the lungs, resulting from forced inspiration or in emphysema, the normal brightness of the lungs is accentuated. On the contrary, when the lungs are not easily traversed by the Roentgen rays, as in forced expiration we find on the fluonoscope a diffused haziness, or even opacity depending on the ability of the subject in expelling the reserve air from the lungs. The Roentgen rays may be taken as a trustworthy index in determinating the degree of lung expjnsion. Viewing the lungs through the fluoroscope while the Roentgen rays are traversing the chest, and instructing the subject to practice the methed advocated by Weaver, one notes that the'picture is essentially that of the lungs during the act of forced expiration. By his method the Roentgen rays prove conclu ively that lung contraction, and not liing expansion', is induced. Percussion confirms what the Roentgen rays demonstrate, viz., that during the time the “Weaver method ’ is conducted, the area of percussional resonance is decidedly less than during the act of forced inspiration. The X-rays show that there are two methods of securing alveolar lung distension : First, by forced voluntary inspirations; and secondly, by cutaneous irritation. Forced voluntary inspiration is abetted by holding the breath after full inspiration is attained, and the longer breathing is suspended after forced inspiration, the more accentualed the normal brightness of the lungs become. This is the method I recommend to my patients, the object of wlrch is^o attain lung development.

The second method which I have advocated in previous communications is by irri'ation of the skin of the thorax. My experiments have demonstrated, in brief, the fact that the application of any cutaneous irritant, whether the latter be mechanic, chenuc, or electric, will always induce acute dilatation of the lungs. Even in emphysematous individuals the app ication of a cutaneous irritant will still further augment the existent lung dilatation. The lung dilatation secured by cutaneous irritation is far greater thin that which is attained by forced inspiration.

The degree of lung dilatation is dependent on the character of the cutaneous irritant and the severity of its application. The response of the lung to dilatation, which I have called the lung reflex, is always greatest in that part contiguous to the sources of cutaneous irritation. The lung reflex, it must be observed, does not involve both lungs, nor even an entire lung; it spreads from the source of cutaneous irritation, involving primarily circumscribed parts; then, if the irritation is severe enough, more remote parts may be involved.

In the physical examination of the chest the lung reflex will prove an excellent aid in diagnosis. In lung showing dimimshed resonance, the latter can always be increased by friction of the skin over the lung percussed, a persistence of the impaired resonance shows that the latter is not dependent cm atelectasis. A persistence of lung dullness after vigorous cutaneous friction
-134-

shows that the dullness is dependent on consolidation. In pulmonary tuberculosis and in the pretuberculous condition the lung reflex is only feebly present.

In conclusion one is justified in inferring from the foregoing that the most approved practical methods of securing lung development are by suspension of resp ration after forced inspiration aud by vigorous friction of the skin of the chest by means of a rough towel, or other mechanical means.— The Medical Fortnightly.

OUR PHYSICAL IMPROVEMENT.

From the “Milwaukee Medical Journal.”

Notwithstanding that it is the month of August, the month of all the year most fatal to the little ones, the city of Milwaukee can congratulate itself that there is not any alarming increase m sickness nor an increased mortality. From year to year the « bservation forces itself upon one ihat sickness among the children and death as a sequence of that sickness during the summer months is decidedly on the decrease. A variety of causes contribute toward this very desirable end, viz.: Increased comforts in the homes of the laborers and middle class; a better knowledge of pe<sonal hygiene, of proi er food and methods of feeding, for which the educated physician .is responsible; a closer inspection of milk and food stuffs generally bv the health department; greater municipal cleanliness; an abundance of pure lake water and a sufficient sewage system. Then, too, greater knowledge of the necessities and an enlightened commercial instinct have prompted better methods of caring for and delivering milk to the consumer, so that now sterilized milk or milk modified according to the formula of the family physician can be obtained at rates slightly in advance of those formerly obtaining. All of these fruits of civilization are combining to give greater health and a lessened death rate not only among infants, but among our people as a whole. There is another very important factor at work also which is having*a marked tendency upon our people healthward, and that is the rapidly growing and widely diffused sentiment in favor of athletics. To ride a wheel, to sit on a horse, to bat well, to kick with effect, to be a good rusher, to win a prize as a runner or jumper, or for proficiency in anything that requires physical endurance or trained muscles, is considered in many circles to be more praiseworthy than to be proficient in unraveling the intricacies of a language, trigonometry or calculus. The desire to be well and strong pervades all classes, and this desire finds its expression in the popularity of athletics.

The brawny Scot and Irishman in perpetuating the games of their native hea*h have done much to foster this spirit, while the Englishman s football and the German’s turning have done great things toward making us a nation of athletics. This desire for sturdiness of body and character is cunously exemplified too m the giving of names to children. The day of poetical “Angelina” and simpering “Flossie” is past; the “Theddy” and “Reggy” dears are no more, but instead we have solid “Dorothys” and sinewy “Margarets^ and muscular “Jacks” and “Wills.”

All this is very discouraging to the pessimist who declares the race is going from bad to worse, and points to the good old days when men were men of prowess and women were amazons in strength and courage. We need only point to our brave boys in the Philippines who under most adverse



Digitized by CjOOQle
-135-

circumstances are showing to the world that they are second to none, past or present, in endurance or prowess. And, as to the women, they only lack opportunity to show of what stuff they are made. It was only the other day that an Iowa lady slew a large grey wolf, which attacked her and her child, with no other weapon than a whip stock. She didn’t faint either when she had finished him, but loaded his carcass into her buggy, drove to the county seat and secured the bounty. At this present time there is a party of New York society ladies well equipped with rifles and ammunition looking for bear and Other large game m the Rockies. Novel writers must create the conventional society lady along very different lines from formerly. The “Mes-dames St. ("lair"’ et al. have had their day, and are useful only in preserving types of the past. A more robust day is at hand and even now shows itself in the creations of contemporary authors. Notwithstanding the great strides made, there is still room for improvement, and gradually this improvement will be brought about as our knowledge of sanitation increases and as nature's laws are the better understood, until, finally, we have a race approaching perfection.

(Extract from “Responsive Readings for the W. C. T. U.” Vol. 13, No. 8.)

PHYSICAL CULTURE.

By FRANCES W. LEITER.

Leader.—The subject under consideration to-day is Physical Culture. We take pleasure in introducing the National Superintendent, whose assistance will be appreciated.

Nat’l Supt.—This is the department which our beloved leader, Frances Willard, referred to frequently as her child. It was she who originated it, and through her urgent solicitation I finally consented to assume the responsibilities of superintendent. The last communication from Miss Willard urged more vigorous* agitation in W. C. T. U. ranks, adding, “Our women do not yet see the importance of this work.”

Cor. Sec’y —How many states have created the department?

Nat’l Supt.—Twenty. State organizations have been slow to adopt the work, because it has been difficult to secure women fitted for the superintendency.

Leader.—Must a superintendent of the department, state, county' or local, necessarily be a specialist ?

Nat’l Suft.—If the specialist is thoroughly' familiar with the circumstances and methods of the organization, she will be helpful indeed. If not familiar, she may be unwilling to give the time and energy, without fair compensation, which such a work requires in a general way.

Leader.—We have not yet found the woman for our community, who can “fill the bill.”

Nat’l Supt.—Any intelligent, wide-awake woman, with executive ability, can render efficient service, if she is willing to study the question carefully through observation and printed helps. Specialists are good associates.

Leader.—Where can helps be obtained ?

Nat’l Supt.—Twenty leaflets and pamphlets upon various phases of the subject can be secured of the National Superintendent. These have been prepared by able educators, specialists, and scientific experts, and published by the department.

Mrs. A.—Have we not too many departments?

Nat’l Supt.—The strength and efficiency of our organization grows out of its many lines of work. Each department is managed by a competent superintendent, who consecrates her time, ability and enthusiasm to that which specially claims her convictions. Forty such women bring greater influence to the cause than a much less number possibly could, though all the work is included.

Cor. Sec’y.—Does not physical culture come properly under one or more of the other department^?

Digitized by U.ooQLe
-136-

Nat’l Supt.—Physical culture, health and heredity, scientific temperance, narcotics and purity are closely connected. ‘ Some features found in one may be found in the others also. It does not follow, however, that all the work of these several departments can as successfully be cared for under one head. To combine any two would naturally result in making one subservient to the other, and the adjustment of this would depend upon the prevailing conviction of the superintendent in charge, and to the detriment of the work subordinated.

Mrs. A.—Do not busy home-keepers and men engaged in active business pursuits have sufficient exercise ?

Nat’l Supt.—The avocations of to-day call in service comparatively few muscles and sets of muscles, and the tendency js to»contract rather than expand the chest. Pure air is quite as essential as good food. To secure the greatest possible breathing capacity, every one needs specific exercise to counteract the cramping tendency of daily occupation.

Mrs. B.—People are generally too much exhausted after the labors of the day to take additional exercise. Even brain workers weary in body as well as in mind.

Nat’l Supt.—Brain weariness is physical exhaustion. Brain and nerve tissue is matter, the same as muscle is matter. Thinking and planning exhaust the brain just as muscle exhausts by action. Even twenty minutes daily in a gymnasium will prove recreation rather than work. Weariness produced by exercising unused portions of the body will induce sounder, more restful sleep, and the general sensation of lassitude which has caused one to feel old before the proper time, will soon be succeeded by some of the vivacity of earlier years.

Leader.—Our town cannot afford a gymnasium.

Nat’l Supt.—A live town, like a wide-awake individual, generally manages, somehow, to command what is thought necessary. Let the gymnasium begin in a small way. It will soon grow, as its importance and pleasure are understood. Some of the more simple appliances should be found in every home.

Mrs. S.—Do you think that women over fifty and sixtj’ can be benefited by gymnastics?

Nat’l Supt.—Most assuredly. The complete relaxation from routine duties, whether of mind or body, or both, which comes to a company .of women, regardless of age, under the freedom and privileges of a gymnasium with competent instructor, will remove years of “care-line” from the face, through restored animation, and actually add years to one’s life. This necessitates correct dress. It is possible for the gymnasium to divorce a women from her corset, when no other influence has power to do so. If the girls in their teens are to be spared these instruments of degeneration, mothers must be educated in this direction. You need not wait for an equipped gymnasium. Call a specialist at moderate expense, for a dozen lessons or more, and the way will soon open for privileges which now seem impossible.

Mrs. B.—Will not some book help us conduct exercises without the expense of a director?

Nat’l Supt.—You may be able to understand printed directions, but you need the enthusiasm of a wide-awake instructor who will secure you against mistakes. The special four weeks course at one of the endorsed training schools will equip one of your own members to safely guide in the first work. Pledge a class on her return, with moderate tuition fee, and she can easily meet the expense incurred. Classes may follow in other parts of the country.

Treas.—Do not children usually have all the exercise needed during the growing period ?

Nat’l Supt.—If not positively sick, they do not fail to keep up a good circulation. This is beneficial to health. It is not sufficient, however, for full development and proper training. Much corrective work is needed, sometimes through inherited tendencies. School life encourages incorrect posture. This leads to contracted lungs, and must be overcome by carefully directed ph>sical discipline. To secuye the “all-round development”—the best of which each child is capable— more than play is needed. Unless physical exercise as an education, is instilled into the life of the child, when the period comes for play to cease, the more serious activities will leave neither time nor inclination for the needed physical protection.
-137-

Leader.—What system do you favor?

Nat’l Supt.—No method is recognized to the exclusion of others. The several systems, named from the countries in which they originated, are built upon the same foundation principles—laws which control the development of tissue. No books are endorsed. We recognize the great importance of specialists, trained on scientific principles.

Mrs. S.—Do you favor Delsarte methods ?

Nat’l Supt.—Delsarte proper is a system of expiession rather than development. Its distinctive features should be incorporated in, or should supplement all metods. Its aim to secure perfect control of the body teaches economy of force, so important in these days of overtaxed nerves.

Mrs. B.—Is this called society gymnastics?

Nat’l Supt.—Rather erroneously. The society belle needs the exhilaration of more active work, while the country lass, overflowing with vitality, needs the education of control, for economy’s sake. We all waste nerve force, and so in time, become nervous. Scientific physical training makes nervy men and women, capable of meeting emergencies. Women, as a rule, are physical cowards, through lack of physical discipline.

Leader.—Is it practicable to secure this training in rural schools ?

Nat’l Supt.—Outside cities and the largest towns where directors are employed, teachers can receive helpful training during the annual session of the teachers’ institute. In time counties will likely employ a specialist to supervise the work. Experience will solve the problem how best to prosecute thise phase of education.

Mrs. B.—Have any states passed a compulsory law ?

Nat’l Supt.—The Ohio law, secured by the German Turners, fails in efficiency bscause it lacks suitable provision for enforcement. Louisiana has added this branch to the required work. Three states have introduced bills in the General Assembly through efforts of the W. C. T. U., containing enacting clauses, but each failed to become law.

Leader.—Is not this discipline already introduced in many of the large cities and towns?

Nat’l Supt.—Scarcely one third of the children in our public schools receive this instruction. Its permanency and efficiency will never be established until compulsory law prevails. It must be placed beyond the power of school boards to manipulote, if not overthrow, after each annunl election.

Cor. Sec’y.—We understand the department does not favor military drill.

Nat’l Supt.—Congress, in the early part of our history as a republic, did not favor using our schools for war purposes. Why do so now ? Our schools should educate for peace, not war. As a method of physical training, military drill is a failure. Military schools under the government use the gymnasium to counteract the one-sided tendency of the drill.

Leader.—Your reports have referred to prison reform.

Nat’l Supt.—The state has no right to place even a convict under circum* stances which will be a detriment to him physically, and rhen turn him loose upon society later on. We should endeavor to make a better man of him during the period of his imprisonment. This should begin with physical regeneration. Every prison and penitentiary under the management of the state should have a gymnasium, utilized as carefully and persistently as the school.

Leader.—The importance of this department is dawning upon us. How can we introduce a work for physical betternment in our community ?

Nat’l Supt.—Educate your own W. C. T. U. ranks. Select topics from the department euvelope for stated meetings. Agitate in the community by means of lectures and the distribution of literature. Enlist all who are interested in the public schools, not forgetting the parents. Establish classes for adults and children. Start basket-ball among the young folks. In fact, help make it “the thing’’ to possess a fine physique, and a condition needing explanation if one is sick.

Send 2ct. stamp to Mrs. F. W. Leiter, Mansfield, Ohio, for leaflet giving suggestion for work, with a list of literature.

Digitized by Google

/
-138-

MiaP ftND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.r

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

MH-wratviJca®, "WSjacoaagln-

$9T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis-Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND THE PRESS.

THE interest in physical training shown by the daily press and the popular magazines is steadily increasing. The daily papers begin to devote columns to this subject which of late are carefully kept apart from the sporting column with its prize-fights reports. This is something which we must be thankful for, even if we find that a great number of these ‘ write-ups” are not altogether in strict harmony with our views.

Popular magazines are not complete nowadays if physical culture or health suggestions are not given a sufficient space. It is not always the editor’s fault if those articles are often not what they should or could be. Many more of those actively engaged in physical training ought to become regular contributors to such publications thereby substituting professional ideas and correct interpretations for unscientific and often too sensational writing.

That the increasing interest in physical training is especially noteworthy in the medical periodicals is a fact, which must make us feel proud and hopeful at the same time.

The almighty pen which is so efficient in furthering good, as well as evil, intentions is without doubt beginning to be one of our strong allies.

—The editors of “Mind and Body” have, like other human beings,, taken advantage of vacation time, which somewhat explains the delays of this issue.

—Through an oversight we forgot in our last issue to give credit to the “Chicago School Weekly” for the article and cut “Chicago Physical Education Society” which we had (with permission) reprinted from said journal.

—We are informed that North Dakota enacted a physical education law last winter.

—We call the attention of the physical directors to the advertisement of the Frank S. Betz & Co. Those hot-air apparatuses are extremely useful in gymnasia.

—The international cycle race meet at Montreal this month' is attracting the attention of bicycle speed merchants from all parts of the world and a good program of sport is sure to be presented.

NOTES AND REMARKS

Digitized by

Google
-139-

HORIZONTAL LADDER.

From “Manual of Heavy Gymnastics,” Chicago Public Schools.

LESSON I.

Height of shoulder.

1st Exercise. Front hang-stand. From the cross-stand, hands on beams, move feet forward simultaneously, arms and knees extended, and move back to the stand again. Practice several times.

2d Exercise. From cross-stand, hands on beams move hands forward to rear-hangstand and back again. Practice several times.

Cross-handling—ladder above reach.

3d Exercise. Jump to cross-handling on beams, arms and knees, extended, and jump down. Practice several times.

Side hand-hang.

4th Exercise. Jump to side-handhang on one beam, arms and knees extended, and jump down. Practice several times.

LESSON II.

Ladder above reach.

1st Exercise. Cross-handhang. Raise afid extend knees several times.

2d Exercise. Cross-handhang. Arms bent, knees straight.

3d Exercise. Side-handhang on one beam. Raise and lower heels several times.

4th Exercise. Side-handhang on one beam. Arms bent, knees straight.

LESSON III.

Ladder height above reach—cross-handhang on beams.

1st Exercise. Swing forward and backward several times, jump down at end of backward swing.

2d Exercise. Travel forward, hands on beams.

Side-handhang on one beam.

3d Exercise. Swing sideways left and right.

4th Exercise. Travel sideways, hands on one beam.

LESSON IV.

Cross-handhang on beams.

1st Exercise. Jump to handhang, raise left and right knee alternately.

2d Exercise. Handhang, travel forward with raising of left and right knee alternately.

Side-handhang on one beam.

3d Exercise. Swing sideways left and right, with swinging sideways left, lift left hand, and vice versa.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but travel sideways with swinging sideways.

LESSON V.

Ladder above reach.

1st Exercise. Jump to cross-handhang on beams, change hands alternately to handhang on rounds and return to beams again. Practice several times.

2d Exercise. Jump to cross-handhang, travel forward, heels raised.

Digitized by L.ooQle
-140-

3d Exercise. Jump to side-handhang on one beam, change hands to hang on rounds alternately, and return to beam again.

4th Exercise. Jump to side-handhang on one beam, travel sideways, knees raised.

LESSON VI.

1st Exercise. Jump to cross-handhang, left hand on beam, right hand on round, jump down and change to right hand on beam, left hand on round.

2d Exercise. Jump to cross-handhang, travel forward one hanc| on beam, one hand on round.

3d Exercise. Jump to side-handhang on one beam, swing sideways with raising and stretching of knees. While swinging sideways left, raise and stretch knees.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 4, but raise and stretch knees while swinging sideways right.

LESSON VII.

Ladder low—height of shoulder.

1st Exercise. Cross-hangstand, hands on beams, travel forward by placing hands and feet forward alternately.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but travel backward.

3d Exercise. Side-hangstand, hands on beam, travel sideways left by placing hands and feet sideways alternately.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but travel right.

LESSON VIII.

Ladder high—above reach.

1st Exercise. Jump to cross-hang on beams, jump down and jump to hang on one round alternately.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but left hand on beam, right hand on round, and right hand on beam and left on round alternately.

3d Exercise. Cross-handhang on beams, swing sideways.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but travel forward with swinging sideways.

LESSON IX.

Ladder—height above reach.

1st Exercise. Side-stand under ladder, jump to handhang on rounds, upper hold, raise and stretch knees.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but underhold, and raise and lower heels.

3d Exercise. Front side-stand, jump to side-handhang on one beam, travel sideways left, both hands move simultaneously.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but travel sideways right.

LESSON X.

1st Exercise. Side-stand under ladder, jump to handhang on rounds, upper hold, omit one round.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, lower left hand and grasp round again. Practice several times. (The left hand releases its hold and left arm lowered, the body swings a little sideways right; when swinging left again, grasp round.)

Digitized by

Google
-141-

3d Exercise. As Exercise 2, but lpwer right arm.

4th Exercise. Jump to cross-handhang and travel forward; hands move forward simultaneously.

PHYSICAL TRAINING AT DRAKE UNIVERSITY,

DES MOINES, IOWA.

gf'b* students at Drake University are well provided for in the care of the body. Physical training and mental training go hand in hand, as will be seen from the following schedule of classes :

FALL TERM.

Ladies’ classes in calisthenics—daily.

Men’s classes in calisthenics and apparatus—daily.

Out-door athletics, football, tennis, cross country runs, and walks.

WINTER TERM.

Ladies’ classes same as Fall Term, with the addition of light apparatus exercises.

Men’s classes same as Fall Term, with the addition of general exercise, tumbling, and indoor athletics.

SPRING TERM.

Ladies’ classes same as Winter Term, with the addition of out-door basket ball and cross country walks.

No men’s classes in the gymnasium, as the open air exercises, such as tennis, cross country runs, track and field athletics, baseball, and light football work, are advocated.

Prior to the school year of ’97—’98 Drake University had been a small factor in the Iowa state intercollegiate athletic contests, having won but one athletic competition in the history of the college, but to-day it stands at the head of Iowa athletics and at the head of football in the central west.

In June 1898 Drake won third place in the Iowa Intercollegiate Athletic Association meet with a score of 3.15 points, Iowa City 41.5, Grinnell 50.5. In Febuary 1899 the Iowa pentathlon contest went to Drake by a good margin of 30 points, in four out of the five events completely out-classing their opponents. In June 1899 the Iowa international cup was readily captured at 50 points, Southern University of Iowa 32, Grinnell 29. Next season, beyond a doubt, Drake will be a large factor in the Western Intercollegiate Athletic Association meets.

This athletic supremacy is undoubtedly due to the untiring energy and zeal of their physical director, Mr. W. J. Monilaw, who is also the athletic trainer of the track team. Monilaw began his work as a junior in the Cedar Rapids Y. M. C. A., at the age of 12 or 13, continuing under the care of the director there, Mr. George Lees, till 18 years old. He was also a member of the leaders’ class there for two seasons and also a member of the pentathlon team four times, which team won the state contest twice. He has played baseball on the Association team, meeting and defeating very nearly all the crack amateur teams in Iowa, successfully pitching in about 75 per cent, of the above games. In September, 1897, he was called to the position of physical director and athletic trainer of Drake University, and next season he is to be made a regular member of the college faculty.

Monilaw is now 25 years of age and begins a medical course next season, so that he may he better fitted for his professional duties. This coming will be his third year of having charge of all athletics and gymnastics, both ladies and gentlemen. Miss Mabel G. Reynolds is assistant in the ladies’ classes.

—The League of American Wheelmen is making an agressive campaign for “good roads” and bicycle paths. A movement that Will surely be commended by every enthusiastic devotee of the wheel.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—142 —

CORRESPONDENCE.

W. C. Schaefer, CA/cago.—Accept our heartiest congratulations !

Mr. W. E. D.t and Mr. J. W. S., also A. E. K.—Regret very much to have missed you.

AN EXAMPLE TO BE FOLLOWED.

We are in receipt of the following letter:

PHYSICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT, W. C. T. U.

Mansfield, 0., September 4, 1899.

Dr. F. Pfister, Milwaukee, Wis.

Dear Sir:—Perhaps you have not learned that North Dakota enacted a physical education law last winter. It requires physical discipline in all schools under public control not omitting the rural districts.

Now comes the problem of training teachers in schools which cannot be under regularly employed supervisors. The important step is to get competent specialists at county teachers institutes, and gradually educate the teachers.

I have been in correspondence with the normals over the country, hoping this work may be made compulsory in all institutions where teachers are trained.

I am laboring to create public sentiment in favor of the great need in our schools. We shall attempt improved legislation in Ohio next winter, this effort to be under my supervision, and in co-operation will be a representative committee from various organizations and societies.

Can you assist etc., etc.

Yours truly

Mrs. Frances W. Leiter.

220 West Park Ave., Mansfield, Richland Co., Ohio.

BOOK REVIEW.

NIGHT SOUNDS OF THE CAMP.

For some time I lay in my swinging bed listening to many sounds which would be unnoticed during the day. Now and then an insect buzzed through the darkness, ticking against hair-like twigs in its flight and striking some broad leaf with a sounding spat. One big beetle hummed past my nose, and my ear followed his lessening drone far out over the water. Just when the sound had dwindled to the whisper of a trembling wire, there came a loud flip-flap—splash! and I guessed that some lusty bass had gathered in the beetle. Other fish leaped at intervals, and their quick, noisy splashes were almost restful. It was the continuous queer little half-noises ; the whispers of crawlings, creepings, and droppings ; the infinitesimal leapings and racings that took place within the arena of one green leaf, which taxed ears and nerves to the straining point.

A faint rustling from below caught my ear—a velvety, sliding, insidious sound, now as if from grass, again a soft disturbance of dry, rattling atoms. It seemed to pass -from one side to the other, to cross beneath the hammock, to pause like something searching for a track, then to glide slowly on. In my mind I could see the trim garter snake hunting a quarry. Now he is on the path waiting with raised head, sparkling eyes, and darting tongue—an illustration of sensitive alertness. Now he moves on again, trailing his graceful length smoothly over the sand ; now his blunt nose is within an inch of the grass—now he’ll rustle. A rattling, apparently like a bull moose’s plunge through cover, proves that the snake has entered the grass on the instant when the mental chart shows that he should.

Then came a relief—a noise, a welcome, genuine, and mpst musical noise. In volume it compared with the vague rustlings and whisperings as a gunshot would compare with the click of a breaking match. A soft, purring cluck-cluck



Digitized by LjOOQle
-143-

prepared my ear for what was coming, and there was nothing startling or jarring in the rich, whistling cry. Somewhere within twenty feet ot my head a whip-poor-will was bowing and puffing his great throat as he sobbed out his well-known appeal. Another and another took up the cry, till a whisper of it ^ame from far up the river. His first cousin, the night-hawk, was stirring, too, and I heard his rasping “ka-ick—ky-ack—ka-ick” dropping from high overhead. I waited for the finale till I was almost nervous. “Ka-ick—ka-ick” sounded the exasperating bird—would he never stop? There it-is at last. “Whiz-iz-iz— boo-boom!” He had made his dive and I fell asleep.—Ed. W. Sanclys, in “Outing” for August.

—Practical Physical Exercises for Public and Private Schools, arranged by Louis Lepper, Director of Physical Culture, Terre Haute Public Schools, and Wm. H. Wiley, Superintendent Terre Haute Public Schools. The Inland Publishing Co., Terre Haute, Ind., 1899.—Although there is not, what could be called a “long felt want” for a book on school gymnastics this work differs in some respects from those already in the market. It is not too voluminous, is very well illustrated, and easily intelligible even for the entirely uninitiated school-teacher, -a very strong point in its favor. It also contains a number of musical exercises, which have been adapted for the purpose by Mrs. C. B. Adams.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Quite a number of the prominent golf clubs are now employing girls for •caddies instead of small boys.

—Despite the men engaged in rowing and the influence surrounding this branch of sport, the National Association of Amateur Oarsmen has kept it remarkably free from professionalism. They are to be heartily congratulated upon their verv successful annual regatta recently held at Boston, Mass. All the races, even the preliminary heats, were well contested and all the arrangements for the regatta were all that could be desired, winning praises from all who witnessed the events. The chief attraction of the regatta was the race between Edward Hanlon and Ten Eyck, the champion amateur sculler, and Maguire and Whitehead. Ten Eyck won in hollow fashion. It is too bad that he was not allowed to enter the Henley regatta, but as the winner, Howell, is an American, it somewhat softens the feeling of disappointment over the refusal of his entry. A race between these two is a possibility for next season. Appended is the

result of the regatta :

CLASS.

Single Sculls, Intermediate. Single Sculls, Ass’n Senior. Single Sculls, Champion Pair-Oared Shells, Senior. Double Sculls, Intermediate. Double Sculls, Senior. 4-0ared Shells, Intermediate. 4-0ared Shells, Senior (Int’l). 4-Oared Shells, Senior. 8-0ared Shells, Intermediate. 8-Oared Shells, Senior.

WINNER.	TIME.

Frank B. Greer, East Boston.	10 m. 49 s.

J.	Rumohr, Rat Portage, Ont.	10 m. 25 s.

Ed. H. Ten Eyck, Worcester. 10 m. 16*4 s. Pennsylvania Barge Club.	10	m. 3314 s.

Jeffries Point R. C., East Boston. 10 m. 2% s. Wachusett Boat C., Worcester. 9 m. 1934 s. New York A. C.	9	m. 42 s.

Brockville R. C., Brockville, Ont. 9 m. 10 s. Pennsylvania Barge Club.	8	m. 48*4 s.

Boston Athletic Association. 8 m. 4 s. Pennsylvania Barge Club.	7	m. 40Y2 s.

—Every true lover of good sport is looking forward eagerly to the forthcoming yacht races at New York between the Columbia and the Shamrock for the famed American cup next October.

—The defeat of the American athletes in the dual meet between the Harvard-Yale representatives and the Englishmen from Cambridge and Oxford was surprising. There were nine events in the competition: the J00 yards, 440 yards, 880 yards, 1 mile, 3 mile, and 120 yards hurdle runs, running high jump, running broad jump, and throwing the 16-pound hammer. The Englishmen won

Digitized by tjOOQle
—144—

the 440 yards, 880 yards, one, and two mile runs, and the running broad jump, second in the 100 yards, 880 yards, one mile, 120 yards hurdle runs, and running high jump. Their victory was fairly and squarely earned and every true sportsman will look forward to another similar meeting on this side of the water with much pleasure.

—The L. A. W. meet at Boston this month promises to be the greatest in the history of the league.

—Reference into the athletic abilities of J. F. Powers has already been made in these columns, but his performances in the annual all-round championship contests of the Amateur Athletic Union stamps him as an athlete of exceptional ability, so another mention will not be amiss. {lis score was very high, being nearly 1000 points more than the champion of last year made. He won seven out of the ten events in the contest. Powers is a student at Notre Dame, Ind. The previous winners of the all-round contest were : W. R. Thompson 1884, Malcolm W. Ford 1885, 1886, A. A. Jordan 1887, M. W, Ford 1888, 1889, A. A. Jordan 1890, 1891, M. O’Sullivan 1892, E. W. Golf 1893, 1894, J. Cosgrove 1895, L. P. Sheldon 1896, E. H. Clarke 1897, E. C. White 1898.

—Aquatics and baseball have taken up so much attention this season as to detract from track and field athletics.

—The headquarters for archery in the United States is at Washington, D. C. There are several good clubs in and near Dayton and Cincinnati, O.

—Golf is now the fashionable out-door pastime and is gaining in favor every day.

—The Princeton football schedule for next autumn was made public. It includes games with Yale at New Haven on November 25 and with Brown at Princeton on, November 4.

—J. Fred. Powers of the Notre Dame (Ind.) University did some remarkable work in the national all-round championship contest of the A. A. U., beating his nearest competitor over 1500 points, easily winning first honors.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

GERMAN LITERATURE.

PHYSIOLOGIE DER LEI tSBUEBUNGEN.—F. A. SCHMIDT, M. D..............  60

METHODIK.—ZETTLER.................................................x.oo

GESCHICHTE DER METHODIK.—PROF. DR. CARL EULER........................:.a.oo

“	“	“	“	“	“	“	bound................2.50

SCHWEDISCHE HEILGYMNASTIC.—F. J.	HARTELIUS......................1.70

HAUS-GYMNASTIK FUER MAEDCHEN UND FRAUEN.—DR. E. ANGERSTEIN UND G.

ECKLER....................................................  1.00

HAUS-GYMNASTIK FUER GESUNDE UND KRANKE. — DR. E. ANGERSTEIN UND G.

ECKLER...................................................   1.00

DAS TURNEN IM HAUSE—BEER WALD UND BAUER.........................^.00

HANDBUCH FUER VORTURNER—BULEY	UND VOGT. (Zwei Theile)...........2.35

BUCH DER REIGEN.—W. JENNY..........................................#.    2.25

Address for any gymnastic or pedagogical literature:

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

468 EAST WATER ST., MILWAUKEE, WIS.

A

Digitized by C.ooQle