MIND AND BODY

Vel. 29	MAY, 1922	No.	308

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ute, Min&

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Entered os second-does matter October 14, 1916, at ike poetoffiee at Nem Uhn, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

PREVENTABLE DISEASES OF ADULT LIFE*

BY EUGENE LYMAN FISK, M. D., NEW YORK CITY.

One of the common diseases of adult life is old age, another is middle age. These are not limited to adult life. The old age due to syphilis is sometimes attained in utero, and from then on we have instances of so-called premature senility. Senility, however, is always premature. Youth, actually, is not a function of time, but a physical state.

Having thus, I trust, squared myself with the title under which I was invited to discuss this subject, I may say that I have a hearty dislike for the term “disease” because of its association with the dark ages of medicine, when disease was looked upon as an entity, when tissue changes or functional disturbances were given a name just as you would name an evil spirit. These dark ages are, in fact, not very distant. Most of us can remember such terms as “idiopathic peritonitis.” Bright’s disease, or nephritis, is still spoken of as an entity without regard to its etiology, and there are, I fear, even now people who treat the kidney in this condition. We are still prone to label a man who is out of health as a “case” of some kind. To make a diagnosis seems to carry with it the obligation either to force a man into some procrustean diagnostic bed and put a label on him or else dismiss him with that horribly abused endorsement, “a clean bill of health.”

To prevent middle age, to prevent old age, or rather to postpone these periods of physical deterioration, has seemed to many a quixotic

* Read at the Annual Meeting of the Medical Society of the State of New York, at New York City, March 23, 1920.

Digitized by LjOOQle
5°

or even a fantastic proposition. Why this peculiar attitude of mind that refuses to admit the scientific probability of a radical change in the life cycle of man, even to the point of doubling it or trebling it? Inasmuch as communication with the dead is gravely discussed by cultured people, the mere doubling of the life span would in comparison seem a commonplace postulate. There has been no denial of the possibility of effecting such changes in the life cycles of lower organisms, even fairly complex organisms, and I think we must ascribe this skepticism as to greatly changing the human life cycle and this fatalism as to its fixity largely to human egotism. We still subconsciously cherish the belief that we are made in the image of our Maker, and that we are set apart from the rest of the living world, not only mentally and spiritually, but physically. There is, I think, to the average mind something almost repellant and sacrilegious in the suggestion that there could possibly be brought about any material change in the life cycle of man as fixed by tradition and so accurately portrayed by Shakespeare. Yet here and there, even in the literature of the remote past, we find a glimmer of light and an utterance of some philosopher which is identical with the thesis of this paper. For example, when Gorgias of Leontini, who had completed a hundred and seven years without ever relaxing his diligence or giving up work, was asked why he consented to remain so long alive, he replied, “I have no fault to find with old age.” Cicero, commenting on this says “That was an noble answer and worthy of a scholar, for fools impute their own frailties and guilt to old age.”

There is a profound and tremendous significance in that utterance. He states in a sentence what I shall attempt to bring out in detail in this paper, namely, that old age is always premature, just as death from typhoid fever, apoplexy, or pneumonia is always premature, and that the physical changes noted at the advancing decades of life are not due to time, since time is not an entity, but an abstraction, a synthesis of space and motion; that physical collapse, whether abrupt or spread over a period of eighty years, is not in response to some mandate or inflexible law but the result of the cumulative effect of incident antagonistic factors in the environment or in the individual. Simple and elementary as this proposition is, it is too seldom accepted or recognized in the attitude of medical men and hygienists toward the problems of health and disease. I ask your indulgence if I dwell for a little time on these underlying philosophic principles which mean so much in motivating this work. The correction of trouble at its source will never be systematic, comprehensive and effective if we accept average conditions as more or less fixed and as proper standards for measuring human excellence. How often we hear the statement that certain pathological conditions are “normal to the time of life.” Such conditions may be common to the age period in which they predominate, but to call them normal is not only unscientific and inaccurate, reactionary and obstructive, but it actually postulates uncaused action.

Do not misunderstand me; I am not in favor of over-emphasizing the pathologic changes found in middle life and later. So far as the average individual's outlook and future are concerned we can reassure him as an individual that he is quite as well off as his neighbor, but as men interested in improving health ideals and in assisting the individual

Digitized by t^-ooQie
51

to improve his physical state, we are justified in telling him that we are not satisfied to leave him on this dead level of physical mediocrity, but that we wish to assist him to a higher level, and that we believe it possible for humanity in general to climb to a higher level.

What scientific evidence is there that the life cycle of man may be changed, that the physical handicaps which accumulate as life advances, may be materially mitigated or eliminated? When we search for the original causes of disease, old age and death we find that they may readily be grouped under certain categories and that these categories are logically complete, although all the specific influences under each category cannot now be named. As each type of destructive influence is disclosed, however, it will surely find a place under the categories herein given, namely:

Heredity;

Infection;

Poisons;

Food Deficiency;

Food Excess;

Hormone Deficiency;

Hormone Excess;

Physical Trauma or Strain;

Psychic Trauma or Strain;

Physical Apathy or Disuse;

Psychic Apathy or Disuse.

You will note that time does not appear in these categories and it would, of course, be absurd to place it there. It has nothing whatever to do with the changes that come about in the course of time. Neither does wear and tear appear there. While the human organism has very properly been compared in some respects to a machine, it differs radically from an inanimate machine in that in a state of complete health, with adequate nourishment, there is provision in the body for the maintenance of parts. Such wear and tear as there may be is included under psychic and physical trauma. The body does not simply wear out, it is infected out, poisoned out, starved out, or deficiencied out. So faras the individual is concerned, heredity may profoundly influence the quality of his tissues, his organs and his underlying resistance.

Admitting that there Ts some factor in the germ plasm that influences the life cycle, it can only be a physico-chemical influence conceivably subject to modification or control, as has been demonstrated in other organisms. We have the classis instance of Carrel’s (l) experiment on the cells of the chicken embryo. In that experiment simple, undifferentiated tissue cells have for many years been kept alive and growing by protecting them from the influences named under the categories I have mentioned. That is, these cells were protected from infection, from poison and from trauma; they were properly nourished, and they apparently have an indefinite lease of life. Recent experiments along this line have been carried out by Loeb (2) and others on the fruit fly. In the case of the fruit fly, however, we have a fairly complex organism whose life cycle has been increased by 900 per cent by lowering of the temperature 20 degrees centigrade and slowing down the chemical reactions in the body. The fruit fly differs from the human organism in that it takes on
52

the temperature of its environment and is susceptible to such control. This organism was likewise protected from adverse factors in the environment, especially from infection by placing the eggs in a solution of bichloride of mercury, and the final demise of the organism has been described as physiological death or the end of a chemical reaction slowed down and retarded by a lowered temperature. Death in the human organism is a condition of acidosis, so that in a certain sense the life of man may be described as a chemical reaction ending in acidosis and death. It has been figured out that if the same method that was applied in the case of the fruit fly could be applied to man, his life could be prolonged to 1,900 years. This sounds fantastic, but it is not a prediction, it is simply a principle, a principle that opens the door to science and human endeavor. In the case of the fruit fly, death was actually pathological, as it always is in man. The chemical state of the tissues, the influence of toxic substances formed and accumulated within its body finally killed this organism that had been aseptic from birth, as shown by control experiments.

You are all familiar with the fact that the life cycle of the tadpole can be profoundly altered by feeding thyroid extract. Certain organisms, such as the ephemera, live but a day because of faulty structure. Earth worms have been kept for ten years; the fresh water mussel may live 40 years, a turtle 200 years, and the ancient dinosaur was thought to have a life cycle of 800 years.

The life of the unfertilized egg of the star fish and of the sea urchin, ordinarily brief, can be prolonged by reducing the supply of oxygen.

The California redwood tree is practically immortal, whilst other plants, the annuals, die after fructification, and yet in the case of aeno-theras, De Vries showed that by cutting the stem sufficiently early, the plants are induced to develop new buds at the base and these buds survive winter and resume growth the following spring.

We have always to admit the possibility of dissipation of energy and geologic change ultimately abolishing all forms of life. I merely cite these instances to show the philosophic validity of the postulate that the human life might be indefinitely extended.

That the human life cycle is subject to wide variation, according to conditions determined either by heredity or environment, is very easily demonstrable. An infection leading to valvular heart defect, if it does not kill, places the individual in a class with from 50 to 150 per cent extra mortality, McKenzie (3) to the contrary notwithstanding. The present tendency to belittle the significance of valvular heart defects, notwithstanding the comprehensive and conclusive mortality statistics in such cases, is another evidence of the clinical tendency to under-emphasize and disergard that which does not at the moment cause pain or physical discomfort. Great as is the debt that the profession owes to McKenzie and his co-workers for extending our knowledge of heart pathology, we must deplore his drastic criticism of the practice of life insurance companies in declining or rating up cases with valvular heart defects, a practice fully justified by the tabulated experience on such risks. This tendency to belittle physical impairments which are not immediately disabling has been carried to a reductio absurdum. One can find in the literature respectable authorities who will assure us that almost any

Digitized by L^ooQle
53

physical impairment that can be named, whether it be mouth infection, constipation, mitral insufficiency, defective tonsils, albuminous urine, arterial thickening, high blood pressure, or even a history of syphilis, are without any material or important influence on physical efficiency or longevity. Turning from such statements based upon dogmatic opinions or loose general observations to actual experience, what do we find? Dr. Oscar H. Rogers (4) in a recent paper giving the experience of the New York Life Insurance Company among its sub-standard risks rated up on account of heart defect, reports as follows.:

Mitral regurgitation without hypertrophy showed an excess mortality above the normal of 65 per cent.

Mitral regurgitation with hypertrophy showed an excess mortality of 105 per cent.

Mitral regurgitation with history of rheumatism gave a mortality figure of more than 200 per cent above the normal.

Yet we see such cases referred to in the literature as unfairly treated by insurance companies, McKenzie in particular going to extreme lengths in his criticism of insurance rulings, forgetting that science cares nothing for authority as against evidence, and palpably unaware that the evidence that valvular heart defects in the mass materially shorten life is beyond dispute. I am far from claiming, however, that the present mortality figures in these cases are fixed and unalterable. Much of McKenzie’s criticism of the attitude of mind of many practitioners is well grounded. We are not to regard these people as having a “disease,” but as having defects which if properly safeguarded by well ordered hygiene may not preclude a fairly long life span. This is quite a different matter from dismissing them with a clap on the back, a hearty assurance that the trouble is negligible and that they can do about as they please. It is noteworthy that in the instructions issued to the draft boards systolic murmurs not associated with secondary changes and responding normally to exercise, were pronounced as without significance.

Inasmuch as murmurs in the mitral area unaccompanied by secondary signs showed an extra mortality in life insurance experience of 65 per cent, with the deaths from heart disease, Bright’s disease and pneumonia in this group at double the normal, it is not safe from the standpoint of health and longevity to dismiss this symptom as negligible, even though such risks be considered acceptable for the short test of war.

At ages 30 to 40 the mortality was even greater. Even functional murmurs 'at ages over 40 showed a substantial extra mortality. Remember that these are. statistics not on clinical cases or individuals applying for medical treatment, but on homogeneous groups apparently free from defects other than the heart abnormality and in such good physical condition that they had the confidence to apply for standard life insurance and the company was willing to accept them on rated up policies, an action that would not be taken in the case of an individual showing any evidence of general ill-health.

Other conditions, often loosely regarded as not materially shortening life, have been shown by medico-acturial studies of 2,000,000 insured lives in this country to have a very profound influence. Syphilis, with a history of thorough treatment and apparently cured ten years prior to application, shows a mortality of more than double the normal; gout,

Digitized by LjOOQle
54

within five years shows 90 per cent extra mortality; rapid pulse 90 to 100, no other impairment or assignable cause, 72 per cent above the normal; rapid pulse 100 or more, 105 per cent above the normal. At age of 45, 50 pounds overweight, shows 50 per cent extra mortality; 70 pounds overweight, 75 per cent extra mortality. Average weights at age of 45 show a mortality 5 per cent above the optimum rate, which is found at 20 pounds under the average weight. So much for your average man!

Blood pressure looms large in the lay as well as the professional mind at present, but there is not always a good sense of proportion observed in discussing it. There is a common practice of adding 100 mm. to the age and calling that “normal.” This is approximately correct for the younger ages, but is far from correct for older ages. The average blood pressure at various ages has been studied in independent life insurance investigations covering more than 50,000 lives, and our own findings closely agree with these results. The systolic pressure at ages 15 to 20 is 118; at 60,. it is 135. J. W. Fisher (5) has reported an excess mortality of 9 per cent among insured lives with an average pressure of 141; 63 per cent excess mortality among those with a pressure of 152. and 236 per cent excess mortality among those with a pressure of 171.

Blood pressure is of course a symptom in many possible conditions, but we are justified in regarding as sub-standard lives those whose blood pressure is persistently more than 15 mm. above the average for the ages as above given. Janeway’s caution on this matter has good support in comprehensive life insurance experience.

In passing it may be said that in our studies it has been disclosed that the predominant physical characteristic in high blood pressure is overweight, 50 percent of high blood pressure cases showing 20 percent or more overweight. The predominant characteristic in low blood pressure is underweight, 70 percent of such cases showing marked underweight. High blood pressure subjects show only 24 percent of underweights, while low blood pressure shows only 17 percent of overweights.

In this relation, the studies of Francis G. Benedict (e) on a group of individuals maintained on a low level of metabolism and bailed of considerable reserve nitrogen, should be borne in mind. I took the pulse of a member of this group and found it below 30. Such low pulse rates and systolic pressure below 90 were characteristic of the group, and yet they showed normal physical endurance and were in active work, showing that low blood pressure may be physiological under certain conditions. We frequently meet it, however, in the tuberculous, ill-nourished, those with focal infection and the “no man's land” of neurasthenia.

Many of these conditions mentioned are obviously preventable. Many can be favorably modified and their life-shortening influence neutralized to some extent. If we permit people to drift in the belief that their disabilities are negligible, this is as unwise as to exaggerate their symptoms or unduly limit their activities. In an experience extending over seven years and covering a group of several thousand policy holders that have been periodically examined for the purpose of lengthening their lives were included all these types of sub-standard risks, with an estimated expected mortality of 200 per cent, or double the normal. The actual mortality in this group was 10 points below the normal, showing an apparent reduction in the death rate of more than 50 per cent. These

Digitized by Google
55

people were all informed of their defects, given proper conservative warning as to their hygienic needs and informed of the proper medical treatment to seek.

There will shortly become available a study of more than 50,000 lives that have been critically examined and instructed along these lines. These were policyholders who availed themselves of the privilege of an examination by the Life Extension Institute.*

It is pretty difficult to get a practising physician to become very much excited over a so-called robust man, who is 40 or 50 pounds over weight, yet the mortality experience shows that this condition carries as heavy a mortality as a mitral lesion, at least in mature life.

These instances of life shortening are due to causes which can logically be placed under the categories I have enumerated.

We are now concerned with the problem a£ to how rapidly vitality wanes with advancing years and why it wanes. I have endeavored to show some of the reasons why it wanes, and I shall now seek to show the rate at which this physical failure progresses and the impairments that accompany it. The following chart exhibiting the movement of mortality from the age period where it is lowest (12) to that where it is highest, shows us at a glance the curve of physical failure. It punctures the bubble of self-sufficiency. It shows us that the testimony of the draft examinations in this country and in England, as well as those made in such services as it has been my privilege to direct, is consistent and a true reflection of underlying conditions.

36.

DEATH RATE PER 1,000 LIVING WHITE MALES CITIES .	'	U.	S.	LIFE TABLES, CENSUS OF I9IO.

18.

A6ES 12	20	30	40	50	60

* Since this was written the study by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company of about 6,000 cases examined in 1914-15 by the Life Extension Institute and instructed, has become available. It showed a reduction of 28% in the death rate in the whole group and a reduction of 67% bom the expected death rate among those found impaired.

Digitized by L^ooQle
56

It is interesting to note that the increasing physical disability with advancing years revealed by the Life Extension Institute examinations and the draft examinations is paralleled by the advancing death-rate even in the years supposed to be characterized by youthful vigor.

The testimony of the draft, briefly stated, is to the effect that about 47 per cent of the men examined were found with defects worthy of record. Approximately 33 per cent were declined for active military service. A very considerable number among those accepted had impairments such as syphilis, gonorrhea and a long range of troubles which were not even sought for under the conditions of mobilization. It has often been stated that many of the causes of rejection were structural or of a nature that did not impair the individual's ability to earn a livelihood. Inasmuch as many were accepted with serious defects, such as syphilis, which practically adds a double mortality liability, even though it is not immediately disabling, we must deprecate this tendency to regard anything that does not interfere with the immediate ability to earn a livelihood as a negligible defect in its civil influence. The Surgeon General of the Army has wisely emphasized the tremendous import of these draft findings in his argument for military training. So far from belittling the significance of the draft findings, it is more important to point out that they are really a superficial and inadequate presentment of the underlying conditions. Owing to our unpreparedness, it was physically impossible to organize such work on a uniform plane of efficiency. Also, it must be borne in mind that the standards were those for war, that men who were far from being in ideal condition were accepted because they were adjudged capable of seeing the war through, and it is well known to those who trained our soldiers that they required a great deal of physical training to be brought up to the mark. Indeed, there were few who were fit to go right into the fight. This means that there was a wide margin for physical improvements.

Bear in mind that in the draft only the prominent defect was recorded. This means that millions of defects, perhaps of more importance than the prominent defect, were submerged in the records. That is, a man might be declined because of extremely faulty vision and perhaps have some much more serious organic defect which was not sought for. This fault will always occur in any tables that deal with individuals and not with impairments. A man with tuberculosis may have an apical tooth infection that will bar his recovery from tuberculosis until eradicated. I have seen cases of syphilis that failed to improve under specific' treatment until mouth infection was cleared. Robert Louis Stevenson recovered from advanced tuberculosis only to die of apoplexy. Arterial degeneration in his case was more serious than tuberculosis because it could not be cured. A man with a valvular heart defect may have syphilis, or gastric ulcer, or a number of things which in the aggregate are quite as important as the heart defect. The so-called “prominent” defect may be only the register of a more serious etiological factor that does not appear in the classification.

To show how inadequately the draft reports reflect the actual condition, compare these percentages reported by Love and Davenport(7) with those found among average groups within the age periods of the draft reported by the Institute:

Digitized by Google
57

Per cent.	Per	cent.

Draft. — Valvular	heart	defect...................... 5.5 Institute 15

•	“	Defective	Vision ......................... 3	33

“	Tonsils .................................. 2	29

“	Teeth..................................... 1.25	56

Major Comrie(s) reported a rejection rate for active service in the British guards of 22 per cent at age 18; 48 per cent at age 23; 69 per cent at age 40, and four-fifths of those examined at ages 18-41 showing reportable defects as against 47 per cent in the United States draft statistics. Only 36 per cent of men of military age in Great Britain qualified for active service (9-10.) I am presenting some tables covering the analysis of 10,000 examinations of industrial groups, representative average workers, by the Life Extension Institute, and other tables showing ah analysis of 5,000 examinations at the head office of the Institute of members voluntarily applying for a physical survey.

ANALYSIS OF TYPICAL INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL AND INSURANCE GROUPS

LIFE EXTENSION INSTITUTE

(Figures Derived from More than 10,000 Cases) Industrial	Commercial	Life	Ins.

	Men	Women	Men	Women Men and Women	
	Av. Age Av. Age		Av. Age	Av. Age	Av. Age
	34	25	26	26	37
	%	%	%	%	%
Class 1..	.. 0	0	0	0	0
Class 2..	.. 10	23	10	12	6
Class 3..	.. 4i	54	5*	58	63
Class 4..	• 35	19	27	21	21
Class 5..	• 9	4	9	9	7
Class 6..	•• 5	0	2	0	3
ANALYSIS	OF 5,OOC	1 INDIVIDUALS	TAKING PERIODIC PHYSICAL		EXAMINATION
	AT	HEAD OFFICE	LIFE EXTENSION INSTITUTE		
	%	%	%	%	%
All Ages Under 25 yrs.			26-45 yrs 46-65 yrs.		64yrs.
		(8%)	(54%)	(34%)	(4%)
Class 1..	O	0	0	0	O
Class 2..	. . I	—	—	—	—
Class 3..	. . l6	27	18	11	
Class 4..	•• *5	32	27	22	. .
Class 5..	.. 51	37	5°	56	6l
Class 6..	.. 8	4	5	11	

Class 1—No physical defects.

Class 2—Minor defects requiring observation or attention.

Class 3—Moderate defects requiring hygienic correction or minor medical, dental or surgical attention.

Class 4—Moderate defects requiring medical supervision as well as hygienic correction.

Class 5;—Advanced physical impairment requiring systematic medical or surgical attention.

Class 6—Serious physical defects requiring immediate surgical or medical attention.

Digitized by booQle
5*

In the industrial group we have a fairly accurate picture of the actual condition of the working adult population. In the membership group we have a picture of that intermediate class showing a much greater percentage of pathology, a class hovering between a condition of average health and that of frank illness when medical treatment or hospital treatment is sought. This to me is an extremely interesting group in that it shows the class of people that should be in touch with medical science but, for the most part, were not until their condition was revealed by their examinations and they were influenced to go to their physicians or secure from some source the proper medical attention. In the group representative of the average adult citizen, we find no individuals absolutely free from impairment. We do find that about io per cent of this group haye impairments limited to the minor type. In this group we include such impairments as

Slight thickening of the arteries,

Slight varicose veins,

Slight varicocele,

Slight functional heart defects,

Slight urinary changes—crystals, bile, indican, etc.,

Slight uncorrected defects of the eye,

Slight nasal affections.

Slight enlargement of tonsils,

Flat foot,

Headaches,

Minor skin affections,

Faulty posture,

Spinal curvature, not tuberculosis Slight overweight,

Slight underweight.

It is interesting to note that an extremely small percentage of the membership group is found in this class. We also find that with advancing age the percentage of the more impaired classes increases.

A glance at these figures shows what is going on beneath the skin and clothing of civilized man. If we found such conditions prevailing among reindeer, buffalo, rabbits, elephants, tigers, or other animals in a state of nature, we would consider that such organisms were in a very decadent condition. Man has used his brain to offset his physical deficiencies and thus has maintained himself, although races like the cro-magnon, after flourishing for thousands of years and reaching high development, have ultimately passed out. Have we any right to regard this nation as chosen from all history to prevail? If we carry on our civilization it will be because we have the intelligence to attain adjustment and not just because we are Americans. Where in a state of nature will you find a flourishing and dominent race of animals with physical impairments such as are reflected in these charts?

Taking into consideration scientific limitations, there is undoubtedly a greater degree of physical impairment than is here reported. As the methods of physical examination improve, as instruments of precision become available, as laboratory resources and research aids such as the X-rays, become amplified the precision in this work increases.

Digitized by C^ooQle
59

In a scries of 4,000 consecutive X-rays of the jaws of members of the Institute, 62 per cent showed root infection.

In a series of 1,500 X-rays of the chest in members of the Institute seeking the periodic physical examination, the following conditions were

found:

Per cent

Normal cases........................................ 868	56.3

Heart enlarged ..................................... 266	17.2

Heart displaced...................................... 20	1.3

Aortic aneurysm....................................... 3	2

Aortic dilatation ................................... 19	1.2

Aortic prominence ................................... 49	3 2

Healed tuberculosis ................................ 239	15.5

Active tuberculosis.................................. 67	4.3

Diaphragmatic adhesions ............................. 10	.6

Fluid in chest ....................................... 1	.06

Mediastinal tumor .................................... 1	.06

Cervical rib ......................................... 6	.38

Deviated spine ...................................... 31	2.0

Pleurisy ..........................................   3*

Extensive bronchial thickening ....................... 8	.5

The plea in this paper is not for mere length of days, strongly as I have stressed the possibility of extending the human life cycle. The rational plea is for extending the health cycle, the health span, the period during which vitality is at a high peak, when the capacity for living is greatest, when our reserves are ample and our bodies free and untrammeled by the limitations and handicaps which are well defined in the average civilized man even before middle life.

In the face of these experiences no one can question the tremendous importance of periodic physical overhauling, not only of school children but of adults at any age. In what way can this be brought about?

First, this phase of preventive, or rather constructive, medicine, which I have emphasized, should be more thoroughly taught in our medical schools. Every graduate in medicine should be equipped not only to make a fundamental physical survey, regardless of his interest in any specialty, but he should be saturated with these fundamental principles which will stimulate him to more enthusiastic co-operation with the demand on the part of the general public for physical inspection and counsel on how to live. Physicians of this type will be much needed, are now much needed, especially in the great industries where large masses of men are brought together under circumstances which make it almost an economic necessity to carry out such measures (10). The specialist is needed in his field, but there are too many people in this country for specialists to reach them all. We need physicians who can examine the greatjmass of the people and view each one examined as a man and not as a part of a man, we need physicians sufficiently trained in the technique of examining each region of the body to be able to decide when further special examination or special treatment may be needed. This is the principle followed in our work, and it has enabled us to cover about 150,000 complete examinations.

Second, not only school children, but adults, require to be educated

Digitized by Google
6o

on the value of periodic physical overhauling and hygienic measures, as well as prompt medical, surgical or dental treatment for the correction of defects. It is important that, regardless of any special machinery provided for this purpose, as through life insurance companies, the great industries, or the like, every citizen shall seek from the best available source a protective service of this kind and not postpone his visit to a medical man until pain or obvious physical failure compels such action.

Third, the life insurance companies can afford to extend to their policyholders this privilege of periodic physical examinations without charge, as the resultant lower death rate will undoubtedly defray the cost, and the medical profession can afford to co-operate in making these examinations on a moderate basis of cost, inasmuch as the results will be wholly in the interest of scientific medicine. Such a system, if properly applied, would bring millions of people under medical supervision and instruction who are now drifting neglected or dallying with unscientific and quack methods, many of which are now masquerading under forms that attract even cultured and sincere health seekers. Through companies employing the Life Extension Institute alone, more than 600,000 people are entitled to this privilege, and a few of the leading companies are extending to a limited number of their policyholders this privilege of physical or urinary examinations. More than ten million people should be brought under this sytem.

Fourth, in the great industries, industrial medicine is rapidly bringing vast numbers of workers under medical supervision. While the regular periodic physical examination is practiced in a limited number of places, the principle is recognized in a number of important plants. A periodic examination is required through the Institute of important groups and plans are developing for co-operative services of this type for the rank and file of workmen.

Fifth, a National Department of Health to co-ordinate all activities for physical education of school children and related measures.

Through the operation of the agencies above named much is to be hoped, not only for the physical betterment but the setting up of better health ideals; indeed the recognition of these higher health ideals transcends all else, as otherwise there will be lacking the motivation for developing and making fully effective any of these measures.

I would also appeal for more extensive and intensive post-mortem study of tissue changes at the earlier as well as later periods of life. The percentage of these cases shown in these tables with signs of organic change or organic insufficiency, arterial thickening, traces of albumin, blood pressure changes, etc., even in the earlier age periods, is significant and does violence to many preconceived notions; yet Simnitzky found arterial changes in 27 per cent of autopsies among individuals under twenty-five. Saltikow has averred that arterial degeneration in its germination is a disease of youth, and there is much evidence in support of that view. Surely arterial degeneration does not arise over night, and the frequent finding of that change in middle life as a clinical accident entirely apart from the numerous deaths in middle life from such causes sustains the probability of widespread earlier arterial changes which are overlooked because they are not sought for until symptoms arise. Allbutt is particularly sound on this matter, (n) but he stumbles badly when he

Digitized by C^ooQle
6i

Health Span '-•Life Span—

(20-42) WORK SRAHor ftriod g£Maximum Prodyxitivify in Industry

talks about the “wings of time” having anything to do with arterial changes. (12) Fancy the wings of time flapping about our arteries! It is either a poison or an organism without wings that does the damage. It is important that we cease personifying time, especially since Einstein.

There is another way to make available machinery for protecting the young manhood of this nation from the physical deterioration shown in these exhibits. There is a way to cut down the budget for hospitals, dispensaries and clinics and to put more medical men at work preventing illness and improving national vitality than in treating the terminal stages of disease. Universal physical training and education in our schools and in early adult life, properly conducted and safeguarded as to organization for hygienic and corrective work, will, in my judgment, go further in solving these problems than any other measure that could be enacted. We would accomplish in a short time what it might take generations to accomplish by other means. I know of no more comprehensive means of preventing the so-called diseases of adult life than to bring our young men at the very beginning of adult life under this type of instruction and guidance. What a limited number of young men are now securing in enlightened and progressive universities where such overhauling and instruction is provided would be supplied to all young men and women of the nation.

REFERENCES.

1.	Carrel. Alexis: “Present Condition of a Strand of Connective Tissue Twenty-eight Months Old.” Journal of Experimental Medicine, July 1,1914, v. XX, No. 1, p. 1.

2.	Loeb, Jacques:	“The	Organism	as	a	Whole.” New York, Putnam ,1916.

3.	MacKenzie, Sir James: “Diseases of the Heart,” p. 347-50. London Oxford University

Press, 1913.

4.	Rogers, Oscar H. and Arthur Hunter: “Heart Murmurs, and Their Influence on Mortality.” Transactions Actuarial Society of America, May, 1919, pp. 83-100.

5.	Fisher, J. W.: The Diagnostic Value of the Use of the Sphygmomanometer in Examinations for Life Insurance. Proceedings of Life Insurance Medical Directors, Oct. 4 1911, p. 393-97. Medical Record, New York, Oct. 21,1911, v. 80, no. 17, p. 818-20.

Blood Pressure Readings in Examinations for Life Insurance Cincinnati, Lancet-Clinic, February 13, 1915, CXIII, No. 7, p. 182-84.

6.	Benedict, Francis G.: “Effect of Prolonged Reduced Diet.” Proceedings National Academy of Science, June, 1919.

Digitized by L^ooQle
62

---- “Human Vitality and Efficiency Under Prolonged Restricted Diet." Carnegie Institute,

Publication No. 280.

7.	Davenport, Charles B. and Alfred G. Love: “Second Report of the Provost Marshal General to the Secretary of War on the Operations of the Selective Service System to December 20, 1918.** Washington, Government Printing Office, 1919.

Fisher, Irving and Eugene Lyman Fisk: “How to Live." Funk A WagnaUs, 1921, pp. 882-414.

Fisk, Eugene Lyman: “Lessons from the Draft Examinations." Journal Amarican Medical Aa-oociaHon, February^, 1918, v. 70, pp. 800-808.

---- “Increasing Mortality m the Unites States." New York Medical J oumal, January 16,

1916, v. 108. D. 97.

---- “Life Insurance and Life Conservation."

8.	Comrie, John D.: “An Analysis <

Based Upon 10,000 Recruit Examinations."	ui

9.	Great Britain—Ministry of National Service. “Report Upon the Physical Examination of Men of Military Age by National Service Medical Boards from November 1st, 1917—October 31st, 1918, v. 1,1917-19. London, His Majesty's Stationery Office, 1920.

10.	Fisk, Eugene Lyman: “Waste in Industry," Chapter XV, Health of Industrial Workers, pp. 842-890. New York. McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1921.

11.	Allbutt, Sir Clifford: “Diseases of the Arteries Including Angina Pectoris," v. I, p. 167. London, Macmillan A Co., 12 Ibid..

JUDGING APPARATUS EXERCISES.

BY LEO ZWARGj PHILADELPHIA.

In the December, 1921 issue of Mind and Body, there appeared an article by T. A. Gross, Chicago, dealing with the “Judging and Value of Gymnastic Exercises on the Apparatus/' which is worth a discussion.

Mr. Gross’ effort to help improve our competitions is commendable, but I don’t believe that his proposed methods are practical; nor do I believe that they would be an improvement over our present methods even if they were practicable.

It is undoubtedly true that a performance which can be measured in some way, leaves little room for opinion of judgment. It is also true that our present judgment leaves all to opinion or judgment. It is further true that judgments of different people will differ.

But I don’t believe it is true that judgments are superior to measurements when it comes to a valuation of accomplishments such as a high grade gymnastic exercise. The present tendency to measure human intelligence and accomplishments by means of scales and similar devices may lead to extremes, unless applied sanely.

In physical training there are a great many activities that can be accurately measured or timed, such as track and field events, rope climbing, etc. They always have been measured or timed. If we try to analyze these exercises, will find that almost all of them require just one single effort, accompanied by only one single thought. It is always one jump, one throw, one continuous run, and the effort is in only one direction. A single effort is easy to measure.

For boys and girls, who cannot and should not, put forth more than one effort at the time, it is therefore easiest to use such exercises that can be measured. In schools, where much of the physical training is carried on by rather inexperienced people, measurements are far preferable to judgments.

But all this does not hold true of our gymnastic contests. Here we have not one single effort to rate, but a number of different and complex efforts, coming most rapidly not alone in succession, but also in most difficult combinations. Every effort requires a different thought which must be rapidly applied, and all efforts combined must form one complete whole. There is hardly a higher type of individual exercise

Digitized by Google
63

for man. A well composed and well executed exercise on the apparatus involves infinite skill and more intricate mental qualities than any other individual physical performance. It is therefore scarcely measurable. It is comparable to a piece of art, which should not be judged piecemeal but as one complete whole.

If I were a judge, I should not like the idea of checking up parts of an exercise and placing a predetermined value on each. For such a procedure we would not need experienced judges at all, but as Mr. Gross rightly says, “checkers.” Anyone could do it;

If I were a competitor, I should not care to have my exercises rated in such a machine-like way.

As to the practicability of the proposed method, I don't believe one person could be found who would know all exercises and combinations and their value by heart. But that would have to be the case if the contest were to be finished within a reasonable time. Mr. Gross did not present i-ioo of the possible combinations. The whole thing would be a thousand times more difficult to learn by rote than the multiplication table. Then there are always new exercises and new combinations shown. Who is to determine their value, and when?

Again, a swing-stem performed by one may not be half as good as performed by another, yet both would receive the same value. There is, I think, more inaccuracy in this sort of measuring than in judging.

In rating obligatory exercises the method proposed by Mr. Gross would be almost useless, for the value of the parts being known in advance, there would remain only deductions for omissions. The rest would be all judgment.

Mr. Gross believes that the present value of io points is too small. It used to be 5. We can make it 100 and still it would make n© difference. The limit of a scale that ordinary humans can comprehend is five. In our rating, it is excellent, very good, good, satisfactory and unsatisfactory. Figures are merely used to get a finer differentiation within each division of the scale.

In intercollegiate meets, and I believe in some A. A. U. meets, an exercise must be judged according to difficulty, combinations, execution, approach and finish. The number of points that may be given for any of these things is limited. Sensible as this seems, experienced judges do not find this practicable. They will form their total judgment first and then split the total to comply with the rule which says, points for each factor must be entered.

Ridiculous as this seems, it is no more so than the making of rules that have no practical value, be they ever so convincing in theory. It is very hard to differentiate difficulty from combination and execution. Combination may out-weigh difficulty to a greater extent than the point limit will allow. If a judge concentrates on one, he may lose sight of the other, for things move rapidly. An inaccurate judgment of the total value is usually the result.

I believe that our present method of judging is by far the best and most practical of all methods known at present. It consists of three judges, each giving independently a total judgment, including difficulty.

Digitized by UooQle
64

executives, combination, and all other factors. Each one expresses a total judgment in one figure. The average of three judgments is the final result.

This method will not fail if only capable men are selected as judges; men who can appreciate the beauty of the human form, who have an understanding of the difficulty of the work and who have been “through the mill." Competitors, as a rule, will not complain if they know they are being judged by such men.

We generally have quite competent judges at our tournaments. Their judgments may differ, but differ it should; that is why we have three judges. One individual might err, in his judgment, but a judgment of three capable men, comes, as we know from our competitions, very close to the truth.

THE HEALTH TOWN.

Contributed by the National Tuberculosis Association.

In the fall of 1916 a fund of $10,000 was made available for the National Tuberculosis Association by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company of New York for the purpose of carrying on in a typical small American city a demonstration of what could be done and should be done by each community in the prevention and care of tuberculosis. The idea back of the demonstration was to put into practice every known method of attack on the Great White Plague.

Framingham, Mass., because it was an ordinary, average town with an average type of population, and an average death rate from tuberculosis and other causes, was chosen as the seat of the demonstration.

In every community there are certain forces which can be utilized to build up the community's health. The first great force is of course, each citizen of the community. Every individual each day is doing something either to build up or tear down his health and the community health. The first step therefore, was to interest every one of these potential health builders in the movement. That they became interested is shown by the fact that over 12,000 out of a population of 17,000 in Framingham presented themselves voluntarily for complete physical examinations or were examined in the schools and factories so that a true picture of the town's health was secured. Doctors, medical societies, the board of health, the nurses in hospitals and the visiting nurses, and welfare organizations then put their shoulders to the wheel to help rid the town of tuberculosis.

Much has already been accomplished although the demonstration is not yet complete. It has cost money to be sure, but in a summing up the cost of the demonstration to date, it is shown that the total would be possible for any community that valued its health enough to pay for it. Every community pays for its streets and its schools and its fire department, because it values these essentials of a good town. But no town pays as much for its health as the benefits of health would warrant. What Framingham did, and is still doing, could be done year in and year out for an average expenditure of about two dollars a year per capita.__________

* Reprint from the American Journal of School Hygiene.

Digitized by
65

"Why should not a town spend as much for the prevention of sickness as it does for the prevention of property loss by fire? Considering the importance of physical development as a source of joy and comfort and profit and power, it is hard to imagine why communities do not see the importance of spending at least an equal amount for these blessings as they do for fire prevention, public school education, etc.

If it did no more than reduce the annual death rate the >35,000 spent in one year in Framingham would be worth the outlay. For example, the death rate last year among infants was 62 per thousand instead of 81 the year before. The death rate among the whole population dropped from 14 per thousand where it had been for the previous ten years, to 11 per thousand. In a town of 17,000 inhabitants this means a saving of 51 lives. It has been estimated that the loss from each person who dies before his time is >10,000 in the case of tuberculosis. This means at the lowest estimate a prevention of several hundred thousand dollars of economic loss, besides the unnecessary grief and suffering. The tuberculosis death rate in Framingham was 121 per 100,000 population prior to 1917. In 1920 it was 64 per 100,000. There was a drop of 20% the first year and 30% the second year.

During the first three years of work over 250 cases of tuberculosis were brought under advice or treatment. Many of these were arrested by treatment and the patients are now at work. Realizing the importance of all associated forms of ill health, arrangements were made for correcting any and all defects found. A school dental clinic was established. Children as well as adults having nose and throat trouble were earnestly advised to have these attended to. A summer camp for young children was established. School luncheons were arranged for in one of the schools. Modern Health Crusade Clubs were formed among the children. Factory health conditions were improved by providing expert health consultation service for workers, compulsory annual physical examination, improvements in the working conditions. Local milk conditions were investigated and improved. Domestic science and food economy were started, for it is an unfortunate fact that very few housewives have any conception of the tremendous importance of the right kind of food in the right quantities, properly cooked, not only for themselves but also for their husbands and children. Two infant welfare nurses were provided to help the mothers to carry the babies over that most dangerous age of all from the point of susceptibility to tuberculosis, up to three years of age.

The physicians themselves, stimulated by the increased interest of the public, held a post-graduate medical lecture course with experts in various lines to give the addresses. They also arranged for experts in tuberculosis to co-operate with them in early diagnosis and cure of tuberculosis.

In addition to all these measures, many educational pamphlets were issued to adults, especially mothers, on the various phases of disease prevention and it is safe to say that no town in the United States now knows more about its health than does Framingham, the Health Town.

The Framingham Health and Tuberculosis Demonstration shows what can be done with moderate expenditure and proper organization of community resources. It is for the purpose of promoting similar efforts

Digitized by LjOOQle
66

on the part of otherjeommunities that the appeal is being made for funds by the1* National Tuberculosis Association through the sale of Tuberculosis Christmas Seals which are conducted every December.

LIFE SAVING WORK AND ITS RELATION TO THE GENERAL ATHLETIC AND SWIMMING PROBLEM IN CAMP AND

SCHOOL

BY W. H. BARROW, M. D., MEDICAL DIRECTOR, MIDDLESEX SCHOOL,

CONCORD, MASS.

It is inspiring but very sad to read each year of the rather large number of Carnegie Medals awarded posthumously to people who have lost their lives in attempting to save others from drowning and who failed because of their ignorance of Life Saving methods. The propaganda and knowledge spread by the growth of the Red Cross Life Saving Corps is doing much to eliminate this, and although, like Preventive Medicine, this form of Accident Prevention is less heroic and spectacular, it is certainly more efficient and almost as wonderful.

But from another point of view the work of the Corps is of vital interest to us in its relation to the problems of athletic activities at Camp and School. American sports as they are generally organized train those who actively participate to “play the game/' to win or lose like gentlemen, it is true, but above all to beat one's rivals, eventually if not now. In a land of ambition like ours, I suppose that this is a very necessary lesson. But because we want everyone, the weak as well as the strong, to enjoy the benefits of athletics and their attendant physical development, there are some of us who feel strongly that “athletics should be on a basis of pleasure, health, and character building, and not primarily for winning victories or establishing records." Instead of turning out some temporary dabblers in many sports and a few gladiatorial experts, we want to insure all-round physical development for everyone, and want our winning teams to be representative of collective prowess and a result rather than a purpose.

In order to accomplish this it is necessary to make exercise in the form of sport attractive to all, and to establish a point of contact with that large group of boys and girls who would under ordinary circumstances be only hopeless and either disinterested or only temporarily interested “dub" players, a mere bit of back-ground for better performers with whom they could never hope to compete. It is the absence of this point of contact that makes the ordinary constructive work in the form of corrective gymnasium drill and individual coaching so disappointing with this group.

We must give them something they can do reasonably well in comparison with their fellows; something they want to do because it is fun, and finally something that when they at last find themselves they will continue to do because it is worth while.

In meeting this problem as it applies to swimming, Life Saving has proved to be a wonderful help. We believe in swimming for all of course.

* From an address given at the First Annual Conference of the American Red Cross Life Saving Corps of New England, Feb. 4, 1922.

Digitized by
67

I do not need to explain in detail its physical benefits nor how it aids in general all-round physical development. But after all, swimming as it is often practised is not so beneficial as we want it to be. To dive and to do a “crawl” back to the ladder and to repeat this over and over again is not enough, and furthermore as in other sports the poor performers soon lose interest. Life Saving, however, is something that with practice all can do almost equally well. Yet it is difficult enough to be interesting, and it adds variety and fun to the swimming hour. Without being forced unwillingly to do so, the Life Saving class is doing in the water exactly the things we want the individuals to do for physical reasons. They are developing their breast stroke, their back stroke, their endurance, and .their general swimming ability. And finally as it dawns on them that their efforts are being expended on something really worth while, they develop an interest in all-round swimming that is lasting because it is an interest self-attained and not thrust upon them.

I said that among other things character building was an essential element in sport. Pleasure and physical development are not in themselves enough. One’s sport must stand for something,—it must develop spiritual and moral pride. It is that intangible something that the player on a Varsity or School team feels because of his attainment, but more especially because of his obligations,—that something that makes a man rather than merely a well coached* machine.

This moral sense is easily developed in Life Saving work if instructors and examiners will remember to. preach and to insist that the Life Saving Corps emblem is not a reward for something accomplished but denotes an obligation and an ability to accomplish something should the necessity arise. They can remind their pupils that if one never saves lives directly, one can do so indirectly by spreading Life Saving propaganda and information at every opportunity,—and that this is their duty.

Thus applied, Life Saving in Camp and School solves our problem as far as swimming is concerned. It assures pleasure and interest, greater physical development, and moral development, not only for the expert but for the average swimmer. In an effort to carry out these ideas in their application to athletics in general, we are working out a scheme at Middlesex School on which I hope to make a report at a later time. But one detail of the plan is that boys shall pass a swimming and Life Saving test before being allowed the freedom of our present system of elective athletics.

I would suggest that annual re-examinations be given to members of the Corps, at least in the breaks and carries, in order that the emblem may not be cheapened and that its wearers be made to realize their ever present obligation. Furthermore there is always the possibility that some wearer of the Corps cross, a bit stale in practice, may be called upon in vain to make good the unspoken assertion that he can save lives. After all, the Life Saving Corps is a Corps for saving lives, and if you really make it mean that to the members of your Camp or School, there can be no more inspiring ideal, no finer note in that branch of your athletic activities.

Digitized by Google
68

PROTECTION AGAINST IGNORANCE.

BY CHARLES W. ELIOT, PRESIDENT EMERITUS, HARVARD UNIVERSITY,

CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

The operations of the American people during the war with Germany, in trying to recruit and train quickly a large army and navy, and keep them fit to fight as well as any other national army or navy or better than any, brought to light many defects in the education, and the health and vigor of the population, especially among young men. The draft also revealed an amount of illiteracy and bodily incapacity among men between twenty-one and thirty-one which surprised and mortified everybody. These bodily and mental defects were bad enough in time of war; but most persons now see that they are even worse in time of peace, through their effects on the productive industries of the country, and hence on the comfort and happiness of the entire people.

Everybody sees now that to cure and to prevent illiteracy are national interests of the liveliest sort, which ought not to be left to states or munipalities alone; so that effective steps will probably be taken to prevent illiteracy by co-operative action in the National Congress, State Legislatures, and Boards of Education for states, counties, cities and towns. Even in the Southern States, which had a high percentage of illiteracy because of the scanty appropriations of public money for negro schools, improvements in the application of educational appropriations and in their amount are already discernible.

If we should be forced into another war, we must not find in our army and navy thousands of men who cannot understand orders or communicate with their comrades. Neither do we wish to find again that a quarter part of the millions of young men drafted for the army and navy have bodily defects which disqualify them for service as soldiers or sailors. Furthermore, we realize that such bodily defectives are not the men needed in the industrial armies.

All business men, bankers, manufacturers, or traders, and especially all employers of large bodies of “hands,” now realize that wage-earners in general ahd those “hands” in particular need to be self-directed by ready mental powers and an active good will. All parents, even the most ignorant, feel that the best thing they can do for their children is to secure for them a sensible education through as many years as the family budget can afford; but they wish the public schools to supply an education which will unquestionably enable their children to earn a good living when adults and to make serviceable citizens. Hence the educational ambition of the American people among all classes is sure to be higher in the immediate future than it has ever been before. The main question today is, therefore, how intelligently shall the efforts of the people be directed toward the satisfaction of their educational desires and needs?

THE FIRST STEP.

The first step in the improvement of the American schools is the introduction of universal physicsd training for both boys and girls from six

* Reprint Jrom Chicago School Journal.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
69

to eighteen years of age. The program should be comprehensive and flexible; so that the needs of different types of children and different individual pupils can be met. It should include the means of remedying defects and malformations as well as of developing normal bodies. It should include exercises which might fairly be called drills, but many more which would properly be called games or sports. Except in extreme weather most of the exercises should be conducted in the open air. Carriage, posture, gait, rhythmical movements and team-play should be covered. With the introduction of universal physical training should go the universal employment of physicians and nurses for incessant diagnostic and preventive work.

The faithful and intelligent administration of a sound program of physical training in all American schools, public and private, elementary and secondary, is so intensely a national as distinguished from a local interest, that the program should be prescribed by the national Bureau of Education, or some analagous Bureau or Commission; and the execution of the program should be incessantly supervised by inspectors appointed and paid by the National Government. Further, the National Government might properly and wisely pay to State, County or Municipal educational authorities, or to the trustees or owners of private schools, a small sum (a dollar perhaps) annually for each pupil well-trained under the prescribed program for one year, as determined by the national inspectors. When universal physical training has been well carried on for twenty years, an immense improvement will be seen not only in the aspect of the population as respects posture, relation of weight to height and muscular development, but also in their comfort, health and productiveness at daily labor.

Universal physical training, combined with medical inspection and nursing service in all schools, will in time remedy in great measure the grave bodily defects in the population. Now for the mental defects. What are they? Can schooling remedy them?

The main defects are plain enough. Most Americans, educated or uneducated, rich or poor, young or old, except the men well-trained for the medical, the artistic, or the scientific professions, cannot see or hear straight, make an accurate record of what they have just seen or heard, remember exactly for an hour what they suppose themselves to have seen or heard, or draw the just limited inference from premises, true or false, which they accept.

If an educated American, engaged in business or in the professions called learned, has fortunately acquired the capacity to do any of these things, the chances are that he owes his unusual power not to his school or college, or to anything in his formal education, but to his sports or other outside pursuits, or to companionship with some older person who interested him in congenial occupations, and showed him how to work hard at them, or to the discipline with which his mode of earning his livelihood provided him. As a rule, American schools have not imparted skill of eye, ear or hand.

Again, twentieth century Americans, educated and uneducated alike, manifest a capacity for gregarious excitement which for the time being destroys the judgment and often leads to foolish action. This tendency is manifested in political conventions, labor union meetings, “drives” for

Digitized by v^.ooQle
70

multifarious objects, religious revivals, stock exchanges with their preposterous rumors, and public ball games. It produces long-continued screaming or howling, and other irrational demonstrations. These manifestations of bodily and mental instability in throngs have increased rapidly within the past twenty-five years, and are probably among the untoward results of the strenuous, agitated, hurrying life of most Americans, speeded up by telegraphs, telephones, express trains, the automobile and rapid machinery.

Under the excitements of the war in Europe many Americans, both men and women, have become more credulous than they used to be, particularly if the rumors or opinions which come to them fall in with' their own habitual impressions and wishes. Telegraphs, telephones and the daily press are largely responsible for this increase of irrational credulity. The newspapers are mainly filled with hastily gathered so-called news, and hastily written comments on that confused mass of guesses and assertions. Reporters, correspondents, contributors and editors all write in haste with little chance for consideration, mostly on reports received over electric wires or through the ether from men who have not time to discriminate between facts and fancies, and have an interest in reporting at length inventions, suppositions and gossip, whenever facts are scarce.	The daily press, therefore, stimulates in millions of people

the herd tendency to common emotional impulses and simultaneous action on impulses, and furnishes infinite material for eager acceptance by credulous minds.

Of course, this credulity in the human race is a very old story, as the persistent acceptance of myths and foolish tales all down the centuries abundantly illustrates; but it is an interesting observation that popular education, in the form heretofore administered, seems not to have diminished much the credulity of the masses of mankind. At any rate under conditions of world suffering and dread fatuous credulity is prevalent and highly mischievous.

During the war, wages and prices in all American industries went up with a sort of stirring whirl, which took effect over the whole country. Profits in most business increased in the same intoxicating way. The armistice came when extravagant expenditure had become common in all classes of American society, but most in the class of wage-earners, who finding themselves in possession of undreamt-of incomes took to buying costly foods, clothing, furniture and jewelry. It was again a case .of gregarious irrational excitement.

The present fall in prices is another case of the same sort. Producers, consumers, and wholesale and retail dealers suddenly became alarmed and uncertain of the future; and most people ceased to buy except, for pressing needs. It is the fashion to explain or interpret such multitudinous common actions and reactions by the phrase “class psychology;” but this term covers nothing more than the common mental impulse of the herd without exercise of any reasoning faculty or sober will-power.

Can education remedy such defects as these in a whole people? It cannot immediately: it can by steady work on a whole generation, if sound educational methods be employed. Let us turn to the consideration of those methods. They will be found to be comparatively new inventions, but yet not wholly untried.

Digitized by tjOOQle
71

The new methods depend for success on the personal force and sympathetic quality of the teacher, and his own comprehension of the methods, and therefore require a fine breed of teachers on a new scale; but they may be expressed in rules as follows:

HOW IT CAN BE DONE.

Enlist the interest of every pupil in every school—public or private, elementary or secondary—in his daily tasks; in order to get froip him hard, persistent and willing work. Only through interest in work comes power of mental application, and in due course success and content in productive labor—labor which, however, can never be free from tiresome routine or from oft-repeated exertions. The too common opinion, that there is no useful training except in unattractive or repulsive subjects or practices, is just the opposite of the truth for either child or adult. In this world, stern as well as beautiful, it is quite unnecessary to invent hardness or obstacles for any one.

Relate every lesson to something in the life of the child; so that he may see the application and usefulness of the lesson, and how it concerns him.

Teach all subjects, wherever possible, from actual objects to be accurately observed and described by the pupils themselves. Cultivate every hour in every child the power to see and describe accurately.

Make the training of the senses a prime object every day.

Teach every child to draw, model, sing and read music. Encourage all pupils who show unusual capacity in any of these directions to develop their gifts assiduously both in and out of school hours.

Stimulate every pupil to active participation in every school exercise by looking, listening, speaking, drawing and writing himself. Each pupil should be active, not passive, alert not dawdling, led or piloted, not driven, but always learning the value of co-operative discipline.

Teach groups of subjects together in their natural and inevitable relations. For example, teach arithmetic, algebra and geometry together from beginning to end. Do the same for economics, government and sociology, and for history, biography, geography and travel. Associate reading, spelling and composition day by day, and make sure that every child sees the object of having his own compositions correctly spelt and legibly written.

Teach chemistry, physics, biology, and geology all together every week throughout the entire course (twelve years); because these subjects are, generally found working in intimate association in most natural processes of growth, decay, creation or extinction, and are separable only for advanced pupils who need to understand the man-made theories and imaginings which have proved serviceable guides to fruitful experimentation and research.

The weekly program should provide every pupil with frequent opportunities to describe before teacher and class something he has enjoyed seeing or reading. Occasionally the pupils who excel in accurate and vivid narration or description should have the privilege of addressing the whole school assembly.

Make sure by adequate provision in the program that every pupil has a fair chance at the proper stage to learn, in the laboratory method, the

Digitized by v^ooQle
72

elements of agriculture, dietetics, cooking and hygiene, every girl to acquire also the other domestic arts, and every boy the elements of some manual trade—by preference one common in the school's locality. . The instruction in hygiene should include community hygiene, defense against the diseases and degradations consequent upon ignorance, moral debility, poverty and vice.

To make room for the new subjects, reduce class work and the size of classes, lengthen the school day and shorten the present summer vacation. These changes are for the benefit, physical and spiritual, of all children and all parents.

Increase individual work. Aim at variety in pupils' attainments and in rate of promotion, and therefore at frequent sortings and shiftings among the pupils. A uniform or averaged product should bring emphatic condemnation on any school.

Give every pupil abundant opportunities to judge evidence, to determine facts and to discriminate between facts and fancies.

Use in schools such stimulating competition as both children and adults use in sports and games to increase their enjoyment of them. Keep the atmosphere of every school charged with the master sentiments of love, hope and duty. Keep out fear and selfishness.

The schools thus planned and conducted will not be vocational or trade schools. They will not be mechanic arts schools. They will teach only subjects that every child ought to have opportunity to learn before it is sixteen years old, subjects that will serve well the child grown up, whatever its occupation. The pupil will learn to read, write, spell and cipher much better than he does in the existing schools, and a larger proportion of the graduates will become cultivated men and women. Best of all, the children will enjoy their school life and prefer school time to vacation. Later, they will help to make wiser and happier the life of the community in which they settle.

It is plain that to carry these principles into practice in all American schools from bottom to top will require many years, much more money than the people have, heretofore, been accustomed to spend on the education of the children, and much effort to train by the hundred thousand a new kind of teacher. The colleges and universities of the country should systematically urge these principles on the attention of the American public, especially the women's colleges, because an immense majority of American school teachers are women, and also because mothers generally have more to do than fathers with their children's training.

To promote schools of the sort above described will be a businesslike undertaking for leading business men all over the country.

We have on hand at this time, recently received from the publishers in Germany, a limited number of the Puritz Code Books. There was a great demand for these books during the war period but we could not then supply them. If any of our readers wishes to secure a copy of this excellent little book, write promptly to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minn. The price is 60 cents per copy.

Digitized by Google
Notice to Members of Mid-West Society of Physical Education: The following list of names and addresses are published in Mind and Body to help us in locating our membership. Our list of members was lost a year ago. Is your name and address given correctly? If not, write to Miss Margaret McKee, 629-e8rd Str., Dee Moines, la.

Aaron, Rose,

B. of E., Detroit, Mich.

Abel, Emmer

1549 Broadway, Indianapolis I Ackley, Philip E.

Canfield Apts, Youngstown, 0. Adams J. H.

E. Liberty Y. M. C. A Pittsburgh. Pa.

Adams, Mildred L.

H. S. Highland Pk, Mich. Adkins, John Prentice, 111.

Aid, Mary

5406 Woodward Ave., Detroit Aigler, Ruth Ann Tolcofct Hall, Oberlin, Ohio Aldan. Florence,

510 Lexington Ave, N. Y.. Aldrich, Cecil

Defiance Col., Defiance, O. Allen, Harvey

Y. hi. C. A., Dayton, Ohio Louise L.

59 Monroe St., Chicago, 111. Alien, Dr. R. A.

19 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, III. ADetxhauser. May E.

B. of E., Duluth, Minn.

Alway, Martha

1328 W. Main St.AberdeenSD

Amiraux, Lillian

622 Central Ave, Cleveland.O.

Amy, Abby Louise

11805 Clifton Blvd, Cleveland

Andersen, Clara Julia

1127 Park, Grinnell Col, la.

Anderson, Alfred

300 W. Front, Wheeling W V

Anderson, C. J.

618 Rosewood, Winnetka, 111. Anderson, Kristian Franklin Junior High, Mpls. Anderson, Miriam 313 Miller Apts, KirksvilleMo. Andresen, James S.

3210 Arthington, St. Chicago Angel, Dr. Emmet D.

578 Murray Ave, Milwaukee

Angell. Chas. T. 58Nisbrtt T

_________t	Blk	Big	RapidsMich

Armstrong, Franklin

5087 Allendale Ave, Detroit

Armstrong, Helen

482 Arlington PI., Chicago

Armstrong, Helen

11480 Fairchild Ave, Cleveland

Armstrong May L.

934 E 21 St., Erie, Pa. Arnold, Grace

85 N. Cedar Ave, Oberlin,O Arts Lidia

415 Jefferson, Gary, Ind. jSafcmtia, Lpufa E.

8200 Franklin St., Cleveland Atwell, Ruth

b, TJ. Granville, Ohio

Bailey, Olive L.

Y. W. C. A., Cleveland, O. Baker. Dorothy L.

51 Elnigh St. Bethlehem, Pa. Baker, Edna R.

18	Rigby Ave. Lansdowne,Pa. Barker, Rachel P.

Apt. A. 4Luelle, Wayne, Pa. Barker Ida

1265 Cove Ave, Cleveland, O. Barlow, Guy

Y. M. C. A.. Appleton, Wis. Barton, Mabel H.

State Normal, W. Chester,Pa. Bass, Ruth

Penn Col., Oskaloosa, la. Bassett, Gladys Ten. Col., Murfreesboro, Tenn Batchelder, J. R.

City Hall, Duluth, Minn. Bates, Elisabeth M.

Penn S Col., State College, Pa Bates, Mirion V.

2701 28 St.. Detroit, Mich. Baxter, Carrie E.

2585 Fischer, Detroit, Mich. Baxter, K. Bernice 7149 Parnell, Chicago, 111. Baxter, Ruth

569 Second Blvd., Detroit, Bay, Clella

722 McCormick, Wichita, Kan Beach, Gertrude I.

139 Perry. Pontiac, Mich. Beals, F. L.

Bd. of Ed., Chicago, HI.

Beaman, Alice

830 Webster Ave., Chicago, 111

Beaver, Fremont

Cen. Y. M. C. A. Columbus,O

Bechtol, George

Carnegie Steel Co.,

New Castle, Pa.

Beck, Chas.

260 McLean St., Mich. Highland Park.

Beckman, Mrs. Julia

8762 Hennepin Apt. 5, Mpls.

Beckman, Lillie M.

7527 Stewart Ave, Chicago Beebe, Ina Beebe, Ark.

Beeman, Clarence W.

200 Adeline St., Detroit, Mich. Beeman, Latona 621 Adeline, Detroit, Mich Bell, Clare E.

1900 Kenwood Pkwy., Mpls. Beil, John H.

141 Fair view Ave.,

Highland Pk., Pa.

Bendell, Edith Rawlings School, Cleveland,O. Bender, E. Blanche 82 Wash. Ave., Altoona, Pa. Bender, Geo. H.

3200 Franklin Ave., Cleveland

Aubrey, Elisabeth

109 E 8 St., Little Rock, Ark.

Averill, Rebecca

P. O. 207, Frankfort, Kent

Avey, J. M.

Y. M. C. A., Covington, Kent Bacon Mabel P.

952 Ellis St., Ypsilanti. Mich. Badstuber, Max 7412 Halle Ave, Cleveland, O. Bailey, Barbara J.

709Moffett S., Muskegon,Mich Bailey, Mary R.

5850 lvanhoe, Detroit,Mich.

Bergami, Nita

Cl. Heights Schools Lee Rd.

Cleveland, O.

Bergan, Irene

Public Library, Joliet, 111. Berger, T S.

1021 S Ashland Blvd, Chicago Berk, Morris

4622 Grand Blvd., Chicago Bertsch, Laura 10800 OUvett Ave., Cleveland Beyermann, Frederick G.

O. S. Nor. S. Bowling GreenO. Bird, Walter H.

Hghts H S, Lee Rd, Cleveland Bishop, Marion Belhaven Col. Jackson, Mies. Blackburn, Cnas. P.

Champion School, Columbus,0 Blakeslee, C. P.

229 Center st, Mankato, Minn Blakesley, Eloiee M.

716 88 St, Sioux City, la. Blanchard, Florence 1113 Fulton Rd, Canton, O. Blanding, Sarah G.

U. of Ken. Lexington, Ken. Blasius. Katherine 885 Birch, Winnetka, 111. Blevins, Elisabeth E.

1877 E 57, Chicago, HI. Blickley, G. W.

Y. M. C. A., Easton, Pa. Bliss, Mary L.

49 Josephine, Detroit, Mich. Bliss James G.

Miami U., Oxford, Ohio. Blood, Mary A.

Col. Normal School of P. E. Mich., Ave., Chicago, 111. Bodenstein, Margaret 116 S. Grant St., Hinsdale, HI. Boersma, Anne E.

3967 Commonwealth, Detroit Bolard, Celia F.

608 Venango Ave Cambridge Springs, Pa. Boles, S. A.

U. of Ken. Lexington, Ken. Bond, Lester E.

160 High St., Maryville, Tenn Bonilla, Ricardo B.

4604 Vincenne, Chicago, HI. Boothe, Stella

Child Health Organisation

156 5th Ave., New York, NY

Bosturck, Margaret

101 12th Ave, Columbus, O.

Bottsford, Marion

420 W 1st Ave, Marion, Ind.

Boughner, Ruth L.

110 N W Ave, Jackson, Mich. Bourgeois, Louise M. NSPE, Battle Creek, Mich. Bovierg, Viggo 1257 W 72 PI., Chicago, HI. Bowbeer, Altha C.

47 Byron, Detroit, Mich. Bender, John R.

U. of Ten., Knoxville, Tenn. Bentrtson. Frances C.

1245 N. Em. Av.Wichita,Kan Bennett, Mrs. Emily 2051 Wyandotte, Cleveland Bennett, H. G. Pres.

S. E. St. Norm. Durant, Olcla. Benson, Mabel C.

Public Library, Joliet, HI. Bentley, Christine 2901 W. Phil., Detroit, Mich. Berg, C. A.

Hill Top Bch. Y. M. C. A, Pittsburgh, Pa,

Digitized by t^jOOQle
Boyian. Donna R.

669 Second Blvd., Detroit Bradley, E. Schultz 10130 Madison Ave, Cleveland Bradshaw, Cleve R.

Y. M. C. A. Saginaw, Mich

Bradstreet, Annabel

146 W Cen Ave. Deleware, O.

Brainerd, Eleanore

2307 Broadview Rd,Cleveland

Boillin, Anne

428 Jefferson, Iowa City la. Brandrup, C. V.

623-12th St., N.Fargo, N. D. Brandt, Louise M.

10219 Clifton Blvd, Cleveland Bredbenner, Edgar E.

2122 Perkiomen, Reading,Pa. Brewer, C. L.

Recreation Com., Detroit, Breyman, Olga 447 Charlotte, Detroit, Mich. Bridgman, Howard H.

5315 Drexel Ave, Chicago, 111. Briggs, Winnifred 15 Oak Ave,PeaksIsland, Me. Brigham, Agnes O.

Plattville, Wis.

Brolaski, Ruth

NSPE, Battle Creek, Mich.

Brooks, S. Thomas

173 W Lane Ave, Columbus.O

Brooks, Verna

110 Women’s Bldg, Urbana,Ill Brown, Althea H.

81 E Alexandrine, Detroit Brown, Floyd L.

Lake Forest Academy,

Lake Forest, 111.

Brown, Frances

Western College, Oxford, O.

Brown, Gertrude M.

596 Norwood Ave., Akron, O. Brown, Grace M.

291 Joseph Campau, Detroit Brown, Harriet M.

Langeloth, Pa.

Brown, Louise

508 Morgan St., Joliet, 111.

Brown, Margaret T.

1021 Beatty Ave,Cambridge,0 Brown, Maude A. ll&Locust Sts, Kansas Cy,Mo Brown, Mona

608 Morgan St., Joliet, 111. BiOwn Wm. W.

Coleman Mem.Gym., Sayre,Pa Brownell, Alice 237 Langdon , Madison, Wis. Browning, Blanche I.

3867 E. 38 St., Cleveland,O.

Browning, Elisabeth

Bd. of Ed., Cleveland, O.

Bruckman, Bertha

1276 Streng St, Cincinnati, O.

Brunhoff, Sophie W.

215 Forest Ave., Cincinnati.O Bowe Celia

4300 Blaisdell Ave, Mpls. Bowen, Pauline 5232 Webster St. W Phil, Pa Bowen, Wilbur P.

Mich. S. Nor Col.Ypsilanti,M. Bowers, Mrs. E. V. Tippecanoe City, Ohio Bowman, Emilie Ray 908 Nevada St, Urbana, 111. Bowman, Mrs. Minnie B. 1625 Olivet Ave, Cleveland, O Boye, Rose

Box 117, Norway, Mich.

Burger, Dr. F.

11 &Locust St, Lenexa, Kans. Burke, Edyth M.

E. Blvd School, Cleveland Burke J. R.

6609 Normal Ave, Chicago Burleigh, R. Stanley 1101 Fulton Bldg., Pittsburgh Burnham, Chas.

1875 Crawford Rd, Cleveland Burns, Agnes E.

479 Willis W., Detroit, Mich. Burns, Charles 525 Madison, Gary, Ind. Burns, Dr. H. B.

Dir. Phys. Ed., Pittsburgh, Pa Burns, Margaret Ida Noyes Hall, Chicago, 111. Burnett, Mrs. Marjorie Winchester, Ohio.

Burt, Grace T.

212 N. Lansdowne Ave. Lansdowne, Pa.

Burtner, Rene 'D.

63 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago Briggs, H. R.

9653 Calumet Ave., Chicago Burton, Ernestine M.

685 E. Phil. Ave, Detroit Burton, Mrs. Fannie C.

517 N. Adams, Ypsilanti,Mich Burton, O. H.

619 Todd St., Wilkinsburg, Pa Burton, Olive

1986 Boston Blvd, Detroit Buss, Edbert C.

Greencastle, Ind.

Buzzell, Helen T.

Ferry Hall, Lake Forest, 111. Byrn, Margaret E.

339 E P Ave,Highland P., 111. Calcaterra, Frances 957 Brady St, Detroit, Mich. Calkins, Miles N.

1400 E. TE St, Chicago,111. Callowhill, Harry Y M C A Pierce St.Sioux Cy, Camann, Henry B.

2341 N. Racine Ave, Chicago Cameron, C.

Wyandotte, Detroit, Mich.

Campbell, Agnes

2249 E 83 St, Cleveland, O.

Campbell, Anna

2209 Scott St, Covington, Ky.

Campbell, Katherine

1301 E 60 St, Chicago, 111.

Cannon, Lee H.

Cin. Gym & Ath Club, Cin, O Carey, Katherine H.

Virginia, Minn.

Carlson, Fred

721 S Porter, Stuttgart, Ark. Carlson, Helen 475 Peterboro, Detroit, Mich. Carlstrom, Chas. O.

4200 Grand Blvd., Chicago

Buckeye, Florence

316 Webb, Detroit, Mich.

Buckingham, Nettie

Mem. School, Cleveland, O.

Buckley, Irene

1178 W Wayne St, Lima, O. Buell, Irma A.

Public Library, Joliet, 111. Buffington, Ruth 7707 Sagamore, Cleveland,0. Burckhalter, Helen G. 211-10th St., Lawton, Okla. Burckhalter, T. W.

309 Coltart Sq, Pittsburgh,Pa.

Carmichael, Elizabeth 1717*E 76 St, Cleveland, O. Cams, Marie

415 Sterling PI. Madison, Wis. Carr, Dr. John W.

225 W 3rd St., Frankfort, Ky. Carroll, F. E.

265 Elm, Canton, 111.

Carron, Mary -

10517 Churchill Ave,Cleveland

Carter, Eunice

1831 S Racine Ave, Chicago Casbard, Ernest 227 Braddock Ave,

Turtle Creek, Pa.

Casho, Edith

Teachers College, Thompson Building, New York N. Y. Castleman, Prof. Frank R.

O. State U., Columbus, Ohio Cermak, Joseph 2533 S Cen. Ave, Chicago, 111. Chadsey, C. E.

646 S Clark St, Chicago, 111. Chamberlain, Elena 5357 Kenmore Ave, Chicago Chamberlain, Marguerite 626 N. Howard St, Akron, O. Chancellor, Cortice A.

430 S Green St, Chicago, 111. Chandler, Emma C.

B. of E., Jackson, Mich. Chapman, Mabel E.

1461 E 112 St, Cleveland, O. Chase, Marianna Slippery Rock S. Normal, Slippery Rock, Pa.

Childs, Elizabeth

46 Stimson PI, Detroit, Mich.

Childs, Dr. L. W.

B. of E., Cleveland, O. Childs, W. L.

1125 Davis St, Evanston, 111. Claas, Eras C.

20 & May Sts., Chicago, II.. Clapp, Mrs. Anne Barr U. of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebr Clapp, Dr. R. G.

Sta. A., Lincoln Nebr.

Clark, Della Marie

814 E. 16 St., U Place, Nebr.

Clark Hazel E.

1236 Overlk Rd, Lakewood,0. Clark, Irene, O.

526 Mich Ave, Ypsilanti,Mich Clark, Lydia

204 N. Main St, Normal, 111. Clarke, Harry P.

958 Spruce St, Winnetka, 111. Clarke, Mrs. Harry P.

958 Spruce, St, Winnetka, III. Clay, Maude

Y. W. C. A., Ft. Wayne, Ind. Cleaveland, Mrs. M. Wardwell 3230 Sycamore Rd, Cleveland Hghts., Ohio Clulee, Arthur

2200 Prospect Ave, Cleveland Clymont, Elmer S.

144 Engineers’ Bid., Cleveland

Coan, Katherine

Lois Duran Hall.LakeForestlll

Cobb, Margaret

Mias Wright’s School,

Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Cochran, Dr. Helen F.

Talcott Hall, Oberlin, Ohio Coffield, Mrs. G. Foster 1792 Wilton Rd, Cleveland O. Cohan, Ruth L.

1611 S Trumbull Ave, Chicago

Digitized by

Google
Cohan, Jene

2116-137St,Ind. Harbor, Ind. Cohen, Margaret 1284-20 St, Detroit, Mich. Cole, M.

Berkley Pl„ Iowa City, la. Cole, Rachel

417 Div. St, Cheboygan, Mich Collin, Alison B.

1400 Hyde Pk Blvd, Chicago Collin, Louis

1400 Hyde Pk Blvd, Chicago Collins, Eloise

118 Westminister, Jacksonville

111.

Collins, H. F.

4022 Grand Bidv, Chicago Colonius, J. L.

1310 Margaret St, Munhall,Pa Comstock, Clara 109 N 10 St, Richmond, Ind. Connelly, Mrs.

5902 Euclid Ave, Cleveland,O. Conner, Ed. S.

Goodyear Universal, Akron,O. Conner, Mrs. Ed. S.

1475 Hillside Ter, Akron, O. Conoboy, Mary 9349 Pratt Ave, Cleveland, O. Conover, Marion C.

Dakota Hall, Vermillion S. D. Conrow, Ruth

Wooster College, Wooster, O. Conway, Anna D.

4368 Pacific, Detroit, Mich. Cook, Grace

1581 Crawford Rd, Cleveland Cook, Helen,

B. of Eucation, Akron, O. Cooke, Dr. Edw. R.

St. Olaf Col., Northfield, Min Cooke, Dr. L. J.

U. of Minn., Mpls., Minn. Cooley, Edith W.

3528 W. Congress, Chicago Coombes, Frank L.

1324 W 108 St, Cleveland Cooper, Geo. A.

Y. M. C. A, South Bend, Ind. Coover, Loita

903 N. Mad, St., Hutchinson, Kansas.

Corey, J. Z.

Hamtramck, Mich.

Corey, Marion J.

2570 Central Ave, Detroit Corey, Ruth E.

370 Webb, Detroit, Mich.

Coverdale, Rhea

14 Summit St., Ypsilanti,Mich

Cowden, Esther

1465 Hopkins St, Lakewwod,0

Cowly, John T.

9610 Pratt Ave, Cleveland, O. Cox, Walter A.

1253 Blaine Blvd., Racine,Wis. Coyle, Virginia D.

Shipley School, Bryn Mawr,Pa Craig, Donaldson 5453 Trumbull Ave, Detroit Cramer, Vesta M.

1424 Hazelwood, Detroit Cramp ton, C. W.

165 Maple St, Battle CreekM Crane, Dorothy M.

Sharon Center, Medina, O. Crane, Dr. M. A.

203 S York St, Elmhurst, 111.

Crook, H. R.

5964 Hermitage, Chicago, 111.

Crowell, Miriam

112 Warren E., Detroit, Mich

Crowley, Celia

4049 Mich. Ave, Chicago, 111. Crown, Christine Gary, Ind.

Crown, Keith

721 Virginia, Gary,, Ind.

Culin, Helen C.

Swarthmore, Pa.

Cummings, Miss M. L.

1222 E 56 St, Chicago, 111. Curren, Edith

1490 Cohassett A LakewoodO. Curtis, Carl

Y M C A, Adams Branch, Detroit, Mich.

Curtis Henry S.

254 N Prof St, Oberlin, O. Curtis, Lera B.

Mich S Nor Col, Ypsilanti Custer, Helen H.

Abington H S, Abington, Pa. Cuthbertson, Reubena Brownell School, Cleveland Dahman, Wilhelmina Dept. 38 C B F Goodrich Co. Akron, O.

Dalney, Katherine

No. 1, Romain Clifton, Cin.,0

Dambach, John

Peabody Col., Nashville, Tenn

Dansdill, Theresa

518 Cen. Bldg, Des Moines,la.

Darling, Elizabeth

127 Andre St, Grand Rapids

Davey, Madeline

607 W Jefferson, Joliet, 111.

Davies, Doris A.

14401. Coit Rd, Cleveland, O. Daviess, Grace 152 E Col., Oberlin, O. Davis, T. F.

Supt. of Schools, Holly, Mich. Dawley, Marion 1215 Hill St, Ann Arbor,Mich Dawley, T. T.

1429-2nd St N E., Mpls. Dean, Marjorie Laurel School 96 St, Cleveland Decker, Lois L.

Canastota, N. Y.

DeHaan, Ellen

301 W 105 Place, Chicago, 111. Delaney, Mary A.

1315 Wabash Detroit, Mich. Delaporte, Edw.

6431 Normal Blvd., Chicago Dement, Ada P.

4652 Lake Park Ave, Chicago Denesha, Ruth

125 Clairmont, Detroit, Mich. Demniston, Dorothy 184 Morgantown St,Union-town, Pa.

Densmore, Margaret

Cen. Y. W. C. A., Cleveland

Depher, Wm. J.

404 E 10. St., Kansas City, M DeSantelle, Gertrude E. Russell, Kansas Deuss, Wilma B.

3327 W 100, Cleveland, O. DeWitt, Mary 135 W Col., Oberlin, O. Dexter, Helen K.

53 Cornell St, Dubuque, la. Dibble, Marie B.

723 E Heavsley, Flint, Mich. Dickinson, C. A.

Boys' Club, Rockford, 111. Dillon. Mary C.

88 Wilson Ave, Columbus, O.

Dilly, Cora C.

YWCA, Cor. Wash & Clifford, Detroit, Mich. Ditmer, M. A.

Otterbein Col., Westerville, O. Dix, C. C. Jr.

Hghts H S, Lee Rd, Cleveland Doehla, Adam

1707 Manor Ave, McKeesport Doering, Max

Turner Hall, Monesson, Pa. Doerter, Julius 902 Linwood Ave, Evansville, Dohany, Florence 66 Davenport. Detroit. Mich. Doleman Elsie L.

Darlington Sem, W Chester,Pa Donaldson, Willa C.

1308-8th Ave, Beaver Falls,Pa Donner, Rose R.

Warner School, Cleveland, O. Donohue, Eileen M.

1208 Cambridge Ct, Ann Arbor

Doolittle, Hazel

Keep Cottage, Oberlin, O.

Dorcas, Elizabeth

391 St. Clair, Detroit, Mich.

Dougherty, Ethel D.

1011 N Topeka St,Wichita,Ks. Douglas, O. W.

733 Conway Bldg, Chicago Dover, Kate

1838 Mt.Union, E. Cleveland Doyen, Gertrude B. of E., Detroit, Mich. Drake, Don

324 Forest Ave, Ypsilanti, M. Drake, Mrs. Don 324 For. Ave,Ypsilanti, Mich. Drake, Ruth

Hewitt Ave, Hamtrank, Mich. Drassal, Frank 299 Sherman St, St. Paul Drew, Herbert J.

Y M C A, Cloquet, Minn. Dryden, Florence,

Pub. Schools, Pt Huron, Mich. Dudley, Gertrude Ida Noyes Hall, Chicago, 111. Duering, Gertrude M.

204-S 6th St, Lafayette, Ind. Dumont, Bess I.

3642 Lafayette Ave, Omaha Dunbar, Ruth I.

1026 Cass Ave, Grand Rapids Dunckley, Sarah 390 Berry Ave, Akron, O. Dunlap, E. Elta Loomis 81 Div. Ave W., Highland Park, Mich.

Du Plessis, Ethel

10517 Churchill, Cleveland

Durham, Beulah

25	W Rayen, Youngstown, O.

Earlymine, Clara

Onaway, Mich.

Eaton, Margaret ProctOrville, Ohio Eaton, Sophia

189 Perry St, Pontiac, Mich. Eberlin, Amanda Memphis School, Cleveland Ebert, Donald M.

19	S LaSalle, Chicago, 111. Echtemach, Harriet 609 2nd Ave, Sterling, 111. Eckert, Cora E.

3273 Clarendon Rd, Cleveland

Eddy, Elsie Claire

Tolcott Hall, Oberlin, Ohio

Digitized by LjOOQie
665 Mad. Ave, Grand Rapids Edgerton, Avis

1600 Ogden Ave. Superior Wis. Edmunds, Ins E.

489 Henry St., Detroit, Mich. Ehler, George W.

6 Federal St., Pittsburgh, Pa. Eichhom, Mabel 14 S. Summit St., Mich. Einert, Dora

3117 Franklin Ave., Ohio. Elder Charles M.

5628 Drexel Ave., Chicago* Eldred Mabel C.

20 N. Pleaasant St., OberlinO,

iot, Fred W. IE.

878 E. 105 St., Cleveland, O. Bin#, Anna

8820 Riverside Ave., Cleveland igiifai Ednah

Heights H. S., Cleveland, O. Ellis, Flora May

Ha^a, Kans.

, Oliver Royan Sch., Youngstown, O. Elmore, Emily W.

415 Sterling PL, Madison. W. Elsom, James C.

1614 Jeff., Madison, Wise. Elting. Dr. Henry 205 Walter Ave., Pittsbg. Pa. Ely, Julia

Sterling Sch., Cleveland, Ohio. Emde, John

829 E. Markt. St., Akron, O. Emrich, Ethel H.

1218 Eddy St., Chicago, IU.

BngHah, AUffUSta

96 Ferry Ava., W., Detroit

Ennis. Adrienne

148 Duncan Ave., Paris, Ky.

Erd, Robot L.

Y. M. C. A., Flint, Mich. Erickson, Louis A.

860 Jefferson, Gary, Ind. Erisman, A. J.

9710 Miles Ave., Cleveld, O. Erwin, Christine

668	Pingree, Detroit, Mich. Esch, Edythe

1646 E. 66 St., Cleveland, O. Eschbach, Barbara College for W., Chickasha, Okl Eshelman, Mary LawrenceviUe, 111. Euchenhofer, Alma C. S. 1707 3d St., Dayton, O. Evans, Mrs. Bess 8618 Wade Pk. Ave., Ohio Evans, J. P.

Sublette, Kans.

Evans, Katheryn Beechwd. Sch. Janldntown, Pa. Exley Erma B.

828 S. A., Monmouth, IU.

Falkner, Helen

Defiance Col., Defiance, O.

Faahols, Herman

951 N. Cent. Park A.,Chicago

Faulhaber, Margaret

1937 St. Troyst, Chicago, 111.

Fausal, H. J.

685 N. Clark, Chicago, 111. Fay, Edna

420 W. 3d. Ave., Monmouth,IU Feldman, Sophia 2946 S. Mich. Blvd., Chicago Feldman, Karl

1879 Elmwood Rd., Cleveland Ferderber, Evelyn

669	2d Blvd., Detroit, Mich.

Fernschild, Frances

2744 N. Troy, Chicago, IU.

Person, Angela

1495 N Mason St., Decatur,.

Fessenden, Marion

1625 M. St., La Crosse, Wis.

Field, Paul L

801 Maple St., Albion, Mich. Fischer H.

415 E. Mich. St., Indianapolis. Fish, Hasel

1992 W. 47, Cleveland, O. Fish, Marjorie

1992 W. 47,. Cleveland, O. Fish, W. C.

Troy, Ohio.

Fisher, Grace E.

Bedford, Mich.

Fisher, Katharine

863 W. 7th A., Columbus, O.

Fishburne, Pearl

Y. M. C. A., BartlesvUle, Okla.

Fisher, Susie

1708 81 St., Galveston, Tex. Fitchpatrick, Harriet V.

Gary Hotel, Gary, Ind. Fleming, George R.

Y. M. C. A., WilUiamspt., P Fletcher, Agnes J.

7410 Normal, Chicago, IU.

Fletcher, Florence

2228 Canton, Detroit, Mich.

Flower, Esther

26	W. Yk. St., Akron, Ohio.

Foertsch, Fred B.

Schenley, H. S., Pittsbg., Pa. FoUensbee, Christine 683 Prentis St., Detroit, M. Foss, Martin I.

5315 Drexel Ave., Chic. IU. Foster, Annie Stark MitcheU S., Little Rock, Ark. Foster, Doris E.

Rckview St., Jamaica PI. Mass Foster, Jessica

336 Augusta A., De Kalb, IU. Foster, Nancy Caroline 748 N. Linc.A., Hastings, Neb. Foster, Verna Milton, Wise.

Fournier, Geraldine

7310 Detroit, Cleveland., O.

Fox, Oscar J.

178 27 Nwd. Ave., Lakewd.O. Franklin, Mrs. Grace 13009 Woodside A., Cleveland. Fraser, Margaret 1824 Hinman A.,Evanston, 111. Fraser, Mary R.

760 Lathrop, Detroit, Mich. Freeman, Chas. I.

2037 W. 89, Cleveland, O. Freeman, Mrs. Helen 2037 W. 89, Cleveland, O. FreemanLElbert P.

Francis Willard School Waverly A. Highld. Pk., Mich Freeman, Theo.

Liberty S., Highland Pk. M. Freer, Louise

Univ. of IU., Urbana, 111.

Freibert, George

3451 Hoyne A. N., Chicago.

Freidemann, Ida

6727 Wabash A., Detroit, M.

French, Florence R.

3212 Altgeld St., Chicago, 111. Frick, Flora M.

611 8th St. S, Moorehead Minn Froehlich, Arthur H.

4226 Seneca Ave., Detroit. Froom, May

5705 Wells St. S., Chicago.

Frost, E. M., M. D.

Frees Gym., Pittsburg, Pm. FuUer, Elmer E.

Y. M. C. A., HoUidaysburg, Furaiss, Adelaide 610 Seward. Detroit, Mich. GaUy, W. D.

Central H. S., Cleveland, O. GaUy, LiUie C.

942 Ft. Wayne A., Indapls. Ganthier, G. E.

Agri. CoU., E. Lansing Mich. Gardiner, Joseph A.

1765 N. Taylor, E. Cleveld. O Gardiner, Vera G.

1987 S. Spaulding A., Chicago Gardner, Bertha V.

109 E. 3d St., Wichita, Kans. Gardner, Marie 116 S. Grant St~ Hindsdale,I. Gamer, Amy K.

Y. W. C. A., Detroit, Mich. Gase, Helen

Gary Hotel, Gary, Ind. Gates, Edith

1212 Yale PL, Mpls., Minn. Gates, Elsye May 4414 Grand, Blvd., Chicago. Gath, Helen D.

419 Hitt Ave., Columbia, Mo. Gauthier, George Earl The Armory, Bay City, Mich. Geber, Charles A.

733 E. O. St., N. S., Pittsburg Gelein, Harold R.

N. Barstow St, Eu Claire. Wis George, Edna M.

3014 Col. A., Beaver Falls, Pa Gerhardt, Estella H. S., Bowling Green, Ohio. Gerlich, Frank

WaUer, H. S., HoUywd., 111. Gibling, Dorothy S. Columbus, O., St. Univ. O. Gibson, Artemesia S. Prairie, Whitewater, Wis. GUbert, Ida B.

566 Peace St., Hazleton, Pa. Giles, Walter

4137 Enright Ave., St. Louis. GUlen, Agatha M.

Pitts. Athl. Assn. Pittsbg. Pa. Gillesby, Ruth

227 Oak St., S. E., Mpls. M. Gillet, Harry O.

7219 Paxton, Aye., Chicago. GUlette, Esther 620 Eliz. St., Ft. Collins, Col. GUlin, Ethel L.

1517 E. Blvd., Cleveland, O. Gilroy, John E.

Emerson School.* Gary, Ind. Gilson, W.

415 E. Mich. St., Indianapolis Gipe, Delia S.

3528 W. Congr., Chicago, IU. Gilson, Wm. Geo.

3816 N. Oakley, Chicago, IU. Given, Grace L.

707 S. 9th St., Mpls. ,Minn. Glassey, Josephine PubUc Library, Joliet, 111. Glassow, Ruth B.

320 Shenna A., Macomb, IU. Gleason, Carolyn Lillian 1869 E. 114 St., Cleveland. Gochnauer, M. Anita Smith House, Appleton, Wis. GoetZ, Hans

990 10th St., Milwaukee, Wis. Goyle, Gladys B.

220 Chicago, Elgin, IU.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Gollubier, Emil S.

4609 Calumet Ave., Chicago, Goodman, Marion N. T. H. S., Kenilworth, I1L Goos, John

118 N. Monroe, Green Bay, W. Gorde, Edna A.

3921 N. Hayne Ave., Chicago. Cowans, J. W.

Supt. of Sch., Winfield, Kans. Graef, Henry

513 E. 44 St., Chicago, 111. Graham, Blanche 115 E 4th St. Bloomingtan Ind Graef, Dorothea A.

513 E. 44 St., Chicago, 111. Green, Eleanor 2422 Pearl Ave., Detroit, M. Green, Ina

Baldwin Cottage, Oberlin, O. Green, Nina

Col. N Sch. P. E., Chicago. Griffith, John L.

Mens’ Gym, Urbana, 111. Griffiths, Dorothy YWCA Nuibkegon, Mich. Griffin, Alice J.

5306 Monroe St., Chic., 111. Grimes, Helen D.

E. Lansing, Mich. M. Ag. Col. Grimm, A. F.

207 W. Wash, av., Madison, W. Griswold, Sarah 1548 E. 82 St., Cleveland, O. Groener, Emil

1431 Warner Ave., Chicago. Groener, Madeline 5942 Hermitage, Chicago. Groener, Dr. Otto E.

5942 Hermitage, Chicago. 111. Grogan, T. W.

Collinwd. Jr. H., Cleveland. Groth, Dr. Herman 5115 Penn. Ave. S.E. Pittsburg Groves, Helen

63 E. College, Oberlin, Ohio. Guiot, Germaine 510 W. Waint., Kalamazoo. Gullickson, Adolph Nashwauk, Minn.

Gunn, Walter H.

74 Delhi, Dubuque, Iowa. Guscott, Gilbert Bd. of Ed., Lakewood, Ohio Gutman, Blanche Jeanne 4839 Mich. Ave., Chic. 111. Gyles, Rose M.

800 S. Hals ted St., Chicago. Hack, Mrs. F. G.

435 Barry Ave., Chicago, 111. Hackenbroch, Wm.

7520 Dobson Ave., Chicago. Hade, Naomi

3117 Franklin Ave., Cleveland Hagen, Louise K.

6649 Lowe Ave., Chicago, II. Hagen, Paul F.

H. S., Lansing, Mich. Hagenjos, Norma 2175 Pa., Detroit, Mich. Hahn, Lucille Portz 273 State St., Hart, Wis. Hale, Louise K.

Heights, H. S. Cleveland, O.

Hall, Harriet Trask

1506 Mario Ave., Lakewd, O.

Hall, Lucy Duncan

2743 Mampden Ct., Chicago

Hall, Marion Felton

2270 Chatfield Dr., Cleveland

Halley, Wm. G.

2009 E. 2d St., Tulsa, Okla.

Hamilton, Laura

489 Henry Detroic, Mich.,

Hammet, Margaret

Pembton, HI., Charleton, III.

Handler, Sylvia

1832 E. 82 St., Cleveland, O.

Hansen, William H.

Case S. of Ap. Sc., Cleveland Hanson, Wm. S.

Aurora, Minn.

Hargreaves, John

Y. M. C. A., St., Paul Minn.

Haring, Evelyn L.

2710 Col. Ave., Detroit, M.

Harmon, Cassandra

5806 Blaclcstone Ave., Chicago,

Harmon, Mildred

Heights H. S., Cleveland, O.

Harrington, Shelby A.

9021 Byron Ave., Detroit, Hart, Opal

520 W. 3d St., Joplin, Mo. Hartmann, Frank J.

4224 Grand Bid., Chicago. Hartnett, Norma 5938 Prairie Ave., Chicago, Hartshorn, Maude 215 E. Grand Blvd., Detroit. Harwich, Alexander A. Reading Ave., Wyomissing.Pa. Haskell, Frances A.

W. St. Norm. Col., Kalamazoo Hatch, Bessie M.

Huron Col., Huron, S. D. Hatch, Mrs. Ellen B.

230 Forest St., Oberlin, O. Havekotte, Gerhard E. N. 224HiphlandsA., Ben Avon.Pa. Hawkins, Lewis E.

Int’l. Y. M. C A Spgfld, Mass Hawley, Gertrude 1824Hmman A., Evanston, 111. Hawthorne, Dorothy 616 Putnam, Peru, 11L.

Hayes, Anne Adrian, Mich.

Haynes, Rowland

607 Elec. Bldg., Cleveland, O.

Hayward, Paul S.

5315 Drexel Ave., Chicago,111 Hazel, Mrs. Olive Pierce 3358 S. Mich. Ave., Chicago. Hazel, Wm. J.

Carnegie. O Tech., Pittsbg. Pa Hazleton, Helen W.

1824 Hinman Ave., Evanston H'Doubler, Margarett 237 Lgdon St., Madison, Wis. Heckrich, Karl H.

2606 S. Hboldt Ave., Mpls., Hedgcock, Charles B. Menominee, Mich.

Heimbach, Althea

Mil. Dwnr. Col., Mil., Wis.

Helmecke, M. Gertrude

702 E Harrison Kirkville, Mo.

Heimburg, Arline

416 Jefferson St, Gary, Ind.

Helm, Ethel M.

Brooklyn, la.

Hemenway Emma E.

223 Mt. Vernon, Detroit

Henak, Blanche

2413 Olive St., Cedar Falls,la.

Hennessey, Teresa

124 Selden, Detroit, Mich.

Henderson, Phoebe

314	Collins St., Joliet, 111.

Hendren, Wills E.

425 Green Lne,Roxborough,Pa Henson Mary

603 W. Walnut, Kalamazoo Herlihy, Josephine E.

3232 Haddon Ave, Chicago

Herriford, Iona

1113 N Topeka, Wichita,Kan. Herritt, Mary

1044 McAllister, Columbus Herts, Ella

E Schools, Cleveland, O.

Hershman. Amy

6938 Peoria St. Chicago, 111.

Heseltine, Eleanor

6608 Lawrence Ave., Chicago

Hewitt, Myrtle

Public Library, Joliet, 111.

Hilderbrant, Edith L.

15214 Center Ave, Harvey,Ill Hill, Edyth

Detroit Jun. High, Cleveland Hill, Laura May 1205 Porter, Helena, Ark. Hill, Martha

NSPE. Battle Creek, Mich. Hillis. Marjorie U of Cin., Cincinnati, O. Hilton, Florence W.

Dept, of Recreation, West Chester, Pa.

Hindman, Darwin

65 N Pleasant St, Oberlin, O

Hinman, Strong

1415 N Lorraine, Wichita,Kan

Hirt, Helen B.

2658 8rd Ave. Detroit, Mich. Hiaerodt, Lucile Rockport, 111.

Hoag, Hazel

657 Stimaon PI., Detroit Hobbs, Russell E.

H S, Wichita, Kans.

Hocke, Emil F.

4014 N Troy, Chicago, 111. Hodge, Melville H.

Fargo, N. Dak.

Hoelscher, Ernest S.

2846 U Capitol, Indianapolis Hoff. John G.

915 E 54 St, Chicago. Hoffmann, Rae F.

8341 Woodward Ave, Detroit Holderby, R. A.

J T H S, Joliet, 111. Hollenberger, Inez S S Nor School, Carbondale,IU Holliester, Paul L.

5315 Drexel, Chicago, 111. Hollway, Louis H.

315	Frank St., Adrian, Mich. Holmboe, Ada E.

Hghts H S Lee Rd, Cleveland Holmes, Ava R.

240 W Coleman St., Chippewa Falls, Wis.

Holmes, P. K. Dr.

U. of Ky., Lexington, Ky. Holton, Mabel E.

335 Leicester Ct., Detroit Hoogesteger, Harry 1286 Bender Ave., Cleveland Hope, Elenora E.

101 Josephine, Detroit, Mich. Horschke, Wm.

2812 Divereey Ave., Chicago Horton, Clifford E.

181 N Wash, Delaware, O. Hosmer, Mary I.

505 Mulberry St., Des Moines Hosmer, Millicent Public Library, Joliet, 111. Hotchkiss, A. S.

High School, Oshkosh, Wis. House, H. H.

Wesleyan U., Delaware, Ohio

Howard, Mrs. Beatrice

431 Main St., Ashtabula, Ohio

Howell, Maude

5325 Kimbark Ave., Chicago

Digitized by LjOOQle
Hubbard, Claude H.

2587 East 130 St., Cleveland, O.

Hrdlicka, Marie

1834 S. Racine Ave., Chicago

Hudak, Julia

Public Library, Joliet, 111.

Hueber, Mrs. Miriam K.

209 N. 35 St.. W. Philadelphia Huff, George

Univ. of Illinois, Urbana, 111.

Huffman, Prudentia

110 Spokane, Detroit, Mich.

Huggins, Fannie

3147 Prospect Ave., Cleveland

Hughitt, Anna L.

1204 W. Nevada, Urbana, 111. Hull, Marjorie H.

541 N. Elmwood, Oak Park, 111. Hult, Gladys

906 Ash Street, Burlington, la. Hunt, M. F.

112 Walnut, Blue Island, 111.

Hunter, Mrs. A. Clarke

Ohio State Univ., Columbus, O.

Hunter, Cora

Y. W. C. A., Canton, Ohio

Hurt, Mildred

474 Second Blvd,. Detroit

Hussey, Doris

Wester S. Nor. Col., Kalamazoo Hutchings, M. Elizabeth 887 Atkinson, Detroit, Mich. Hutchinson, Howard B.

532 Webster Street, Traverse City, Michigan Haynes, Judson A.

2252 Oakland Drive, Kalamazoo, Mich.

Hyne, Dorothy

720 Lakewood, Detroit, Mich. Igor, Celestine

5434 Cornell Ave., Chicago, 111. Ireland, Emmett T.

Y. M. C. A., Wichita, Kans. Irvin, Faye

1451 Madison Ave., Columbus Isenbrey, Clara Aaurel School E. 96 St., Cleveland, Ohio Isaac, M. C.

Y. M. C. A., Louisville, Ky. Iser, A.

415 E. Mich. St„ Indianapolis Isler, Hallie V.

1516 Fallowfield Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Jack, Ruby M.

6350 Waldun St., Pittsburgh Jackson, Alf. K.

215 N. Fifth Ave. W.

Virginia, Minn.

Jackson, Edgar B.

2316 Central St., Evanston, 111. Jacobs, Helen A.

3432 W. Warren, Detroit, Mich. Jahn, Frederick 4917 Waveland Ave., Chicago Jamerr, Helen

5528 Blackstone, Chicago, 111. James, Helen P.

School for Deaf, Cleveland, O. January, Emma May 2109 Cornell, Cleveland, Ohio. Jawelak, M. Geo.

Training School, Morganza, Pa. Jeffers, Mrs. Cora Painesdale, Mich.

Jeffrey, Ruth D.

5900 Glenwood, Chicago, 111. Jelinek, Nettie

Columbia School, Cleveland, O. Jewell, Mary

2945 S. Mich. Blvd., Chicago

Jodar, Emery

3845 W. Monroe St., Chicago John, Lovella

1285 W. Lake St., Cleveland, O. Johnson, Alice V.

108 Pleasant St., Joliet, 111. Johnson, Earl

2849 Garfield St., Lincoln, Neb. Johnson, G. H.

Y. M. C. A., Jackson. Mich. Johnson, Marion M.

925 Conklin Place, Madison, Johnson, O. E.

2706 Iowa St., Davenport, la. Jones, Hazel,

1633 Euclid Detroit, Mich.

Jones, Helen Webb

347 John R. St., Detroit, Mich

Jones, Mabel R.

600 Jefferson, Gary, Ind.

Jones, Mildred Erskine 1307 Foster Ave., Chicago, 111. Jones, Thomas E.

Univ. Gymn., Madison, Wis. Jordan, Edith G.

3549 Wilton Ave., Chicago, 111. Jouannet, Francis, L.

1253 Thoreau Rd., Cleveland Kahn, Marguerite 1209 W. 25 St., Minneapolis Kann, Eda

156	Dethridge St., Pittsburgh Karboske, Margaret D.

340 State St., Nanticoke, Pa. Kates, Henry F.

Y. M. C. A., New Castle, Pa. Kauffman, Jessie Y. W. C. A., Springfield, O. Kauffman, Marie Catherine 210 S. 12 St., Richmond, Ind. Kauffman, Nathalia 2800 High St., Little Rock, Ark. Kaye, Viola M.

14921 Clifton Blvd., Cleveland Kazda, Mae R.

2601 S. Trumbull Ave., Chicago Keifer, Margaret E.

1643 Kenilworth Ave., Chicago Keizer, Fred

4226 Calumet Ave., Chicago Keller, Louis F.

Warner Gym., Oberlin, Ohio Keller, Theodore G.

311 Oliver St., Toledo, O. Keller, Wilfred N.

Y. M. C. A., Moline, 111. Kellogg, Dr. H. H.

Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Mich Kelly, Charlotte L.

747 Vinewood, Detroit, Mich. Kelly, Harriet C.

6131 Greenwood Ave., Chicago Kelley, Nita

6391 Medbury, Detroit, Mich. Kemhle, Marion Titusville, Pa.

Kendall, Virginia H.

430 Wabash Ave. S., Chicago Kennedy, Clarence E.

5428 Ingleside Ave., Chicago

Kennedy, Lycile

27	Cooper St., Pontiac, Mich.

Kern, G. Irving

2978 Somerton Rd., Cleveland

Heights, Ohio

Keyes, Orton

Niagara, Wis.

Kiefer, Florence

20	and May Sts., Chicago, 111.

Kindervacer, A. E.

Director Phy. Educ., St. Louis

King, Florence H.

2207 Sherman Ave., Evanston King, Frances

Shurtleff Cottage, Oberlin, O. King, Jane

Brett School, Cleveland, Ohio. King, Jeanette M.

927 E. Main St.,

Murfreesboro, Tenn.

King, Marguerite

368 E. 53 St., Chicago, 111.

King, Myrtle E.

68 Warren E., Detroit, Mich. Kingman, Alice

2174 E. 108 St., Cleveland, O. Kirk, Kathryn C.

2636 Kirkwood Lane, Toledo, O Kirkpatrick, Elizabeth .Y. W. C. A., Alton, 111.

Kissock, May S.

609 6 St. S. E., Minneapolis Klafs, Ernest C.

1335 N. Mason Ave., Chicago Kleihege, Wilma 816 Hohman St., Hammond, Klein, Lillian

5030 Ellis Ave., Chicago, 111. Knapp, Eva Dell 335 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, O. Knapp, Mary G.

202 Milwaukee, W., Detroit Knight, Dorothy 151 Hancock W., Detroit, Mich. Knorr, Mrs. E. M.

2186 E. 100 St., Cleveland, O. Kochman, Cecelia S.

Memorial School, Cleveland, O. Koenig, Edward 120 N. Mich., South Bend, Ind. Koehler, Dorothy L.

7312 Clinton Ave. N. W. Cleveland, Ohio Koltes, Lucille C.

High School, Waukesha, Wis. Konig, Marie

2083 W. 95 St., Cleveland, O. Kontner, E. R.

Y. M. C. A., Middletown, O Koob, Irene E.

Dowagiac, Mich.

Koppelo, Viola

3461 Wabash, Detroit, Mich.

Kraft, Ida

1669 Crawford Rd., Cleveland Krass, Cecelia

1349 Winnemer St., Chicago Kripner, Joseph 2745 Mildred St., Chicago, 111. Kruger, Charlotte L. Mooseheart, 111.

Krumhar, Hazel

2134 W. 81 St., Cleveland, Ohio

Krumm, Helen

416 Luckhaut Ave., Columbus, Kuiciuski, Louis 715 W. 4th St., Anderson, Ind Kunison, Josephine S.

Radclihe, la.

LaBret, Dorothy

Higgins School, Detroit, Mich.

Ladd, Florence G.

423 N. Maple St., Clinton, 111. Ladner, Margaret 649 Peterboro St., Detroit Lake, Mr.

Board of Education, Cleveland Lampkin, Irene 3193 E. Jefferson, Detroit, Mich Lamkin, Nina B.

1. Perkins, Bldg., Grand Rapids Landis, J. -F.

East High, Cleveland, Ohio

Digitized by doodle
Lane, Marietta J.

N. S. P. E., Battle Creek, Mich. Lang, Agnes H.

323 S. State St.

Kendallville, Ind.

Lange, Edw. C.

314 Y. M. C. A. Bldg, Detroit. Lanphere, S. M.

Y. M. C. A., Chatanooga Tenn Lansley, Louise 819 Elm St., Marietta, Ohio Karsen, Wilhelm Robbinsdale, Minn.

LaSalle, Dorothy M.

Liggett School, 73 Stimson PL, Detroit, Mich.

Lash, Bertha B.

1402 E. 67 Place, Chicago, 111. Laun, Louis F.

Community Center Gym., Midland, Mich.

Lavers, E. Gertrude

304 Park Ave., Elyria, Ohio

Lawson, M. Florence

5439 Drexel Ave., Chicago, 111.

Lean, Everett G.

1242 Halsted St., Chicago Hgta.

j <pp M&bcl

Beloit College, Beloit, Wis.

Leitch, Virginia

Y. W. C. A., Battle Creek, M ch

Leland, Deyo

Supt. of Recreation,

Ypsilanti, Mich.

Lemke, Gustav

6712 Dunham Ave., Cleveland Leonard, Dr. F. E.

Oberlin College, Oberlin, O. Leonardt, P. A.

19 S. LaSalle, Chicago, IU. Leteker, Alice M.

1521 Delaware, Detroit, Mich. Levin, Doris

1654 Virginia Pk., Detroit Lewis, Cnauncey B.

7715 Lin wood, Cleveland, Ohio Lewis, Lillian A.

479 W. Willis, Detroit, Mich. Lewis, Martha 77 Lilac St., Buffalo, N. Y. Libby, Bertine W.

S Nor School Indiana, Pa Lightring, Lydia T.

Wesleyan Univ., Delaware, O. Liles, L. E.

Newman Stern Co., Cleveland Lilly, Victoria 3424 Irving Ave. S., Mpla Lindrooth, Eleanor Glenview, 111.

Lindsey, Winifred

2274 E. 87 St., Cleveland, Ohio

Lippitt, Louisa C.

1320 Univ. Ave., Madison, Wis. Lipps, George W.

18 W. Pratt St., Indianapolis List, Florence

511 N. Farragut St., Bay City Livingston, Walter J.

Box 633, Granville, Ohio Lockart, Dr.

City Hall, Cleveland Heights, O Logan, Wilda Crystal St., Elgin, 111.

Lomas, Jeanette

272 La Salle, Detroit, Mich.

Lomelino, Grace E.

1212 S. 7th St., Springfield, 111. Lommen, Mrs.

1839 E. 90 St., Cleveland, O. Long, H. K.

Junglgym 6525 Parnell, Chicago

Long, Mabel

318 Perry Apts., Davenport, la. Loren tz, George G.

10239 Calumet Ave., Chicago Lorimer, W. L.

Lincoln High, Cleveland, Ohio Lowman, Guy S.

611 S. Prospect Ave., Madiaon

Lowrie, Kathleen

Seville, Ohio

Ludwig, Eva

415 E. Michigan St.

Indianapolis, Ind.

Lunt, Mre. F. R.

8015 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, O. Luther, H. W.

Board of Education, Cleveland Lyden, Andrew R.

7921 Bennett Ave., Chicago, 111. Lynch, Annamay 8622 Wallace St., Chicago, IU. Lyons, Eleanor

Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio Lyons, Leo

First St., Rockford, 111.

Lyon, Marion

310 S. Capitol St., Iowa City, la MacDonald, Buda 165 Taylor, Detroit, Mich. MacDonald, Helen J.

2019 Brown Rd., Lakewood, O. MacGeary, Maude 9924 Olivet Ave., Cleveland., O McClellan, William O.

Y. M. C. A., Dayton, Ohio McConnell, Clarrina Beechwood School Jenkintown, Pa.

McCord, Mary Helen E. Fourth St., Spencer, la. McCormick, Ethel A.

1025 Helen St., Detroit, Mich.

McCornack, Jessie

Box 825, E. Lansing, Mich.ast

McCullough, Edna

1017 Rural St., Emporia, Kans.

McCurdy, Dr. J. H.

93 Westford, Springfield, Mass.

McCurdy, Mrs. Persis

93 Westford, Springfield, Mass.

McDowell, Helen

S. Court St., Medina, Ohio.

McElhinney, Gazelle

316 Webb, Detroit, Mich.

McGay, Alice

641 Blaine, Detroit, Mich.

McGough, Frances J.

335 Mel wood St., Pittsburgh, McGovern, Jane M.

8311 Decker, Cleveland, Ohio

McGraw, Katheryn

351 Defer Place, Detroit, Mich.

McIntyre, Ethel

434 West Forest, Detroit, Mich.

McKee, Carcyl

3400 W. 95 St., Cleveland, O.

McKee, Margaret A.

715 35 St., Des Moines, la. McKee, Raymond I.

1619 Orrington, Evanston, 111. McKellar, Janette L.

School Add. Bd. of Ed.

Kansas City, Kans.

McKenzie, R. Trait Dr.

Univ. of Penn., Philadelphia McLean, Robert Y. M. C. A., Muncie, Ind. McManus, Marie F.

5851 Prairie Ave., Chicago, 111. McMenemy, Mary Shurtleff Cottage, Oberlin, O. McMichael, Helen 454 Taylor, Detroit, Mich.

McMillan, Walter W. Mahoning, Hibbing, Minn. McNicel, Donald W.

Y. M. C. A., Bradford. Pa. McRae, Elma Marie 8171 Hudson Ave., Chicago, IU. McWilliams, Mrs. N. R. Maple Rapids, Mich.

Maberly, Grace

808 1-2 North St., Normal, IU.

Magee, John

Hilton, N. Y.

Magee, Marjorie

194 Piper Blvd., Detroit, Mich.

Magerman, Palmyer

680 Meadowbrook, Detroit

Magrda, Herbert

1105 S. Troy St., Chicago, IU.

Maine. T. Elfleda

1124 Elmwood Ave., Evanston

Maley, Theresa B.

96 Ferry W., Detroit, Mich.

Malmstead, Lilian

1800 E. 105 St., Cleveland, O.

Mann, Winifred E.

c. o. Rev. D.W. Clark

Ft. Thompson, S. D.

Marckwardt Mrs. S. E.

222 Louise Ave.,

Highland Park, Mich. Marquardt, W. H.

63 Birchwood Drive, Dayton, O Marshall, Lillian R.

5528 Blackstone, Chicago, 111. Marstiller, J. Brooke 6315 Drexel Ave., Chicago, IU* Martens Frieda C.

11 and Locust Sts.

Kansas City Mo.

Martin George M.

19 S. LaSaUe St., Chicago, 111. Martin, Leila Mulvane Kans.

Martin R. F.

105 Plum St. Westerville Ohio Marvin Chas.

Y. M. C. A. Gary Ind.

Marvin, Ruth H.

High School, Appleton, Wis. Mason, Ruth S.

2455 Lothrop, Detroit, Mich. Matheny, I. C.

Y. M. C. A., Oak Park, 111. Mathieson, H. R.

Carnegie Steel Co., Youngstown, O.

Matson, Ethel E.

1900 Summitt St., Columbus, O Matthews, Lorens 815 Michigan Ave, Evanston, Matthias, Agnes F.

157	St. Clair S. E. .Cleveland, O

Matyas, Regina

579 E. 107 St., Cleveland, Ohio

MaxweU, J. Truitt

Adams Av. Y. M. C. A-,

Detroit, Mich.

Maxwell, Juliette 414 E. Kirkwood Ave., Bloomington, Ind.

May, Eva G.

2033 Cornell Rd., Cleveland, O. May, Dr. Geo. A.

211 E. Huron St., Ann Arbor Maysack, Robert E.

7038 Stewart Ave., Chicago, 111. Medenwald, Verna 647 E. 65 St., Chicago, 111. Meehan, Mary J.

77 Trowbridge, Detroit, Mich. Meinert, Albert E.

1302 Pine St, La Crosse, W.

Digitized by C.ooQle
Melnicoe, M.

6028 Ingleside. Chicago, III. Melville, Mrs. Margaret T.

965 Lakeview Rd., Cleveland Mealoh, Selma

Monticello Sem Godfrey, 111.

Metcalf, T. Nelson

Warner Gymnasium, Oberlin, O

Metzger, Mildred

1216 Norwood St., Chicago, 111.

Metzger, Ruth H.

Parkwood Dr. and Englewood Ave., Cleveland, Ohio Meyer, Florence A.

State Univ., Columbus, Ohio Meyer, Henry

1118 St. Joe Blvd. Fort Wayne Meyer, T-iiHan E.

2231 La Salle Gds. S., Detroit Meyer, Mabel

1151 Roycroft, Lakewood, Ohio Mezek, Irene C.

7527 Stewart Ave., Chicago, 111. Michael, Helen

532 S. Main Ave., Sidney, Ohio Michels, Leo L.

Gilbert, Minn.

Middagh, Joseph E.

707 Excelsior Ave., Akron, O. Middleton, J. B.

736 Field Ave., Detroit, Mich. Milholland, Laura H.

2140 Beaufort Ave., Pittsburgh Milliman, Katherine Genesee, New York Miller, Alice

Lyman, Trumbull Pk., Chicago Miller, Carl W.

3206 W. 88 St., Cleveland, O. Miller, Charles S.

Univ. Pittsburgh Gymn., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Miller Clarence W.

Central Bch. Y. M. C. A., Cleveland, Ohio Miller, Harry A.

Y. M. C. A., Bloomington, 111. Miller, J. B.

Y. M. C. A., Tulsa, Okla. Mills, Helen

56 Davenport, Detroit, Mich. Mitchell, Elmer D.

Athletic Dept. U. of M.,

Ann Arbor, Mich.

Mitchell, E. M.

110 N. Third St., Clinton, Ind.

Mitchell, Margaret

68 Warren E., Detroit, Mich.

Mitchell, Mavis

316	W. College St., Oberlin, O.

Mitchell, Ralph J.

2200 Prospect Ave., Cleveland Mitts, Flora

101 Scoval Place, Detroit, Mich Moberly, Grace L.

808 1-2 North St., Normal, 111. Molis, L. H.

615 E. Ninth St., Kansas City Monilaw, Mrs. W. J.

6712 Kenwood Ave., Chicago Monilaw, Dr. W. J.

5712 Kenwood Ave., Chicago Moody, Mr. Wilkie O.

Box 691, Granville, Ohio Moore, Eloise W.

Y. W. C. A., Marion, Ind. Moore, Esther L.

Longwood H. S., Cleveland, O. Moore, Hazel

6328 Kenwood, Chicago, 111.

Moore, Helen H.

932 Dakin St., Chicago, 111. Moore, Katisne 1604 College Ave., Topeka, Moorhead, Regina 300-39 Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. Morris, Alma J.

1458 Inglis Ave., Columbus, O. Morris, Ruth

704 Algoma St., Oshkosh, Wis. Morrell, Zena

Y. W. C. A., Beaumont, Texas Morrison, Dr. W. R.

Univ. of Cincinnati, Cincinnati

Morron, Mabel

132 N. Oak Park Ave.,

Oak Park, 111.

Morse, Frances

1881 E. 87 St., Cleveland, Ohio Morse, Inez

495 Mass. Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. Mount, Etta

3358 S. Mich. Ave., Chicago Muehlhausen, Beulah E.

1453 Rosemont Ave., Chicago Mueller, Gustav 4709 N. Maplewood Ave., Chicago, 111.

Muhs, Winifred

646 Barry Ave., Chicago, 111.

Munn, Gertrude

430 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago

Munn, Ruth

76 Hooker, Detroit, Mich. Munro, Nellie F.

New Amsterdam Hotel, Cleveland, Ohio Murray, Emma M. Southeastern Norm. School Durant, Okla.

Musselman, Frances

5026 Greenwood Ave., Chicago

Myers, Gladys V.

126 Porter Ave., Warren, Ohio Naismuth, Dr. James Lawrence, Kans.

Nathan, Albert

1256 Kinghighway, St. Louis

Neavles, C. A.

Y. M. C. A., St. Paul, Minn. Neill, Thomas

2200 Prospect Ave., Cleveland Nelsen, Elise

Y. W. C. A., Grand Rapids Nelson E. Harrison H. S. Highland Park, Mich. Nelson, James L.

5316 Drexel Ave., Chicago, III. Nelson, Max C.

Glenville H. S., Cleveland, O. Nelson, Ruth

46 Stimson Place, Detroit, Mich Nethaway, Chas. W.

Box 41 Corliss Sta., Pittsburgh Newell, Minda 92 Pelerboro, Detroit, Mich. Newsum, Wanda 505 W. Walnut St.

Carbondale, III.

Neyman, Elizabeth

9293 Amesbury, Cleveland, O.

Nichols, Frances A.

121 Third Ave. N., S. St. Paul Nichols, Dr. J. H.

113 E. Norwich Ave., Columbus, Ohio Nichols, James R.

2020 Fremont Ave. N. MinneapoI:s, Minn.

Niemela, Elma

368 Taylor, Detroit, Mich.

Nisbit, Madeline

621 W. 24 St., Cedar Falls, la.

Noel, Marie

Public Library, Joliet, 111.

Noetzel, Gertrude

444 N. Charter St., Madison

Nohr, Dr. Robert

2417 Clifton Ave., Cincinnati

Noll, Albert W.

Blackhawk and Noble, Chicago Noonan, Catherine 1622 W. Adams St., Chicago Norgan, Andrew Thomas Hanover, Ind.

Norris, Dr. J. Anna

509 Sixth St. Univ. of Minn.,

Minneapolis, Minn.

Norton, Louise C.

463 Ninth St., Royal Oak, Mich Nurenburg, Gladys 1057 Fourth, Detroit, Mich. Noyea, Miss M. B.

Alta House, Mayfield Rd., Cleveland, Ohio Nutting, L. Ruth 9277 Amesbury Ave., Cleveland Nye, Harry F.

S. Galena Ave., Freeport, 111. O’Donnell, Mary P.

262 Goethe, Detroit, Mich. O’Neill, Katheryn E.

3822 Gladys Ave., Chicgo, 111. Ocker, Dr. W. A.

1531 Broadway, Indianapolis Offinger, Edward C.

14708 Shaw Ave., E. Cleveland Olds, Lloyd

519 Forest Ave., Ann Arbor Olexa, Bxephenia 1075 Marshal Ave., St. Paul Olson, Carl

317	Ninth Ave., Homestead, Pa Olson, Thorwald Box 348, Athens, Ohio Olson, Mrs. Thorwald Box 348, Athens, Ohio Oltman, Clara E.

119 W. College St., Oberlin, O. Orsborn, H. T.

824 Tyler, Gary, Ind. . Ozmun, Ray M.

315 Amanda St.,

Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. Olmsted, Agnes 1264 St. Clair Ave., Detroit Pabst, Erna H.

Highland, 111.

Packard, Katherine

5552 Pacific, Detroit, Mich.

Paddock, May

188 East McMillan St.,

Cincinnati, Ohio

Palm, Ann E.

2022 E. 77 St., Cleveland, Ohio Palmer, Wm. A.

Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Parker, Zona Joe

1831 S. Racine Ave., Chicago

Parks, Mary

Lorain H. S., Lorain, Ohio Paro, Hazel

4404 Commonwealth, Detroit Parsons, Ruth

134 W. Lorain St., Oberlin, O. Parr, Edith C.

Sixth St., Traverse City, Mich. Pasini, H. F.

Case School of Applied Sc., Cleveland, Ohio Paskovsky, Jos.

2606 Millard Ave., Chicago, 111.

Digitized by L^OOQle
Patch. Katherine

19 Norm. Ave., Ypsilanti, Mich.

Patterson, Jean

469 Peterboro, Detroit, Mich.

Patrick, Glen B.

5816 Drezel Ave., Chicago, 111. Paulison, Helen C.

Daacomb Cottage, Oberlin, O Pearl, N. H.

Board of Ed., Detroit, Mich. Pedval, Frank

883 S. Wise. Ave., Oak Park, 111. Peck, Haael D.

2881 Prairie Ave., Chicago, 111. Peek, Lorena M.

140 Topeka Ave.,

Wichita, Eans.

Pelton, Marvian

Murray Hill S., Cleveland, O.

Pendelbury, J. W.

2810 Althen Ave., Cleveland, O. Pendleton, Lillian Bruce 248 W. Marquette Rd., Chicago, 111.

Peniwell. Goldia 413 N. Emporia St.,

Wichita, Kans.

Pentland, J. C.

Grand and Franklin, St. Louis, Peoples, Agnes 68 Peterboro, Detroit, Mich. Perkins, Marcia V.

1547 W. Clinch Ave.,

Knoxville, Tenn.

Perl, Mrs. N. H.

145 lvanhoe, Detroit, Mich. Perlt, Rudolph H.

327 E. Robie. St. Paul, Minn. Perrin, Ethel

502 Yoet Bldg., Detroit, Mich.

Perry, Ruth

Jefferson, Ohio

Peters, M- Theresa

826 Lincoln. Hibbing, Minn.

Peterson, Clarence

194 W. 14 St., Dubuque, la.

Pfaff, Arthur H.

4824 Ashland Ave., St. Louis Pfaff, Wm. F.

116 Stewart Ave., Wausaw, Wis Pfeiffer, Kent

95 Chittenden Ave., Columbus Pfeifer, Lola Anna 85 N. Hawthorne Lane, Indianapolis, Ind.

Phelps, Grace L.

730 Thornhill Drive, Cleveland

Philbrook, Edith

Crest view School Weber Road,

Columbus, Ohio

Phillips, Miriam

Y. W. C. A., Dayton, Ohio

Pichei, Marie

283 Goodman St., Cincinnati

Pierce. Marion

847 Bluff, Rockford, HI.

Pierce, E. Ruth 1026 Clark St. S.,

Stevens Point, Wis.

Pletsch, Eva M.

Y. W. C. A., Council Bluffs, la. Plott, H. C.

Senior H. S., Warren, Ohio. Pohl, Emma O.

Miss. St. Coll, for Women, Columbus, Miss.

Polk, Catherine

2955 Vicksburg, Detroit, Mich.

Porter, Kathleen O.

1928 W. 46 St., Cleveland, Ohio Poet, Julia H.

St. Olaf College, Northfleld

Post, L. M.

2515 Virginia Park, Detroit Pottinger, Margaret Hathaway Brown School, Cleveland, Ohio Potts, Lulu Ellendale, N. D.

Powers, Kathleen

4885 Jackson Blvd., Chicago

Pratt, John B.

80 Irving PI.. New York, N. Y. Price, Adele Louise 155 Linden Ave., Oak Park, 111. Primrose, Mrs. E. W.

504 Elmwood Ave., Detroit

Pritchard, Murl

6018 Franklin, Cleveland, Ohio

Prosser, Marcia

Currier Hall, Iowa City, la.

Pugh, Richard O.

yTm. C. A., Mansfield, Ohio

Pursell, Ruth

379 S. 16 St., Cedar Rapids, la. Putney, Mrs. F. W.

3421 Starr St., Lincoln, Neb. Quinn, Rose V.

1666 N. Richmond, Chicago Quigley, Bly

Highland Park High School, Highland Park, Mich.

Ramsay, Mary

424 Main St., Racine, Wis.

Ranck, Clara Raynor

Ohio State Univ., Columbus, O.

Rasmeesen, E. V.

2058 E. 105 St., Cleveland, O. Rath, Emil

416 E. Mich. St., Indianapolis Rath, Herbert F.

Holstein Park. Chicago, 111. Ratterman, Hilda 416 E. Mich. St., Indianapolis Rebhar, Susan M.

905 First St., Cincinnati, Ohio Record, E. R.

Y. M. C. A., Muscatine, la. Redden, L. B.

Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Mich Reed, Dudley B., M. D.

Univ. of Chicago, Chicago, 111. Reich, Lester I.

1581 E. 118 St., Cleveland, O.

Ricker, Lawrence D.

Y. M. C. A., Mansfield, Ohio Rickey. Miss Tallmadee 221 Oak St., Columbus, Ohio Riksen, Harriet A.

866 Second Bldg., Detroit, Mich Riddell, Henrietta 149 Oaklawn Ave.,

Battle Creek, Mich.

Reidel, Rhea

1891 East 110 St., Cleveland, O.

Riggs, Doris M. Mima

Reily, Irene 241Mt. ]—

Elliott, Detroit, Mich. Reissenweber, Ottilie 434 St. James PI., Chicago, 111. Reither, Tfflie 1604 St. Louis Ave.,

E. St. Louis, 111.

Rettich, Dr. Jacob

205 Oak St., Cincinnati, Ohio

Reuter, H. C.

1409 E. Mich. St., Indianapolis Reuter, Wm.

Davenport, la.

Reynier, Eva H.

552 Pleasant St., Grand Rapids Reynolds, Herbert G.

57 and Cottage Grove, Chicago Rice, M. Lucille Pub. School Fowlerville, Mich. Rice, W. E.

White Motor Co., Cleveland, O. Richardson, Julia P.

681 Town St., Columbus, Ohio Richardson, Philomena 2816 Glynn Court, Detroit Richeson, Marion C.

Athens, Ohio Richman, Lila

2542 St. Clair, Detroit, Mich.

lwaukee Downer College, Milwaukee, Wis.

Riley, Charles

1250 Hall Ave., Lakewood, O. Ringwalt, Louis Goodland. Kans.

Robbins, Dora M.

171 North St., Peoria, 111.

Roberts, Herbert

Mingo June., Ohio

Robinson, Helen

515 S. Second St., Rockford, 111.

Robinson, Maud S.

209	Normal, Macomb, 111. Robinson, Ruth Union H. S., Grand Rapids, M. Robinson, Thos. H.

2112 Lincoln St., Evanston, 111. Rockwell, Ethel 818 Douglas Ave., Kslamasoo Rockwell, Helen E.

158	W. Forest, Detroit, Mich. Roddewig, Nanon 1952 W. Monroe St., Chicago Roddy, Mary E.

502 E. 3d St., Bloomington Ind Rodler, Anetta

2108 Harrison st., Davenport la Roe, Helen E.

5848 Porter St., Detroit, Mich. Roehm, E. W.

Y. M. C. A., Columbus, Ohio Roomer, C. B.

923 Iglenart Ave., St. Paul

Roessler, Liberty

2087 North Ave., Chicago, 111.

Rogers, Martha

High School, Rocky River, O.

Rogers, Myrtelle

2725 E. Jefferson Ave., Detroit

Roherty, Catherine A.

616 Sixth St., Bismarck, N. D. Rohrer, Perry

8485 Van Buren St., Chicago Rohrkaater, Elizabeth M.

515 Bouts St., Pittsburgh, Pa. Ronan, Bertha M.

Central State Normal College, Mt. Pleasant, Mich.

Rooney, Mary E.,

1322 Belknap St., Superior, Wis Root. G. B.

438 Securities Bldg., Omaha N.

Root, Virginia

316 Webb, Detroit, Mich.

Ross, Frances J.

207 Fifth St.. Wilmette, 111. Ross, Veronica E.

615 Fourth St., Bay City, Mich. Roth, F. Herman 878 S. Franklin St.,

Wilkes Barre, Pa.

Roth, Dr. Linda N.

162 Oaklawn Ave., Battle Creek Roth, Paul

162 Oaklawn, ave.. Battle Creek Rothacker, John 627 W. Park Ave.,

Highland Park, 111.

Rothchild, Felex,

Kirksville. Mo.

Digitized by tjOOQle
Rother, Wm. J.

309	S. Sycamore St.,

Grand Island, Neb.

Rouck, Clara R.

167 W. 10th Ave., Columbus,O. RounBley, W. A.

Central Y. M. C. A.

Du Bois, Pa.

Routcliff, Mary

6766 LaSalle St., Chicago, 111.

Rowe, Floyd A.

Capitol Bldg., Lansing, Mich. Rubner, Mrs. Anna C.

6218 Michigan Ave., Chicago Ruggles, May

1750 W. Congress St., Chicago Ruggles, Pha

514 Elmwood Ave^ Joliet, 111. Rundquist, Grace E.

1309 Jule St., St. Joseph, Mo. Rutan, Esther

5902 S. Park Ave., Chicago, 111. Ruther, Oscar E.

778 Osage St., Leavenworth Rutherford, Eugenia 1883 East 97 St., Cleveland, O. Ruzicka, Wm.

4230 W. 25 St., Chicago, 111. Ryan, Grace T.

136 N. Locust St., Adrian, Mich Ryan, Madelene M.

1875 E. 79 St., Cleveland, Ohio Salisbury, Cassie North Olmstead, O.

Sameth, Elsie

Univ. of Nevada, Reno, Nev. Sampson, Carol 1446 Jarvis Ave.,

Rogers Park, 111.

Sanders, Elsie

1515 Park Road, Washington Sanders, E. M.

Hill Top Y. M. C. A., Pitsburgh Sanger, Lillian 1620 South Fifth St.,

Terre Haute, Ind.

Sargent, Led yard W.

Sargent School for Phy. Edu. 8 Everett St., Cambridge, Mass. Sauer, Eleanor E.

77 Prentis, Detroit, Mich. Saunders, Adele T.

Doanbrooke Hotel, Cleveland Saunders, Katherine M.

130 Boltzhomer Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Saur, Mr. J. F. T.

605 N. Court St., Fairfield, la. Savage, Mr. Chas. W.

310	Reamer Place, Oberlin, O. Savage, Dorothy

52 N. Champion Ave.,

Columbus, Ohio

Savage, Elizabeth

310 Reamer Place, Oberlin, O.

Savage, Margaret

291 Wreford, Detroit, Mich.

Sawyer, Meda

103 Charlotte, Detroit, Mich.

Sayer, Dorothy

776 Ferry Park Ave., Detroit

Schaeffer, Mary

572 E. 120 St., Cleveland, Ohio

Schafer, Sylvia

806 Foxdale Ave., Winnetka, 111 Schieber, Mildred T.

4139 E. 93 St., Cleveland, Ohio Schimkola, Dr. May Cleveland Heights H. S. Lee Rd., Cleveland Ohio Schlager, Helen 11312 Hessler Rd., Cleveland

Schmidt, Movitz

3343 Bosworth Ave., Chicago

Schmidtz, Helen C.

505 Grant Place, Chicago, 111. Schneberger, Blanche A.

2320 S. Trumbull Ave., Chicago Schoen, Walter A.

Mayville, Wia.

Schott, Olda E.

Highland, 111.

Schott, Theda B.

Highland, 111.

Schroeder, Elinor

215 W. 9th St., Cedar Falls, la.

Schroeder, E. G.

State Univ., Iowa City, la. Schubel, Edward C.

1127 Oak Grove Ave., Chicago Schuenemann, Hazel M.

1638 N. Clarke St., Chicago, 111. Schuh, Irma Paula N. C. College for Women Greensboro, N. C.

Schultz, Anna 46 Stimson Place, Detroit Schultz, Eleanore Columbia School, Columbia Av. Cleveland, Ohio Schwan, Louis A.

Y. M. C. A., Fort Wayne, Ind. Schwarz, Ruth V.

Jerseyville, 111.

Schweitzer, Lillian

2849 Christiana Ave. Chicago

Scofield, Ethel C.

30 Thirteenth Ave.,

Columbus, Ohio Scott, Mrs. Edith R.

420 E. 14 St., Univ. PI. Neb. Seddon, Charles Ed.

2407 1-2 N. High St. Columbus Segerman, Celia 4902 Michigan Chicago, 111. Selba, Inza R. F. D. 5 Box 43,

Little Rock, Ark.

Sell, Vivian

N. D. Agri. Col., Fargo, N. D. Settle, Maude L.

932 Elm Ave., Salt Lake Cy. U. Sewall, Louise 68 Peterboro, Detroit, Mich. Sexton, J. Vincent 3443Sipe Ave. N. S., Pittsburgh Shale, Martin A.

Chicago Mill and Lumber Co. Blytheville, Ark.

Shanewise, Anne 432 Arlington Place Chicago, 111.

Sharadin, A. J.

Defiance College, Defiance, O. Sharp, Dora

414 Ogden Ave., Menom nee. Sharp, Nelson J.

120 E. Harrison St. Iowa City

Sharpe, Katherine

6901 Detroit Ave., Cleveland

Shaw, Carolyn

Y. W. C. A., Dayton, Ohio

Shea, Marie

219 S. Erie St., Wichita, Kans. Sheffield, Nita C.

106 MorningBide, New York, Shepherd, Genevieve B.

2100 Second Ave., Minneapolis

Sheperd, Dr. Marion

219 Morewood Ave, Pittsburgh

Sheppard, Jessie

2514 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, O.

Sherman, Esther

Board of Educ., Detroit, Mich.

Sherrill, Marjorie 231 Lafayette Ave., Buffalo Sherwin, Katherine Central St. Norm. Coll.

Mt. Pleasant, Mich.

Shipps, Guy L.

Dorn Chemical Co.,

Midland, Mich.

Shoop, Cecelia

800 S. Kolman Ave., Chicago Shugart, Helen R.

2945 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago

Seibert, Frances

112 North Ave., Battle Creek

Sibley, Katherine

494 Jefferson E., Detroit, Mich.

Siebert, Charles L.

415 E. Mich., Indianapolis, Ind. Siegfried, May 2120 Cornell Ave., Cleveland Sietz, Mr.

Bd. of Ed. Playgrounds Akron, Ohio Sigle, Emily

680 St. Aubin, Detroit, Mich. Simons, Arthur H.

23 Adams E., Detroit, Mich. Simmen, Oscar R.

1113 Allegheny Ave. N. S. Pittsburgh, Pa.

Skarra, Emelia M.

Okla. Agric. Mech. Coll. Stillwater, Okla.

Skeels, Merritt 299 N. Front Cuyahoga Falls, O.

Smergalski, T. J.

1849 S. Troy St., Chicago, 111. Smith, Bernice

147 W. Hancock, Detroit, Mich. Smith, Bessie M.

1614 Spring St., Little Rock Smith, Carl E.

22 W. Molar St., Columbus, O. Smith, Chester A.

201 Bellefield Ave., Pittsburgh Smith, Harry A.

W. High School, Akron, Ohio Smith, Irene

119 E. 25 St., Little Rock, Ark. Smith, Martha Louise 1145 N. Topeka Ave.,

Wichita, Kans.

Smith, Ira

7427 Hermann Ave., Cleveland Smith, May E.

3146 Darwin Terrace, Chicago Smith, Mildred A.

301 Alger, Detroit, Mich. Smith, Miriam Carter 12615 Arlington, Cleveland, O. Sniderman, Jennie 1705 Center Ave., Pitsburgh Snively, Carrie A.

304 E. Washington Blvd.

Fort Wayne, Ind.

Snow, Mary

1720 E. 116 St., Cleveland, O. Snyder, Emily

Bd. of Ed. Phys. Ed. Dep’t., Detroit, Mich.

Snyder, Esther 29 Rochester Ct. S. E.,

Grand Rapids, Mich. Sollberger, Emma 206 Caldwell St.,

Jacksonville, 111.

Sollinger, Clifford L.

3367 W. 95 St., Cleveland, O.

Somers, Florence

125 E. College St., Oberlin, O.

Digitized by Google
Sowers, Mildred

209 Benton Ave. W., Albim, la.

Southard, Hazel

2175 East 83 St., Cleveland, O.

Southard, Janetjj

107 Henry, Detroit, Mich.

Spafford, Alice R.

4203 Euclid Ave., Cleveland. O. Spahr, Eslie E.

Chapin Hall, Beloit, Wis. Spalding, Fred C.

State. N. S., Valley City, N. D. Spalding, Marion Western State Norm. College, Kalamazoo, Mich.

Sparks, Mrs. S. B.

6658 Greenwood Ave., Chicago Spurney, Alberta 226 Demington Rd., Cleveland Sputh, Oscar

856 N. Richmond St„ Chicago Stafford, Grace M.

Okla. Agri. and Mech. College, Stillwater, Okla.

Stagg, Amos A.

5539 Kenwood Ave., Chicago Standford, Lucile 129 East Hancock, Detroit Stanka, Victoria Atlantic, Mich.

Staples, Dr. H. F.

3054 Sometron Road,

Cleveland Heights, Ohio Stapleton, G. B.

678 Montclair, Detroit, Mich. Starr, Ina

7619 Lexington Ave., Cleveland Steeds, Mary H.

Collingwood Jr. High,

Cleveland, Ohio

Stehn, Florence

3216 W. 14 St., Cleveland, Ohio

Steichmann,- Kate R.

1486 Ashland av., Indianapolis Steinhaus, Arthur 3018 N. Racine, Chicago, 111. Steller, Warren

3333Archwood Ave., Cleveland Stener, Margaret 612 Oakdale Ave., Chicago, 111. Stevens, Alton R.

Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio Stewart, Agnes

835 7th St., Charlestown, 111.

Stewart, Charlotte

10521 S. Wood St., Chicgo, 111.

Stewart, Lucille

1115 Church St., Evanston, 111.

St. John, L. W.

Ohio State Univ., Columbus, O. Stober, Dr. Geo.

13929 Euclid Ave.,

East Cleveland, Ohio Stockett, Imagene C.

312 Fourth St., S. E. Washington, D. C.

Stoesser, Karl

5241 Van Buren, Chicago, 111. Stone, S. Elizabeth 15 Gregory St.,

Marblehead, Mass.

Stockey, Margaret High School, Ogden, Utah Stoughton, Nellie M.

301 Glencoe Boldg., Duluth Stowell, Galena W.

Y. W. C. A., Omaha, Neb. Stratton, Donald G.

Room 202Bd. of Ed., Cleveland Street, Julie M.

160 Harvey, Detroit, Mich.

Streit,' W.

415 East Mich. St..

Indianapolis, Ind.

Strobl, Ed. A.

2726 N. Albany Ave., Chicago Strond, Aileen R.

820 S. Rock Island St.,

El Reno, Okla.

Sturtevant, Aurelia

Y. W. C. A., Hamilton, Ohio

Stute, Alice

6307 Luther Ave., Cleveland, O. Suder, Henry

817 Sheridan Rd., Chicago, 111. Suder, Leonore 817 Sheridan Road, Chicago Sughrus, Anne

St. Normal, Whitewater, Wis. Summers, Dr. Lome Dir. Gymnasium Armour Co., Chicago, 111.

Sundwald, Dr. John 428 Walnut St., Minneapolis Swaim, Alice Louise 1702 E. 84 St., Cleveland, O. Swart, Gladys G.

242 W. Lincoln Ave.,

Delaware, Ohio Swartzlander, Fredericka 2601 Capitol Ave., Omaha, Neb Swawite, Augusta Anne 4957 Vincennes Ave., Chicago Sweigard, Lula 2313 Walnut, Cedar Falls, la. Swope, Bertha L.

1707 E. 116 Place, Cleveland

Sykes, Margaret

Y. W. C. A., South Bend, Ind.

Syme, Gertrude

154 Forest Ave., Oberlin, Ohio

Tambling, C. F.

Central State Normal Colllege, Mt. Pleasant, Mich.

Tanko, Leslie

Board of Education, Cleveland Tapp, R. C.

407 City Hall, Minneapolis Tate, Gladys E.

9441 Edgar Ave., St. Louis, Mo Taylor, Helen H.

16 Roanoke Apt., Cincinnati Taylor, Irene St. Johns, Mich.

TeflFt, Dorris J.

706 Pearl St., Ypsilanti, Mich. Tenison, S. A.

307 N. Freemont St.,

Stevens’ Point, Wis.

Tenscher, Albert

2048 Graer St., Chicago, 111.

Theller, Erling

Glenville H. S., Cleveland, O

Thessin, Erwin A.

Culver Military Acad.

Culvor, Ind.

Thistlewaite, Glenn F.

407 N. Humphrey Ave.,

Oak Park, 111.

Thoma, Andrew

415 E. Michigan, Indianapolis

Thoma, Erast

2646 Bellevue Ave., Cincinnati Thompson, Florence 2537 W. Grand Blvd., Detroit Thompson, Helen M.

210	N. Professor St., Oberlin, O. Thompson, Henry Mt. Pleasant School, Cleveland Thompson, Mrs. Mabel B. 11306 Hessler Road, Cleveland Tilden, Winifred R.

303 Sixth St.. Ames, Iowa

io»i Zj. 91. X . r

Cleveland, Ohio Tobin, Chester H.

Todd, Chloe

M. S. N. C. Gymnasium, Ypsilanti, Mich.

Toedt, Jacob

1725 Wilson Ave., Chicago, 111. Toll, Curt

326 N. Riley Ave., Indianapolis Tolley, Alice Public Library, Joliet, 111. Towle, Isabel

110 Far Hill Ave., Dayton, O. Trautman, George M.

349 Chittenden Ave., Columbus Tracy, Mrs. Rhoda E.

311 West. Ave., Blue Island, 111. Treat, Marian

284 E. College St., Oberlin, O. Trilling, Blanche M.

612 Howard Pl„ Madison, Wis. True, Mrs. Olive K.

2186 E. 101 St., Cleveland, O. Tubbs, Almeda 115 Terrace St.,

Muskegon, Mich.

Tucker, Ermina

407 City Hall, Minneapolis

Tufts, Christie M.

475 Peterboro St., Detroit Turk, Adele S.

Central High, Cleveland, Ohio Turk, H. E.

109 Denver St., Sterling, Colo. Tuttle, Lucile

Box 108 N. S., Pittsburgh, Pa. Tuttle, Mary 2361 Demington Drive, Cleveland, Ohio Twincham, Charlotte Princeton, Ind.

Tyger, Jean Louise 909 Columbia Ave.,

Fort Wayne, Ind.

Upp, Geneva Nashwauk, Minn.

Ulmer, Lucy

1968 Tuxedo Ave., Detroit Van Anden, Hazel Rushville, N. Y.

Van Brook, Frances

101 Josephine Ave., Detroit

Van Ness, Grace

1210 W. 19 St., Cedar Falls, la.

Van Voorhees, Margaret

Y. W. C. A., Toledo, Ohio

Valentine, Helen

1451 W. 103 St., Chicago, 111.

Vandivert, Lois

108 Pleasant St., Joliet, 111.

Vaughan, Ann M.

Dept. Publ. Inst.,

Lansing, Mich.

Veazey, Leila

83 Lincoln Way, Chicago Hgts. Vent, Dorothea E.

4531 Greenview Ave., Chicago Vestal, Dorothy 1065 Front, Appleton, Wis. Viehweg, Erast 1832 N. Twelfth St., Sheboygan, Wis.

Vieira, Victor E.

Box 38, Jackson, Tenn. Vincent, Clarence North H. S., Akron, Ohio Wagner, Margaret L.

333 N. 59 Ave., W. Duluth

Digitized by ^.ooQle
Vonaack. Thomii 2486 So. Kedgie Ave., Chicago Vrooman, Maud Southeastern H. S., Detroit Vogt, Matilda

Springfield, 111.

Waggoner, Emily

20 East 15 St., Chicago Heights

Wagner, Irene

608wT Grand Bird., Detroit Walker, Grace V. E.

4826 Dover St., Chicago, 111. Walker, Irma

7241 Perry Aye., Chicago, III.

Wallace, Letitia

2084 E. 82 St., Cleveland, Ohio

Wallrich, Lucy

1810 Chicago Ave.,

Evanston, 111.

Walsh, Helene T.

77 Lilac St., Buffalo, N. Y. Walsh. Lenore F.

1887E. 84 St., Cleveland, Ohio Walter, Carrie

7716 Starr Ave., Cleveland, O. Walters, Mary Ft. Branch, Ind.

Walton. Annabel

1860 W. 1142 St., Cleveland, O.

Walton, Alice

11	and Locust St., Kansas City Walts, Bernaddine

Ed. of Ed., Grand Rapids, Mich Ward, Grant P.

809 E. 20 Ave., Columbus, O. Ward, Hope

464 Taylor Rd., Detroit, Mich. Wardner, Doris 216 S. State St., Ann Arbor Warfield, O. E.

1686 8pring Garden Ave., Cleveland, O.

Warwick, Florence

499 Canton, Detroit ,Mich.

Washburn, Louis P.

Recreation Dept., Oshkosh,Wis. Wasserman, Minnie 7116 Sangamon St., Chicago Watson, Basel

101 S. Ashland Blvd., Chicago Watson, Herbert G.

8109 E. 24 St., Minneapolis Watt, Emily

8282 Walnut, Chicago, 111. Webber, Gladys Riverside Hall, Gary, Ind. Weber, Maire M.

416 S. Ohio Ave., Columbus, O. Webster, C. E.

Y. M. C. A., Grand Rapids, Weeden, Ethel R.

528 Westgate, St. Louis, Mo. Weisman, Mrs. Russell 2812 Lee Rd., Shaker Hgts, O. Welch, Carl W. c. o. Chicago Mill and Lumber Co.. Blytheville, Ark.

Weld, Louise

925 Conklin PI., Madison, Wis. Wellington, Barbara

12	West College St., Oberlin, O. Wells, Frances

222 Frankl. St., Petersburg, Va. Welsh, Glenadino 713 Village St.,

Kalamasoo, Mich.

Weniger, Leona

1617 Scott St., Little Rock, Ark.

Wentworth, Mable R.

6028 Dorchester Ave., Chicago

Weasel, Brigetta

497 Meldum, Detroit, Mich.

Werdel, Ernest

8109 Lake Ave., Cleveland, O. Wesson, Cynthia Lathrop Hall Univ. of Wis., Madison, Wis.

Westcott, Mrs. Jane G. Midland, Mich.

West, G. Stanley

12610 Mayfield Rd., Cleveland

Westerman, L. S.

Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

Grand Rapids, Mich.

Weston, Morman J.

Y. M. C. A.. Omaha, Neb. White, Doris E.

422 Clay, Cedar Falls, la. White, Edward J.

2829 Mahon St., Pittsburgh, Pa Whiteford, Winnefred

211	5th St., Beardstown, 111. Whitham, Jessie

Central H. S., Detroit, Mich. Whiting, Helen E.

Y. W. C. A., Detroit, Mich. Whitridge, Grace B.

664 Hague Ave., St. Paul Whitworth, dive M.

1287 Carlyon Rd., Cleveland, Wickstrom, Wilma 870 Taylor, Detroit, Mich. Widmier, Anna A.

108 Pleasant St., Joliet, HI. Wiggins, B. E.

886E. Broad St., Columbus, O. Wilce, John W.

70 Twelfth Ave., Columbus, O. Wilcox, Eula

Y. W. C. A., Springfield, Ohio Wild, Monica R.

622 Tremont St., Cedar Falls,Ia Wild, Harriet

Natn. Bd. Y. W. C. A. 600 Lexington Ave., New York Wilder, Emma L.

Univ., Pittsburgh, Pa. Wilding, Dorothy 976 Central Ave., Detroit, Wiley, Helen

2020 N. Fremont, St., Mpls. Wilkins, Helen E.

212	Scott St., Warren, Ohio Will, Genevieve

606 Sandusky St., Ashland, O. Williams, Kate R.

430 S. Wabash, Chicago, 111. Williams, Lillian E.

416 N. College Ave., Fayetteville, Ark.

Williams, Margaret Iola 116 East Ashland Ave., Grandview, Mts. Columbus, O. Willis, Georgia 1112 Pecan St.,

Texarkana, Ark.

Wilson, Ada M.

714 E. Wash., Washington, la. Wilson, B. Van Lew Ellet P. O-, Summit Co., Ohio Wilson, Evangeline H.

89 Padfic, Detroit, Mich. Wilson, Marie Wallace Room 202 Bd. of Ed., Cleveland Winans, Hazel I.

120 Hitchcock, Alpena, Mich. Wing, Marie

Y. W. C. A., Cleveland, Ohio Wild, Florence 612 Tremount St.,

Cedar Falls, la.

Winning, Esther

481 Helen Ave., Detroit, Mich.

Winters, Frank J.

2088 Oxford, Rockford, 111.

Wirsig, O. A.

West Point, Neb.

Wise, George C.

Parsons Coilm, Fairfield, la. Wise, LfllianT.

2722 Portland Ave., Mpls. Wise, Ruth

10802 Ostend Ave., Cleveland Wisler, Cecil

1128 Woodville St., Toledo, O. Wiener. Elisabeth Central Junior High, Cleveland Wittich, Geo.

882 Wall St., Milwaukee, Wis. Wolfe, Anna M.

19 N. Normal St.,

YpsQanti, Mich.

Wolf son. Flora J.

5704 Story Island, Chicago, 111. Wood, Morey Aldrich 4200 Grand Blvd., Chicago, 111. Wood, Marion O.

1215 HOI St., Ann Arbor, Mich. Woodruff, Ruth E.

111-8 Lapeer, Flint, Mich. Woods, Ethel M. •

St. Clair at 167 St., Cleveland Woody, Helen 2482 N. Seventh St.,

Terre Haute, Ind.

Werner. Crystal Western St. Norm. School, Kalamasoo, Mich.

Wright, Helen Anne

112 Walnut St., Blue Island, HI.

Wright, Dr. Ada V.

Ohio State Univ., Columbus, O. Wright, Joseph S.

880 Webster Ave., Chicago, 111. Wright, Kathleen 447 Charlotte, Detroit, Mich. Wright, Mabel M.

880Webster Ave., Chicago, ni.

Wright, Mildred

108 Seldon, Detroit, Mich.

Wuesthoff, Erna

695 St. Aubin, Detroit, Mich.

Wright, Louise

10610 Euclid Ave., Cleveland

Wurl, Otto A.

718 Sixth Ave.,

Council Bluffs, la.

Wylie, Alma

High School, Dee Moines, la. Wyman, Alfred H.

1027 Carnegie Bldg., Pittsburgh Wyne, Barbara 298 Whitney Ave., Detroit Wynn, Robert E.

Care Boy’s Industrial School, Lancaster, O.

Yardley, Dorothy

111 Blaine Ave., Detroit, Mich.

Yeats, Elise

215 E. Grand Blvd., Detroit. Yocum, Elizabeth Northern H. S., Detroit, Mich. Young, E. Frank 6680 Kimback Ave., Chicago Zapp, August

2729 Potomac Ave., Chicago Zekind, Stella 1414 S. State St.

St. Joseph, Mich.

Ziegler, Dr. Carl 2422 Robertson Ave.,

Norwood, Ohio Zimmer, Placeda 1508 Addison Rd., Cleveland Zinsmeister, Louis A.

184 Hadley St., Milwaukee

Digitized by Google
73

▲ BIRD MASQUE.

BY JAMES B. WALTER AND JOHN ALEXANDER, JR., PHILADELPHIA.

This Masque was given by the Charles W. Henry Public School of Philadelphia, Saturday, May 21st, 1921, in Carpenter's Woods, Fairmount Park, Germantown, to introduce the idea of a bird sanctuary.

PROLOGUE.

Overture: “Zampa” (Victor Record No. 35584).

Part /. A Little Girl enters slowly from a path, meditating, fascinated by the beauty of the woods. She skips here and there, joyous and care free, picking flowers and listening to the twitter of birds. She becomes tired and seeks a soft mossy spot, where she sits on the ground leaning against a log. (Upstage left.)

Part II of “Zampa:” The Little Girl falls asleep and dreams of the happy relationship between the birds and their human brothers and sisters. This is shown in the following action. (Birds enter hopping, a few at first and then more and more. The children enter skipping, a few at first, beckoning to their companions to follow, thinking it is a fine place to celebrate their May Day. The boys carry in and erect the May Pole (upstage right) and they get ready for their dance.)

scene 1.

The Dream.

1, Dance 1. May Pole Dance, “Bluff King HaT*—(Victor Record No. 17087.)

(During this dance, the birds hover in the background, a few fluttering here and there. At the end of dance the boys carry off pole and the birds flutter to a position for their dance.)

2.	Dance 2. “Dance of the Birds'' “Pizzicato /V£*”-Strauss (Columbia Record-A 2305).

SCENE 11.

The Awakening—Actual Relationship.

At the end of the Bird Dance a shot is heard. The Little Girl is awakened. There is general alarm. The children hover together and leave the stage at the back. The birds flutter and scatter. Another shot, the hunters enter from the sides of the stage and pursue the birds to another part of the woods.

The hunters return with trophies and plumes and celebrate with a triumphant march.

Number 3. “Marching Drill” At the end of which the hunters go off through the woods singing “A-Hunting We Will Go."

SCENE III.

Dream realized through the “Spirit of Education" who teaches the lesson of bird protection.

Number 4. “Pantomime”

Music—“Marcia Militaire” (Victor Record No. 35258).

The Little Girl and the Spirit of Education enter from rear and in pantomime dance recall the birds and the children to their place in the forest; and take places at the front of stage, one on each side. Birds

Digitized by
74

and children come in gaily skipping and beckoning to their companion* and join in the dance of the Little Girl and Spirit of Education. A group of girls take their places on the stage for an aesthetic dance, the other children and birds watching the dance from the background.

1.	Dance number 5 by Girls—“Danse des Mirlitons” (Columbia Record No. 16974).

At the end of this dance the girls move back and the birds come forward and repeat their dance.

2.	Number 6. Repetition of the “Dance of the Birds” (dance number 2.)

At the end of the Bird Dance shots are heard and there is general excitement. One bird is shot and in a dance shows her injury.

3.	Number 7 “Dance of the Injured Bird”—“Swan Dance”—Saint Saens (Victor Record).

During this Dance the Spirit of Education steps forward to shield the birds, as the hunters appear upon the scene with guns drawn. When they see the Spirit of Education and the Injured Bird they draw back. She steps forward and in pantomime intercedes and tries to bring about a friendly feeling between the birds and the hunters.

The hunters throw down their guns and a couple of them assist the injured bird to one side and do what they can to help her.

The Leader of the Hunters steps up to the Spirit of Education and by shaking hands shows that a bond of friendship has been established.

The Spirit of Education steps forward and makes an appeal to the audience in behalf of the Sanctuary.

As she steps back, all the birds, hunters and children form in four front lines.

Number 8. Song: “Bird Guardians' by Leigh Mitchell Hodges, tune “Melody in F.” They then join hands number 9 and perform “The Dance of Friendship”—Music: “Marcia Militaire”

PERSONS IN THE MASQUE.

Girls Boys

The Little Girl ......................... 1

Spirit of Education ..................... 1

May Pole Dancers........................  8	8

Birds ...................................60

The Injured Bird......................... 1

Hunters .....................................  32

Aesthetic Dancers .......................24

Extra Boys and Girls ....................10	10

Total ...........................  105	50

DANCES OF THE MASQUE.

SCENE 1—DANCE I.

“Bluff King Hal” (May Pole Dance) Victor Record No. 17087-B.

Formation—Double circle of couples, boy on the left of girl, left side toward center. Couples numbered 1, 2, 3, 4.

Music—Introduction of 4 measures. Three parts of eight measures, A, B and C. On the record these parts are played 6 times. (2 counts to a measure.)

Digitized by (^.ooQle
75

Counts

Introduction—With inside hands joined shoulder high, all stand with left foot pointed forward. Hold position through 4 measures of introduction ............................ 1-8

part 1.

A.	Beginning left, 12 skip steps around pole (2 steps to a

measure .....................................................   1-12

With four skip steps, couples swing in facing pole, forming single circle, joining hands....................................13—16

B.	Beginning left, advance toward pole in four skip steps,

raising arms forward and upward................................17-20

Same, moving backward......................................21-24

Repeat above 4 measures....................................25-32

C.	Partners face, join right hands and turn in sixteen skip

steps. Finish with boy inside with back to pole................33-48

PART 11.

A.	Beginning left, heel and toe polka sideward, repeat

right, left right ............................................. 1-16

B.	Join right hands and turn partner in eight polkas. On

the last polka swing into a single circle, facing pole with hands joined .........................................................17-32

C.	Beginning left, sixteen skipsteps around pole, counterclockwise .....................................................33“*48

PART III.

A.	Join right hands and turn partners in 16 Skipping steps,

finishing facing partner, in single circle ...................... 1-16

B.	Girl kneels and boy takes eight skipping steps around

partner ........................................................17-24

Repeat: boy kneeling ......................................25-32

C. Like (A) ...............................................33“48

PART IV.

A.	Same as B of Part I ................................ 1-16

B.	and C. With four skipping steps all Couples No. 1 advance toward pole and grasp ribbons with right hands........17-20

With four skip steps return to place and face partner, left toe pointed forward, the boy turned slightly toward the pole, the

girl away .................................................. 21-24

Couples No. 2 repeat same................................    25“32

Couples No. 3 repeat same....................................33-40

Couples No. 4 repeat same....................................41-48

part v.

A and B. Hold position for four measures....... .......... 1-8

Winding pole. Beginning left, with 24 skip steps, girls move clockwise, boys counter-clockwise. Make “grand chain”, partners passing, right shoulders first (meet partners on 32nd count) 9-32

C.	Face Center. With four skip steps, advance to pole,

dropping ribbons	.........................................  33-36

All join hands and with four skip steps move back from pole.37-40

Advance and	retire again ............................ 41-48

Skip to the rear—boys removing the May Pole. (48 counts to finish record) ............................................ 1-48

M.

4

6

2

2-

2

4

8

9

8

9

9

4-

4-

8

9

x

2

4-

4

4

4-

IX

X

2

4-

Digitized by Google
76

SCENE I—DANCE II.

“Dance of the Birds**. (Pizzicato Polka - Strauss). Columbia Record A-230J.

Introduction:	(4	measures)	Arms	sideward.

Jump forward on both feet, small running steps forward, left, right, together.

Repeat.

Jump forward on both feet.

part 1.	(8	measures.)

Schottische left sideward (1 measure), schottische right sideward (1 measure), 8 small running steps 4-4 turn left (2 measures). Arms side-ward, wave right arm slightly forward on schottische left; wave left arm forward on schottische right. On turn, arms sideward.

Repeat opposite (4 measures).

part 11.	(8	measures.)

Swing hop left, swing hop right, slow steps backward left, right, left (hold), right, left, right (hold). (4 measures.)

Swing hop left, swing hop right, slow steps backward left, right, left -right, left, right. (4 measures.)

interlude (4 measures.)

Courtesy left and courtesy right, three quick jumps on both feet and then one long jump forward.

part hi. (Repeat Part 1,-8 measures.) part iv. (16 measures.)

Balance hop left, balance hop right, swing hop left backward, swing hop right backward, make a 4-4 turn left in eight small running steps, arms high to the side and eight small running steps in place, lowering arms sideward.

Repeat opposite.

part v. (16 measures.)

Face left, step left forward, raise right foot to the right knee.

Step right forward, raise left foot to right knee.

Step right forward, raise left foot to right knee.

Step left forward, raise right foot to left knee.

Step right forward, raise left foot to right knee (arms sideward.)

Eight short turning steps forward (to left side) and eight running steps backward turning right about on last four steps. (Arms raised obliquely foreupward on forward steps and brought down to sideward position on backward steps.)

Repeat opposite, facing front on last four running steps.

PART VI.

Repeat Introduction (4 measures.)

PART VII.

Like Part I (8 measures.)

PART VIII.

Like Part II. (8 measures.)

PART IX.

Interlude (4 measures.)

PART X.

Repeat Part I (8 measures.)

Digitized by CjOOQie
77

PART XI.

Like Part IV. (16 measures.)

PART XII.

Like Part V. (16 measures.)

PART XIII.

Like Ihtroduction (4 measures.)

PART XIV.

Like Part I (8 measures.)

Finale—On the few remaining measures the birds flutter toward back of stage. This is interrupted in the play by the gunshot.

SCENE II. NUMBER III.

MARCHING DRILL.

Music: “Washington PostSousa. To be had in a Victor Records The marching squad consists of 16 pupils, arranged in a column composed of four front ranks of four pupils each, the taller ones on the* right. The march may also be performed by 32 pupils or 48, or any number of sixteens.

The drill has four parts of four divisions (A, B, C, D) each. Each part has 128 counts.

part 1.

Division A.	(32 counts.)

(a)	The ranks quarter wheel left and four steps forward; 8 counts^

(b)	(c) and (d) repeat three times; 24 counts; 32 counts in all.

Division B. (32 counts.)

Repeat Division A, but wheel right instead of left; 32 counts.

Division C. (32 counts.)

Ranks 1 and 3 repeat Division A (wheel left and march forward.) Ranks 2 and 4 repeat Division B (wheel right and march forward);; 32 counts.

Division Z).	(32 counts.)

Ranks 1 and 3 repeat Division B (wheel right and march forward.) Ranks 2 and 4 repeat Division A (wheel left and march forward);; 32 counts.

part 11.

Division A.	(32 counts.)

(a)	The ranks quarter wheel left and 4 steps forward; 8 counts.

(b)	Four steps forward and the ranks quarter wheel left; counts p to 16.

(c)	and (d) repeat (a) and (b); 16 counts; 32 counts in all.

Division B.

Repeat Division A, but wheel right instead of left; 32 counts.

Division C.

Ranks 1 and 3 repeat Division A (wheel left and march forward.) Ranks 2 and 4 repeat Division B (wheel right and march forward.)

32 counts in all.

Division D.

Ranks 1 and 3 repeat Division B (wheel right and march forward.) Ranks 2 and 4 repeat Division A (wheel left and march forward);; 32 counts in all.

Digitized by Google
7»

PART III. (Cross.)

{a), (b) Rank i, a complete wheel left.

Rank 2, 4 steps forward and three-quarters wheel left.

Rank 3, 8 steps forward and half wheel left.

Rank 4, 12 steps forward and quarter wheel left; 16 counts.

<c) and (d) The cross a complete wheel left; counts 17 to 32.

Division B.

(a)	and (b) The ranks a complete wheel right; counts 1 to 16.

(c) and (d) The cross a complete wheel left; counts 17 to 32.

Division C.

(a)	The ranks quarter wheel left and 4 steps forward; 8 counts.

(b)	, (c) and (d) repeat 3 times; counts 9 to 32.

Division D.

(a)	The ranks 8 steps forward; 8 counts.

(b)	The ranks half wheel left; counts 9 to 16.

(c)	Repeat (a); counts 17 to 24.

(d)	The cross half wheel left; counts 25 to 32.

part iv. (First Formation).

Division A.

(a), (b) Rank 1, 8 steps forward and 8 steps in place; 16 counts.

Rank 2, quarter wheel left, 4 steps forward and 8 steps in place.

Rank 3, half wheel left, and 8 steps in place.

Rank 4, quarter wheel left, 4 steps forward and half wheel left; 16 counts.

(c)	and (d) The ranks quarter wheel left and 12 steps in place; counts *7 to 32.

Division B.

(a)	The ranks half wheel left; 8 counts.

(b)	8 steps forward; counts 9 to 16.

(c)	The ranks half wheel left; counts 17 to 24.

(d)	8 steps forward; counts 25 to 32.

Division C.

(a)	Ranks 1 and 3, quarter wheel left and 4 steps in place.

Ranks 2 and 4, quarter wheel right and 4 steps in place; 8 counts.

(b)	Ranks 1 and 3, quarter wheel left backward and 4 steps in place. Ranks 2 and 4, quarter wheel right backward and 4 steps in place;

counts 9 to 16.

(c)	Ranks 1 and 3, quarter wheel left backward and 4 steps in place. Ranks 2 and 4, quarter wheel right backward and 4 steps in place;

counts 17 to 24.

(d)	Ranks 1 and 3, quarter wheel left forward and 4 steps in place. Ranks 2 and 4, quarter wheel right forward and 4 steps in place;

counts 25 to 32.

Division D.

(a) and (b) 8 steps backward and 8 steps in place; 16 counts.

(c) Quarter wheel right 4 steps in place and halt; counts 17 to 24.

(d) Salute; Raise right arm obliquely forward (2 counts); raise right 3iand to head (2 counts); straighten forward (2 counts); lower to side ^2 counts); counts 25 to 32.

Digitized by

Google
NUMBER 4. PANTOMIME PART FOR SCENE III.

Music: Marcia Militairc.

Part for the Little Girl and the Spirit of Education.

part 1.	(4 measures, 16 counts.)

Little girl starting left, the Spirit of Education starting right, four okip steps, bending low, four skips body high, four-low, four-high. Girl turns to right and skips right obliquely backward, 16 counts. Sp of Ed. turns to left and skips left obliquely backward, 16 counts.

part 11.	8 measures, 32 counts.

Repeat opposite. Girl Right and Spirit of Education left.

(See Illustration).

part hi. 8 measures, 32 counts.

Girl starting left obliquely forward four skip steps, makes a 4-4 turn left in four skip steps, large circle going left in four skip steps, 4-4 turn left in four skip steps, beckoning to birds and children. Starting right, obliquely forward from this point, take 4 skip steps, 4-4 turn left in 4 skip steps, 4 skip steps, 4-4 turn left and face forward moving in toward center of stage.

Spirit of Education does same opposite starting right (at this point both are up stage center.)

part iv. (8 measures, 32 counts.)

8 skip steps forward 16 counts 8 skip steps backward:

8 skip steps forward: 16 counts.

8 skip steps backward:

The children that are on the stage do Part IV. with the Little Girl and the Spirit of Education.

At the finish the girls in the Aesthetic Dance get to their places for

Digitized by boodle
8o

that dance. The little girl stands upstage left and the Spirit of Education upstage right. The birds and the other children in the background.

41 Dance des Milritons”	(Columbia Record No. 16974.)

SCENE III. DANCE V.

Introduction (4 measures, 8 counts.)

Raise arms sideward and turn head left (counts 1-4.)

Wave arms forward and turn head right (counts 5-6.)

Wave arms sideward (head right) (counts 7-8.)

(Turn the head front on the first step of the next part.)

part 1.	(32	measures,	64 counts.)

1.	Schottische obliquely left forward (arms sideward on counts 1, 2, 3, wave right arm forward on 4 (counts 1-4).

Balance hop right forward, right arm sideward, left arm overhead (counts 5-6).

Balance hop left forward, left arm sideward, right arm overhead (counts 7-8).

2.	Schottische right backward, arms sideward, counts 1-3, wave left arm forward on 4 (counts 1-4).

Repeat left backward, opposite arm (counts j-8).

3.	Front cross polka to the left, wave the left arm forward (counts

,-4).

Front cross polka to the right, wave the right arm forward (counts

5-8).

4.	Make a full turn left in three skip steps, high knees (counts 1-6). Balance hop left, facing the front (counts 7-8). During the skip

steps the arms are low in front, gradually extending sideward. On the balance hop the right arm is raised overhead.

5.	to 8. Repeat 1-4 opposite (counts 1-32).

part 11. (16 measures, 32 counts).

1.	Turn left in 8 small running steps on the toes (counts 1-8).

Digitized by CjOOQie
8i

Start the turn with both hands to the right, bring them gradually around to the left, on the finish of the turn.

2.	Repeat turn opposite, finish with weight on both feet (counts

£-8).

3.	Step right sideward, place the left foot in the rear, and bend the knees deeply (counts 1-8). Arms sideward on the step, wave arms downward and inward as knees are bent.

4.	Rise, waving arms sideward and hold (counts 1-8).

part hi. (32 measures, 64 counts). Like Part I. part iv. (32 measures, 64 counts).

1.	Four skip steps obliquely left forward, arms obliquely down and backward head thrown back (counts 1-8).

2.	Four skip steps obliquely right backward, body turned to the right, a drawing away from the oblique left forward direction, arms obliquely left forward (counts 1-8).

3. Face right, and repeat (1) directly to the right side (counts 1-8).

4. Face front and take four skip steps left sideward to original place, drawing from the direction just taken, arms right sideward (counts 1-8).

Repeat 1, 2, 3 and 4 opposite (counts 1-32).

part v. (8 measures, 16 counts).

1.	Step back left and extend right leg forward, arms sideward on counts 1-2, wave right arm forward on 3-4 (counts 1-4).

2.	Repeat right (counts 5-8) opposite arm.

Repeat left (counts 1-4).

Step right sideward and courtesy (counts 5-8). Arms sideward on the step, wave the right arm forward during the courtesy.

part vi. (32 measures, 64 counts).

Like Part I.

SCENE III. DANCE NUMBER J.

DANCE OF THE INJURED BIRD.

Introduction (4 measures). Raise arms sideward in preparation for dance).

part 1.	(10 measures).

Three steps forward, starting right, point left foot sideward and hold (1 measure). Three steps forward, starting left, point right foot sideward and hold (arms sideward). Pirouette right, step right, place left foot in rear and courtesy. Eight small running steps in small circle left, pirouette left, balance hop left (right arm upward), step back on right foot, pointing left.

part 11.	(10 measures).

Repeat Part I opposite.

part hi. (18 measures).

Balance hop right forward (left arm upward), step left backward and extend right (arms sideward). Step right in rear of left, step left sideward, bend knees slightly and step right in rear of left (bourre change’) and pirouette left.

Repeat opposite.

Balance hop right, step back left and extend right, make a full turn right in six small running steps; step right, place left foot in rear and bend deeply.

Digitized by ^ooQle
82

Repeat opposite.

part iv. (10 measures).

Repeat Part I.

part v. (10 measures).

Repeat first	four	measures of Part II	(to courtesy	right -	bending;

low), straighten	and	pirouette right. Step right and	placing	the left

foot in rear bend low. Straighten and step to right on the left foot, make a full turn right. Step on right foot and placing left foot in rear bend low. Rise and then bend to floor, holding position to end of music.

Note: The	arms	represent the wings	of the bird	and in	the arm

movements this	must	be kept in mind, a	quivering of	the arms brings

out the idea, especially in the latter part.

SCENE III. DANCE NUMBER 9.

DANCE OF FRIENDSHIP.

Music: Marcia Militaire.

part 1.	16	counts.

4 skips forward (4 counts), 4 skips backward (4 counts); 4 skips for* ward (4 counts); 4 skips backward (4 counts).

part 11.	16	counts.

Those in the half on the right of stage face right and march forward 4 steps, face right and four steps forward, face right and four steps forward, face right, mark time, (4 counts).

Same with left half in opposite direction.

part hi. (16 counts).

Repeat Part I.

part iv. (16 counts).

Repeat Part II.

PART V.

Form couples and skip off stage counter skipping right and left.

A T H L E T I C

*** EMANUEL HAUG, New York City

NEW WORLD’S RECORDS.

TRACK EVENTS.

300 yards—Allan Woodring, Syracuse University, 31	1-5 sec.;

previous record, 31 2-5 sec., made by Andrew B. Kelly, 1917. .

500 yards—Jake Driscoll, Boston A. A., 58 3-5 sec.; previous record 59 1-5 sec., made by Jake Driscoll, 1920.

2-3 miles—Mike Devaney, Millrose A. C., 2 min. 46 2-5 sec.; no previous record.

1 1-4 miles— Joie Ray, Illinois A. C., j min. 33 3-5 sec.; previous record, 5 min. 38 4-5 sec. (outdoor), made by Tony Conneff, 1895.

1 1-2 miles—Joie Ray, Illinois A. C., 6 min. 42 3-5 sec.; previous record, 6 min. 46 3-5 sec., made by Joie Ray, 1917.

3000 meters—Joie Ray, Illinois A. C., 8 min. 31 2-5 sec.; previous record 8 min. 33 1-10 sec., made by J. Zander, 1918.

Digitized by ^ooQle
»3

Running High Jump—L. T. Brown, Dartmouth, 6 ft. 4 3.4 in.;: previous record 6 ft. 4 1-2 in., made by John Murphy, 1922.

SKATING.

100 yards—Gladys Rolinson, Toronto, (International woman amateur champion), 11 2-5 sec.; previous record, 12 sec.

220 yards— Gladys Rolinson, Toronto, 22 1-5 sec.; previous -record,. 23 3-s sec.

440 yards—Arthur Staff, Chicago, 37 sec.; previous record, 37 1-5 sec., made by A. Staff.

2	miles—Arthur Staff, Chicago, Edmund Lamy, Saracuse Leek, dead heat, 5 min. 48 sec.; previous record 5 min. 51 sec., made by Edmund Lamy, 1910.

5000 meters—Harold Stroem, Norway, 8 min. 26 1-2 sec., previous* record 8 min. 27 sec., Harold Stroem, 1921.

SWIMMING RECORDS.

220 yards—Free Style (Men) John Weismuller, Illinois A. C., 2 min-17 4-j sec.; former time 2 min 194-5 sec., made by Teo Cann, Detroit A. C., 1920.

150 yards Open Back Stroke (Women)—Sybil Bauer, Illinois A. C.„ 1 min. 59 3-5 sec., former time 2 min. 10 1-5 sec., made by Ethelda Bleibtrey, New York.

100 yards Breast Stroke (Women)—Eleanor Coleman, Milwaukee A-C., 1 min. 27 sec.; former time 1 min. 27 2-5 sec., made by Dorothy Andree, Detroit.

President Alexander Meiklejohn of Amherst College in a recent address to the Alumni, assailed the present status of athletics in the colleges and universities in very definite and concise words when he said:

“The way to peace in college athletics would be opened if Harvard* or Yale or Princeton, or all three would call a conference at which they could agree to scrap their “boards of control” and especially their “armies of coaches.”

“An inter-collegiate game is, or ought to be, a contest between the undergraduates of two competing colleges. It should be managed by undergraduates, coached by undergraduates and played by undergraduates. Our national vice of over-administration has in all these respects robbed the games of proper character.”

“There is too much competition in the matter of selecting coaches-These outsiders, demanding for ten weeks’ work salaries twice those paid to our best professors for a year, formulate the rules for the games, dominate the plays and substitute for our games annual contests between themselves.”	____________________

DIAMOND TROPHY IS WON BY STEINMETZ.

Lake Placid, N. Y.—William Steinmetz, with 120 points, is officially the skating ace of America and takes to Chicago with him the Lake Placid diamond trophy. The Chicagoan completed the meet with a total of 120 points. Jewtraw came to the front and won two firsts, which gave him 115 points. Joe Moore of New York won third honors with 60 points, Charles Gormon of St. John, N. B., finished fourth with 40 and Roy McWhirter, Chicago, fifth, with 25 points.

Digitized by CjOOQle
$4

PRO SKATING TITLE IS WON BY MCLEAN.

Bobby McLean of Chicago is the new indoor speed ice skating professional champion. He won the title at Cleveland Feb. n, with 210 points to his credit, 70 points over Norval Baptie of Minneapolis, runner-nip in the two days* racing, with a score of 140 points to his credit. Ben ‘O'Sickey of Cleveland and Everett McGowan of St. Paul split third and fourth money, each scoring 120 points.

McLean won two firsts and a third the first night and won the 440-yard dash and the half-mile race, losing the two-mile event by inches to McGowan the second night. The time for the two miles was f>:oi 2-5, said to be close to a world's record for a twelve-lap track.

INTERNATIONAL CHECKER MATCH DEFEATED BY SCOTSMAN.

Glasgow, Scotland, Feb. 11 (Associated Press).—Robert Stewart, Scotch ■checkers champion, today won the international championship by defeating the American champion, Newell W. Banks of Detroit, Mich. In a series of forty games Stewart won two and Banks one, with thirty-seven games played to a draw. Two draws today ended the match.

Stewart and Banks began play on Jan. 28. The match had been hanging fire for five years, ever since Banks defeated Alfred Jordan, the English champion. At that time Stewart contested Bank's title as international champion, but refused to leave Scotland to defend his claim.

A course in athletic coaching will be offered by Pennsylvania State College next Summer as part of the work of the Summer session. Hugo Bezdek, Director of the Department of Physical Education and Athletics, will be in charge of the course. He will be assisted by C. W. Martin, track coach; R. C. Harlow, assistant football and boxing coach, and possibly B. M. Hermann, basketball coach, all of whom are members of the Department of Physical Education. The course will be of eight weeks' duration and will take up the four main sports of football, baseball, basketball and track.

ATHLETICS FOR ALL IS WAR DEPARTMENT POLICY

“Athletics for all," is the War Department's policy concerning the •value of athletics in the army, General John J. Pershing said in a letter read at a meeting of Presidents of Illinois colleges at Northwestern University, Feb. 21.

“Our experience in the world war taught us that the general physical standing of the youths and men of this country was far below that upon which we, as one of the leading nations in athletic participation, had prided ourselves," said the letter. In reply to your request for the War Department's estimate of the value of the mass type of athletic endeavors, I can assure you we feel it essential for the upbuilding of the physical standards of the country that every athletic program should be so arranged as to reach every individual of the unit for which the program is prepared."

Digitized by Google
YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS FIFTEENTH ANNUAL FIELD'

DAY, MAY 27, 1922.

A. MASS DRILL FOR PUPILS OF THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

Note—Each school may have a group of any multiple of four from 16 to 32, arranged in fours, th.e taller ones on the right. They will march forward in closed ranks, and upon command, open ranks sideward in 12 counts.

Music: “Marcia Militaire” - Vessella. Victor Record No. 35258. (Record should be played at 72 revolutions per minute.)

Introduction—(8 measures - 16 counts).

Stand at attention 1-4; 4 marching steps in place beginning left»-5-8; two closing steps left sideward, raising arms sideward, 9-12; two closing steps right sideward lowering arms on last count, 13-16.

part 1	(32	measures - 64 counts.)

A.	1. Place hands on shoulders, 1-2; straighten arms forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Place hands on shoulders, 1-2; straighten arms sideward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

3. Repeat No. 1, 1-8.

4. Repeat No. 2, 1-8.

B.	1. Stride left forward and place hands on shoulders, 1-2; straighten arms forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Stride left sideward and place hands on shoulders, 1-2; straighten arms sideward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

3.	Repeat No. 1, but stride right forward, 1-8.

4.	Repeat No. 2, but stride right sideward, 1-8.

part 11.	(32	measures, 64 counts.)

A.	1. Raise arms fore-upward, 1-2; lower sideward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Beginning with the left foot, 7 marching steps forward, 1-8.

3.	Repeat No. 1, 1-8.

4.	Beginning with the left foot, 7 marching steps backward, 1-8.

B.	1. Raise arms sideupward, 1-2; lower forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6;. return, 7-8.

2.	Four closing steps left sideward, 1-8.

3.	Repeat No. 1, 1-8.

4.	Four closing steps right sideward, 1-8.

intermission (4 measures, 8 counts.)

Stand at attention, 1-6; bend arms upward, 7; hold position, 8. part hi. (32 measures, 64 counts.)

A. 1. Stride left sideward and straighten arms upward, 1-2; turn trunk-left and lower arms forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

Digitized by Google
86

2.	Repeat No. i, but to the right, 1-8.

3. Repeat No. 1, 1-8.

4. Repeat No. 2, 1-8.

B. 1. Lunge left sideward and straighten arms upward, 1-2; turn trunk left and lower arms forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Repeat No. 1, but to the right, 1-8.

3.	Repeat No. 1, 1-8.

4.	Repeat No. 2, returning to the fundamental standing position, lowering arms foredownward, on count No. 7, 1-8.

interlude (16 measures, 32 counts.)

Four marching steps in place, 1-4; close ranks through forward marching, 5-8; full wheel left, 9-24; open ranks through forward marching, 25-28; four marching steps in place (bending arms upward on count No. 3l> 29~32-

part iv. (16 measures, 32 counts.)

1.	Lunge left sideward and straighten arms upward, 1-2; turn trunk

left, bend trunk forward and lower arms forward, 3-4; reverse, *-6; return, 7-8.	J

2.	Repeat No. 1, but to the right, 1-8.

3.	Repeat No. 1, 1-8.

4.	Repeat No. 2, returning to the fundamental standing position, lowering arms foredownward on count No. 7, 1-8.

introduction. (8 measures, 16 counts.)

Repeat the Introduction at the beginning of the Drill. part v. (32 measures, 64 counts.)

A.	1. Lunge left forward and place hands on shoulders, 1-2; straighten arms forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Lunge left sideward and place hands on shoulders, 1-2; straighten arms sideward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

3.	Repeat	No.	1,	but	lunge	right forward,	1-8.

4.	Repeat	No.	2,	but	lunge	right sideward,	1-8.

B.	1. Lunge left forward and place hands on shoulders, 1-2; bend trunk forward and straighten arms forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

2.	Lunge left sideward and place hands on shoulders, 1-2; bend trunk left sideward and straighten arms sideward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

3.	Repeat	No.	1	but	to the	right, 1-8.

4.	Repeat	No.	2,	but	to the	right, 1-8.

part vi. (32 measures, 64 counts.)

Same as part ii.

B. DANCE FOR GIRLS.

Note:	Each	school may have a group of 16 to 32 girls (the number

must be a multiple of four), arranged in ranks of four. They will march forward in closed ranks and upon command open ranks left sideward in 12 counts. (Arms at sides). Each rank is numbered from the right

1, 2, 3, 4.

Music: Violets Mazurka (Columbia Record A-7518.) (Mazurka rhythm - 3 counts to each measure.)

Introduction: 4 measures and chord. On the chord raise the arms sideward.

Digitized by boogie
A.

»7

part i. (32 measures.)

a)	1. Beginning left, three running	steps forward (arms sideward) 1	M

2.	Balance hop right forward (left	arm overhead) .............. 1	M

3.	Balance step left sideward, right foot front of left (Wave right

arm forward, left arm sideward) .................................... 1	M

4.	Balance step right sideward, left foot front of right (wave

left arm forward, right arm sideward) .............................. 1	M

b)	Repeat a) .................................................   4	M

c)	1. Mazurka step left sideward (right arm overhead, left

knuckles at waist) .................................................  1	M

2.	Two steps in place, left, right (knuckles at waist) ........ 1	M

3.	Mazurka step left sideward (right arm overhead, left knuckles

At waist) .......................................................... 1	M

4.	Two steps in place, left, right (knuckles at waist) ........... iM

d)	1. Three steps backward, left, right, left (arms sideward)....	1	M

2.	Two steps	backward, right, left and hold	(arms sideward)	..	1	M

3.	Swing hop	right sideward (wave left arm	forward) .........  1	M

4.	Swing hop	left sideward (wave right arm	forward) ......... 1	M

B. Repeat A opposite ..................................................16M

part 11.	(32	measures.)

A.

a) Three step turn left (wave arms forward and sideward), place the right foot in rear of left and hold (right arm over head, left arm

sideward) ........................................................... 4	M

b)	Repeat a) opposite .......................................... 4	M

c)	1. Mazurka left sideward (right arm overhead, left knuckles

at waist) ...........................................................  1	M

2.	Two steps in place, left, right (knuckles at waist) ......... 1	M

3.	Mazurka left sideward (right arm over head, left knuckles at

waist ............................................................... 1	M

4.	Two steps in place (knuckles at waist) ...................... 1	M

d)	Step left sideward, step right in rear of left, knees bent, step

left sideward and curtesy (arms sideward) ........................... 4	M

B.	Repeat A opposite ...........................................16M

part hi. (16 measures.)

Like A of Part I except the last two measures, for which substitute a two step turn right sideward (wave arms forward and sideward) and balance hop right forward (left arm over head, right arm sideward.) part iv. (32 measures.)

A.

a)	Beginning with left foot, circle counter clockwise (5 ft. circle with 12 running steps, emphasizing the first of every three steps .. . 4 M

(On the first measure, wave the right arm forward, on the second the left arm, on the third, the right arm and on the fourth, the left arm.)

b)	1. Swing hop left sideward (wave right arm forward, left

arm sideward) .................................................... 1	M

2.	Swing hop right sideward (wave left arm forward, right arm sideward) ......................................................... 1	M

Digitized by (^.ooQle
88

3- Two step turn left (wave arms forward and sideward) ...... i M

4. Balance hop left forward (right arm overhead, right arm side-

ward) ............................................................... 1	M

c. Repeat a) opposite (circle clockwise) .......................  4	M

d) Repeat b) opposite ........................................... 4	M

B.

a)	Nos. 1 and 2 and Nos. 3 and 4 face one another, join both

hands and repeat a) of A of Part IV. (Circle counter-clockwise) ... 4	M

b)	Release hands, face front and repeat b) of A ................ 4	M

c)	Repeat a) of this part opposite (circle clockwise) .......... 4	M

d)	Repeat b) opposite............................................ 4	M

part v. (32 measures.)

Repeat Part I.

part vi. (32 measures.)

Repeat Part II.

part vii. (16 measures.)

Repeat Part III.

N OTES AND COMMENT^

.  .. ..........— ———	— — ■ •

In this issue we reprint Dr. Eugene Lyman Fisk’s article on “Preventable Diseases of Adult Life.” We hope that our readers will not only read but will study this article. It deserves the study of all teachers who do more than teach exercises. “Universal physical training and education in our schools, and in early adult life,” says Dr. Fisk, “properly conducted and safe guarded as to organization for hygienic and corrective work, will, in my judgment, go further in solving these problems of preventable diseases of adult life than any other measure that could be enacted.” Dr. Fisk believes that by means of proper exercise we can, through the schools, do in a short time what it might otherwise take generations to accomplish. Naturally this will mean a broadening of the work done in some of our normal schools of physical education. It also means that teachers of physical education, like our foremost physicians, will need to take post graduate courses in such sciences as physiology, biology, applied anatomy and the related sciences so as be fully qualified to give the kind of exercise demanded by exceptional conditions.

The Amateur Athletic Union will ask its 2,000 member clubs to set aside part of the proceeds from all athletic games in the next two years as voluntary contributions to the fund to finance the next American Olympic team. President Wm. C. Pront of the A. A. U. suggests that 5% of the net proceeds would be a fair amount. The Olympic Committee then could know well in advance the state of its prospective finances and plan accordingly.

Digitized by LjOOQle
89

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION NATIONAL CONVENTION, DETROIT, MICH., MAY 3 to 6, 1922.

Tentative Program. Hotel Statler.

Wednesday, May 3rd.

Reception. Address by the President.

Thursday, May 4th.

9 to 12 o’clock—

General Session. Topic: Objectives.

Speakers:	Dr.	Marion	L. Burton, University of Michigan., Dr. Clark

W. Hetherington, S. A. Courtis, Detroit, Mich.

2 to 4 o’clock—

Sectional Meetings.

Therapeutic Section.

American Gymnastic Union Section.

Playground and* Recreation Section.

8	to 10 o’clock—

Banquet. Recreation Program.

Friday, May 5th—

9	to 12 o’clock—

General Session. Topic: Teacher Training.

Speakers: Miss Mabel Cummings, Wellesley College, Dr. Clark W. Hetherington.

2 to 4 o’clock—

Sectional Meetings.

Public Schools Section.

Women’s Colleges Section.

Y. M. C. A. Section.

8	to 10 o’clock—

Exhibition of Physical Training Work, Public Schools.

Saturday, May 6th—

9	to 12 o’clock—(See official program.)

PROGRAMS OF SECTIONAL MEETINGS.

American Gymnastic Union Section.

Thursday, May 4th, 2 P. M.

Chairman: Carl B. Sputh, M. D., Indianapolis.

Topic: “Average Performances of Different Age Groups in Fundamental Activities.”

Results of an Inquiry Among the Societies of the A. G. U.

Age Groups: 6 to 10; 11 to 14; 15 to 18.

Classes; Boys and Girls.

Activities: Running, Jumping, Throwing and Climbing Discussion. public schools section, Friday, May 5th, 2 P. M.

William A. Stecher, Philadelphia, Chairman.

Topic:	“The	Aims	of Physical Education in Public Schools.

1.	What the State Expects from Local Schools.

a)	In the Elementary Schools:—Floyd A. Rowe, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, State of Michigan.

b)	In the Higher Schools—Carl L. Schrader, Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, State of Massachusetts.

2.	What the Local Schools Expect From the State—

Digitized by i^ooQie
90

Herman J. Norton, Rochester, N. Y.

A.	E. Kindervater, St. Louis, Mo.

3.	Discussion from the floor limited to five minute addresses.

4.	Report of the Nominating Committee. Election of chairman for the next convention.

Edward Mussey Hartwell, Boston; Miami Medical College, Cincinnati, 1882; secretary of the statistics department, City Hall, Boston; died, February 19, at Jamaica Plain. Dr. Hartwell was born in Exeter, N. H., in 1850, and received his Ph. D. at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 1881; former vice principal of the high school at Orange, N. J., and teacher at the Boston Latin School; associate physical training, and director of the gymnasium at Johns Hopkins University, 1879-1880; chairman of the Massachusetts Commission for the Blind; served as special expert agent of the U. S. Department of Labor in Europe, 1888-1889; member of the Boston Society for Medical Improvement and the American Statistic Association.

PRELIMINARY REPORT OF FIFTH NATIONAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION CONFERENCE.

Bureau of Education Department of the Interior.

The Fifth National Conference on Physical Education, held in Chicago February 28th, brought together a group of 300 people interested in the advancement of physical education. The meeting was called by the U. Sr Commissioner of Education, J. J. Tigert, and was conducted as a joint affair with the National Council of State Departments of Education.

Dr. Willard S. Small of the U. S. Bureau of Education presided and opened the discussion. Dr. Small explained the calling of the first National Physical Education Conference at Atlantic City in February 1918, as a means of initiating a nation-wide forward movement to extend physical education, including health training for school children as a most fundamental means of attacking the unsatisfactory conditions revealed by the draft statistics. He pointed out that while originally called for the purpose of focussing in a united campaign the energies of all interested organizations and individuals, the conference had come to serve the additional purpose of bringing to the attention of the Superintendents of Education the importance and significance of physical education in the broad program of education.

Superintendent Will C. Wood of California followed with an admirable discussion of the place of physical education in the broad program of public education. Superintendent Wood laid before the conference the significance of physical education as a means of character training, as well as health training; and for guidance in the right use of the rapidly increasing amount of leisure time available for the American people. He reported that in California 12 County Supervisors of Physical Education were employed during 1921 as contrasted with none employed in 1920; the total expenditures from State funds for physical education was increased from ^736,000 in 1920 to $866,000 in 1921.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
91

The U. S. Commissioner of Education, J. J. Tigert, outlined the progress of physical education throughout the world, pointing out that 16 nations now have laws for the universal extension of physical education. Mr. Tigert, in a very interesting way, dwelt upon his own exper-ience in athletics and stressed the significance of physical education as a means of character training. The Commissioner commented upon the fact that in those nations such as Denmark and Sweden, where a full program of physical education has been in vogue for a number of years, the records show a relatively high average of health and normal physical development prevailing among the school chijdren.

Mrs. Ira Couch Wood, Director of Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Child Welfare Association, demanded more adeqaute attention to the training of school children in healthful habits with reference to nourishment, rest, etc., and deplored a tendency in some quarters to regard physical education activities as a cure-all for physical deficiency.

(Note by Editor: Our observations point in the opposite direction. To us it appears that there is an increasing tendency in many quarters to be satisfied with medical inspection and nurses, with nutritional clinics, with cleanliness inspections, posture tests, health crusades, etc., etc., and to overlook the fact that while many of these activities are good, and some are necessary, the fundamental thing (so far as physical education is concerned) is to give children good, hard muscular work of an enjoyable character. We also fear that there is an increasing tendency to overlook the fact that it takes a well trained teacher of physical* education to get results that are worthwhile, and that only in exceptional cases is a class room teacher capable of giving physical training work that really deserves this name, and that does not degenerate into a lecture course.)

The final address of the afternoon was given by E. Dana Caulkins, Manager of the National Physical Education Service. Mr. Caulkins, who is organizing the nation wide campaign for State and Federal Legislation for Physical Education, reported 28 States now having physical education laws effective in greater or less degree. He pointed out that the increase in appropriations and the application of physical education laws during the past four years has been very rapid, but that as yet not more than i-ioth of the children of the nation are receiving anything like adequate physical education, including health training. The point was made that only through National co-operation with the States could there be any early hope of the realization of universal physical education in the United States. Attention was called to the fact that legislation is now pending in Congress which would initiate the program of National stimulation for physical education. Reference was also made to the fact that leaders in both of the major political parties stressed the importance of universal physical education during the Presidential campaigns of 1920.

At the end of the conference, a unanimous vote was taken requesting the U. S. Commissioner of Education and the Officers of the National Council of State Departments of Education to arrange for a similar joint conference at the next meeting of the Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association.

Digitized by LjOOQle
92

BOOK REVIEWS.

“school grounds and play”, by Henry T. Curtis. A 32 page pamp-let 6 by 9 inches, published by the Bureau of Education, Washington as Bulletin No. 45, 1921.

In this bulletin Dr. Curtis has gathered much valuable information relative to school grounds and to play. New state laws are discussed, the area of school grounds, surfacing, supplies, equipments, etc., •etc. are spoken of in a practical manner that will be very helpful for all seeking information. Copies of the pamphlet may be had at 5 cents each from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

“baseball notes for coaches and players” by Elmer Barry. 86 pps., 6 by 9 inches, fully illustrated. Price $2.00. Published by A. L. Barnes and Company, New York.

This is a second edition of Mr. Berry's wellknown book on our national game. The edition contains considerable new material that will be very valuable not only to coaches but also to players. It is the best reference book on the subject, and it should be included in the library of every teacher of physical education.

“basket ball technique”, by Miller & Chandler, a 156 page book of Detailed Instruction on Basket Ball Coaching, containing seventeen chapters or sub-divisions and twenty-five illustrated diagrams, price $1.50. Published by George F. Miller, Menomonie, Wisconsin.

The pages are four and one-half by six and one-half inches of substantial paper, in large and clear print, with a heavy paper binding. This publication fills a long existing demand for detailed and authoritive. information on the greatest of indoor games. The authors are modest and frank in their statement of the sources of tl^e information which they present. The various topics or subdivisions are arranged in a practical and pedagogical manner. There is no superfluous reading matter, everything is information, and is accurately presented. The information on passing and receiving the ball is worth the price of the book. The diagrams are clear and the explanations allow for the injection of pet theories and formations by the individuals so desiring. The matter is so presented that it is applicable to the college, high school or professional game. The most commendable feature is the absolute absence of anything insinuating or offensive to the letter or spirit of the rules of the game or competition. Throughout the book the authors display thorough knowledge of organization and physical education. The binding is hardly substantial enough for a book which is bound to be received with great popularity and require so much handling.

Philip G. Lewis.

Supervisor of Physical Education, Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa. President of the Philadelphia Board of Approved Basket Ball Officials.

“syllabus of physical education for elementiary grades” for the Public Schools of Cleveland Ohio. 58 pages, 6 by 9 inches, paper cover. Price 50 cents. Director of Publications, Cleveland Board of Education.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
93

The director states that a limited number of single copies can be furnished to interested persons. The work in the booklet is clearly pre-* sented and should easily be administered by class room teachers. For grades one and two there are many suggestions of story plays, singing games, rhythmic exercises, etc. that will be of value to teachers looking for help along these lines.

“the American swimmer” is the name of a new monthly periodical1 devoted to the interests of water sports. Its subscription price is $1.00 a year. Published by the American Swimmer Publishing Co. 321 Little Building, Boston, Mass. Mr. W. E. Longfellow is editor. The fact that Commodore Longfellow heads this new venture will be assurance that the publication will be certain to fill the needs of this branch of physical education that at last seems to be coming into its rights.

“the play movement in the united states” by Clarence E. Rainwater, Ph. D., 371 pages, 5^ by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by the University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 111. Price $2.75.

In the preface the author states that this study of the play movement was accepted as part of the requirements for the doctor’s degree at the University of Chicago. The work is an analysis of the play movement in the United States. Much data and information that is scattered among various publications is here brought together in a form that will be very valuable to all who wish to know more of the origin and history of play in our country. To teachers of physical education it may appear strange that our national publication, i. e. the “American Physical Education Review” never is mentioned as a source of information, neither did “Mind and Body” receive even passing notice, although both publications would have been useful to the author.

“nutrition and growth in children” by William R. P. Emerson* M. D. 342 pages by Syi inches, illustrated. Price {2.50. Published by D. Appleton and Company, New York.

The author is professor of Pedriatics in Tufts College Medical school.. In the subject so ably treated in this book he is a pioneer. He was the first to lay proper emphasis on the other important factors besides diet. In the present book he offers to parents, teachers, social workers, and physicians the results of his rich and successful experience. In simple,, practical terms he describes the causes of malnutrition in growing children and shows how the condition may be detected. He describes fully the method of cure, which involves problems of physical defects, fatigue,, home control and health habits, as well as diet and food habits. Finally, he outlines a complete and practical nutrition program for the home, the school and the community.

It is interesting to note that recent investigations in Europe, where-the problem of undernutrition of children is being studied with such care, have shown that Dr. Emerson is right and that nutrition alone will not solve the question of growth in children. It has been discovered there that a diet less in caloric value if coupled with living out of doors results in a greater weight increase than a high caloric diet without outdoor exercise.

The book is warmly recommended not only to teachers but also to intelligent parents who are looking for a sane guide in this subjec .

Digitized by v^ooQle
*4

“an elementary manual of physiology” by Dr. Russell Burton-Opitz. 411 pages, 5>£ by 8 inches, fully illustrated. Published by

W.	B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia. Price $2.50.

In the present book Dr. Burton-Opitz, the wellknown physiologist> has written a manual for normal schools of physical education and of practical arts, also for schools of nursing and for general use in colleges. For a number of years the author has been giving courses in elementary physiology to students in Columbia University. The publication of this book has been stimulated by the desire to supply these students with a text presenting the subject-matter of physiology in as simple and logical a manner as possible. In this the author has succeeded. Part I treats of the physiology of muscle and nerve; part 2 of the circulation of the blood and lymph; part 3 of respiration; part 4 of nutrition; part 5 of the nervous system and part 6 of the sense organs. The book can be recommended for adoption to all training schools.

N. W. GYMNASTIC MEET.

The twelfth annual contest of the Northwestern Gymnastic Society held at the University of Minnesota March 25, was won by the Turn-verein St. Paul. St. Olaf College stood second, the Knights of Columbus were third, Stout Institute fourth and University of Minnesota fifth.

Fifteen teams from Minnesota, Wisconsin and Iowa, numbering 185 competitors, took part in the competition on the horizontal bar, parallel bars, side horse, flying rings, in tumbling and in club swinging.

The individual all-around championship was won by Ernest F. Carlson of the University of Minnesota for the fourth time; Lawrence Carlson, also of the Minnesota team, stood second, Gust Jurecka, of the New Prague Sokol Society, was third, Walter Porth and Herbert Schmidt of the University of Wisconsin fourth and fifth, Ernest Carlson took first place on the horizontal bar, parallel bars and rings, Theodore Stevens of Wisconsin won the side horse event, Lawrence Carlson of Minnesota captured the tumbling honors, and A. Froehlingsdorf of the Knights of Columbus won the club swinging.

The Class B. championship went to W. Perlt, Turnverein St. Paul, C. Matson, Knights of Columbus, was second, and H. Perlt, of the Turners Third. The Perlt boys won the same places at last year’s meet.

In Class C, the novice division, T. F. Dahle, Augsberg Seminary, stood first, Charles Leighton, South High School, second, and F. Stettler Turnverein St. Paul, third.

A feature of the program was the display of pyramids upon gymnastic apparatus by 150 men and women from the Turnverein St. Paul, and a calisthenic drill and march by a class of 100 ladies from the Knights of Columbus.

THE WAIL OF THE WELL.

Johnny Jones has lost a leg, Fanny's deaf and dumb, Marie has epileptic fits, Tom's eyes are on the bum. Sadie stutters when she talks, Mabel has T. B.,

Digitized by Google
95

Morris is a splendid case of imbecility.

Billy Brown's a truant, and Harold is a thief,

Teddy's parents gave him dope and so he came to grief. Gwendoline a millionaire, Jerald is a fool,

So every one of these darn kids goes to a special school.

They've specially nice teachers, and special things to wear,

And special time to play in, and a special kind of air;

They've special lunches, right in school, while I—it makes me wild! I haven's any specialties, I'm just a normal child.

—May Ayres) in The American School Board Journal.

WANTED—The following copies of MIND AND BODY:

1905 -	Vol.	12	-	No.	141	November.

1908	-	Vol.	15	-	No.	167	March.

1909	-	Vol.	16	-	No.	179	- 80 May and June.

1910	-	Vol.	17	-	No.	193	to 197 November	to March,	1911.

1914	-	Vol.	21	-	No.	227	March.

1915	~	Vol.	22	-	No.	238	April.

1919	-	Vol.	26	-	No.	275	January and 284	December,	1919.

1920	-	Vol.	27	-	No.	287	March, 289 May,	294 December.

Notify Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minn.

SUMMER SCHOOL IN CAMP at Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin

July 3 to August 5, 1922 Beautiful Location — First Class Camping Equipment Courses in Physical Education



For full Information and Illustrated Catalog Address NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE GYMNASTIC UNION

Digitized by boogie
96

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULA-TION, ETC., Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for April 1, 1922.

STATE OF MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of the owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minn. EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.

BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

2.	That the owners are: Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.; Albert Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.; H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security

holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are:	NONE.

4.	That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner.

Affirmed and subscribed before me this 31st day of March, 1922.

A. L. GAG,

(My commission expires November 1, 1925.)

Digitized by v^ooQle
OPPORTUNITY TO SECURE GOOD PLAYGROUND TEXTBOOK AT LOW COST

This offer is of special advantage to schools of physical training and Playground authorities because of the low price in quantity.

The 136 page book discusses playground management and rules for playground workers. It also gives suggested programs for each day and for special days, as 4th of July etc., besides: Singing Games and Folk Dances Ring and other simple games Rules tor Team games Rules for Athletics

Instruction for Sand Pile and Sand Table Lists of suitable stories.

Single copy — $.75 Ten copies — $6.00 Fifty copies — $25.00 These booVs are being sold because the Board of Education of Cincinnati has a larger number on hand than are needed for local use.

Write to Dr. Carl Ziegler, Board of Education, Denton Building, Cincinnati, Ohio.

One More Boys* Camp in Maine

But it is Unique We give boys the best and cleanest life that our professional knowledge plus our professional interest can provide. We offer athletics and sports, both land and water, radio classes, target practise and hiking.

Address:	Lt.	John	J.	O’Leary,	Asst.	Supervisor, Phys. Ed.

MT. VERNON, N. Y.

Mrs Emma Fitts O’Leary, Asst. Supervisor Phys. Ed.

WHITE PLAINS, N. Y.

INTERNATIONAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION COLLEGE Springfield, Massachusetts

J. H. McCurdy, M. D., Director

Equipment—Four Athletic Fields. Two Gybinasiums, Na-tatorium, Boat House, Laboratories, Largest Physical Education Library in Existence.

Courses—Four-year course for high school graduates. Two-year course for college graduates. Degrees granted, B. P. E. and M. P. E. (Bachelor and Master of Physical Education.)

Trains Christian men for leadership in physical education.

For information address—Elmer Berry, Associate Director.

Summer Session - June 26 to July 28

Intensive Credit courses in Physical Education, Theory, and Practical Gymnastics. School of Coaching in Football, Baseball Basket Ball, Track, Soccer, Swimming, Wrestling and Boxing.

Public School Physical Education Course fitting for State certificates. School of Woodcraft.

For information address—Elmer Berry, Director Summer School.
INTERNATIONAL POCKET LIBRARY

STANDARD $0.50

BOOKS L

DO you know that the fashion in which books are issued in this country is quite different from that adopted abroad ? In England and Ireland to a large extent, in France, Italy, Spain, Russia, and in Latin-America, the best books are issued in popular editions. Millions of books are sold in this form —the best new boc ks and the best works of all kinds of standard literature. Why? Because the bookbuyer abroad has learned to prefer good paper and print AT A LOW PRICE, to cheap make-up in a fancy binding. Think of it! You can buy the ordinary new book abroad for 25 to 50 cents, while in this country it co<ts from $1.00 to $2.00. In other words, you pay a tremendously disproportionate price for costly bindings.

Books by Famous Authors Kipling, Tagore, Wilde, Blasco Ibanez, Etc.

THE INTERNATIONAL POCKET LIBRARY is bound in the bert Continental style with a heavy waterproof art cover, and gives you the benefit of an extremely low price. For $2.50you can buy all TEN. titles of the first series of the e really remarkable books!

In any other form they would cost you $10.00 to $15.00. Glance at the list of titles, note th^ important introductions in many of the volumes, and remember that these are not cheap pamphlets or novelties, but a c refully edited library of good literature.

INTERNATIONAL POCKET LIBRARY Edited by Edmund R. Brown

First Series MADEMOISELLE FIFI and other stories

Guy de Maupassant

Introduction by Joseph Conrad

TALES	Rudyard	Kipling

Introduction by Wilson Follett THE GOLD-BUG and other stories

Edgar Allan Poe A SHROPSHIRE LAD	A.	E.	Housman

Preface by William Stanley Braithwaite

TWO WESSEX TALES	Thomas Hardy

Foreword by Conrmd Aiken

IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST

Oscar Wilde

MODERN RUSSIAN CLASSICS

Stories by Andreyev, Gorki, Tchekor, Sologub, and Artzibashev Introduction by Isaac Goldberg THE LAST LION Vicente Blasco Ibanez

Foreword by Mariano Joaquin l.orente

BY VIOLENCE	John	Trerena

Preface by Edward J. O’Brien CIT AN JA LI	Rabindranath T agora

Preface by William Butler Yeats

THIS COUPON WITH $2.50 WILL INSURE IMMEDIATE DELIVERY OF THE SET POSTPAID

THE FOUR SEAS COMPANY,

Copley Theatre Bldg.,

Boston, Mass.

Please send me the complete set of TEN books of the International Pocket Library. I enclose $J.50 to pay for the enure set.

Name.............................................................

Street..........................................................

Piace ............................................................. MB

Digitized by L^OOQle