MIND AND BODY

Vol. 38	JANUARY, 1932 No.	401

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as secondrclass matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^

EMERGENCY NUTRITION.

By Henry C. Sherman, Columbia University

Experts differ in some details of their views on the feeding of children. But the differences are rather in emphasis than in essentials. Some emphasize more strongly the dominant place of the few most important foods, while others give more emphasis to the doctrine of diversification of the child’s diet.

Such differences pale into insignificance when we are faced with the statement on the high authority of Miss Grace Abbott that great numbers of children all over the country are now living in such destitution as cannot but leave them weakened and injured for life.

With needs so urgent, with so many people so near our doors suffering so severely, it is a time for those who to really share their means with those who have not. Perfunctory giving is better than none; but not sufficient. There is need for perfunctory givers to rise to the plane of generosity, and for

Reprinted from the Child Health Bulletin, November, 1931, and copyrighted by the American Child Health Association, 450 Seventh Ave., New York City

Digitized by v^ooQle
718

those who have already learned to give generously to raise their giving now, during this emergency, into the realm of sacrifice. A little temporary sacrifice on the part of the more fortunate now can well make the difference between a lifetime of weakness and misery and a lifetime of usefulness and self-respecting Americanism for many a child.

Adequate relief and reasonable security will not be permanently denied. People will give as they come to realize the real need.

Meantime what is the relief worker to advise, or the intelligent but destitute mother to do, in such times and places as there simply is not money at hand to feed a child according to even the more economical of adequate standards?

When and while standards can not be maintained, where and how can retrenchment be made in the feeding of the child with least danger of inflicting a lasting injury?

The guiding principle, I think, is to provide those nutritional essentials of which a shortage tends to permanent injury, and to do this [while necessary] even at the cost of a sacrifice of other features of the dietary which are normally desirable but not absolutely essential. During the acute emergency, all available sources of economical food should be utilized but money need not be spent in diversifying the diet merely for the sake of variety. Let no one be misled by the extravagant phrase “deadly monotony.” No deaths are ever caused by monotony of diet if the diet, however simple and cheap, provides the actually necessary nutrients; while shortages of these nutrients do cause all too many deaths, if not directly then by lowering the resistance to disease.

The food problem of the unemployment emergency presents itself primarily in the form of the question, What best to do with an inadequate amount of money?

Advice may, therefore, perhaps best be given in terms of the spending of such money as is at hand. One suggestion which seems to have been widely useful, first formulated, I think, by Miss Lucy Gillett, is:

‘‘Divide the food money into fifths: one fifth, more or less, for vegetables and fruits; one fifth, or more, for milk and cheese; one fifth, or less, for meats, fish and eggs; one fifth, or more, for bread and cereals; one fifth, or less, for fats, sugar and other groceries.”

It will be noted that this does not propose invariable division into fifths but indicates the direction which variation may wisely take—one fifth or more for some groups; one fifth or less for others.

Miss Gillett tells me that her experience indicates, that approximate division of the food money into fifths works well at fairly comfortable levels of expenditure; but that in the food

Digitized by kjOOQle
719

budget of the typical low-income family it is necessary to use more than one-fifth, often one-third of the food money, for milk in order to provide the amount of milk that the children of such a family actually need.

When shortage of money forces expenditure for food to an abnormally low level, more than one-fifth [perhaps one-third] should therefore be spent for milk in some form; and the suggestion of one-fifth for fruit and vegetables should if possible be maintained, but with selection probably limited to the cheaper sorts so as to get the most food value for the money; at least one-fifth [of the reduced expenditure] may well go for breadstuffs and cheap forms of cereal since a penny spent here will go farthest to meet the actual pangs of hunger; the greater part of the retrenchment should fall upon the other two fifths of the above grouping. One can forego flesh, fish and fowl, and sweets, and most of the sweetened and shortened products of the bakery, and most of the miscellaneous foods bought in the grocery, if one gets enough of milk in some form and of some fruit or vegetable to provide the absolutely essential mineral elements and vitamins, and if to these foods enough breadstuff be added to prevent actual weakness from hunger. Almost always the other foods are less economical in meeting these absolute nutritional needs.

Thus if forced below reasonable standards to bare essentials, we may, in the light of our present knowledge of nutrition, most wisely meet the emergency by concentrating our attention upon efforts to provide these three essential groups of foods: [1] milk and its products, [2] fruit and-or vegetables, [3] bread and other cheap sources of calories.

Let retrenchment of expenditure take the form, first, of foregoing the purchase of the foods of other groups, and next of selecting the cheaper or cheapest forms or articles within each of the three groups just mentioned as essential. This may involve some shocks .to prejudices and even to what in normal times we rightly regard as standards; but we are dealing here with the question of meeting a dire emergency. From certain standpoints two forms or kinds of milk may seem worlds apart; but any kind of milk .is nutritionally more like any other kind of milk than is any other food. A crisp green vegetable or a juicy fruit may seem much preferable to a potato but with expenditure forced to a sufficiently low level, the cheapest vegetable to be had can carry the nutritional responsibility for the whole group of fruits and vegetables during an emergency period.

If there are times and places of such dire destitution that sacrifices must be made even among the three bare essentials of bread, milk and some fruit or vegetable, each in the cheapest available form, what then?

Shall obvious hunger and a starved appearance lead to the crowding out of milk by bread because a penny spent for bread goes farther to still the pangs of hunger? To go too far in this

Digitized by booQle
720

direction is to incur the even greater tragedy of the life-long injuries which result from the “hidden hunger” of the mineral and vitamin deficiencies. “Milk builds bone and muscle better than any other food.” And more than this, milk is both the cheapest and the surest protection from the nutritional deficiencies which open the way to diseases and life-long injuries to health, happiness, and working efficiency.

‘“The dietary should be built around bread and milk.” The lower the level of expenditure, the more one must forego other foods and concentrate effort upon providing these two, supplemented by a little of some inexpensive fruit or vegetable.

This is the teaching of our present knowledge of nutrition, reduced to its barest terms of the meeting of a real emergency— an emergency such as we must believe and resolve shall not last long nor recur often but during which there may be need for a time and in some places, to face frankly the fact that reasonable standards are temporarily out of reach and that while the tragedy lasts one must guide, with what wisdom one may, the expenditure of inadequate funds for food in such ways that the children affected may be brought through without life-long injuries so that even if body weights are subnormal for a time there may still be a basis of sound bone and lean tissue to permit of complete nutritional rehabilitation with the coming of better days.

REFERENCES

Adequate Diets for Families with Limited Incomes. Hazel K. Stiebeling and Miriam Birdseye, United States Department of Agriculture. Miscellaneous Publication No. 113. Government Printing Office. 1931. 16p. 5 cents.

The Family’s Food at Low Cost. Hazel K. Stiebeling and Miriam Birdseye, United States Department of Agriculture; and Clyde B. Schuman, American Red Cross. 1931. 4-page leaflet. Free. Office of Information, Department of Agriculture.

DEVILS, DRUGS AND DOCTORS.

By Howard W. Haggard, M. D. Associate Professor of Physiology, Yale University.

The world is changing; it always has been changing. But most of the changes escape our attention. We fail to see them because we are adaptable. If the change about us is gradual, we adapt ourselves to the altered surroundings without perceiving the alteration unless we are especially watching for it. It is only when the change is abrupt, beyond our limits of immediate adjustment, that it strikes our attention forcibly.

The slow process of social evolution goes on about us, unperceived except by those who are particularly interested, who

Extracts from “Health and Education”, copyright by Eastman Kodak Co.

Digitized by kjOOQle
721

watch it and study it. Yet this gradual movement, in the course of years, brings about changes more profound than the upheavals resulting from fiercely fought wars.

Are you curious about the romantic past of today’s commonplace? If you are, what thoughts are conjured into your mind by the public school? That institution is certainly a commonplace one to all of us. But what a tempestuous past lies behind it, and even now when it seems a stable institution, it changes year by year. Are you conscious of its changes? Do you take part in its developments leading toward better schools? Or has its change been imperceptible to you? What thoughts are brought to your mind by the statement that one day of this year’s National Education Week was devoted to the topic of “Child Health”?

National Education Week

National Education Week is the time especially, devoted to bringing parents into closer contact with the school system. The doors of the school, always open to the parent, will be thrown back even wider this week, and to each mother and father there is an urgent invitation to visit the school in an effort to further the cooperation between parent and teacher, between family and school.

Cooperation between the American home and American school is what is asked, so that the two may work together for the greatest benefit of the rising generation. It is your privilege to help this generation advance beyond us, under the combined influence of a better home life and a better school life; building for it a greater nation and happier civilization than we have produced. That idea sounds familiar enough to our ears, but in reality, viewed in the light of history, it is revolutionary.

The past has seen the school predominant and the family despised; it has seen the family reign supreme and the school ignored. It has seen education disappear from the lands except for a privileged few, and again education offered grudgingly, insultingly, as a pauper’s dole. And finally, it has seen the rise of the idea of the modem public school, free and equally open to all, tax supported, non-sectarian; an institution supplementing the family, cooperating with the home to give most effectively to our children the preparation for a full, noble, and healthy life.

Like so many of the ideals of modem civilization, those of the school have their roots in the principles laid down in the great civilizations of ancient Greece and Rome. What sort of cooperation between the home and the school was there in those times?

The ancient Greeks gave us the creed that good citizenship was the first ideal to be sought in education. Our schools make citizens.	But Plato, when he drew up his. theory for the Ideal

Republic, wanted to exclude the home because its influence detracted from interest in the state; and the great philosopher Aristole thought that the family exercised more evil than good

Digitized by LaOOQle
722

upon the child. In Sparta, the ideal was nearly realized in practice. The Spartan boys and girls were taken from their families at a young age and put in training barracks; the boys were educated to be warriors to defend the state and the girls trained as mothers of future warriors. The state took complete charge, complete responsibility. There was no cooperation from the home; neither home life nor home influence was wanted.

Roman Ideas in Education In Rome, on the other hand, there was a complete antithesis in educational ideals. A responsibility was thrown upon the parent that no one would want to accept today; it was a vastly greater burden than that which our schools put upon the family in asking mere cooperation and help. In Rome, before the spread of Grecian influence, there were no schools. Family life and home training were paramount.

The father literally held the child’s life in his hands; he was within his rights, if he chose, to kill his young son or daughter or confiscate the property that his married son had accumulated. With perfect propriety, a citizen could “expose” his infant child, and many did so. That is, the newly arrived baby was looked over and talked over and a momentous decision made whether the family should keep it or dispose of it. The choice was- a free one, but not one to be made lightly. If the child was retained, its acceptance into the family entailed the deepest obligations on the part of the parents. But perhaps there were already too many girls in the family;-perhaps a boy was not desired. If so, the father took the little mite, put it gently on the temple steps, and left it there. Anyone could adopt it, anyone could take the child so “exposed” and train it as a slave or a courtesan, or if no one did, it was left to die there.

In Roman homes there was always a child health day—different from our own—when the new baby came. If it seemed sickly or was deformed, it was “exposed” for that reason.

Times have changed very strikingly between the old Roman days and our own; ideals have changed. But don’t think of these Roman parents as cruel and barbarous; perhaps they seem so from our standards, but they, in turn, would have looked upon us in contempt and horror as a people who shirked a responsibility to children. They exercised the right of refusing or accepting the child into the family, but if it was accepted, there was entailed upon the parent an enormous obligation — complete education of the child and complete responsibility for its behavior throughout life. An illy-educated man or woman, one with bad maimers or poor citizenship, was a disgrace to the parents for which they could be publicly censured.

Ancient Parental Responsibilities The child was compelled to pattern its life after that of the father or the mother; the parents had to model their conduct

Digitized by LiOOQle
723

on the perfection that they wanted the child to attain. The system had some advantages that might be copied with benefit today.

Its perfection we can admire even while we condemn its cruel aspects. But in that regard do not be too hasty; our vaunted ideals of humanity are not so ancient in their practice that we can afford to be altogether smug in the matter. Humane ideals are one thing, and humane ideals attained are another. Good intentions poorly executed are little better than intentional cruelty. We could find some damning evidence against our own civilization if we went into the matter thoroughly. The conception of foundling homes dedicated to the care of “exposed” or orphan children is a noble one, but the history of these institutions is not pretty; the combination of good intentions and good practice in this respect is a modern achievement.

Disregarding what seems a cruelty in the Roman father, and looking rather at the Roman conception of responsibility of parent to child, let us examine our own conscience a bit about the responsibility we accept and subsequently shirk or put upon the schools entirely. As I said, the schools open their doors wide to us during National Education Week. They ask us to inspect them and to see if school life supplements home life in the way we wish.

Inevitable Social Change

Our modem schools are changing; change is inevitable. It would appear that there are three directions in which they can move. And in any one, their progress involves fundamental social changes. They can move towards the Spartan system, full state responsibility for the child, with corresponding decay of the American home and severance of the bond between child' and parent. Or they can move in the direction of the ancient. Roman system, a complete responsibility on the parents, a stronger home life. The only other road is the middle one of compromise, home and school cooperating, the school supplementing the home in doing for the child what the home cannot do or cannot do as well.

In recent years the trend, it would appear, has been towards the Spartan system. The school has taken over more and more the responsibilities that formerly were left entirely with the family. The American public has apparently subscribed willingly to the diminished burden of child responsibility, and it would appear that the American home is today a far less strong institution than it was a few decades ago; the American family far less closely knit together than formerly. Perhaps our movement eventually will extend to the collapse of the home of the kind we know now. There have been profounder changes in society than that, and when the progress towards them was gradual enough, no great shock was felt. But our progress as yet is far from the attainment of such a goal, one which seems

Digitized by v^ooQle
724

so undesirable to us. We have reached the stage merely at which we have the opportunity for a compromise, the compromise in which home and school cooperate to share a rightly divided responsibility.

The future of our social system lies in our own hands. We can ignore the gradual but inevitable movement, let it follow along the lines of least resistance, let chance and expedience guide it. Or we can take the matter into our own control and exercise the guiding force. Today, there is offered the opportunity to seize upon what would appear to be the ideal system of education, home and school working together. But the parent must act if he wishes to attain this end; if he stands by indifferently, the opportunity to exercise a guiding force will slip from his grasp.

Now there are very excellent reasons why the state should take over certain responsibilities for the child. The problem, I think, is mainly which responsibilities it shall assume. The solution of that requires the greatest parental cooperation. There are two social ideals to which we have given our approval by writing them into our laws. The first is that every child must receive the moral and intellectual training which we call education. Towards this end the state has done more than frame an ideal, express a good intention; it has supplied the practical measures designed to achieve it. It has built and supported schools where all children can be educated, free. These practical measures, accepted as the commonplace today, were brought into effect less than a hundred years ago and against the bitterest opposition and deepest prejudice.

Health and Education the Right of Every Child

The second social ideal is based upon the development of a humanitarian principle that a child, once given life, has the right to pursue its life. The law so framed says that the parent shall not have the right to dispose of weaklings in the ancient pagan fashion, that the parents must accept into the family any and every child that is born to them; with severest penalties the law has taken away free choice in the matter. But what practical provisions comparable to education has the state made to guarantee to every child the full measure of medical inspection and care which will insure the greatest possibility of a healthy life? It has not assumed this responsibility. Yet no one, I think, will question the statement that health is as important as education. And health is not a matter of chance.

We have accepted the principle that education is an inalienable right of every child. Why have we been less advanced in accepting the corresponding principle that every opportunity for health is likewise a right of every child born into a state that entertains the good intention that every child must be allowed to live. Does not the duty fall upon the state to provide the practical measures that will insure the child’s freedom
725

from handicap by correctable deformities or by preventable, arrestable, or curable disease? Why should we make a distinction between matters pertaining to intellectual and moral attainments, on the one hand, and physical attainments and health on the other? Health should be as much a privilege of every child as literacy.

Perhaps you raise the objection that the responsibility for the child’s health belongs in the home. If so, why do you stop there? Why not put the responsibility for the child’s education likewise on the home? The obvious answer is that the school can educate it more efficiently than the home. If education were left to the parents, some would accept the responsibility; others would shirk it. Some children would be well educated; others would be illiterate. Exactly! That is nearly the situation today in regard to the child’s health. Some families do their duty well; some ignore it. Some children are strong and healthy; others are handicapped and diseased from want of medical care. The school can care for child health more thoroughly, more efficiently than can the scattered homes.

I believe it is as clearly a duty of the state to offer as freely as education, individual medical attention for the school child. You perhaps say that the school already has taken over some of the health supervision. Yes, the trend is just beginning in that direction. At present, health supervision is carried out mainly to compensate for gross neglect of parents. It is not undertaken in the sense of a definite responsibility, an obligation fully shouldered by the state.

The scope of medical aid can no more be detailed in this brief talk than can the full curriculum of studies, but let me cite one specific measure chosen at random to illustrate the kind of procedure I have in mind. I believe that the school should assume all responsibility for the welfare of the tubercular child. Such a child should be assiduously sought out from among the pupils, provided for, and made into a strong and healthy man or woman instead of being allowed to go on to possible death or chronic invalidism under parental neglect.

INCREASING RECREATION FACILITIES FOR THE UNEMPLOYED.

Faced with the need for providing additional recreation facilities to meet the situation created by unemployment, cities everywhere are taking stock and are finding unused buildings which may be made serviceable in the emergency.

The Council of Social Agencies of Montclair, New Jersey, through its Group Agency Division and the Recreation Committee, has opened a community center in a factory building purchased by the city last year which will be used chiefly for recreational activities for the unemployed. The Park Depart-

Digitized by LjOOQle
726

ment has given most active cooperation in the preparation of this center and has installed steam heat in the large social hall and restained and refinished the walls. The Scouts, the Y.M.C.-A. and all agencies with the exception of the schools whose hours do not permit them to do so, are furnishing leadership for recreation between the hours of 9 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. AH necessary facilities for making the room a club room for quiet games are being installed.

The Board of Education of Ossining, New York, has turned over to the Recreation Commission a building originally constructed for a Y.M.C.A. which has been used for the past four or five years as a school gymnasium but is not now needed for school purposes. It was about to be torn down when the Commission approached the Board of Education with a request that it be turned over for use as a recreation center. It will be a splendid addition to the facilities of the Commission containing as it does a large' gymnasium, bowling alleys, and a number of rooms suitable for parties, clubs and craft classes. The Commission is remodeling and repairing the building.

The Playground and Recreation Commission of Dubuque, Iowa, has renovated the third floor of City Hall, unused for years, and has installed four indoor horseshoe courts. The courts, lighted for night play, are absolutely free to the public and horseshoes are furnished.

The situation in York, Pennsylvania, has necessitated the opening of additional centers. The old York Academy gymnasium, renovated and equipped with hot and cold water showers, will be opened in the afternoon until 8 P. M. for volley ball and basketball for adults. At night it will be used chiefly for basketball, one night being devoted to the use of girls’ teams! On one afternoon and one evening each week the gymnasium will be used by negro teams.

The armory will be opened for several days each week for the use of men and boys. The Recreation Department has also received permission from three church councils to locate centers in their buildings, for young people over 15 and adults. St. John’s Episcopal Church will be opened from one to five o’clock on Tuesdays for the playing of quiet games and for drama. The gymnasium of the First Methodist Church will be available on Wednesdays from one until five o’clock for basketball, volley ball, music and drama. In the gymnasium of the Zion Reformed Church there will be basketball, volley ball and horseshoe pitching. — National Recreation Association.

In the plans for relief this winter it should be kept in mind by all that man does not live by bread alone. The spirit, the morale, of the individual is in even greater need of nourishment in such times. The President in a recent message to the recreation workers in America and Canada emphasized this, saying:

NOT BY BREAD ALONE
727

“All agencies which help to build health and character are especially necessary in these days and merit whole-hearted and generous Support.”

Mr. Gifford, Chairman of the President’s Organization on Unemployment Relief, while stressing the unemployment relief programs, added:

**It is important, however, that localities give careful consideration to a well-rounded community program and undertake to carry forward health work where needs will be increased; child care, which will present even greater demands if the welfare of children is to be looked after, and that considerable group of activities of so-called character-building agencies for whose services there has probably never been a greater need, if the morale of young peoplle and adults is to be maintained.”

The Family Association of America, composed of 240 welfare agencies in the principal cities of the United States and Canada, which gave direct relief to more than four million persons last year, saying that there should be general agreement with Mr. Gifford’s "tinderstanding attitude,” urges that only the most urgent calls for the necessities of life should make us neglect the elements of play and character-strengthening as a necessary part of a community’s good life. A lowering of public health and morale would of necessity result in greater demands upon family welfare agencies.

“It is paramount that the constructive program of a city, its family case work, its child care, its public health work, its recreational service, must not be allowed to deteriorate because of the winter’s extraordinary demands for unemployment relief.” As these services were supported when all the resources of the nation were required to win the war, so they should now be continued in the same spirit. Our relief needs must be met, not at the expense of essential community services, but through the provision of additional resources to meet the total demand. It cannot be that America is not able to face such an emergency. It is a time for every one who has and to spare to make sacrifice. This is the price that the individual must pay if he is to keep his freedom. Taking from the support of these services would be a weakening of the whole social structure. What is needed must come from a more rigorous personal economy and more generous sharing. The country should find zest in meeting such a situation and in showing what a free republic can do. —Editorial in The New York Times.

ARE GIRLS CAPABLE OF COMPETING AGAINST THEIR

BROTHERS?

After briefly discussing the various types of man from the eurysomatic [short, stout] to the leptosomatic [long, slender] type with all the intermediate types, Prof. Mathias points out

"Translated from the German by Ernst Thoma. Reprint from the DISCOBOLUS.

Digitized by Google
728

the various anatomical differences between the female and male. The trunk of the woman is relatively longer and heavier than man’s and the center of gravity is lower. In all locomotor activities [running, jumping, etc.] she must overcome a greater resistance. A further handicap is the oblique articulation of the forearm at the elbow, making exercises in support difficult and this difficulty is further increased by the fact that the hands have to be wider apart due to the wider hips. These facts indicate that all exercises in support should be discontinued with the advent of puberty.

In judging running and jumping performances one must consider not only the relatively short legs and long heavy torso of the women, but also the greater width of the pelvis and hips. In no other part of the skeleton is the difference between the sexes so evident as in the pelvis. While that of the man is narrow, high and strong boned, the other is broad, flat and graceful. The greater width results in greater distance between the hip joints with greater development of the ball and socket and all of which causes a greater convergency of the femurs towards the knees. Similar to the elbow, the knee articulation is at an angle which constitutes a break in the line of support, diminishing its strength. Running is thus very difficult for some women and the expenditure of effort is greater than the degree of achievement warrants.

The trunk is not only longer but is built different than the man’s. The chest is shorter and broader with a shorter dorsal region of the spine. It is more cone-shaped, the differences between the circuxnferences of the upper and lower portions being much greater than in man. This formation makes a deeper chest breathing possible in woman. As the sternum is shorter, the abdominal wall is longer with a corresponding greater length in the lumbar region -of the spine. Now as this region of the spine is the origin of the lumbar muscles that play a decisive part in all movements of the spine, and also of the tendons of the three abdominal muscles,. it becomes the most important point of resistance. Handicapped by a greater length and further by the greater weight of the abdominal organs, the result is a greater curvature of this part of the vertebral column in woman with a corresponding tipping of the pelvis, which in turn increases the pressure upon the anterior abdominal wall which may become so great as to cause an overstretching and final loss of tonicity.

The abdominal contents differ. Not only is there an additional organ in the woman, but there is a characteristic superabundant supply of blood which again, varies greatly in volume. Finally, the prime function of woman, motherhood, makes necessary a greater space between the bony structures of the chest and pelvis. The varying blood supply causes a varying pressure from the inside against the abdominal wall which, like a hollow muscle, must be able to resist and still be elastic enough to yield

Digitized by LjOOQle
729

and adjust itself. The variation from within is small in man and therefore his abdominal muscles need not be so elastic; their comparative shortness aids them in meeting their function more effectively, which is to resist pressure from without in the performance of work requiring strength.

The major function of the musculature of the abdomen and floor of the pelvis in woman is to keep the internal organs in place. This work is not so simple in view of the larger open abdominal space and the fact that the inner walls are more free from helpful projections than in man, making a shifting of the organs easier. Three muscle groups share in the important work of keeping the abdominal organs in place—the anterior abdominal, those on the floor of the pelvis and those of the lumbar region of the spine. The last named, besides forming the rear wall of the cavity, must also resist the strain of the forward pull of those abdominal muscles which have insertions in the lumbar region. When these muscles become unable to fulfill their function, the abdominal organs, which normally reach up to the diaphragm, drop downward and forward, causing the protruding, hanging abdomen and in extreme cases, where the resistance of the muscles of the floor of the pelvis is entirely overcome, prolapse of the entrails.

This situation points out to us most emphatically, the problem that a purposeful system of woman’s gymnastics must solve. It must and can only consist of a systematic culture of the trunk muscles to aid in prevention of the sinking and dropping of the abdominal organs. And this task can not be begun too early in life for the aim is preventive, not remedial. It is clear that the problem continues through and beyond the adolescent age. It affects the professional woman as well as the housewife who performs the duties of the wife, mother and household.

In two days can muscle tone be lost—by lack of sufficient activity, as in woman employed at work requiring prolonged sitting, and by prolonged one sided use, as in too much standing, carrying, etc., the muscles and ligaments may be permanently stretched. During pregnancy and childbirth there is real danger of overstretching and loss of tone. Finally, in the climacteric period of life, when the shrinkage of the reproductive organs leaves unoccupied space within the unchanging bony pelvic basin, the danger of organs sinking is increased. There can be no doubt that the necessity for systematic trunk gymnastics, adapted to the woman’s body, exists in all periods.

FOOTBALL SHOULD CALL SOCCER “GRAND-DADDY”!

J. H. Gourley, U. S. F. A.

Association [Soccer] football in reality should be termed the "Grand-Daddy” of college rugby football according to the history of the game which follows:

Great Britain may not have been the birthplace of soccer football, but it was most surely its nursery and its home. Ro-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
730

man cohorts may have planted the seed; if so it was planted on good soil, for the temperament of these islanders was ever for rough and vigorous bodily exercise. Chester, England, claims * that football originated there in Saxon times, from the gleeful kicking of the heads of conquered Danes through its streets. Derby, England, claims that soccer football was established there to celebrate the victory of a troop of British warriors who, in 217 A. D., outnumbered a Roman cohort and forced it out of the ancient gates. In “Glovers” “History of Derby”, it states ‘‘the faction fights over the hall between the ecclesiastical districts of Derby are said to have been in vogue from about 217 A. D. [when the Roman troops were slain] until 1846.” Then there is the credible record of Fitz-Stephen that in 1175 the London schoolboys commenced to play football after winter on Shrove Tuesday, and for many years after it was the custom for the boys to have a full afternoon’s football on Shrove Tuesday in the London fields.

In the fourteenth century the game appears to have attracted the notice of the authorities, that in 1314 Edward II forbade it altogether, “owing to evil that might arise through many people hustling together.” Edward III found reason to enact a law against football and similar “foolish games”, due to the fact that young men were paying more attention to football than archery. In 1389 Richard II passed another act to prohibit football playing making reference to the fact that young men paid more attention to football than they did to archery, and the act was re-enacted and re-enforced by Henry IV in 1401 and later by Henry VIII. There is still unrepealed an Act of Parliament dating from the reign of James I [of Scotland] that “No man shall play football hereafter, under a penalty.” James III tried to extirpate the game, and in 1458 ordered that “it be utterly put down.” However, it is noted that his son, James IV, was more in favor of it, for in 1497 it is recorded that the High Treasurer to James IV paid two shillings for “tfut balles”. Queen Elizabeth proclaimed in 1572 that “no football play be used or suffered within the City of London under pain of imprisonment.” For playing football on Sunday in 1579 John Wonkell of Durham, England, was sent to prison for one week and ordered to do penance in church. Oliver Cromwell was a football player; he makes many references to the game in his letters; in one he states that he could well remember the times he had been more afraid of meeting John Wheelwright at football than of anything else in the field, as he was infallibly sure of being tripped up by him. One hundred and thirty years ago games lasted four hours or more; generally the goals were opposite ends of the town or city—it was lawful to kick a player’s shins, trip him; in fact anything to get the ball from an opponent. Football, or soccer in the olden times found no place in the annals of Knight-errantry, but it found a warm corner in the breasts of common people.

Digitized by kjOOQle
731

Football interdicted by monarchs, it defied the law; fulmin-nated against by prelates, it survived the onslaught; attacked by pens of the writers, it has outlived them all, for it is now played under the same set of laws by fifty-one nations of the globe. Outlawed it flourished; criticized it grew. It entered into the very life-blood of the most virile race on earth, and has been carried to every part of the globe. With equal vigour it inflames the bosoms of those who dwell under the “Southern Cross”, as of those who see the milky way over their heads of a starlight night.

“RUGBY FOOTBALL”

There is to be seen today in the famous garden wall of the headmaster’s house at Rugby School, England, overlooking the playing fields the following interesting tablet:

“This stone commemorates the Exploit of

WILLIAM WEBB ELLIS,

who with a fine disregard for the rules of football, as played in his time, first took the ball in his arms and ran with it, thus originating the distinctive features of

THE RUGBY GAME A.D. 1823”

When the English football association was formed the ten simple rules of the game were drawn up by Mr. J. C. Thring in the year 1862 and was used by Cambridge University first. The English cup competition was formed July 20, 1871. The English Football Association was formed at a tavern, Great Queen Street, London, in October, 1863. The first International match was between English and Scottish players of the London ckfbs in 1870. International matches between England and Scotland was firmly established and agreed that the games should be one year in England and next year Scotland. The first game after the agreement was played at Hamilton Crescent, Patrick, no goals being scored; dated November 30, 1872.

The first team to visit Canada and U. S. A. was the Pilgrims in 1910. The U. S. National Cup started in 1913; Sir Thomas Dewar, famed English sportsman, at the behest of Tom Cahill in 1916, presented the U. S. F. A. with a trophy to be awarded to the team which should win the championship of the United States. Strangely it was given for amateurs, but the professionals [so called] have often captured it. The famous Peter J. Peel Trophy, donated by P. J. Peel to create and build up a fund to provide medical attention to injured soccer players was established in 1908 and is the oldest cup in constant competition in the United States, this being the 24th consecutive year of competition.”

Digitized by L^OOQle
732

NINETEEN RECREATION PRINCIPLES

Howard Braucher

Every child needs to be exposed to the eight growth-giving activities that have brought satisfaction through the ages,— to tramping, swimming, dancing, skating, ball games; to singing, playing musical instruments; to dramatic activities; to making things with the hands; to caring for pets, to helping plants grow, to getting to know nature; to trying simple scientific experiments; to trying to make things beautiful; to learning the joy of team-play, of comradeship in doing things with others.

Every child needs to discover which are the special activities which give him personal satisfaction and joy. In these activities he should be helped to develop the skills essential to supreme enjoyment throughout life.

Every child should choose certain activities, certain hobbies that he can keep up as long as he lives so that there may be no «dull” stretches.

Every man should have certain forms of recreation which require little space and which can be fitted into small fragments of time.

Every man needs to know well a certain limited number of games which he himself likes for use indoors and outdoors so that there .will never be an occasion when he cannot think of anything to do.

Every man should be helped to form the habit of finding pleasure in reading.

Most men should know atTeast^few songs with good music so that they may sing when they feel like it.

Every man should be helped to discover some form of beauty which he can really make his own—whether it be beauty of line, form, color, or sound.

Man thrives best in the sunlight. Every man'^ould be helped to form habits of being active, of breathing deeply in the sunlit outdoor air.	^

Since living and not business is the end of life our cities should be planned from the point of view of living as well as cf business and industry. Sunlight, air, open spaces, parks, play-' grounds, in abundant measure are essentials to any living that is to give permanent joy and satisfaction.

It is of the greatest importance that every person be exposed to rhythm because without rhythm man is incomplete and tires himself and bores others.

About one year in every ten of a man’s life is spent in eating. It is of fundamental importance that this one-tenth of a man’s life shall be so lit up by play of mind upon mind that eating shall not be a hurried chore but an opportunity for comradeship and for growth for the whole man.

Reprint from “Recreation"

Digitized by LjOOQle
733

Rest, repose, reflection, contemplation are in themselves a form of recreation and ought never to be crowded out by more active play.

Those recreation activities are most important which most completely command the individual so that he loses himself in them and gives all that he has and is to them.

Ultimate satisfaction in recreation comes only through one’s own achievement, of some kind.

The form of one’s recreation as an adult, often, though not always, should be such as to use in part powers unused in the rest of one’s life.

A man is successful in his recreation life in so far as the forms of activity he chooses create a play spirit, a humor, which to some extent pervades all his working hours, helping him to find enjoyment constantly in the little events of life.

A happy day of childhood is essential to normal growth. Normal men and women are most likely to grow from .the children who have played well and happily. Normal men more easily continue normal as they keep up childhood habits of play.

That children and men and women may be more likely to live this kind of life, experience shows there is usually need for community action:

Every community needs a person, and an unpaid committee or board charged with thinking, planning, and working to provide opportunity for the best possible use of the leisure horn’s of men, women, and children.

Community recreation programs should continue throughout the year.

Support of community recreation programs should be through tax funds under some department of the local government.

Every community needs playgrounds, parks, and recreation centers just as every city and town needs streets and sewers.

Every community should provide opportunity for its children when they leave school to continue the musical and dramatic and other specialized recreation activities which they have enjoyed during school days.

Community recreation programs should allow for a broad range of tastes and interests and varying degrees of mental and physical energy.

Every community needs persons trained to lead in recreation just as much as it needs persons trained in education.

Satisfying recreation, whether for the individual or for the community, involves real planning. —Reprint from “Recreation”.

Digitized by v^ooQie
734

EARNING AND SPENDING HEALTH

American Child Health Association

A wise person has said, “Health is like money. If you have a lot you are all right. And if you haven’t any, you can resign yourself to that. But if you don’t know what you can spend, and each expense is devastating, you are in a bad way.”

This problem of determining how much health we can spend and how to Spend it is one of the serious aspects of recreation interpreted in its original meaning of re-creation. Before we can spend money we must earn it. In the same way, before we can spend health, we must earn it.

•'‘We spend more in this country,” says President Hoover, “but we earn more. Contrary to the old maxim, it isn’t so much what we spend that counts, it’s what we earn. Before we are a spending nation we are an earning nation.” The President was talking about money, but what he said may as easily be applied to health. For the past few years, and especially since the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection, recreation experts have focused their attention on fitting play times, and materials to the needs of the individual rather than the group.

This is in tune with modern trends in all lines of human development. The more thoroughly our existence becomes mechanized, the more insistently do we stress the need to develop vocational and creative abilities peculiar to each individual. It is a sort of safe-guard for the soul, oppressed as it is by pushbuttons, levers, and mass production.

As a result of this trend toward individualization in the things of the mind and the spirit, the field of recreation has broadened in scope and in purpose, and now the accent is placed on how we grow through recreation rather than on what we do with it. Nearly every recreation leader knows the old guard who do nothing but play basketball year in and year out. Perhaps each player develops a quicker hand or foot or eye as the basketball seasons roll by, but what happens in the growth of his interests? Sooner or later the peak of the players’ physical development will be reached, and then comes the down grade. They are left with few recreational resources.

A man, whose whole physical training through college had been planned to make him one of the finest stroke oarsmen on any crew, stated years after the glamour of victory had faded, that it “wasn’t worth it.” “If I had it to do again,” he said, “I’d have been interested in lots of other things that would be of some use to me now.” He had earned by sacrifice and labor the hard muscles that brought his boat to victory, but he had spent all his energy on one thing, and then had to start over again, just as though he had spent all his money for “gold bricks.”

Digitized by Google
735

It is possible, however, to spend one’s recreational interest in one place and yet have it grow. The story is told of a group of women who made baskets year after year. Then they began to look into the history of basket-making and of basket designs. They became national authorities on Indian basketry, ancient and modem. They began to make their own designs. Each year these women developed new resources and skills in the same field.

But in the more violent fields of recreation, how are we to audit our health books, and know exactly how much energy we can spend without exhausting our principal? Doctors now say that a person with a limitation, such as a heart murmur or a stiff knee, can be perfectly normal within his limitations. He may enjoy life, ‘’earn” his health and spend it, in exactly the same way as other people up to the extent of his limitation. If a man finds that a walk of eight blocks makes him breathless, let him walk four blocks, say the doctors. For four blocks he can walk as swiftly and as profitably as anyone. There is no reason for him to give up walking altogether. There is every reason for him to develop himself as normally as possible within his limits.

The White House Conference Committee on Recreation and Physical Education points out that the small child has no recreation in the same sense as older children and adults have it, because the small child’s work is his play and his play is his work. It is his life. Yet the report finds that “the efficiency of the program of recreation and physical education diminishes as you follow it back from its application to the youth of 18 years to the infant.’’ The report explains that this efficiency "is better in the secondary school than in the elementary school” but when you come to the preschool child it nearly disappears.

If it is important for adults to know “how much they can spend” of their health, it is much more important for children to earn health when they are small. Among the statements of the Committee on Recreation and Physical Education is one that the child must be guided in play. In the belief that play is natural to children, adults used to feel comfortable about turning them loose to entertain themselves. A child with natural imagination and resourcefulness can meet such a situation. But many children need to have their imagination stimulated at first by adult suggestion. Later they can and should go forward by themselves in developing their own interests and activities.

Of first importance are proper play materials for children of different ages, not simply because the children will enjoy them more if they are suitable, but because toys are significant in the physical and mental development of children. You don’t present a baby with a velocipede before he is old enough to sit up; conversely, you don’t present a four-year-old with a rubber chewing-ring. Yet each child, at some point in his development, may profitably use either of these articles. In the words of the

Digitized by L^ooQle
736

White House Conference report, “The preschool stage is the period of physical training, in which motor skills are developed, the mind and body coordinated. It is at this period that all the child’s occupations have a fundamental effect upon his character as well as his constitution.” Kiddy cars and big building blocks for the two-year-old and scooters and jungle gyms for the four-year-old will develop strong muscles, and coordination between hands, feet and mind.

It is in these years before school that the child makes his first earnings of health. And spends them, too, if parents are not watchful. This is the age at which future deficits can be prevented by quarterly or half-yearly physical examinations, and correction of defects. In these years children may be trained in fundamental habits of conserving health which—like money saved for a rainy day—will keep them physically and mentally “out of the red.”

Parents and educators, like the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection, are concerned with “the dynamic health of the child.” “Surrounded by all the safeguards of medical care, administration and health education,” says the report, “the call is for a program of action that will guide the child into the abundant physical life of virility, courage, independence, self-reliance, initiative, the spirit of cooperation, fairness, loyalty, modesty, cheerfulness, chivalry and good-citizenship.”

It is a large order, and to fill it we must look well to our children’s balance sheet of health. We must spend our own health carefully, and teach our children thrift.

A TUBERCULOSIS SCHOOL SURVEY

S. E. Doolittle, M.D. Honolulu, T. H.

The Tuberculosis School Survey is not new in the United States. It was first applied on a large scale by Chadwick and Zacks in Massachusetts. They began in 1924, a five year program of examination of school children for tuberculosis. At first effort was concentrated upon problem nutrition cases, but the survey was shortly extended to unselected children in the public schools. To date results of examination of 100,000 children have been published. [1]

Rathbun [2] started a similar survey in Syracuse County, New York, in 1923. He has reported results of examination of

30,000	children, and has emphasized the importance of exami-

Read at the Forty-First Annual Meeting of the Hawaii Territorial Medical Society, May 8th and 9th, 1931.

Note: This survey should be of special interest to those teachers who still base all of their health education practices on the relation of weight to height. Editor.

Digitized by AaOOQle
737

nation of high school students. Rathbun has adopted the use of the portable X-ray equipment in schools, with follow-up studies in certain cases with the more powerful stationary unit.

McCain [3] published in 1929 results of examination of 25,000 school children in North Carolina.

The work conducted under the auspices of the Henry Phipps Institute in the public schools of Philadelphia [4] sets a standard of excellence for such studies.

Similar surveys have been conducted or are now under way in Minnesota, Saskatchewan, New York City, Detroit, New Haven, San Francisco. The outstanding recommendation of a recent tuberculosis survey of the city of Cleveland was that the school tuberculosis survey method be instituted in the public schools of that city.

The results of these surveys have given considerable information regarding the inception of both infection and disease in childhood. By this method we have an approach to controlled masses of apparently well children of different age groups. In such groups are found children not differing in any apparent manner from other children in the classroom, yet revealing on careful study, lesions varying from latent, apparently well healed lung or lymph node lesions, to active clinical pulmonary tuberculosis.

What differences would be found in the application of the school survey method in a community such as our sub-tropical city of complex racial groups, varying social standards, and relatively high death rate from tuberculosis?

It was believed that the answer to this question, provided, in part, at least, by the conduct of a tuberculosis school survey in one junior high school in Honolulu, would be not only of local interest, but might add something to the general epidemiological knowledge concerning tuberculosis.

The purposes of the survey as expressed at the onset were:

[1]	A study of the accepted methods of diagnosis as applied under our local conditions.

[2]	A correlation between underweight, weight change over a period, days absent because.of illness, history whether pupil was well or not as related by both teacher and pupil, and temperature record; to the finding of tuberculosis infection and disease in our local group.

[3]	A demonstration of the practical value of the survey method to the community in order to stimulate interest and allow a continuation of the survey in other schools.

The school selected, Kalakaua Junior High School, has a population quite representative of our complex urban racial and social groups.

Interest in health activities was already well established in this school. This was further augmented by a poster contest and classroom health competition in which points were awarded in part by the number of permits for examination procured

Digitized by booQle
738

by the pupils. Interest was thus so keenly aroused that 1437 of the 1697 students, 85%, procured permits, and at least several such permits were found to be forged.

Cards were made out for each child giving Name, Sex, Age, Grade, Nationality, History of Tuberculosis in Family, Pupil’s and Teacher’s Statement Whether Well or Not, Days Absent because of Illness, Height, Weight, Relation of Weight to Normal, and Change Since October, 1929 or 1928 and Temperature. History was taken by selected groups of instructed school personnel. Weights were taken by the same group and all recording done by especially tutored students. Temperatures were taken by school nurse and teachers. Skin tests were performed by physicians and nurses with the school personnel assisting. Roentgenograms were taken on all positive reactors, and a group of 100 control cases with negative tuberculin skin tests. Examinations were made upon those children having suspicious or positive X-ray lesions of either childhood or adult type of tuberculosis.

The survey was made possible by the donation of $1,500 by the Honolulu Branch of the American Association of University Women, and the assistance of certain organizations and individuals cooperating. Palama took half of the X-rays and The Queen’s Hospital the other half. Tuberculin solutions were prepared at The Queen’s Hospital. Palama and Board of Health nurses were assigned to certain activities and school personnel cooperated to the fullest extent. Certain physicians assisted in outlining procedure or reading X-rays, particularly Drs. H. L. Arnold, F. M. Brown, A. W. Duryea, F. J. Halford, N. P, Larsen, L. G. Phillips, R. L. Perlstein, C. A. Saunders, A. N. Sinclair, and A. G. Schnack.

Tuberculin Skin Tests

The tuberculin skin tests revealed an incidence of tuberculous infection of approximately 76%.

These tests consisted of an original dermal test, followed by intra-dermal tests to full dosage of 1 mg.

The dermal test was varied from the original Pirquet technic, using a technic similar to that of multiple puncture vaccination, applied first to tuberculin testing in 1916 by Craig [5.] The drop of tuberculin is applied, punctured, and excess immediately wiped off with cotton. The procedure has speed of application particularly to recommend it, and with mass examination this is of considerable importance.

The dermal tests, read 48 hours later and again a week later when negative reactors reported for intracutaneous tests, gave 532 positive reactions, 37% of the total number tested.

Intradermal tests on negative or questionably positive reactors were performed first with .01 mg. old tuberculin. The reactions were read 48 hours later and if negative .1 mg. injected. Finally the test was repeated on negative or slight reactors, using 1 mg. Only a few children who missed an earlier

Digitized by CjOOQle
739

injection because of absence from school had a larger dose without preliminary graduated doses. Approximately half a dozen moderately severe reactions with blister formation were noted with the last two injections, but no severe necroses necessitating dressings occurred, and no general reactions were observed.

Results of all tests are shown in the accompanying table. TABLE NO. 1 Results of Tuberculin Skin Tests

	Number	Percent
Total Number Tested	1437	
Dermal Tests Positive	532	37.02%
Intradermal Tests Positive 1-100 mg.	86	
Intradermal Tests Positive 1-10 mg.	137	
Intradermal Tests Positive 1 mg.	331	
Total Intradermal Tests Positive	554	
All Tests Positive	1086	75.57%
Skin Test Negative	351	24.42%

The incidence of infection of 75.57%, as indicated by total positive tests, is not notably higher than published results in communities where intradermal tests with full dosage of 1 mg. were used.

In Philadelphia, Hetherington et al, [4] reported among 4,107 children so tested, an incidence of infection of 71% at 10 years and 81% at 15 years.

Harrington and Myers [6] in Minneapolis, tested with intradermal tests, 2,118 school children from ages of 6 to 15 years and found a rising incidence of infection to 72% positive at 14 years.

Other frequently quoted statistics based either upon dermal tests or lower dilutions of intradermal tests, show a lower incidence of infection. Hetherington has called attention to this discrepancy in figures, and concludes that results in these places are not comparable to their own. Our results, as shown in table No. 1, adequately show this difference and similar findings have been noted by several men who have made comparative studies of dermal and different dosages in intradermal tests.

The study of the results of skin testing by age, sex and nationality are recorded in accompanying tables. This study shows a trend toward progressive increase in the older age groups, higher percentage of positive reactions among males than females. Among four racial groups of approximately 100 or more tested, the highest incidence of infection is recorded among Chinese and lowest among Portuguese, with Part-Ha-waiians and Japanese falling between these two.

Children giving a history of tuberculosis in the family had ten times as many positive as negative reactions.

Digitized by kjOOQle
740

Roentgenological Examination

The difficulties of roentgenological interpretation were rec- • ognized at the onset. It was for this reason that a group of 100 “control” plates were taken op children having negative tuberculin reactions. It was originally planned to distribute all

Elates to at least two men for independent reading and then ave a final interpretation made by a committee of two or three of the group. The time consumed and the variation in readings, made the practical carrying out of this plan impossible. This variation amounted to disagreement in approximately two-thirds of 360 plates, examined by at least two men independently. This is not surprising when we recall the results published by John B. Hawes and Eli Friedman, [7] who report that out of a group of 109 films on preventorium children with positive skin tests distributed to six competent clinicians or roentgenologists, there was agreement in positive diagnosis in no two men on a single plate. It seems probable that the careful study and continued application of McPhedran’s [8] classification of roentgenological lesions of childhood and adolescence will clarify the interpretation of lesions of childhood to a considerable degree.

The most frequent radiological finding interpreted as having positive significance was the presence of calcification, occurring in isolated lung foci, or in the mediastinal or hilum region, probably in nodes. These lesions, classified as latent childhood lesions, occurred in 176 cases, 15.8% of those with positive skin tests.

Definite adult pulmonary lesions occurred 13 times, or in 1.2% of the children with positive tests.

Suspicious lesions were recorded in 10 children.

Lesions classified as pleurisy and—or childhood infiltration, so grouped because of the small number, occurred four times.

All lesions having positive significance occurred most frequently in those reacting to the original dermal test or to lower dosage of intracutaneous injection. Adult pulmonary tuberculosis occurred eleven times in the von Pirquet positive group and one time in the group reacting to 1-100 mg., once in those only reacting to 1-10 mg.

The term “hilum enlargement” was applied to a large group of plates, where shadows in this region appeared heavier or denser than normal, but in which no definite circumscribed • irregular or crenated densities of calcium deposit were made out. The obvious inadequacy of this diagnosis as noted by various writers was substantiated. We found as large a percentage of roentgenograms having “hilum enlargement” among those with negative skin tests as among those with positive tests.

The same observation was made, but not tabulated, in so-called budding twig shadows frequently extending almost to the periphery in the upper lobes, and to the presence of an interlobar pleural line noted very frequently on the right side.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
741

Correlative Study. A Correlative Study of Certain Factors; as, Pupil’s and Teacher’s Statement Whether Well or Not, Days Absent because of Illness, Weight'in Relation to Normal, Weight Change in 6 or 18 Months, Temperature, was made and results are recorded in the appended tables.

Pupil’s Statement. There was a 1.5% larger number of pupils who stated that they were not well among the children with positive skin tests than among those with negative tests.

Only one of the 13 children with adult pulmonary lesions [6%] stated that they were not well, 3% of the group with demonstrable lesions considered themselves to be unwell, as compared with 1.7% without demonstrable lesions.

Such differences in groups with such unequal numbers are hardly sufficient to be of any significance.

Teacher’s Statement. There was only .5% difference in the percentage of cases considered unwell by teachers in the infected and non-infected group.

Three of the group with adult pulmonary lesions were stated to be “not well”, 13% with total demonstrable lesions fell into this class. This, compared with 10% for the group without demonstrable lesions, is hardly a significant difference.

It is apparent that mere infection does not affect the feeding or appearance of well being of the child, and that even evident pulmonary lesions may be overlooked in large percent of cases by teachers observing children in the classroom.

Days Absent Because of Illness. The absent periods were not affected by tuberculosis infection, and there was only 4.5% increase in absent periods over 3 days in the group with demonstrable X-ray lesions. The prolonged absent period was evidently not more frequent even in cases with adult pulmonary tuberculosis, since only one had absences totaling over 14 days.

It seems not at all improbable that the presence of such significant degree of tuberculous involvement as to cause demonstrable lung or lymph node changes might prolong absences, or make the group so affected more susceptible to minor disturbances causing rather frequent absences from school. It may be that this degree of increased absences in represented by the small difference of ,4.5%. Certainly it is not a significant observation in the selection of cases for special examination so far as tuberculosis is concerned.

Weight in Relation to Normal. The relation of weight to normal, based upon the Emerson modification of Wood-Baldwin tables, was determined by a single weighing made and recorded by school personnel at the beginning of the survey. Variation from normal is expressed in percent.

The findings are in accord with those expressed by other investigators, as Chadwick and Zacks [9], Hetherington [10] and Fenger [11], who find that the percentage of positive reactions is practically the same whether the children tested are overweight, average weight or underweight.

Digitized by
742

It has been demonstrated by C. E. Turner [12] in carefully controlled repeated weighings of groups of children, that such apparently minor variables as calculation of age and height to nearest whole number, weighing with or without shoes, and the use of different height and weight tables, may affect the relationship of weight to normal as much as ten percent, and in combination they may cause considerably more variation than this. He concludes that variation of 10% or less may fall within normal limits, particularly when one considers not only these elements of faulty technic, but hereditary differences of the bony skeleton. So with measurements of groups of several different races, having different racial habitus, food habits and living conditions, it is apparent that such a standard of minimum significant variation of 10% should be applied to our group.

The variation among these different racial groups is illustrated by the maximum difference of 3.12% over 10% underweight in Japanese males and 18.58% in Chinese females.

In studying the percentage of cases showing this same degree of underweight, over 10%, we find no appreciable difference in those with adult pulmonary lesions, total demonstrable lesions and no X-ray lesions. Lesions are becoming evident by this school survey method before serious weight loss has been affected.

Weight Change. School records were consulted for previous weighings, and 293 were found to have weights recorded in October, 1928, and 884 in October, 1929. The second weight taken in April, 1930, gives a period of 18 months in the first smaller group and of six months for the second group. In general compilation the two were combined and the average weight gain per month expressed as follows:

[1]	Loss, no gain, or gain of less than one-fourth pound per month, obviously unsatisfactory weight gain.

[2] Gain of one-fourth to one-half pound per month, a questionably satisfactory weight gain.

[3] Gain of over one-half pound per month, considered for group purposes as a satisfactory weight gain.

In relation to the tuberculin skin test there was no appreciable difference in weight gain between the children with positive and negative reactions.

In relation to the roentgenological findings it was noted that there were nearly 2% more with demonstrable X-ray lesion making totally unsatisfactory weight gains, and 4% more making a doubtful gain of quarter to a half pound a month, than those with no X-ray lesion. The difference is more striking in the small adult pulmonary group, where 42% fewer made totally unsatisfactory weight gains than those with no demonstrable lesion.

Perhaps, however, it is more surprising that nearly a third of this group made gains of one-half pound or more per month,, usually accepted as satisfactory by one observing the child in"

Digitized by kjOOQle
743

school. Thus the fact is again emphasized that by the school survey method we are discovering not only childhood lesions but those of the adult pulmonary type in a latent, preclinical stage.

Temperature. Two temperature readings were routinely made during the afternoon periods, and if there was marked variation of over two degrees, a third was taken.

Tabulation of these temperature records reveals the fact that tuberculous infection is not evidenced by any higher percentage of cases with elevated temperatures.

There was a higher percentage of cases with adult pulmonary tuberculosis having temperatures over 99.6* recorded, but this represented only two cases out of 13, and there was no appreciable difference iii cases with or without demonstrable X-ray lesions.

The temperatures in girls were uniformly higher than in boys, 22.8% recording temperatures of 99 to 99.6*, as against 16.4% among the boys, and 2.5% temperatures from 99.6 to 100* among girls and 1.85% for boys.

CONCLUSIONS

The application of the tuberculosis school survey method to a community such as ours will yield valuable epidemiological information.

. The percentage of tuberculous infection in Honolulu is not notably higher than in large urban communities on the mainland, in spite of a somewhat higher mortality rate from tuberculosis.

The application of various methods, as class room observation by the teacher, notation of absent periods because of illness, weighing and measuring, temperature taking, for the purpose of selection of cases for special examination, will miss a larger number of cases with demonstrable, potentially dangerous and even active tuberculous lesions.

The application of the method of routine testing with iu-tracutaneous tests to at least 0.1 mg. dosage of tuberculin, and roentgenological examination of all positive skin reactors will reveal many cases who have not only latent childhood lesions but adult pulmonary tuberculosis in a preclinical stage.

The practical value of such a survey to the community would be considerable if only one or two cases out of a thousand children examined were saved the debilitating illness and premature death of delayed discovery of pulmonary tuberculosis. Detecting 1% with beginning lung tuberculosis, practically all still in a curable stage, proves the value beyond a doubt. The guarding of the other 15% to prevent the development of these adult lesions is a phase of the program which is obviously logical, and the value of which only time and continued observation may tell.

Digitized by L.ooQle
744

BIBLIOGRAPHY

1.	Chadwick, H. D. and Zacks, D.—Incidence of Tuberculous Infection in School Children, Amer. Rev. Tuberc. 1930, XXII, 626.

2.	Rathbun, W. L.—Tuberculosis Among High School Students, National Tuberculosis Association Publication, Health in High School, 5.

3.	McCain, P. P.—A Report of the Study of 25,048 School Children for Tuberculosis, South M. J., 1929 XXII, 310.

4.	Hetherington, H. W., McPhedran, F. M., Landis, H. R. M., and Opie, E. L.—A Survey to Determine the Prevalence of Tuberculosis Infection in School Children, Amer. Rev. Tuberc., 1929, XX, 421.

5.	Craig, D. A., Cutaneous Tuberculin Test by Puncture with a Solid Needle, J. A. M. A., LXVII, Oct. 21, 1916, 1927.

6.	Harrington, F. E., and Myers, J. A.—Tuberculous Infection Among Minneapolis School Children as Revealed by The Intracutaneous Test, Amer. Rev. Tuberc., 1926, XIV, 454.

7.	Hawes, J. B., and Friedman, E.—Interpretation of Roentgenograms in Tracheo-bronchial Gland Tuberculosis, J. A. M. A., Feb. 23, 1929, XCII, 609.

8.	McPhedran, F. M.—Diagnosis and Classification of Pulmonary Tuberculosis in Childhood and Adolescence, Amer. Rev. Tuberc., 1929, XX, 532.

9.	Chadwick, H. D. and Zacks, D.—Observation in Underweight Clinics in Massachusetts, J. A. M. A., Aug. 27, 1927, LIII IX, 670.

10.	Hetherington, H. W.—Malnutrition in Children with Tuberculous Infection, Amer. Rev. Tuberc. 1927, XVI, 459.

11.	Fenger, E. Mattill, P. M., and Phelan, E.—Tuberculous Infection in School Children, Amer. Rev. Tuberc., 1930, XXI, 183.

12.	Tinner, C. E.—Precision and Reliabilities of Underweight Measurement, Amer. J. Pub. Health, 1929, XIX, 969.

BLOOD PRESSURE*

By Verne S. Caviness, M. D.

During the past several years the subject of blood pressure has received a great deal of attention in the newspapers and popular journals. It has also become quite a favorite topic of discussion, especially among people whose blood pressure deviates from the normal. In some respects it has been rather unfortunate that it has secured a position of such prominence in our daily life. We shall consider the reasons for this later.

*N. Carolina Health Bulletin.

Digitized by L ogle
745

A great majority of the people consider that any deviation from the normal blood pressure is dangerous, but blood pressure is not a disease. It is merely a symptom of something that is abnormal about the human makeup. Whenever blood pressure is abnormal it is to be classed as a symptom along with fever, pain, headache, nausea and other symptoms and its treatment must be managed on a basis of the cause just as when treating other symptoms.

There are several factors which enter into the production of blood pressure whether normal or abnormal:

1.	The condition of the heart and the force of heart beat.

2.	The amount of resistance offered to the circulation of the blood in the blood vessels, especially the smaller arteries.

3.	The elasticity of the arteries.

4.	Volume of the blood in circulation.

It is well to remember that the quality of the blood has nothing to do with the pressure. Persons can be very anemic and have a normal, high or low blood pressure.

Blood pressure often varies normally in a normal individual and is easily influenced. Any change in the position of the body will produce some change in the blood pressure. Exercise and excitement or any strong emotion, especially fear, anxiety or worry will elevate the blood pressure and in abnormal individuals may raise it to a great height. This is especially true in persons who have a tendency towards high blood pressure. Normal blood pressure may be defined as an average pressure for normal individuals. There is not much change in pressure on account of age. In general people who live to a ripe old age are those who have always had a normal or slightly low pressure.

The actual cause of high blood pressure is unknown. However there are a great many factors which enter into the production of high blood pressure and which are of considerable interest:

1.	Persistent over-eating is known to play a part in high blood pressure. In many cases the type of food eaten receives all the blame and has some casual relation, but excessive habits of eating do more than the type of food eaten. Many people who eat excessively develop high blood pressure and there is no doubt that eating excessively will raise blood pressure that has a tendency to be too high.

2.	Excessive use of tobacco is said by some people to be a cause. This is a mooted question but probably plays some part.

3.	Alcohol possibly plays no part in the production of high blood pressure but will very likely intensify any existing tendency toward an abnormal elevation. We often see high blood pressure in habitual users of tobacco and alcohol. Coffee, alcohol and nicotine are expected to raise blood pressure temporarily but in many cases such a rise is slight and usually not permanent.

4.	Persons who work in lead, mercury and zinc often have high blood pressure. This is due to getting particles of these
746

metals in the mouth and swallowing them. Such persons develop a hardening of the arteries which in turn raises blood pressure.

5.	Similar conditions result from habitual constipation and from abscessed teeth, infected tonsils and other foci of infection of long standing; however removal of the foci of infection after high blood pressure has developed may not result in a satisfactory cure. Infection makes the condition worse but is probably never the direct cause. All foci of infection should be removed or treated for hygienic reasons and to prevent aggravation of high blood pressure.

6.	Endocrine disturbances often produce high blood pressure; however other types of endocrine disturbance may produce low blood pressure.

7.	Hardening of the smaller vessels may be a cause or a result of high blood pressure. Causes of this condition are similar to the causes of high blood pressure.

8.	The stress and strain of modem life, especially if many of ones ambition and desires are not attained is a potent factor in the production of hypertension. Here the action is doubtless one of high nervous tension with an associated spasticity of the muscle in the walls of the small arteries.

9.	Heredity plays an important part. While high blood pressure is not inherited many persons inherit an inherent tendency towards hypertension. This probably results from a long continued spastic condition of the muscle tissue and replacement by fibrous tissue and later followed by hardening. Thus there is loss of the power of relaxation and loss of control over blood pressure.

There are several causes of low blood pressure. The most frequent cause is shock no matter how produced. The sudden relaxation of large blood vessels especially in the abdomen, gives a transient drop in blood pressure. Pressure rises again as the tone and control of the blood vessels are restored.

Another frequent cause is hemorrhage that is due to a loss of the blood volume.

Weakness of the heart muscle also causes low blood pressure. It is seen when the heart muscle becomes unable to maintain the needed pressure behind the blood columns.

There are also a few disease conditions in which the blood pressure is abnormally low.

It is impossible to tell with any degree of accuracy by the way you feel whether your pressure is high or low. For that you must rely upon your physician. When you are having your annual health examination your physician will test your blood pressure and if it is abnormal he will prescribe treatment.

Many people worry a great deal about low blood pressure, such worry i^ unnecessary and does no good. Unless the pressure is quite low and attended by an obvious cause it is better dis-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
747

regarded unless there are distressing symptoms. If your physician thinks any treatment is needed he will prescribe it but low blood pressure very rarely does any harm.

If you belong in the class of patients who live a sedentary life indoors, are constipated and have headaches, if you are run down, nervous, feel weak at times and have lost some of your appetite your blood pressure may be too low. If you will consult your physician he will doubtless find the cause of such symptoms. If it is due to low blood pressure there is no occasion for worry or alarm. Your physician will prescribe more outdoor exercise and sunlight and if you follow all of his advice you may be reasonably sure of a speedy cure.

The treatment of high blood pressure is quite different. Here again it is well to remember that by having careful, regular examinations made many changes in blood pressure can be detected, and usually remedied before the condition passes beyond the stage of control.

High blood pressure itself is not so serious a condition as many people have been led to believe. If it is not treated properly life will doubtless be shortened but a person who has a moderately elevated pressure may live for many years in comparative comfort. Patients should bear in mind that worry only helps to develop an anxiety complex which acts as part of a vicious circle to raise the pressure to higher levels. Worry and anxiety will raise not only abnormally high pressure but it also raises normal blood pressure. It does no good and any seriously minded person who really is interested in doing so can refrain from worry.

Rest is the most important single phase of treatment for high blood pressure. This includes not only physical rest but much more important mental rest and relaxation. The rest must be rational. It would be useless for any one to stay in bed for life on account of high blood pressure. One or two hours rest in bed after the noon meal is usually sufficient when associated with a full night’s sleep. The amount of rest actually required can be determined by frequent medical examinations.

Regular hours of living are very important and include retiring moderately early at night. Sleep should not be disturbed and everything possible should be done to secure mental and physical relaxation. Some exercise is essential but should not be drastic. The laborer may find it necessary to follow his usual type of employment, but if so, he can usually spare himself undue strain. Persons who have sedentary occupations often must be cautioned that they do not take too much exercise. Even golf is too strenuous for some people. Anyone with high blood pressure should limit himself to nine holes two or three times a week. Whatever exercise is used must be stoppeb de-fore the stage of fatigue is reached.

Diet is interesting. Nothing definite is known regarding the role of diet in high blood pressure. Many people live on

Digitized by v^-ooQle
748

almost exclusive diets of meat with normal blood pressures. However, many Asiatic people eat purely vegetable diets and for some unknown reason seem to have a general lower blood pressure than other people. But it is far safer that meat be reduced in the. diet, unless the patient is a vegetarian. It is my custom to eliminate hog meat of all kinds from the diet in high blood pressure and prescribe beef for two or three meals each week. Fish, chicken and eggs may be safely taken in moderation.

The diet should be simple and the amount small. The lowest caloric diet that is consistent with necessary activities should be eaten. Diet is more to be feared on account of large bulk than from its nature.

Fats and starches should be correctly balanced, and neither consumed to excess, Vegetables should constitute the chief bulk of the diet.

Condiments are largely taboo, as well as alcohol in all forms.

Salt may be taken in moderation in all cases unless there is a retention of chlorides in the blood.

Tobacco should be restricted in amount but ordinarily need not necessarily be stopped except on the order of the physician. The most important consideration in the treatment of high blood pressure is its prevention. In America life is lived at great speed and under high tension. Both of these factors are conducive to the development of high blood pressure. We are sacrificing health and long life for the accumulation of wealth or for the achievement of other pet ambitions. If we can rest a reasonable amount each day, work a reasonable amount and eliminate worry and anxiety from our schedule it will greatly decrease the danger of developing high blood pressure.

But since most of us will not do this, a frequent health examination will be necessary in order to discover high blood pressure while it is still in the incipient stage. At such a time the condition can usually be cured; but after the condition is allowed to progress until it becomes far advanced there is no need to abandon hope altogether, because even then with the proper care and supervision it is possible to arrest the progress of the process and help the individual adjust himself to a changed mode of living.

The best results in treatment of high blood pressure are obtained in early cases and depend to a large extent on the amount of cooperation that exists between the patient and physician.

THE IMPORTANCE OF THE OYSTER.

Physicians generally will be interested in the medical phase of the program at the recent convention of the National Shell-fisheries Association and the Oyster Growers and Dealers Association of North America, Inc., at Sayville, Long Island.

Digitized by k^ooQle
749

A paper on the “Nutritive Value of Oysters” was given by Dr. R. E. Remington of the Food Research Commission of South Carolina. Much work has also been done in New York by Drs. Whipple and Wolf the past few years on the value of oysters in the treatment of the anemias, and their value has been shown to be equal to that of liver. One of the demonstrations shown at the convention was that of white rats used in feed experiments by Dr. O. M. Wolf.

An illustrated lecture by Dr. C. M. Yonge, of the Marine Biological Association Laboratory, of Plymouth, England, shed light on the reason for the special value of the oyster in anemia. The oyster has an elaborate system for taking food into its stomach where carbohydrate digestion takes place by means of enzymes, and of preteins and fats by large wandering phagocytic cells, which are like the leucocytes of the human body. Absorption of food takes place in a series of microscopic tubes which extend out from the stomach and form the dark-colored organ which is popularly called the liver. The cells of this organ take up the smaller food particles and digest them in their own bodies, thereby performing a great part of the work of digestion. The “liver” of the oyster is therefore a glandular organ whose functions are similar to those of the glands of the human intestine and some of those of the liver.

Medical men know the association of copper with iron in the prevention and treatment of nutritional ajnemia. The oyster, too, has an intimate relation with copper and also manganese, and contains these metals in appreciable quantities and in a form which may readily be assimilated by the human body. Research workers have demonstrated that the value of oysters in anemia is equal to that of liver.

The American shellfish industry, especially that of oyster growing and marketing, has been placed on a high plane within the last decade, until now its sanitary and scientific aspects are equal to those of milk production and sale. Research workers have delved into the secrets of spawning and growth of oysters and other shellfish; their food and its digestion; and the manner of their natural purification. All this knowledge has been applied eagerly by the growers and dealers, until now the industry is conducted on a thoroughly scientific basis by all the larger growers. The purity and sanitary qualities of the shellfish products are maintained by governmental inspectors in the same' manner that milk- is continuously inspected. One may purchase oysters anywhere in the United States with the assurance that their sanitary quality is equal to that of milk.

The oyster growers are thoroughly alive to the value of the education of the public regarding the desirability of eating oysters, and they are planning to inform the public just as the dairymen are doing. The dairymen have had the advantage of propaganda of milk drinking put forth by boards of health, lay health organizations, and health periodicals until everybody ap-

Digitized by LjOOQle
750

predates the value of milk products. The oystermeu may legitimately adopt the same methods of education, and, in fact, are planning to do so on a large scale.

One of the features of the Sayville Convention was a visit to the oyster houses of Long Island* The oystermeu are fully aware of the value of sanitary surroundings, and they equip their new buildings with enameled handling tubes and washers, and paint the walls a spotless white. The oysters, before being opened, are subjected to a conditioning process in pure water, and the finished product is packed in sanitary containers after the manner of milk. Among the latest methods is that of the quick freezing of the opened oysters, after the method successfully applied to fish and fruit. When this method comes into general use, oysters will be available the year around.

• >■--'■ ---------- • .

Gymnasium and playground

♦ ■ --------------------------------------------

“GLORIFYING THE TURNER GIRL”.

A musical comedy tap and kick line routine to be performed by 16 women of the Newport Kentucky Gymnastic Association at the National Tumfest at Buffalo, New York.

N

Arranged by W. K. Streit. \

---------- \

Music—<v Taint No Sin”—popular song. \

Play introduction with class off stage and begin dance*'Pn first verse and play chorus. Then repeat verse and chorus four\times more, as written.	\

Four counts to each measure.

16 measures in verse; 32 measures in chorus.

Class enters left up stage in flank line, hands on front shoulders. Line members are counted 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4,1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3,4.

Part 1.

Step swing hop forward left and right, cts 1, 2, 3, 4 .... 1	M

Four runs with straight legswing forward cts. 5, 6, 7, 8 _ 1	M

Repeat all 3 times more moving forward ................... 6	M

Face front [1-4 turn left] and No. l's move forward with

same steps described in first 2 meas. Part 1 ........... 2	M

No. l’s continue forward while No. 2’s start forward with

same steps _____________________________________________ 2	M

No. l’s and No. 2’s continue forward while No. 3’s start forward with same steps____________________________________ 2	M

Digitized by v^ooQle
751

All ju,tnp right sideward, feet together, covering in open order formation, ranks of four, 8 cts_____________________.....	2	M

Total

16 M

Part 2.

Beginning left foot, Two 3’s and a 7 ................. 2	M

Repeat above, beginning right foot ................... 2	M

Repeat again, beginning left foot .................... 2	M

Break—Rattle right, hop left, step right backoutward, counts 1 and 2, brush left foot across in front of right, count 3, brush left foot obliquely forward left—count 4, pause count 5, hop right and immediately stamp left forward, count 6, repeat last movement on count 7, pause ct. 8........................................... 2	M

Repeat first 8 meas. Part 2, starting right foot ....... 8	M

Step left sideward, count 1, brush light toe across in front of left—count “and”, brush right toe backward—right leg still crossed in front of left-count 2, brush right toe forward—count “and”, brush right toe back to place—

count 3 and, brush right toe forward—count 4 and, .... 1	M

Thrust arms upward while stamping ball of right foot in place, count 5, lower arms to thrust position and raise right knee at same time—count 6, repeat these movements on counts 7 and 8 ................................ 1	M

Repeat measure 17 in Part 2, starting right foot ....... 1	M

Repeat measure 18 in Part 2, starting left foot and thrusting

arms downward instead of upward ...................... 1	M

Repeat measure 17 in part 2, starting left foot ........ 1	M

Triple balance hop turn to right in place, thrusting arms sideward on ct. 5, return to thrust on ct. 6, thrust arms

sideward on ct. 7 and return on ct. 8 ................ 1	M

Repeat first 3 cts. of Meas. 17, Part 2 and then 7 beginning

right foot ........................................... 2	M

Repeat first 8 measures of part 2 ...................... 8	M

32 M

Part 3 [verse].

With trunk bending forward and a slapping motion of right • arm downwa'rd and a brush of the right foot backinward on the upbeat, step right foot in rear of left—ct. 1, step left sideward—ct. 2, cross right in front of left—ct. 3, brush left foot backinward—ct. 4, step left in rear of right —ct. 5, step right sideward—ct. 6, cross step left foot in front of right—ct. 7 brush right foot backinward—ct. 8 .. 2 M Step right in rear of left—ct. 1, step left sideward—ct. 2, cross step right in front of left and execute a complete turn left on right toe—ct. 3, 4, lunge left foreoutward arms sidedownward—cts. 5, 6, 7, Rattle right on ct. 8 — 2 M

Digitized by LjOOQie
752

Complete the "three” by stepping right on the first beat of

the measure; then add a 3 left and a 7 right ............... 2	M

Break as described in part 2, measures 7 and 8, beginning

left foot ...........................................     2	M

Repeat all of above beginning left foot .................... 8	M

Total ............................................ 16	M

Part 4 [chorus].

Beginning right foot, three 3’s and then place left heel in front of right foot with slight trunk turning right, extending left arm downward toward left foot—hand to a fist while bending right arm to thrust as if pulling a bow and at same time lifting right foot from floor and replacing

with arms returning to fundamental position ........... 2	M

Repeat above beginning left foot ......................   2	M

Repeat again beginning right foot ....................... 2	M

Break as described in part 2, measure 7 and 8, beginning

left foot ............................................. 2	M

Repeat all of above beginning left foot ...............   8	M

Step right sideward, crossing arms in front—ct. 1, a three with the left foot—cts and, 2, and, step right sideward with swinging arms sideward—ct. 3, hop right sideward—

ct. 4 ....................,............................ 1	M

Reverse—performing same step left sideward .............. 1	M

Repeat these 2 measures 3 times more .................... 6	M

Beginning with the right foot, face left about and running steps knee raising forward, form right passing in rear and

run in place_.........................................  6	M

Close feet—standing in front line, swing left arm fore-upward—cts. 1 and 2, swing left arm backdownward and right arm foreupward—cts. 3 and 4, swing right arm backdownward grasping hands in rear chainlock—cts. 5

and 6, pause—cts. 7 and 8— ........................... 2	M

Total .......................................   32	M

Part 5—[verse].

Jump on both feet—ct. 1, swing'right leg straight forward while hopping on left foot—ct. 2, jump on both feet—ct.

3,	swing left leg straight forward while hopping on right

foot. Ct. 4, .........................................   1	M

Repeat above 7 times ...................................   7	M

Place left foot 5th position in rear [left toe at right heetj— cts. 1 and 2, passing thru a sharp knee flexion, place left foot 5th position in front [left heel at right toe]—cts. 3

and 4 ................................................   1	M

Repeat above measure ...............................1_____ 1	M

Digitized by •jOOQle
753

Following sharp knee flexion, place right foot 5th in front,

rear, front, rear :...................................... 2	M

Repeat tjie last 4 measures ................................4	M

Total ........................................... 16	M

.	Part	6—[chorus].

Jump on both feet—ct. 1, swing the right leg straight forward—ct. 2, flex the right knee and hop on the left foot —ct. 3, straighten the right leg while hopping on the left

foot—ct. 4............................................... 1	M

Repeat above measure 3 times more, 1, r, 1,................. 3	M

Lunge left foreoutward—ct. 1, step right foot in place ct. 2, step left foot beside right—ct. 3, lunge right foreoutward— ct. 4, step left foot in place—ct. 5, Place right foot beside left—ct. 6, lunge left foreoutward—ct. 7, step right

foot in place—ct. 8  .................................... 2	M

Place left foot beside right foot and bend both knees in right oblique direction—cts. 1 and 2, straighten knees and

bend in left oblique direction—cts. 3 and 4 ............. 1	M

Repeat above measure .....................................   1	M

Repeat these 8 measures .....................’.............. 8	M

Raise right knee sideward—ct. 1, step right foot in rear of left—ct. 2, step left foot sideward—ct. 3, cross step right

foot in front of left—ct. 4,............................  1	M

Repeat seven times more starting left foot and alternating

thereafter ............................................   7	M

Run	in place with straight leg swing obliquely right	forw. .. 2	M

Run	in place with straight leg swing obliquely left	forw. 2	M

Run	8 steps forward with straight leg swing forw......... 2	M

Rim	in place 8 steps with knee raising forward ......... 2	M

Total ......................................... 32	M

Part 7—[verse].

Jump on both feet—ct. 1, hop on left foot and circle the straight right leg inward returning to its place beside left foot—ct. 2, and continue with three more “fan kicks” with

right leg ................................................ 2	M

Repeat above with left, right, and left	leg ... 6	M

Front and rear cut hop starting left ....................... 1	M

Three cuts starting left and finish with	leg swing r forw. 1	M

Repeat last 2 meas. r, 1, r ................................ 6	M

Total .......................................... 16	M

Part 8—[chorus].

No. l’s and No. 2’s face each other; No. 3’s and No. 4’s face. Drop hands. Step right sideward swinging both arms left —ct. 1, cross step left foot in rear of right swinging arms right sidew.—ct. 2, repeat ct. 1 for ct. 3, place left heel sideward, bend trunk right and swing arms left sideiip-ward, palms facing partner—ct. 4, ...................... 1	M

Digitized by kjOOQle
754

Repeat above 1, r, 1, r, 1, r, and walk three steps back to

place in front line, closing feet on ct. 4	  7	M

No. l’s and No. 3’s bend knees and grasp hands in front

while No. 2’s and No. 4’s grasp hands overhead ...... 1	M

Reverse this position with odd numbers swinging arms backdownward and even numbers retaining grasp and

raising arms foreupward ...........................   1	M

Repeat last two measures three times more ............. 6	M

Even numbers in bent knee position jump forward on both

feet, 8 cts. while odd numbers jump backward ........ 2	M

Reverse positions with odds hopping forward, knees bent,

and evens jumping backward, legs straight .........   2	M

Reverse again ........................................  2	M

All stand and walk back to place in front line, using a front

chain lock .......................................... 2	M

Seven pas de bouree steps to left starting with cross step right in rear arid finish with pointing left toe foreoutward 2 M Point left toe forewardinward—ct. 1, point left toe fore-

outward—ct. 2 and continue until ct. 8 .............. 2	M

Repeat last four measures to right beginning with left rear cross step ............................................ 4	M

Total .......................................... 32	M

Part 9—[verse].

All bend arms at elbows and raise them horizontally in front of face, left uppermost, grasping elbows of neighbors with hands and immediately lower the right arms while raising the left to simulate opening a large mouth—

cts. 1 and 2; reverse or close cts. 3 and 4 ..........   1	M

Repeat above measure 3 times more ......................   3	M

Beginning at left end of line, begin a wave like motion of

arms still grasped, opening and closing in succession .. 4	M

Repeat above 8 measures .................................. 8	M

Total .......................................... 16	M

Part 10—[chorus].

No. 1 and No. 2 bend trunk forward placing hands on toes, knees straight, while No. 3 and No. 4 raise arms upward

palms forward........................................... 1	M

Reverse and repeat .....................................   3	M

Repeat above four measures but twice as fast ............. 4	M

Repeat above 8 measures in four’s instead of two’s........ 8	M

Beginning with the first two girls on the right end of the

line, execute first measure in Part 5 .................. 1	M

Proceed with same step in canon order, done by next two girls on each succeeding measure ......................... 7	M

Digitized by ^.ooQle
755

Exit to left, entire line moving with cross step right over left and step left sideward, one step on each count of the measure until end of music ................................. 8	M

Total ........................................   32	M

o ■	  ♦

Health education notes |

*

PHYSIOLOGICAL FACTS IN FIGURES.*

From the Founders’ Lecture, 1930, 3f the C. S. M. M. G.

By Professor Winifred Cullis, 0. B. E., M. A., D. Sc.

One feature that in all the functioning of the body is of extreme importance is the matter of surface. A great many of the phenomena of the body are surface phenomena; the exchanges all over the body—a typical one being that which takes place between the atmosphere on the one hand and the blood in the luug capillaries on the other—are questions of surface. The exchange between the blood and eveiy cell in the body is an exchange across surfaces, and the actions and interactions of cells must take place at their surfaces. It will be seen, therefore, that surface is an extremely important factor in dealing with the functions of the body. In the human body surface becomes extremely large because we are dealing with minute structures. Most of the substances in the body belong to the particular class of colloids whose properties are fundamental to the various happenings in the body.

Here comes my first figure. If we take a small sphere of gold which has a radius of 1 cm. and keep breaking that sphere up into smaller and smaller parts until it is divided finally into particles which are the size of those which would be found in a colloidal solution, it would be found that each of the molecules finally produced would have a radius of 1-1,000,000 cm. This will cause an immense increase of surface. The first particle of gold with a radius of 1 cm. has a surface area of 0.126 cm. Each of the little particles into which the original mass has been divided has its own superficial area, and the sum total of these surfaces, i. e., the total superficial area presented when the one particle has been broken down to particles of the size of colloidal suspension, is now 100 sq. m. In other words, the surface has been increased 10,000,000 times. That is a very familiar example from colloidal chemistry, and I give it because it is the secret of the kind of figures that exist to a certain extent in the body and that we are able to calculate.

We will begin with one function of the body—a function which is fundamental—that of respiration. It is well known that we die in a very short time as a result of a deprivation of oxygen.

Digitized by kjOOQle
756

If a nerve cell is deprived of oxygen for two minutes, that cell is damaged irreparably. I do not say that if we did not breathe for two minutes we should be dead, because we have certain small stores of oxygen in the body, but the time we can go on living without breathing is very limited. For this reason we expect to have an extremely efficient arrangement for the intake of oxygen in the body, and this intake depends upon two features

(1)	the superficial area in the lungs across which the oxygen exchanges can take place, and (2) the amount of haemoglobin which is there to take up the oxygen, also the surface that it exposes to the lung surface to take up the oxygen.

The area of that lung surface can be obtained by the method of reconstruction. If a section is taken across a lung, and exact measurements taken of that section, a scale model can be built up that will represent that section and magnify it to any extent required. This has been done, with the result that it has been possible to calculate the surface exposed in the lungs. The results obtained show that the surface exposed in ordinary adult lung if spread out in a single sheet would be sufficient to cover nearly half a tennis court. The amount of lung surface that can be exposed for exchanges is, therefore, on a very large scale. When we realise this we also realise the ingenuity and excellent arrangement that packs away this large area into the chest.

In this connection it seemed worth while to calculate how much surface is presented on the other side, that is, by the red blood corpuscles. The red blood coipuscle is a bi-concave disc, but for this purpose we will imagine it to be a small disc with a smooth surface. Now -the corpuscles are of such a size that if placed side by side horizontally there would be 3,000 of them to the inch. If packed vertically there would be 12,000 of them to the inch. Knowing those dimensions, it is quite easy to calculate the surface that is exposed by the red corpuscles if the number of red corpuscles is known. One cmm. of blood contains roughly five million red blood corpuscles; how many does that mean in the body? The body contains on an average some 5 litres of blood, and if one cmm.. of blood contains 5,000,000 corpuscles, then the total number of red corpuscles in the body will be 25 billion! And if there is about one white corpuscle to 500 red corpuscles, that means we shall have 50,000 million leucocytes in the body. .

We can calculate the surface of each corpuscle, and we know the number of red corpuscles, and from this can calculate the total surface. When I first worked out those figures, I was so startled by the result that I asked a brother of mine who is a mathematician to check them. The astounding result is obtained that the surface exposed by the 25 billion corpuscles works out at an area that would cover more than ten tennis courts, which does seem an extraordinary figure. This means that the superficial surface that is available for oxygen exchange in the lungs is decidedly adequate, and we recognize that we shall probably
757

never reach the limit of the possibility of exchange across the lung surface. Any difficulties that may arise in doing extremely vigorous exercise entailing a large consumption of oxygen is not likely then to be due to any failure at the lung surface, but to the difficulties of carrying a sufficient amount of blood around in circulation to pick up the oxygen required.

I now turn to another aspect of this question of oxygen supply. Muscular exercise is a subject which must be of peculiar interest to yourselves, and I propose now to consider figures in connection with muscular exercise. We have seen that as far as the lungs and corpuscles are concerned there should be no diffi-cuty in getting sufficient oxygen into the body to use. Whit amount of oxygen is necessary to keep the body going? This amount can easily be determined. Every minute we use about 250 cc. of oxygen in ordinary normal sedentary life. The amouut of blood in the body, as we have seen, is about 5 litres; the oxygen content of the arterial blood is about 18 per cent., so that for every 100 cc. of blood that passes through the lungs we take up 5cc. of oxygen. The blood comes in as venous blood containing 13 per cent., and leaves as arterial blood, containing 18 per cent. If for the ordinary functions of the body we want about 250 cc. of oxygen a minute, then a very simple sum will show that we have to pass through the lungs every minute 5 litres of blood, and twice that amount through the heart.

What will be the oxygen needs if the body is performing very great muscular exercise? Naturally the more vigorous the exercise the more carbohydrate must be oxidised to give the energy for that contraction and the more oxygen must be taken on. Prof. A. V. Hill has made various experiments for determining what is the amount of oxygen a man can take in during one of the most violent forms of exercise. The biggest oxygen consumption he had ever been able to record in any one individual was about 5 litres of oxygen a minute; i.e., nearly twenty times the amount given as an ordinary average amount. The man who did actually take in about 5 litres was doing what is called standing running.” Prof. Hill says the best athlete can exhaust himself in a very few minutes by this form of exercise.

The next highest amount was obtained by Prof. Hill in connection with observations in some of the students at Cornell University at Ithaca, who were performing the action of rowing, al hough in a fixed apparatus. W.th them^ also he obtained figures of about 5 litres of oxygen consumption per minute. The maximum oxygen consumption is obtained in running; the rowing man can never get up to quite the same expenditure of energy, probably because of the cramped position in which he does his work. An oarsman doing extreme work on an average uses up 21.5 cc. of oxygen for every pound of his body weight, whereas an expert at running uses up 26 cc. of oxygen per pound of weight. Running, therefore, must be regarded as an extraordinary good exercise if we want not only to make ourselves take up the

Digitized by v^.ooQle
758

maximum amount of oxygen, but to do it under most favourable circumstances.

We will now consider what this figure means in the way of circulation. To obtain the 5 litres of oxygen that an athlete doing an extreme amount of work has to have involves several adaptations. The first alteration is a comparatively easy one; the tissues themselves take up more oxygen from the blood. Instead of sending out venous blood containing 13 per cent.of oxygen, they probably run it down to about 5 per cent, of oxygen. For every 100 cc. of blood passed through the muscle instead of 5, 13 cc. will be taken out. Therefore the amount of oxygen taken can very nearly be treble the normal amount, but we are not able completely to deplete the blood of oxygen in the time that the blood is passing through the tissues. Allowing for the fact that we can get 13 cc. out of every 100 cc., we shall have to call in the second line of adaptation, increased circulation rate. We shall have to pass through the lungs 34 litres of blood per minute, and send out the same quantity by the left side of the heart to the muscles to supply the necessary oxygen. We are, therefore, sending through the heart 68 litres of blood a minute.

Some realisation of what this figure means can be obtained from a simple observation. A large bath-tap turned full on will give a flow which is less than 30 litres a minute. A large bath-tap, full on, and in a steady flow, does not pass out anything like the volume of blood that has to pass in an intermittent flow through the heart in doing this great amount of work. The heart weighs about one pound, and that means that a pump weighing a pound is able to send out more than 68 litres of fluid a minute.

The limit to the amount of work that we can do is probably set by this very factor; the amount of blood that can be forced round the heart. The “second wind” that comes to us after doing a sudden sport or exercise probably means that the heart has adapted itself to send round the necessary amount of blood.

Another phase that has to be remembered in connection with this is the amount of blood and oxygen that the heart itself needs to do that amount of work. The circulation through the coronary vessels must be very free indeed if the oxygen is to be supplied. You can easily work out for yourselves the amount of work done by the heart in forcing this amount of blood round the body against the ordinary blood pressure. You will find that in doing this work the heart is consuming exactly as much oxygen as that used by the whole of the rest of the body when at rest. I think that shows that a factor likely to limit us very considerably is this factor of the coronary circulation.

By calculation it is perfectly possible to find out what is the limit of the amount of work that a person would do. If you assume that a man’s muscles work at a 20 per cent, efficiency and then calculate how much oxygen is required and how many kilograms of work can be done by the muscles, you will find

Digitized by v^ooQie
759

that a man can get through an amount of work which comes at about the level which will need 5 litres of- oxygen a minute. That is probably the maximum amount of work that can be done by any human being. In making such calculations, the following are the sort of figures that will be found useful.

One litre of oxygen will give practically 16,000 foot pounds of work. Further, it will be remembered that 1 h.p. is 33,000 foot pounds, so that 1 litre of oxygen enables you to do half a horse power of work. From that you can calculate how fast you can run upstairs. It is only necessary to know your own weight and the height you are going to raise yourself in going upstairs, to be able to calculate how many foot pounds of work must be done. Find out how much oxygen will be necessary for the work and the final answer depends upon how much oxygen you can take up in a minute.

Professor Hill calculated that if in extraordinarily good condition, a man could climb the Woolworth building, 792 feet high, in just over eight minutes. His statement tempted some people to try, and one who took up the challenge actually ran up the steps of the Woolworth building in nine minutes, which was an extraordinarily good effort.

Another set of relationships that can be determined is the amount of carbohydrate that must be consumed to provide the energy. The necessary figures here are that 1 gram of carbohydrate yields 4.1 calories, on combustion, and 1 calorie is equivalent to 3,086 foot pounds. Thus you can begin to connect the two together, and can discover that the effort of going up the Woolworth building in eight minutes would cost the performer 1 1-2 oz. of sugar.

Now, how do the muscles get supplied with the necessary amount of oxygen to enable them to do all this work? Clearly they must be extraordinarily well supplied with blood vessels. The following figures we owe to Professor Krogh, Professor of Physiology of Copenhagen, who has made many interesting observations on the blood supply to the muscles. His book on Capillary Circulation would interest many of you because of his observations on the reactions of the skin to rubbing and friction. In his book he gives illustrations which enable one to visualise the size of the areas with which he is dealing. He points out that the transverse section of an ordinary hairpin has an area of about 1-2 sq. mm. Here are some of his figures showing the number of capillaries that he found in various muscles. In the case of the horse he found there were about 700 capillaries in 1-2 sq. mm. It seems almost impossible that in an area no bigger than the cross section of a pin it should be possible to have 700 tubes carrying blood, in addition to about 200 muscle figures in the same region. This gives a figure of 1,350 capillary blood vessels per sq. mm. of muscle tissue.

If we assume that man, being smaller than a horse, has a slightly larger supply of capillaries per sq. mm. this would give him about

Digitized by CjOOQle
760

2,000	capillaries j)er sq. mm. If it is taken that a man’s muscle weighs 50 kilos., it will work out that his capillaries have a total length of 100,000 km., or a measurement of two and a half times round the earth, with a total surface of 6,300 sq. m. These figures sound fantastic, but they are correct, and the capillaries in the muscles of man, then, will have a length of 100,000 kilometres with a surface area of over 6,000 sq. m. From such figures we see that we shall not have any difficulty at the muscle end in the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between the blood in the capillaries and the muscle abutting on those capillaries.

Before we leave this question of surface there is one other aspect of it that should be mentioned, and that is that we ourselves carry on our metabolism in strict proportion to our total surface. If we took the amount of oxygen consumption per minute of different individuals in this room, it would be found to differ considerably; but there is one unit which will bring us all practically to the same level, and that is our surface area. We all use practically the same amount of oxygen per unit of surface, and so we all produce practically the same number of calories per sq. m. of surface. The formula by means of which the superficial area is calculated is one involving height, weight, and a constant. The surface area of most of us would lie between 1.5 and 2 sq. m. The basic rate of oxygen consumption reduced to the amount per sq. m. is practically constant. For a man it is about 133 cc. per sq. m. per minute, sufficient to produce 40 calories per sq. m. per hour; for a woman, about 120 cc. per minute, enough to produce 37 calories per sq. m. per hour. The basic rate varies with age,.sex, and activity of the thyroid gland.

Babies should have in proportion a great deal more food than adults because as we grow our bulk increases proportionately to the cube, but our surface only in proportion to the square. The baby, therefore, having more surface relatively to his body weight, needs a proportionately greater amount of food and has a higher calorie production; that is why babies when first born lose heat very rapidly; they have a 'arge surface area and they have not developed their heat regulating centres; they have to be wrapped up or, according to Professor Pembrey, they should never be taken away from the warmth of the mother’s body. The food required by any person in the resting position can be measured in terms of superficial area. It is extravagant to be too fat, because in growing fat there is an increase of superficial area and more food is required.

Teaching without a program is like sailing a boat without a compass—one just goes without knowing where. The dictionary defines program as a plan of future procedure. Our progress in physical education is handicapped, and the opinion regarding it is embarrassed by the usual lack of a program.
761

News, notes and comments

Annual convention, Mid-West Society, A. P. E. A., March 31 to April 2, 1932, Columbus, Ohio.

Annual Convention, Southern Society, A. P. E. A., March 31 to April 2, 1932, Jacksonville, Fla.

Annual Convention, American Physical Education Association, April 19-23, 193%, Philadelphia, Pa.

First International Recreation Congress, Los Angeles, July 26-29, 1932.

Congress of the International Physical Education and Sports Society, Los Angeles, July 26.-29, 1932.

Wingate Athletic Broadcasts. Our readers will be pleased to learn that the Wingate Memorial Foundation of New York City has inaugurated a series of weekly broadcasts which will present authorities on the various sports and games and related subjects. The broadcasts will be carried over the Columbia Broadcasting network each Saturday until April 23, 1932, from 12:45 P. M. to 1:00 P. M., Eastern Standard Time. The speakers will include Dr. W. K. Kilpatrick of Teachers College, Columbia University, Tad Jones of Yale, Elmer D. Mitchell of the University of Michigan, Dr. Leroy Mercer of the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. Joseph E. Raycroft of Princeton University, Dr. James Maismith, inventor of basketball, and other authorities on athletics.

The Wingate Athletic Broadcast is intended to bring to the coaches and athletic teachers throughout the country a fifteen minute summary of the two-hour lecture-demonstration conducted each Saturday morning in New York City for the benefit of the local teachers and students of physical education in athletics.

Arrangements are being made whereby it will be possible for those who listen to the 15-minute summary to receive an inexpensive transcript [at cost] reporting the full two-hour lecture and demonstration. The cost of each transcript will be less than that of a popular magazine and may be secured by applying to the office of the Chairman, 57 East 56th Street, New York City.

Communicable Diseases Among Children in the U.S.A.

Just how American children are going to develop into healthy citizens when at least 1,500,000 children every year are reported as suffering from a communicable, which in most cases means a preventable, disease, was one of the questions raised by modem pioneers in the Public Health Section of the last White House Conference on Child Health and Protection. Fifteen per cent of

SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS
762

the total deaths in this country every year are caused by such diseases. Of the million children with weak or damaged hearts, of the hundreds of thousands with impaired hearing and the thousand^ with defective eyesight, many have become thus handicapped as a result of communicable diseases. From fifty to seventy-five per cent of the nation’s crippled children owe their condition to infantile paralysis and tuberculosis.

Encouraging Gains for Physical Education. In the

Conclusions of an article on Trends In Junior High School Programs Of Studies which appeared in the October issue of School Life, is the following: “The dfata which have been presented tend to show that in general the 1929-31 program is more representative of all subject fields than is the 1915-1920 program. Social studies, physical education,and fine arts seem to have profited, mostly at the expense of foreign language and commerce. While increases for physical education are more noteworthy, increments in all three subject groups named are of sufficient significance to justify the conclusio i that the health, civic-social-moral and avocational aims of education are receiving greater emphasis.”

The following is an extract from a speech by Russell Cook, National Americanism director, American Legion: “Realizing that physical development among the youth of the country is way below par, basing this statement on the fact that 35 per cent of the men drafted in the forces of this country during the world war were rejected because of physical disability, state departments have been asked to start campaigns on characterbuilding and physical development in the schools of their respective states. The legion favors a minimum program of compulsory physical education in the public schools which will require at least one hour per day for three days a week, or its equivalent. Legislation to bring this about will be sought by the legion in all states where such laws are not now operating.”

Playground Baseball for Adults in Chicago. One of

the most interesting activities promoted by the West Chicago Park Commission during the past summer was the Standard Park Twi-light baseball league which was composed of ten senior teams with twenty players to a team to allow for those unable to come due to working overtime, away on vacations, etc. The average age of the players was about twenty-eight years of age and the majority of the men playing were in business around the neighborhood or in various professions. The success of the League proves that there is real need for organized tournaments which are run over a period of several months with rules as lenient as possible consistent with the best interests of the game. A soft ball 14” in diameter was used, the pitching being slow so as to enable the batters to hit the ball thereby giving the infield
763

and outfield a chance to play continuously. The distance between the bases was 60 ft., balls and strikes were called to prevent stalling, but all other rules were those governing regular baseball.

When the school year has just begun a program should be made for a month, for a semester or for a year. It should not be merely a schedule of the classes, but program content for the day, for the week, for the month and for the year. There must be goals toward which the teacher steers; there must be data available showing progress. This needs testing and measuring. To measure, one needs two points—that to measure from, and that to measure to. The first is a record of each pupil when the program begins; the other, a record of each pupil at the expiration of a certain period. What lies between is wholly the planned procedure or pro ram.

A test of some sort will determine both the measuring points. There must of necessity be a varied test. Neither strength, endurance, accuracy in skills, nor behavioristic findings alone can serve the purpose of adapting the program to the pupil. All are diagnostic factors and must be applied in order to insure full profit to the participating pupil. A program must be built, and the intelligence of the teacher will be mirrored in its set-up. This program should not be a secret, known only to the teacher, but should be in the hands of the principal and the superintendent of schools, and, to be sure, the pupils themselves should know whither they are aiming.

A program does not necessarily mean an unelastic plan which will not permit of adaptation to needs and arising changes, but should be a route map definitely leading somewhere, in spite of detours.

Those who have not worked according to a plan will find new satisfaction in such guided teaching. Have a definite aim for each class, and a goal for each individual, for a set span of time. Then the work for each lesson to be taught will have been thought through, instead of the all too prevalent hit-or-miss type of teaching which begins nowhere and ends nowhere. Teaching according to a program begets the art of teaching.

Physical education departments have always been looked upon as strong holds for discipline, but the general softening in education has made marked inroads into our classwork. The tendency to entertain rather than to teach has led to a “free for all’’ condition which resembles lawlessness more than discipline, and has brought about a relationship between teacher and pupil which is void of dignity.

Discipline is defined as ‘^training to act in accordance with established rules, and accustoming to systematic and regular

Digitized by V^OOQle
764

1

action”. Obedience to reasonable orders and commands has ever been recognized as a definite factor in training for behavior. A teacher whose popularity is the result of leniency and laxity has lost the respect of his pupils. Command respect by knowing your stuff, and by being a leader as well as a gentleman.—Massachusetts Bureau of Physical Education.

New Meningitis Organisms Discovered.—During the last five years there has been more epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis in the United States than at any time since the World War. A wave has traveled slowly across the United States from the Pacific Coast, Dr. Sarah E. Branham of the National Institute of Health said, in remarking on the discovery. This wave manifested itself in severe outbreaks in many centers of population—as Salt Lake City, Chicago, Memphis, Detroit, Indianapolis, Philadelphia and New Haven.

The new group of meningitis germs was found while Dr. Branham and her co-workers were endeavroing to find an improved serum for the treatment of this disease. They were engaged at the time in examining more than 400 cultures from epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis collected from various sections of the country where flare-ups had appeared.

Apparently there are spontaneous outbreaks sometimes widely separated, because only a few individuals out of many persons who may carry the germs in the respiratory tract actually may contract the disease. These carriers, though, may spread the infection.

Germs are grouped according to “strains”. Some are very virulent and so more apt to cause a fatal form of the disease than others. More than 50 per cent of the cases in the recent epidemics have been fatal in some localities, while elsewhere deaths have been fewer.

Although primarily a disease of children, epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis affects adults also, especially those living under crowded conditions and following a radically changed routine of life. Such conditions aided widespread and fatal outbreaks during the World War among soldiers here and abroad.

Although the “meningococcus” was discovered by Weichsel-baum in 1887, the fact that all strains are not alike was first recognized by the French bacteriologist, Dopter, in 1909, and recognition of the first four groups of the germs was made by Dr. M.. J. Gordon, a British physician and his co-workers, during the World War. The majority of the “strains” sent to the National Institute of Health during the recent epidemics in the United States have been found by Dr. Branham and her associates to fall into the four groups of Gordon. The new fifth group has been found to be predominant in some parts of the Middle West.—The New York Medical Weekly.