PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. 13.

MARCH, 1906.

No. 145

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools. Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Ail business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By F. WcEGE, Chicago Public Schools.

WE still hear now and then that physical culture in schools is a detriment rather than an aid to the growth and development of the child. Some cannot see how it affects the mind at all; others declare it to be a burden requiring a great deal of mental energy, and therefore not a recreation but, on the contrary, an extra amount of drudgery; that the child is not relieved but more pressed; that the curriculum, overcrowded, as it is already, is still heavier loaded down with this superfluous, even detrimental physical culture and the teacher, already pressed for time to carry out her overcrowded program is worried how to find space for drill in physical exercises.

Certainly has nobody who never saw good or even fair work in physical culture any right to express opinions of the above kind. One who never exercised himself and felt the results of exercise may be tempted to oppose physical culture in schools. He who does not know what it means to be one of the boys in a lively, spirited performance of dumbbell-exercises or any other branch of athletics, he who never experienced the blessings of a relieved mind after an hour or two of

Digitized by U.ooQle
good hard gymnasium work will not be able to appreciate the advantages of physical culture in schools. A teacher or educator who never had an opportunity to observe the stimulating, energizing effect of physical exercise on- the class may be opposed to it. If a person who never noticed the brightening up of the class when the teacher ordered John and Joe to get the wands, or asked Elsie to step to the piano and play for exercise, never observed the smiles and other expressions of joy that greeted the (“exercise man”) special teacher of physical culture, then of course he is not in position to properly value and estimate the beneficient effect of it. What is it that evokes this happiness of the children? Is the personality of the special teacher of physical culture the cause of his being the most favored teacher with the children ? Were it so, this resurrected Pestalozzi would be well worth his weight in gold and deserve the most conspicuous place in the hall of fame. Is it not the recollection of pleasant experiences connected with the “exercise man” that is reflected in their countenances?

Does physical culture task mentality, does it require a great amount of nerve energy? Why, of course, it does, its immediate benefit, however, lies in its influence on the mind.

If it did not affect the mind, how could its promoters claim all the advantages for it? How could we say that exercise relieves the tnind if the mind were wholly passive during a period of exercise. Relief of mind should never be understood as any kind of mind wandering or a lack of mental activity. I can not think of anything more harmful, nay, more detrimental to growth than aimless thinking. As in physical exhaustion absolute quietness does not by any means always mean recreation or even rest. It is the change in the work that relieves the body far more than the cessation of activity. How much more must this apply to the mind if we remember that the waking mind is never inactive, never at rest. The increased flow of blood to the brain would not amount to much if with that stream of blood we did not send also a current of spiritual joy. All except the cardiac muscles are incited to work by some new nerve impulse, originating from the brain. If this were not so what a flat failure would physical culture be. If we were able to entirely separate body and mind, by far the greater part of the exercises anybody undertook would be useless. If exercises had no effect on the mind, left no traces on it, we ought to abolish them or find some means and ways of bringing them into closer relations with mental activity.

Does a business man exercise for the sake of muscular development or for the expansion of the chest only? The knowing ones do not. They go to the gymnasium to escape the worry of business cares. For at least one hour or so daily they want to think about something else. How manv do not seek relief from every day worry by indulging in some mental activities? Theaters, concerts, even the card games of skat and euchre are some of the means they resort to for recreation. And who would say that they are wrong, that they overload their brains still more?

Of course, as mentioned above, we can claim all the advantages for physical culture only if good work is shown in the gvmnasium. The

Digitized by tjOOQle
teacher must be a pedagogue, not an athlete, .basket ball or football coach, or even a pugilist as, to our shame, we have to admit is the case in some instances. Theoretical knowledge alone is not by any means a guarantee for success; practical experience in a gymnasium is essential to the successful conduct of work. But a much more important factor is needed than a mere brilliant performer on the apparatus or a star member of some team. Of the teacher in the school room not only intellectual efficiency is required, but she must also be impressed that physical culture is a necessary part of the curriculum. She must see its blessings as well as those of the three R’s. If she merely devotes ten minutes of physical culture only because the principal demands it, or she thinks some one will inspect and criticise the work, it may not only be an unnecessary mental exertion but even drudgery and waste of time. For the sake of the argument let us assume that the teacher tried her best and was successful; let us see whether thus the mental activities involved are a burden and unnecessary strain or whether the work is beneficial and a valuable addition to the means of child development.

Besides the physical benefits there is first the advantage of a change of the subject of instruction. You say we may as well change from reading to writing or arithmetic. True, but we must admit that the brain centers for the two studies are so closely interrelated, the reflex system between them is so complex that a change from one of these to the other will not materially relieve the former. In fact, we must concede that in either all the centers of the three R’s in the intellectual area are so intensively active that’ the difference in exertion bv changing from one to another is not great enough to offer a relief to either. The close relationship between the physical functions in reading, writing, arithmetic, spelling, etc., is obvious and a change from one to another can bring no rest. They are not identical studies, but to change from one to another for the sake of relief or rest would be equivalent to trying to calm down one’s circulation by jumping rope after having finished a two mile run.

Now if the teacher changes to physical culture will the pupils have relief? Of course, we do not shut out those centers altogether. To comprehend and execute commands or even to remain conscious at all, all the centers are involved to some extent. But the weight of action, the brunt of activity is shifted to the motor centers and the intellectual ones are active only in a secondary degree; we may say they are active only in occasionally assisting the harder working centers; they work only in preserving the equilibrium of intellectual and motor activity. Let us term this the recrative value, and now consider the educative.

As in almost all mental activities there is no sharp line of demarkation where the recreative effects end and the educative begin. That which is recreative may at the same time be educative and vice versa. It depends mostly on the teacher’s point of view whether she intends to emphasize one or the other purpose. If she intends to lay stress on obedience and quick response she will use other exercises or different methods of conducting exercises than when she intends them to be of a more recreative character. For the recreative purpose of satisfying the child’s craving for a change of position or aiming at better circulation she may have the class take a little run
or skip around the room, or give simple, lively calisthenics, or impose any-work that experience has shown her to be enjoyed by the class. She may count as rhythmically as possible, or if she can practice to music so much the better. To train attention, obedience, quick response, exercises by command, by imitation or by ordering, one or more counts in position should be given. For those aims the child is obliged to concentrate its will power in order to respond quickly and accurately to stimuli. Eye and ear are both strained rapidly to transmit the command, the intellectual centers are on guard to interpret the meanings and give out orders accordingly whilo the muscles are almost in tension and ready immediately to answer the calls. Here we tram the power of observation, we develop coordination; here is where we demonstrate the relation of stimulus to response. Not only do we gain mental development but at the same time, incidentally, the muscles are strengthened, the physical body receives its share of the benefit. Training a child s courage* self-confidence, alertness, work on apparatus or games would be preferable. But we should always remember that only those movements are educative that require conscious mental effort; only those that are directed by the child’s mentality are valuable in educative, only those directed by the will are of any value in its development.

I must not touch the field of sub- or unconscious movements. It is certain, however, that they not only do not aid in, but are even hindering, development. Any teacher of gymnastics knows that many times a beginner fails in his efforts because he makes so many uncontrolable unconscious movements. Even too much rhythm does not aid but hinder. If we always count rhythmically the response of the child will be the same. But rhythmical exertions do not demand, and therefore do not develop, so greai a power. The first impulse requires a considerable amount of will power, but the following owes are so much of reflex character that they have but little educative effect on the will. We may compare it with starting a machine. After it is started once comparatively little force is needed to keep it a-going. Rhythmical movements are great savers of time and energy, but here we are considering mental development, and for this development it is not a question of merely exercising, but striving toward perfection. Not alone in heavy gymnastics but also in calisthenics. We all know how fatiguing is to teacher and class a sluggish slouchy execution. If anything proves the beneficial influence of exercise on the mind and if anything demonstrates the necessity of conscious effort, the manner of execution does it. You act lazily and feel lazy, you act sluggishly and drowsily, and you feel like it; but the moment the teacher strikes the right chord you wake up, a spider web seems to vanish from your mind. Your first activity is gathering of mental force, and following this your spirited, elastic actions reflect the strength of them. Laziness, sluggishness disappear. One does a great deal more work and uses up a considerable amounnt of energy and still feels refreshed and relieved.

Now I do not mean to say that we should be pedantic about the execution of exercises. We can not expect everybody to be graceful and exact in his movements. To accomplish this is, however, a part of our tasks. We strive to gain full and spontaneous control of our self; spontaneous co-ordination is the distant goal. If we demand perfection from the start and direct our efforts in that line only the pupil would soon lose interest in the work. Were the perfect manner of execution our sole aim we might confine ourselves to military drill. Hammer away at a dozen or two movements and get them so machine-like that absolutely no mental exertion is necessary any longer, a

Digitized by CjOOQle
parrot-like repetition will be the result. Correspondingly the drill of long sets of exercises is devoid of educative value. In these we merely train memory. The mind does not grow and develop but all but absorbs and acts as a storehouse. If anything will tend to make the child lose interest in the work, exercise of this kind will.

A few remarks on the comparative value of games. Now and then we find that some people think 15 minutes of recess are sufficient, that all the child needs is a chance to play, that it will play anyhow and education will go on by itself. Others say, Play, play, play. They see the insufficiency of the 15 minute recess and believe that by utilizing all the physical culture time for games they will get nearer the goal, i. e. development and education. No one who understands the value of games will deny their great importance in the child’s development. We all agree that m infancy and early childhood the chi*d gains all his experience in play. But even at that early period the games need supervision. Whither would the child drift if papa and mama did not watch over the play ? Later, in the kindergarten, we engage trained people so to direct the games and plays as to render them educative. In this period, however, games or work under the guise of joy and pleasure is not the only occupation. The teacher occasionally inserts a short interval of real work, an interval where she intends to have John construct something for the sake of the work in it, not merely because he sees pleasure in its construction. At the beginning of school life the real work begins. Probably too radical a change is instituted here. Since in the previous period we had work only on rare occasions we now pass over to the other extreme, and games are only played when the teacher thinks she can really spare a few minutes for them. But assuming that we have ideal teachers and ideal facilities, even then games by themselves would not suffice. They should always play an important part, but never crowd out or replace calisthenics and heavy gymnastics. The personal, the individual effort in a game is of an altogether different character from that in calisthenics and heavy gymnastics. We may say that the incentive to action in a game is solely derived from the child's feeling of pleasure, and the craving for satisfying his desire for the fun that is in it is predominating. It usually gets a great deal of exercise out of it, but does it really work ? If activity in general and work were identical the child, of course, would work, sometimes very hard. But would John perform the same amount if he saw no fun in it? John may be only too willing to work at a ball game. He will chase the ball time and again, but that he would be so eager when mama asks him to carry up a pail of coal or a basket of wood is not so certain. I have known young men that starred in ball games and also performed some interesting exercises on the apparatus whenever the teacher approached them, but when the time came to show what was really in them they were flat failures. It was not exiting enough to work hard, they could not see any fun in it. On the other hand the boys who tried hard, no matter what was up, were the ones that succeeded. Those of the former class will spend their time, money and energy about pool tables and bowling alleys, while those of the latter class are likely to attend some evening school. It is not only the spirit of work when some interesting or pleasing sensation is the incentive that we should develop. That undefinable power or faculty of the mind which we commonly call “will” is at what our aim should be. We are commonly catering to the child’s interest too fhuch and are neglecting the development of his will power. Our sole aim is to make the task palatable, pleasing, agreeable to John, and we are most always satisfied when we succeed in coaxing him to try, but we forget

Digitized by Google
6-

that Miss So and So cannot always be with him to coax and urge him on when a test of his will power confronts him. The time will come when John will have to stand on his own feet, when he will have to work and try hard even though it may not please him.

It is claimed that games train morality and courage. It is certain that games are a very valuable addition to our means in gaining educational results and we should certainly sustain a great loss were we deprived of them; but they should always be valued as only one of many means. Especially in higher schools exists an inclination to lose sight of that limitation. In the majority of cases the members of the various teams take part in any branch of athletics for training purposes only. All teachers of physical culture complain that the star players are mostly wanting when needed for good hard work in any other branch. We may compare the effect of these games on the will power of the player to that of intoxicants. One must gradually increase the dose of the stimulant to satisfy the desire. Were games really sufficient for moral development our football players would all be models of the human race. But of the many people who play at football so very intensively very few actually become great men. Of course, many of those who play football are so situated that, even though they are not very successful in their career, their parents have enough money to make up for it, and the public never inquires about their failure. The national games of football, baseball and basket ball create a fighting spirit, but whether they develop a spirit of enterpnze to undertake a difficult or even unpleasant task is a different proposition. Fighting spirit is not essentially a good, hard working spirit. I know young men who are nothing less than good workers, but they are never afraid to enter a game of roughouse. Courage is a broad concept. A poor ambitious young man who fears to risk his health in a football game but is man enough to work himself up through a higher school by his own virtues and means, displays certainly more courage than the football star who is favored with plenty of cash from papa s checks.

The one aim and cause in a game is to win, and this in itself is a very delicate point to guard and direct. It is at least doubtful whether or not that spirit is elevating at all. We all know how carefully and alert the teacher has to look out for and guard against any misleading expressions and tendencies. The ball player who is not a great kicker is a great exception to the rule. The virtue of obedience to the rules is being so weakly developed that every little chance to break them is taken advantage of.

A point that should be mentioned in this connection is the limited number of participants in most games. Ten, eighteen, twenty-two members are heroes and do the work, while the hundreds and thousands are at the side lines howling. I believe it would be better if we had fewer hero worshippers and more heroes.

J. PIERPONT MORGAN SUBSCRIBES.......................

Mr. Julian W. Curtiss, Chairman of the Finance Committee of the American Committee of the Olympic Games of 1906, which are to be held at Athens, Greece, this spring, announced yesterday that Mr J. Pierpont Morgan had contributed $500 towards the fund that is now being raised for the purpose of sending to the Olympic Games of 1906 a representative team of American athletes.

The representatives of the Finance Committee in all sections of the country are trying hard to secure the $25,000 that will be necessary in order to send to Athens representatives from America for all the different events. However, if

Digitized by c^ooQle
the $25,000 is not raised the Selection of Team Committee feel that they will be able to send a very representative team.

Among the other gentlemen that have subscribed to the fund are: S. R. Guggenheim, $500; August Belmont, $100; Robert Garret, Baltimore, $100; Montimer L. Schiff, $50; A. G. Mills, $25, and Mr. B. C. Williams of Wintbrop, Me., $15. The Greek Committee has also placed at the disposal of the American Committee $1500.

President W. D. Nesbit of the Southern Association of the Amateur Athletic Union announced that it was the attention of the clubs of the Southern Association to contribute $1000 toward defraying the expenses of the team, and it is expected that President Jphn R. VanWormer on behalf of the New York Athletic Club will make arrangements whereby the New York A. C. will contribute its share to the fund. The Boston A. A. as well as other organizations are likewise interesting themselves, and the Committee on Team Selection will meet in the city of New York about February 17th, to select as many members as possible to make the trip, so that they can make their arrangements accordingly.

THE GROWTH AND HEALTH OF CHILDREN IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

Read before the Principals and Directors of Practice of the Public Schools of Indianapolis.

(Concluded.)

LOOKING still closer into school conditions we find that wrongly constructed school furniture and improper or inadequate lighting are also factors which bring about conditions calling for a great expenditure of energy without giving satisfactory results. Unless desks aie constructed with full regard for certain well defined laws of hygiene, they produce defects of ey&ight, injurious effects as to posture, and wrong habits of carriage which are borne through life and in many cases become more pronounced as years pass by. Most of the desks and seats in our schools force the children into postures that raise the right shoulder, bend the spine to the left, and cause the head to droop forward, contracting and flattening the chest. In a few years the position and shape of a child’s bones have been altered. When a school-room is to be furnished the question is usually asked: which grade is to occupy it? Supposing it is to be a fifth grade, seats No. 3 (we will say) are put into that room. Now, seats No. 3 may be correct as far as the mental status of these pupils is concerned, but every teacher knows that she may perhaps have a dozen or even one-half of her clsas who will not be suited. Prof. Bowditch of Harvard University found surprising variations of height when measuring nearly 25,000 school boys and girls of Boston.

Girls of six years of age, he found, showed a difference in height of 6.79 inches and boys of 6.47 inches. Girls of eleven years of age showed a difference of 8.03 inches and boys of 8.03 inches. Girls of fifteen years showed a difference of 7.61 inches and boys of 11.35 inches. But in the population of the school-room we seldom have children all of the same age. Often they vary much in years. This naturally gives us a still greater difference in height.

In my recent investigations I found in a room in which pupils were seated at desks of the same height a difference in height of 1914 inches. The smallest pupil had to raise his arms nearly shoulder high when

Digitized by
-8-

writing, while the tallest one could not get his knees under the desk. Another thing which is often overlooked is the fact that two persons of the same standing height may vary considerably in their sitting height. The sitting height of girls is proportionately greater than their standing height when compared with boys, that is, boys usually have longer legs. So we see that even with the same standing height the benches and seats for the two sexes ought to vary so as not to force pupils to sit in positions not only uncomfortable to them and productive of much restlessness, but positively injurious to their bodies. The only solution is a desk and seat that can easily and quickly be adjusted to the bodily needs of its occupant. Even if such desks should, at the start, cost more than the old kind, this additional cost would be more than equalized by the cost of the workman’s time moving desks from one room to the other during the first few years of service. The objections to adjustable desks were usually that they are not rigid, and that it takes an engineer to set them, but the desks manufactured during the last few years are of a much more simple mechanical construction. They are rigid and can easily be adjusted by the school janitors.

Now, if with improper desks and seats we also have inadequate lighting or light coming from the wrong side we have conditions which are deplorable, to use the mildest expression. Intelligent parents would rise up in arms and give a school board all the funds it needs if they could sometimes see the conditions under which their children are forced to live for five or more hours per day. The days are passed when a building with large rooms, a few windows on two (or even three) sides of each room, a stove and a blackboard in each room, can be called a school building. As in othtr lines specialization has also taken place among architects, and school boards now employ, or ought to employ, architects who have studied the technical needs of schools and who know how to combine these with the demands of modern school hygiene. Still better results might be had if the plans of architects were submitted for approval to a board of teachers of experience. One of the innovations of the modern school whose rapid spread is to be deplored is the so-called cloak closet that has taken the place of the cloak room. It is true that it cheapens the cost of a building, but that is the only point in its favor that has been discovered. In most cases it is a device creating disorder. Having the clothes hanging in three tiers the pupil taking his wraps from an under hook usually causes those hanging up higher to fall to the floor where they are stepped upon.

Its tiers of clothing hanging close together increases the danger of infection. On wet or damp days the clothes packed into one of these closets generate odors that are positively injurious, especially when the rolling wooden curtain is drawn down over the steaming mass. Then, rows of these closets are usually placed on one or both sides of the corridors taking away either three or six feet of much needed space, causing a congestion and disorder at dismissal times and thereby being productive of disturbances. The introduction of the cloak-closet has also been the cause of robbing us of the second exit from the schoolroom which, in time of danger, may mean much for the safety of the pupils
Let us hope that an intelligent insight into the financial needs of school boards will soon give them the funds they ought to have, not only to house our pupils, but to house them under the most modern hygienic conditions. Prevention is not only better but also cheaper than cure, and with properly constructed buildings not only many dollars would be saved, but much unnecessary suffering avoided.

In our old buildings improvements ought to be made as rapidly as possible. Fortunately modern invention has given us a means of increasing the lighting in the darkest part of rooms of at least fifty per cent, by means of the so-called factory ribbed glass. In estimating the amount of light needed in a room we must take into consideration the conditions from rhe middle of Ocober to the first of March. At that time the sun is not only low but we also have the greatest number of days with an overcast sky. Then again it is the light the pupils farthest away from the windows get that must be looked after in determining how well a room is lighted.

In some buildings that are well lighted rooms are sometimes seen with all of the curtains drawn down on bright days on account, as teachers say, of the strong light falling on the pupils nearest the windows. The eyesight of the ones sitting farthest away from the windows and who need all the light they can get even on bright days seems never to be taken ,into consideration. The color of the shades is also of great importance, and it is questionable if it is best to have all the shades in a building of the same color. Rooms with a strong southern exposure usually need a yellowish curtain, while others that have a light less strong would be better suited with shades of a lighter or even white color. But what shall we say if we find shades on the north side of a building half drawn because, as the teacher said, it made the room look better? As far as hygienic conditions are concerned we have many teachers who still are living in the far past.

Besides inadequate lighting in the older buildings we are usually confronted with another condition which has the sanction of custom, and, on this account, is difficult to improve. This is the matter of shade trees. So much has been said about the beauty of trees that the fact is sometimes overlooked that even a thing of beauty may be the cause of suffering to others if it is in the wrong place. Surely no teacher will undervalue the good or beauty of trees, but it stands as a demand of hygiene that no tree must be so close to a building that it will cast a shadow upon it. Yes, if a tree interferes with the sky line as seen from the windows of any school room on the lower floor it excludes a part of the light which the child farthest from the window has a right to expect, and it ought to be removed. School buildings and 3’ards must have all the sunlight they can get. Every school yard ought to have trees, but they must be planted at the edge of the grounds so that they will only shade that part of the yard and no part of the building. Then again trees ought never to be planted so as to cut up the yard space. This must be unobstructed for plays and games, as these should, as a rule, be played in the sunlight.

The conclusion drawn from the physiological investigations made in recent years into the distortion and weakening of the body caused

Digitized by
-10-

by the demands and permitted practices of the school are startling in the extreme, says Prof. Shaw. Improper desks and seats, wrong postures which the pupils are allowed to take in standing as well as in sitting, and the muscular fatigue caused by the insufficient activity of a great number of the muscles of the body for a long period are all causes greatly productive of bodily deformities. But we must not fall into the error of supposing that if we have desks and seats constructed upon hygienic principles, good light, proper ventilation and heating, that all other thoughts of the physical needs of the body would be unnecessary. If pupils are kept in their seats until they are fatigued, bad postures will follow as the result of inactivity of large groups of muscles and the protracted use of but a few. What an enormous influence school life has upon the bodily growth of a child is shown in a recent study published by Dr. Schmid-Monnard of Halle, Germany. Inquiring into the effects which the school had upon the growth of boys and girls he found that during the first school year children grow less and increase less in weight than in the preceding year. In order to find out if this arrest was caused by school life, he examined children of the same age who did not go to school. His findings were as Follows :

Average Increase in Weight.

Boys.

Out of sehool.................. 4.84	lbs.

In school...................... 3.30	lbs.

Less for school children.. 1.54	lbs.

Girls. 4.18 lbs. 1.32 lbs.

Average Increase in Height. Boys. Girls.

2.89 in.	2.20 in.

1.64 in.	1.76 in.

2.86 lbs.

1.25 in. .44 in.

The strongest pupils showed little or no decrease, indicating that the changed conditions did not affect those with robust health, but the weaker ones lost much more than the above averages show. Following up these results he found—as a result of his ten years of investigation—that the weakest children did not get over this interruption of bodily growth even in the second year, as some showed no increase at all. The causes of this arrest in bodily growth are evidently the completely changed conditions, aggravated by insufficient exercise, inducing less active molecular changes.

The growing organism of a child demands muscular exercise, especially in the open air, and failure to give it always results in impaired mental as well as physical health. Now we must not make the mistake of supposing that our ten minutes a day of official physical training work is sufficient for the needs of the body. In the lower grades some forms of physical movements correlated with intellectual activities will supply some of these demands. Walking to the board and writing, standing a short time during a reading, spelling or arithmetic lesson, etc., are all forms of bodily activity meeting this demand for exercise. Teachers could often have their children run or skip to the positions at the board. I would advocate standing while singing; also in the lowest grades the singing of songs calling for movements of the arms, legs and trunk, marching and singing, marching and simple arm movements, etc. It has been advocated by prominent educators that children in the primary grades ought to sit only one-third of the school time.

Digitized by Google
-11-

In the upper grades a rest or relief period of a few minutes ought to be taken after each recitation. During this time take exercises consisting of simple arm and trunk movements as outlined in our course of study. Chorus singing in these grades could also often be conducted while standing. Intimately connected with periods of gymnastics and rest are the recesses. The physical activities which the recess directly promotes counteract to some extent the tendencies which improper positions, bad light and air exert toward physical deterioration. Happily the time is passing when the children were simply turned loose into the school yard and the play instinct of some of the boys degenerated into brawls and fights, and of the girls into gossiping and visiting. The recesses must be looked upon mainly as periods devoted to bod}' building. Since modern psychology has shown that play is necessary for the full development of the child’s mental as well as his physical powers organized games and plays have taken wonderful strides forward. That they have not been an unqualified success in every school that has tried them is true. But if the games are organized and led with as much forethought and interest as the other school activities are, they will be a success and incidentally the question of yard discipline will be solved. Some teachers still object to the so-called “yard duties,” stating that they need the recess for a period of rest. Is it not possible that much of the nervous strain which teachers are often under and which calls for the rest-periods results from their inability to understand their troublesome boys? If they would appear in the yards and welcome the opportunity which games offer to study the character of their “boy problems” and, by at least being an interested spectator, show their interest in the things which to boys of this age are of greatest importance, many obstacles might be overcome. It is also undoubtedly true that the inability of some teachers to present lessons to the pupils in a vivid, interesting manner lies in the fact that they lack the necessary vitality to do so, caused partly by the poor atmosphere they live in during school hours. Teachers as well as pupils need the quick, spontaneous contraction of the muscles brought about by games. These voluntary muscular efforts quickly equalize the circulation, bring large supplies of oxygen to the blood and invigorate the nervous system.

How can teachers expect to make things interesting or to present a subject in its best form to boys and girls who are filled with rich life-giving, rapidly coursing blood if they are physically on a plane so much lower than the pupils? All beginnings are difficult, and it cannot be expected that the mere resolutions to go out into the fresh air and to participate for a few moments in the games of the pupils will immediately bring about wonders. But we can work to this end, and in a few years we will be able to see great improvements. What we need to realize at present is that it is a mistake, first, for pupils and teachers to stay in the school building when they have a chance to go out; and secondly, that it is a greater mistake to have a few minutes of spare time in the open air and not to use these for plays and games. In theory we are always willing to admit that physical training with its games and plays is necessary for the pupils and teachers, but when it comes to the making up of the daily programs this theory is seldom

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-12-

put into practice, or at best it receives a slight recognition by being given five or ten minutes a day. Recent studies by eminent physiologists, notably those of Prof. Mosso, have shown that time and energy aye wasted in attempting to teach something to a child who is physically tired, yes, that mental progress is more rapid when children have much opportunity for bodily expression. The whole trend of modern pedagogy, therefore, is to give children, especially young children, opportunities to cultivate their motor abilities. Everything that passes in our minds, as idea or feeling, is believed to work itself into some movement appropriate to realize this idea or feeling, unless it is arrested in its course by stronger opposing ideas or feelings. It is believed that every impression must have its expression, and in connection with this thought it is of interest to know that during a series of experiments recently conducted by Prof. Breeze during which all vocalization was prevented it was extremely difficult to even think of a word when speech was suppressed. In a recent study on the relation of physical training to mental activity Erof. O’Shea calls attention to a relation between mind and body which is often overlooked, although well established by modern science, illustrating the expenditure of nerve energy. When one applies himself diligently to mental tasks a greater flow of blood to the head takes place, the cerebral temperature is raised and the waste products from the cerebral nerve activity are increased. The mind actually uses up the contents of nerve cells and when the available energy of the brain is drawn upon too heavily various mental disturbances ensue. So it becomes of tremendous importance for right mental activity, or, speaking more specifically of the aims of the school, for the development and maintenance of a strong character, that the brain should be kept in a healthy condition, and that the celebral cells should be well nourished. Now, it is true that we can point to strong characters who had a weak body. But they are only tne exceptions that prove the rule. Physiology shows us that one part of our body can to a certain extent prey upon another, yet this cannot go on indefinitely. The brain may for a period suck up, if we may use this expression, what energy the body can generate, and so may in a certain sense outlive other parts of the organism. But even with adults it is only a mat;ter of time when also the brain will suffer the consequences of a machine out of repair. If this mental crowding takes place with boys and girls who are growing rapidly, and if, for the sake of educating the mind, we take from the body that energy it needs for its own repair and growth, we are almost criminal in our heedlessness of the demands of nature.

Here it may be well to speak a good word for our long summer vacations. Coming at a time when all nature grows rapidly they are a means of counteracting many of the evils brought on by our too strenuous mental processes. Most children spend the greater part of their vacation days out in the open air. The youthful body is thus given time to grow and develop under better hygienic conditions and is thus put into a better condition to withstand the strain which present school conditions put upon it.

In concluding: Gathering the points of this paper into a few sentences, let me urge upon you a clearer recognition of the rights of the

Digitized by eaOOQle
-13-

physical side of your pupils; a recognition of the many shortcomings of even of the best of our school buildings and school systems; and lastly a recognition of the fact that physical training in its broadest sense is at present the most effective agency employed by the schools which tries to keep your pupils in good condition for the higher aims of education.

THE PHYSIOLOGY OE RECREATION*

By G. W. McCASKEY, M. D., Fort Wayne, Ind., Professor of Medicine and Clinical Medicine, Indiana Medical College (The Medical School of Purdue University).

RECREATION, or the act or state of being created anew is one of the vitally important requirements of modern life and is grounded in a practically universal instinct of the human race. Though its need becomes more pressing with the increasing strain of modern civilization, vet in one form or another it can be traced backward to the beginning . of history. Homer, for instance, gives us in the Iliad a soul stirring account of the games given and presided over by Achilles after the funeral of his friend Patroclos, while Virgil related how Aeneas, driven by fierce winds from the coveted Italian shore back to “Sicanian ports’', celebrates the anniversary of his father's death r>y a brilliant series of what at Newport would be called events of the season, the first one being a boat race, a not unworthy progenitor of the modern yacht race. Later still the culture and civilization of historic Greece, the aroma of which comes floating down the ages with expressible sweetness, was permeated—nay almost dominated—by the passionate thirst for recreation, and the Olympic games became the chronological landmarks of their history. Rome had its Colosseum, and if its walls re-echoed, as they must, the gross and sensuous cruelty of that age, they also re-echoed the commanding sentiment of that age, as of all other ages, concerning the need of recreation. A careful study of races and peoples down to our own gay Paris on the one hand and the Fiji Islanders on the other will reveal the same tendency so universal in one form or another throughout.

Now it cannot be doubted that a habit so universal, a desire so absolutely cosmopolitan, must be the expression of an imperative demand, a fundamental requirement of the human race. The consequences entailed by its neglect vary widely with the temperament, the environment, and the occupation of the individual, but in the strenuous struggle which characterizes the intense life of today, they range anywhere from slight impairment of health and working capacity to final and crushing disaster. It was no distorted fancy, but only another of those clear, almost prophetic gleams of light which so frequently illuminated the soul of Shakespeare when he said:

“Sweet recreation barred, what doth ensue But moody and dull melancholy,

Kinsman to dull and comfortless despair,

And, at her heels, a huge infectious troop Of pale d is temperatures, and foes to life?”

* Read before the American Academy of Medicine at Chicago, 111., Nov. io, 1905. asa part of a symposium on recreation.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-14-

A general discussion of the physiological effects of recreation presents difficulties of a rather unusual character. To begin with, the modes and methods of recreation are so multiform and heterogeneous in character that it is difficult to bring them dearly and comprehensively within the range of mental vision for analysis and review. If an attempt were to be made to classify the various forms of recreation it could be worked out along various lines. They could, for instance, be divided into those of an indoor and outdoor character; again they could be considered as intellectual and physical, which would not be at all parallel to the first named division, although recreation of an intellectual character would be for the most part included among those of indoor character. Others could be designated as social in nature, the complexity of the social attribute varying anywhere from the chance meeting of two or three individuals for recreative purposes up to the most elaborate ceremonial function evolved by modern society.

Without making any attempt at a systematic and complete discussion of the physiological changes produced by all the different forms of recreation, which would be difficult under any circumstances and impossible in a fifteen minute paper, I will proceed to call attention to what seems to me to be a few of the more important and salient points. It appears to me in the first place that the primary and predominant factor in practically all forms of recreation is the psychical one. Although the influences of the mind over the body are recognized in a general wav, it is, I believe, fully comprehended by few if any. The sudden change from a state of extreme depression and misery with perfectly distinct physical suffering to one of buoyancy and exultation with entire forgetfulness of self as a result of a change of our emotions is a not unfamiliar experience in the lives of most people. But the lesson which it should teach, or the great fundamental law of our being to which it clearly points, is for the most part dimly perceived or more commonly not even suspected. It should be emphasized, therefore, that the functional state and activity of the principal organs of the body are dependent upon the controlling influences of the mental conditions more than upon any one factor, even more, perhaps, than upon all other factors combined. This proposition is so fundamentally important and so liable to be challenged by incredulity that I will at once offer some facts for its support.

I will first draw some illustrations from the stomach which will readily be conceded to occupy a most conspicuous position among the vital organs of the body. Here again the influences of psychical states upon the activity of the digestive processes are recognized to a certain l)u entirely inadequate extent. It has remained for a Russian scientist, Professor Paulow of St. Petersburg, to demonstrate in an absolutely unequivocal manner the remarkable influence of psychical impression upon the secretion of the gastric juice. The experiments to which I refer may be briefly described as follows:	He first made a fistula in the

stomach through which the stomach could be inspected and the gastric secretion procured. The next step was to lay bare the oesophagus, cut it in two and so arrange the upper segment that anything which the animal swallowed would be discharged externally instead of passing

Digitized by

Google
-15-

into the stomach. The dogs were then allowed to become quite hungry, and were subjected to sham feeding; that is they were allowed to eat freel y, the food of course never reaching the stomach. At the beginning of such an experiment there would not be a single drop of gastic juice in the stomach. Within five minutes from the beginning of the sham feeding gastric juice would begin to pour into the stomach and continue to do so in large quantities for a considerable period of time. On the other hand, if the meat was introduced into the stomach through the fistula, thus robbing the stomach of the influences of psychical impressions derived from the taste and smell of the meat, the flow of gastric juice did not begin until twenty-five minutes after the feeding instead of five, and was deficient both in quantity and quality. To make the proof of the psychical stimulation of gastric secretion entirely conclusive, however, and remove any possibility of reflex nervous influences reaching the stomach by reason of the act of mastification, deglutition, taste, etc., the animal was simply tempted with the sight of food which he could not reach, and the psychical impression thus produced started the flow of gastric secretion in six minutes in quantities larger than those produced by direct introduction of the meat into the stomach through the fistula.

Nothing can be more conclusive than the experimental proof thus offered of the almost instantaneous and remarkable influences of psychical impressions upon the gastric secretion of the dog. It is true that these psychical impressions were of a specific character and were intimately connected with the law of physiological association with the process of gastric function, but this does not in any way alter the fact that impressions of a purely psychical character, that mental states and processes are capable of throwing the stomach into a state of functional activity.

These experiments, moreover, are sustained by the common place facts of clinical observation. It is not necessary to dwell upon this aspect of the question. It is not a rare thing for the stomach to utterly fail in the digestion of a meal which it-would otherwise have disposed of with ease and comfort, because of some depressing mental state; while on the other hand the stimulating influence upon digestion of pleasant surroundings and convivial company is well known. As an illustration of the broad effects of mental impression in general, I may mention the case of a gentleman under my observation, whose digestion after considerable improvement remained more or less distressing in spite of all I could do for his relief which included the treatment of a local stomach disease by suitable methods, careful regulation of diet, gymnastics and a liberal amount of out-door exercise. This gentleman would go to a little lake forty miles away, and the very first meal he would eat there, long before there could be any effect of exercise, atmospheric change, etc., would be digested without the slightest disturbance or even concsiousness on his part, and this would continue until his return to the city when the old conditions would be immediatley resumed.

I cannot go very much further along this line, but will briefly mention the heart and kidneys as other vital organs which are profoundly

Digitized by CjOOQte
-16-

and obviously influenced by psychical impressions as every clinician and many an intelligent layman knows. Now, what is true of these organs is perfectly true of every other organ of the human body, and it is only necessary to take one further inevitable step to realize the effect which mental states must have upon the composition of the blood and elimination of the self formed poisons from the tissues, and the functional integrity of the nervous system itself. In short, all that goes to make up the sum total of that perfect somatical life which we designate health is under the more or less complete domination of those functional manifestations of the highest nerve centers which we are pleased to term mental states:

The bearing of these facts upon problems connected with the physiological effects of recreation is obvious. If the various forms of recreation are closely scrutinized, it will, I think, be found that those diversions and amusements which produce the promptest and most brilliant effects upon the mental and physical states of those who participate are precisely those in which the psychical impression is the strongest. The first requisite then in what might be termed successful recreation is a complete diversion from self, a complete submergence of self-consciousness which inhibits that everlasting introspection of our physical selves which is the foundation of half the morbidity of the world. How this can best be done is a problem for the individual and depends upon his age, sex, social status, intellectual development and other factors which go to make up the complete ego. For many per-' sons some sort of diversion which has fast motion as an element meets the psychical requirements better than anything else. Automobiling belongs to this class of recreation, and I can personally testify to the remarkable influence which it has along this line indicated. So far ns my own taste and needs are concerned, I know of nothing that compares with it, but for some one else something entirely different might be better. Anyone who is curious to study the possibilities of fa«it motion in recreation should read an article by W. J. Lampton in the Cosmopolitan Magazine for June, 1902.

So far I have only considered the psychical element, which in certain forms of recreation is the only or principal factor, but in all is of the greatest importance. The next point to which I would ask your attention is the purely physical or mechanical aspect of many forms of recreation; in other words the factor of muscular exercise. The effects of physical exercise upon the circulation and the general function of the body is too broad a subject to enter upon in detail, although reference may be made to a few points. Every muscular contraction, for instance, squeezes the blood and interstitial fluids out of the contracting muscle and sends them on their way through the proper channels. The expanding vessels and interstices of the relaxing muscle are instantly filled, and thus the circulation is quickened and the nutrition of the muscle improved. More than this, the increased activity of large groups of muscles, such as those forming a part of the abdominal and chest walls bring to bear certain influences upon the contained viscera. In this way the liver and spleen of the digestive tract are subjected to intermittent pressure which exerts an extremely important influence
-17-

upon their functional activity’. The same thing is true with reference to the lungs and heart in the chest cavity. Furthermore, the deep breathing incidental to physical exersise tends to better lung expansion and lung circulation and increases the resistive power of these organs against morbid influences, especially the tubercle bacillus. Better aeration of the blood is one of the necessary results of improvement of these functions, which means better nutrition and better elimination and consequently an improvement in the state of the entire organism. It does not appear necessary to do more than barely call attention to these facts as they are in accordance with well established physiological laws and must be perfectly obvious to every one who will give the matter the least consideration.

There is, however, one aspect of this question of physical exercise which is not at all familiar and which promises to be of the utmost importance in the final solution of many of the problems of both healthy and morbid physiology. I refer to the metabolism of the muscular tissue. Within the last few years great activity has prevailed in the investigations along these lines and most important results have been obtained. It will be impossible to enter fully into the subject, but I may say briefly that we must look upon the skeletal muscles of the human body as something much more than a motor mechanism. In fact, many of the most important chemical changes which go to make up the sum total of what we glibly call metabolism probably have their seat here. For instance, it is more than suspected that diabetes is a result of faulty muscle metabolism as well as of pancreatic and other forms of disease, and it is more than probable that the chemical products of muscle metabolism play a tremendous role in the varied functions of life. I must refer to the works of Geis, Halliburton and others for the facts in this fascinating chapter of scientific research. It will serve my purpose at this time to point to the close relationship which must exist between the functional activity of the muscle and its metabolic changes as an indication if not a proof of the way in which physical exercise exerts so large an influence upon the life of the individual, and as furnishing important data for clearing up the physiology of recreation.

One other point that deserves mention in relation to outdoor recreation is the differential effect of indoor and outdoor air. The chemistry of the air in rooms surcharged with exhalation of human beings is very largely an unwritten chapter. Carbonic acid, its most conspicuous component, is perhaps from a toxicological point of view its least important one, and it is now realized that the deleterious influence of such air is due to volatile poisons altogether too elusive for chemical manipulation. No ordinarily practical amount of ventilation, will entirely free the air from them. At best they can only be diluted. Out of doors, however, they are either destroyed or so inlinitily diluted that they become quite unimportant, and self poisoning from noxious materials in the air under favorable conditions does not occur.

I fear that I have violated the traditions of the Academy by dragging into this discussion the brute facts of science, which Oliver Wendell Holmes once called the “lumber of the human intellect,” but

Digitized by Google
—18—

the nature and importance of the subject appear to justify the descent from the higher social, educational and ethical plane on which the Academy is supposed to stand down to the everyday world of scientific thought. The vital relationship of recreation to the entire fabric of society should be more thoroughly understood and more consistently adherred to by a large contingent of the human family. I do not, of course, refer to that not very respectable class whose sole aim of life is the realization of pleasurable sensations. They are out of the reckoning here as they are in every sensible and serious consideration of the prop-lems of life. Recreation is not the great business of life, but simply relaxation from it. There are, perhaps, few of us who would contemplate with unmixed satisfaction the realization of Tennyson’s fancy when he says:

**I built myself a lordly pleasure house,

Wherein at case for aye to dwell,”

but the systematic introduction into our lives of such recreation as is suited to our individual needs should be the rational aim of all, and a proper understanding of the physiological laws and facts which underlie the whole subject could not be otherwise than helpful.

It has only been possible for me to touch upon a few points, and I will conclude with the admonition of Vergil that “Rural recreations abroad, and books at home are the innocent pleasures of a man who is early wise.”

SCHOOL ANNOUNCEMENTS.

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY.

SCHOOL OF PEDAGOGY, WASHINGTON SQUARE, NFW YORK CITY.

New Lecture Courses will be begun in the School of Pedagogy os follows:

School and Personal Hygiene, Dr. Luther H. Gulick. Two hours weekly on Wednesdays, 3:35 to 5:45, beginning January 31.

Dr. Gulick will give the course in School and Personal Hygiene instead of the course in Physical Training as announced recently. The latter course was given during the first half of this year and will not be given again until next year.

The following is a brief outline of the course in School Hygiene:

A study ol the conditions under which individuals may work in order to secure the utmost efficiency and happiness and of the specific conditions under which children labor in their school life. The course will include the following topics: Work, rest, sleep, recreation; hygiene of worry, hope, fear, belief, etc.; muscular, neural, volitional and emotional fatigue; hygiene of the body, posture, carriage, nutrition, bathing, clothing; physical health as related to desks, recesses, posture, lighting, etc.; infectious diseases and the duties of the school physician; physical examination of school children; elementary school courses in physiology and hygiene.

YALE UNIVERSITY SUMMER SCHOOL.

SECOND SESSION 1906, 1ULY 5 TO AUGUST 16.

About 50 courses are offered in the different subjects. In the course of Physical Training we again find Mr. Geo. Wittich of the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union heading the department of German Educational Gymnastics.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send "MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receiot of $-M)0 for 4 new subscribers.

Digitized by Google
lr W „_____ 1 ™'	Published Monthly.

iVUSP	BODY.	^	frEIDENkeR PUBLISHING CO.

Subscription Price, SI.00 per Year.	lUlwoukee,	Wleeoaela.

r Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN ENGLAND.

SOME time ago we expressed a desire for information on the status of physical training in England. In response to this request we have received from Mr. Adolf A. Stempel, a pioneer in physical education in England, a description of his own institute which was founded in 1883, and of the Gymnastic Teachers’ Institute, founded in 1897.

In order to acquaint our readers with what Mr. Stempel has to say, we thought it best to reprint his letter as well as the syllabus and the prospectus.

We will gladly publish any additional information that might be sent us from the British Empire. It is our intention to get a correct idea of what is being done there in our field.

DR. F. PFISTER,

c.o. Freidenker Publishing Co., Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.,U.S. A. Dear Dr. Pfister:—It will perhaps be of some interest to you what we do in England (London) with regard to gymnastics and physical education, and allow me to send you different things, viz: the regulation, the syllabus and last annual report of the Gymnastic Teachers' Institute (G. T. I.) which has been founded in my institution 1897 by Germans (myself and son), Swiss (Herrn Oberholzer), and several good English gymnastic teachers of London and Birmingham, and has grown to such a position that it is recognized by the English Government for the best teachers (male and particular female) as the best and highest institution of this kind in this country.

From the enclosed prospectuses of my own gymnastic institution, which is in its 23rd season (founded 1883), you will see that I train young ladies (not under 18 years ot age) as teachers both in the German and Swedish systems. I have here now 16 young ladies under training, as many as my gymnasium will allow; others are waiting to enter, all have to go through a regular two year’s cursus ot severe training of the German and Swedish system ot gymnastics, in fencing (foils), and in physiology and anatomy for medical gymnastics for a very difficult examination at the close ot their studies to get the Gvmnastic Teachers First Class Diploma. I send you a syllabus of the examination they have to undergo; besides this I enclose the exercises of the gymnastic competition of the German Gymnastic Society which will be held at the end of next week, and also an announcement of the display of the Betsize Boxing Club, one of the oldest and best boxing clubs of London, which also will be held next week. I am sorry to say that I am forced unwillingly to resign the physical work of my own institution, as I met with an accident to my shoulder last year. Now I can gradually raise the arm again, but it will (with 65 years) take a good long time, if any, to use it again. I can neither hang nor rest on the arm and I leave now the whole of the physical work of my gymnasium in the hands of my son and both my daughters whom I trained from childhood most carefully in every branch of gymnastics and who have become very clever teachers. I am now most thankful to have such children.

This institution forms now the most complete gymnastic institution in England. I also gradually collected a splendid library on gymnastics, fencing,

Digitized by LaOOQle
-20-

boxing and medical gymnastics, which contains nearly 2000 volumes. Send the account for my yearly subscription of your capital and most interesting periodical ‘'Mind and Body” which I always read with the greatest interest and recommend to every teacher.

Trusting you are in good health and with the most sincere greetings believe me to remain faithfully yours

Adolf A. Stempel, Director.

Membership Examination (Female Candidates).

STANDARD EXERCISES.

The Terms used are those in Jcnkin's Book on “Gymnastics.”

PARALLEL BARS.

t. In centre of Bars :	Spring	to cross rest. High Swinging: On fourth back swing, front vault R. with

L turn.

2.	In centre of Bars:	Spring	to cross rest: travel backwards in back swing 3 limes: rear vault L with

R turn.

3.	In centre of Bars:	Spring	to cross rest: travel forward in back swing 3 times : front vault R with \ i

R turn by bringing L hand over to R bar.

4.	In centre of Rars:	spring	to cross rest; raise L leg to % lever : swing L leg backwards and R circle

of L leg over L bar to % lever (without touching bar*); lower L leg ; raise R	leg	to	lever and L circle of R

leg over R Bar: lower R leg ; raise legs slowly to % lever to cross seat on L	bar	on	R thigh,	fencing	vault L

in flank position.

5.	At end of Bars:	Rear vault over L bar to outside cross seat on R bar ; % L turn to leaning rest across,

hars; % L circle of R leg (between bars); swing R leg R, and immediately rear vault R to ground.

6.	Erom the side stand (or with a run), with combined grasp, R hand	reversed: front	vault L	to back

leaning rest along bars ; swing backwards and forwards twice; flank vault L with	%	L turn.

Candidates shall execute 2 out of the first 3 Exercises, then No. 4 Exercise, and either the 5th or 6th Exercise, at the option of the Candidate.

For Exercises 5 and 6 the height of the parallel bars from the floor to the top of the hars to be 4 feet < r 3. feet 10 inches, at the direction of the Examiners. Height of beating board not more than 4 inches.

VAULTING HORSE (with pommels.

1.	With a run ; flank vault L.

2.	With a run ; rear vault R with % R turn.

3.	With a run ; from the front rest; feint R over croup : front vault L.

4.	With a run ; R hand irr twisted grasp on croup pommel, L hand in ordinary grasp on	neck	of pol	i	ticly

screw vault R.

5.	With a run ; indicate high front lever ; squat to lever and push off to ground.

6.	Jump to free front rest; % R circle both legs: \4 circle L both legs; % L circle R leg ; squat with 1^. leg and % R turn to ground.

Exercises 1, 2, 3 and 6 to be performed with ordinary beating board of not more than 4 inches in height.

Exercises 4 and 5 to be performed with a spring board of not more than 8 inches in height.	Height	of	*	rse

from the floor to the top of the horse 4 feet or 3 feet 10 inches, at the discretion of the Examiner*.

RINGS. All Exercises with a heat from the floor.

1.	Hif»h swinging ; drop to ground at the rear.

2.	Swing and pull up in front swing, sink to hang at end of back swing (repeat twice); drop to groin’d in front of the fourth front swing.

3.	Swing and complete K turn in the front swing : complete L turn at the next front swing : swing 1 .-.ck-wards, forwards and backwards, drop to ground.

4.	Swing and complete L turn in back swing: complete R turn at end of the next hack swing: dr-.j. to ground at end of (rout swing.

STATIONARY RINGS.

5.	Pull up to bent arm hang ; extend and bend the L and R arm alternately : drop to ground.

6.	Hang with straight arms; raise legs to % lever without bending arms (3 times); drop to ground.

CALISTHENIC EXERCISES.

1.	Stjuat on heels; raise arms sideways up above head (palms of hands facing).

2.	Rise on R leg: raise L leg sideways: lower body R sideways to side balancing position ; L arm ag » ;>st

I.	leg ; R arm sideways against the head.

3.	% R turn on R foot to front balancing position. L aim forward, R arm backward.

4.	Cross L foot behind R (close up) and at once % turn on toe (L arm swings downwards and side way* up at the turn); R arm swings forwards up.

5.	Bend body forward, touch ground with fingers, legs straight (the head to be between the arms).

6.	Raise R leg backwards to balancing position with arms forward (palms of hands facing).

7.	Circle R leg sideways; raise trunk upright: arms sideways (palms of hands forwards).

7.	Cross R foot over L, and at once % L turn ; arms down.

HORIZONTAL LADDER.

1.	Cross Hang on Rungs: travel forwards, one hand alternately.

2.	Side Hang Outside, with bent arms; travel sideways (3 times each hand).

3.	Swinging:	Side Hang on Rungs (miss one rung); swing to I.: travel to R with L hand : swing t<-* R.

travel to R with R hand (3 times each hand*.

4.	Cross Hang on aides:	heels raised, hollow hack, head back; travel backwards, both hands simu to -

taneously (3 times).

5.	Side Hangon the Rungs, with twisted grasp of both hands four rungs apart: side swinging and traveling with L and R alternate turns, releasing one hand and reaching four rungs farther with every swing : at the end of Ladder, change grasp of inside hand from reverse to twisted grasp, and return iti the same way : drop to ground.

Digitized by C.ooQle
6. Cross Hang with Hands on Outside: backwards in front swing (3 times).

Swing on sides* travel forwards in ront swing (3 times), and INDIAN CLUBS.

Solo of Candidate's own composition of not more than two, nor of more than three mmntes' duration.

The Candidate will be required to answer questions on Indian Club Swinging, and to use the nomenclature emp’oyed in the Text Book.

Membership Examination (Male Candidates).

STANDARD EXERCISES.

The Terms used are those in Jenkin’s Book on “Gymnastics,”

HORIZONTAL BAR.

1.	From side hang with ordinary grasp, swing, upstart, and dank vault to ground.

2.	From side hang with reverse grasp, swing, upstart, and front vault to ground.

3.	From side hang with ordinary grasp, swing and straddle up to back rest, raise legs to % lever, and push «.ff t* • ground.

4.	From side hang with ordinary grasp, swing, squat underbar, hack upstart, drop back, squat underhar, and underswing to ground.

c. With reverse grasp, back up and front vault to ground.

With ordinary grasp, jump, short circle, short underswing, and back up to rest ; rear vault to ground. PARALLEL BARS.

1.	At Ends Facing In :	Straddle	forwards	and swing to indicate hand stand: front pump and travel forward

to '2 lever (twice) : front vault behind hands to ground.

Side Stand:	Combined	grasp,	R hand reversed; front vault L; swing forward, back pump, and travel

ba. kwards to rest: swing forward; back pump, and travel forward to rest; swing forward, and flank vault R with % R turn.

3.	In Centre of Bars:	Long	underswing	upstart, double shoulder stand, roll forward on upper arras, back

up, swing forward, fall back on upper arms, and short roll backwards to rest: swing forward and back, and double rear vault to ground.

4.	Side Stand :	Rear vault to % lever, straddle in front of hands to riding seat ; hands to front, lift to free

front lever with straight arms, lower legs and straddle in front of hands to riding seat, hands to front, lift to free front lever with straight arms, lower and raise legs to X lever, yK L turn, and push off to ground.

c. In Cross Hang at Ends Facing In :	Slow pull up to straight arm cross rest, lift to hand stand, % turn to

ore bar; front vault to ground.

Upper Arm Hang in Centre of Bars:	Slow roll backward to double shoulder stand ; lift to L elbow

Je^cr . L shoulder stand on R bar (with head on the outside); lift to R elbow lever : front vault L to ground.

VAULTING HORSE.

Side Stand.

t.	Spring	up to rest and feint R with R leg ; two R circles with R leg ; flank vault	L to ground.

2.	Spring	up and R circle of L leg twice, and rear vault L to grqund.

Spring	up and # R circle R of both legs; % R circle R leg; backshears L;	M L circle L leg;	% L

circle both legs to ground.

4.	Spring up and # L circle of both legs: % L circle R leg : front shears R ; % R circle L leg: ^ R circle both legs to free front rest; drop to ground.

5.	Spring up and L circle both Tegs ; double feint R : R circle both legs : and double rear vault (over neck and croup) with % L turn to ground.

With a Run.

to ground

ring to free front lever; squat to back rest; R circle of R leg twice, in combination with front vault L HORSE LENGTHWAYS.

With a Run.

1.	Straddle from croup.

Squat from neck.

RINGS (Stationary).

1. From bent arm hang; swing and back up to rest: drop to ground.

Hang ; raise legs forwards to upstart position ; and back upstart to rest; drop to ground.

3.	From stand, forward dislocation and upstart; forward circle : lift to bent arm hand stand : drop back-wards to bent arm hang ; and immediately straddle baokwards to ground.

4.	Slow circle backwards to rest; drop to ground.

c. Rise to front lever; circle backwards tohack lever : return through front lever to half lever : and drop ground.

6.	Slow pull up to straight arm rest: lift to hand stand : sink to rest; lower through cniciflx to hang; drop i<> ground.

CALISTHENIC EXER1SES.

1.	Squat on heels: raise arms sideways up above head (palms of hands facing).

2.	Rise on R leg : raise L leg sideways; lower body R sideways to side balancing position : L arm against I. leg ; R arm R sideways against the head.

3.	X turn on R foot to front balancing position, L arm forward, R arm backward.

4.	Cross L foot behind R (close up) and at once L turn on toe (L arm swings downwards and sideways up at the turn; R arm swings forward up.

$. Bend body forward, touch giound with fingers, legs straight (the head to be between the arms), o. Raise R leg backwards to balancing position with arms forward (palms of hands facing).

7.	Circle R leg sideways : raise trunk upright; arms sideways (palms of hands forward).

>. Cross R foot over L and at once % L turn, arms down.

INDIAN CLUBS.

Solo of the Candidate's composition of not less than two, nor of more than three minutes' duration.

The Candidate will be required to answer questions on Indian Club Swinging, and to employ the nomenclature in the Text Book.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-22-

Regnlation for tlie Examination for Membership of Teaohers of Fenoing*

1.	Give an elementary lesson to the pupil.

2.	Give an advanced lesson to the pupil.

3.	Give a lesson to one of the Examiners.

4.	Take a lesson from one of the Examiners.

5.	Fence with one of the Examiners, or with such person as the Examiners may appoint.

6.	Answer questions on the theory and practice ol Fencing.

The weapon employed will be the Foil, but Candidates may, in addition, qualify for Sabre Fencing and Bayonet Fencing.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

f Continued. ^

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with a game “Relay Race” in squads. See explanation below. As a preliminary run about three minutes. Gymnastic tactics.

After taking dumbbells form a front line and count off to ranks of fours or sixes. R. face, form ranks of fours or sixes 1. obi.—March ! Open order to the 1. by marching forw., the rows moving in successive order after two steps to full distance; i. e.f the first row beginning alone by turning 1. face marching forw., on the count three the second row follows, etc., until all but the last row have taken two steps distance, then all turn to the front again and halt. Or turn in the direction of the shorter members so that they may have their position in front for the exercises after opening order.

DUMBBELL DRILL.

1.	a) Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise arms forw. (knuckles turned outw.)—1! Move 1. foot sidew. (toe-touch) and dumbbells over shoulders (elbows back as far as possible and on a level with the shoulders, chest elevated and knuckles turned backw.)—2!

As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8! b) Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise arms otitw. (knuckles turned backw.—1! Move 1. foot backw. (toe-touch) and dumbbells over shoulders as ex. a—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

2.	a) Squat rest and raise arms forw.—1! Extend knees, lower heels, bend trunk forw. (arms naturally point downw.), dumbbells touch floor—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! b) Squat rest and raise arms outw.—1! Extend knees, lower heels, bend trunk backw. and move arms upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

3.	a) Lunge forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Change knee-bending, move arms outw. (chest elevated, arms- on a level with shoulders and back as far as possible, knuckles turned backw.) —2! As 1—3! Pos. -4! Same r.—5, 8! b) Lunge sidew. 1., raise 1. arm sidew. upw. obi., the r. arm sidew. downw. obi.—1!	Change knee-bending, move 1. arm sidew.

downw. obi., the r. sidew. upw. obi.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

. 4. Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise arms outw.—1! Turn trunk to the 1., move and bend 1. arm on back, the r. move inw. and bend on a level with the shoulders (twist as far as possible)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

Digitized by ^ooqle
-23-

Thc class mn forw., the rows counter 1. and continue to farther end of the gymnasium, then again counter 1. to starting point. Repeat by countering r. to starting point. The class may be ordered to turn about-face and 1. and r. repeated. About-face! and Halt!

5.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms outw. to starting pos. in four counts. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

0.	a) Raise 1. leg and arms forw.—1! Move 1. leg backw. and arms

overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4-! Same r.—5, 8! b) Raise 1. leg sidew. and arms outw.—1! Move 1. leg inw. and arms overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

7.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and place dumbbells over shoulders (arms as in ex. 1)—1! Bend trunk sidew. 1. and stretch arms outw.—2! As 1-3! Pos.—1! Same r.—5, 8!

8.	a) Jump upw.f raise both lower legs backw. and raise arms forw.

overh. and lower to starting pos., repeating by command or slow rhythm 5 or 6 times.

b)	Jump upw., raise both knees and arms forw. and lower to starting pos., repetition and rhythm as a.

c)	Jump upw., spread both legs wide outw. and raise arms outw. overh., meet dumbbells and lower to starting pos., repetition and rhythm as a.

9.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms forw, (contracting chest as much as possible) in four counts. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

Note.—If any of the above exercises are too difficult, then separate the combinations aud repeat each until thoroughly mastered.

Place dumbbells in 1. hand. R. (or 1.)—lace! March forw., deposit dumbbells, form divisions and march to assigned places on the apparatus.

First Division: High horizontal bar and broad	buck.

Second	“	Broad buck and high horizontal bar.

Third	“	Vertical ladder and side horse.

Fourth	“	Side horse and vertical ladder.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Buck (broad). Height of chest.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Straddle vault forw.

2.	“	“	“	with Vl turn 1.

3.	“	“	“	“ Vfe “ 1.,	then stride vault sidew. toward

the 1. with r. leg and Vi. turn r. to front cross stand.

4.	As ex. 3, to front cross stand and immediately straddle vault forw. to back cross stand.

5.	Squat vault forw. (extend both legs downw., a sharp push off by the arras so that the body may be in full extension the moment the feet clear the buck) and arms forw. overh., landing in V2 knee-bent pos.

6.	Squat vault forw. as in ex. 5, with V2 turn 1. to front side stand; then straddle vault forw. with V2 turn 1. to front side stand and immediately flank vault forw. 1.
—24—

7.	Free straddle vault forw. (spring off of 1. or r. foot or both feet).

8.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the second division on the high horizontal bar.

First Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

1.	Jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp, raise both legs upw. and immediately front hip circle (circle backw. over bar) to amt hang, swing forw., raise both legs upw., ankles to bar, kip (upstart) to straight arm rest and squat rest on the bar; stand erect and dismount forw.

2. As ex. 1, but instead of squat rest squat forw. with both legs and hold them at r. angle; circle backw., in this pos. (once or twice around bar similar to a back kip),‘drop backw., squat forw., underswing and down.

3.	Jump to straight arm hang with reversed grasp; swing and pull up to front rest at first backw. swing; raise hips, spread legs wide sidew. and place toes under the bar; then circle forw. once or twice around (instep circle) to front rest and high front vault 1. (r.) to cross stand.

4.	Jump to hang and grasp bar on the far side (wide grasp, hands similar to ordinary in back hang); % turn over forw. (shoulder twist) and squat forw., then extend both legs upw. and front hip circle backw. to front rest; change grasp to ordinary, then lower forw. to front hang (head down) and farther with extended body through the front lever to straight arm hang, and down.

5.	Jump to hang with reversed grasp; raise both legs upw. and extend hips to front hang (head down); flex thighs and lower legs and squat backw.; after squatting move the hands outw. far enough to permit the shoulder twist backw. to hang, turn over forw., extend legs upw. and pull up over the bar to back rest, change grasp to ordinary; lower backw. slowly to back hang (head down), then continue slowly through the back lever to back hang (feet down); % turn 1., release grasp of r. hand and regrasp the bar to ordinary; down.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Second Division.—Buck (broad). Height of chest.

Execute the same exercises as first division.'

Change place with the first division on the high horizontal bar.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to straight arm hang and—

1. With combined grasp (1. reverse, r. ordinary) swing, at the end of the first forw. swing raise both legs upw., ankles to bar, squat backw. 1. to knee hang and % knee circle forw. to rest and immediately screw dismount forw. with M turn 1. to cross stand.

2.	As ex. 1, but following the V4 knee circle immediately place the r. instep under the bar (leg extended), raise the r. arm upw., then
-25-

screw circle forw. once or twice around and screw dismount forw. to cross stand.

Note.—The 1. lower leg is held firmly around the bar, assisted by the r. instep to keep from slipping from the bar, the r. arm swinging free throughout while circling. The hips remain extended.

3.	As ex. 1, but after the Vi circle to rest, V6 turn 1., circle r. leg forw., release grasp of r. hand and regrasp the bar on the far side to front rest; drop kip to free front rest, free front hip circTe backw. once or twice, then backw. down to front side stand.

4.	As ex. 1, but squat backw. with extended 1. leg to cross straddle rest; V4 circle 1. with r. leg (forw. under r. hand) and regrasp the bar with the r. hand in reverse; raise both legs forw. (clearing bar), bend arms to dip rest and circle once or twice around the bar, after the second circle pull up and hold in back rest; swing off backw. (snap off) to front side stand.

5.	Ordinary grasp.—Pull up to dip rest 1., turning the 1. side toward the bar, the r. hand to slide over to the 1., or place the same on r. hip; turn toward the bar and pull up to straight arm front rest;

. lower forward slowly to front hang (head down); flex thighs and lower legs, squat backw. and extend legs and hips upw. to back hang (head down); pull up over bar to back rest; dismount forw.

6.	Pull up with both arms to front rest; squat forw. to back rest; lower backw. slowly to back hang (head down), then lower farther with extended body through the back lever to back hang (feet down): turn over forw. with thighs flexed, squat forw., extend both legs upw. and front hip circle backw. to front rest; lower backw. with both legs raised forw. at r. angle to straight arms; lower to hang, and down.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all exercises I. and r. whenever possible.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the vertical ladder and the fourth on the side horse, then change places.

Vertical Ladder.

Front side stand oft the fourth lowest round, the hands in ordinary grasp on the second (sixth) round above the feet or on a level with the

1.	Forcibly flex both lower legs (bend knees), the arms remain extended, and return to starting pos. Repeat 2 or 3 times. Down.

2.	As ex. 1, but only flex the 1. lower leg (bend 1. knee) and lower the r. extended leg as far as possible and return. The same opposite. Repeat 2 or 3 times. Down.

3.	As ex. 2, but release grasp of r. hand and lower arm with the r. leg and return. Same opposite. Repeat 2 or 3 times. Down.

Front side stand on the lowest round, the hands in ordinary grasp on one round about the height of the shoulders.—

4.	Travel to upper end and downw. by moving 1. foot and 1. hand simultaneously and vice versa.

r». As ex. 4, but run to upper end, and downw.

thighs.
-26-

Starting po8. as ex. 4, but place both hands height of the head and elbows resting against the beams.—

6.	Pull up and place both feet simultaneously on the next round; move hands one round higher, then pull up as before and repeat to-upper end; lower to straight arm hang, rest the inner side of the feet against the front of the beams and travel downw. by the hands, moving them alternately. Down.

7.	As ex. 6, but only place the 1. foot on the lower round, the r. foot clearing the ladder in the ascent, but when descending place the r_ foot on the round instead of starting downw. by the hands only.

8.	As ex. 4, but skip one round (i. e. step and place hands on everv other round). Down.

In front side hang, arms extended, hands in pos. As ex. 6,—

9.	Pull up and lower as often as possible. Down.

JO. An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Relay Race.'* Divide the class into two, three or four squads of equal number, the same to stand in flank order and stride pos. outw. (sidew.) at a reasonable distance apart. The members at the head of the files (squads) start an Indian club, dumbbell or basket ball down between the legs to the rear neighbor and the latter to the next, etc., until the club, dumbbell or ball lands in the last member’s hands, who carries the same up to and remains at the head of the file to start the same over the course as before. As the members remain at the head of the files it is. necessary lor the same to move backw. gradually to avoid crowding until all have had their turn and the first squad finishing’is declared the winner. This, may be repeated several times in order to decide which squad can cover the course the quickest two out of three events. After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.	(To	be	continued.)

PLAYGROUNDS.

By CLARA B. ARTHUR, Chairman Playground Committee, Detroit Council of Women.

SOME one has beautifully and thoughtfully said that “to cure was the voice of the past, to prevent is the divine whisper of today. The rapid growth of the playground movement in American educational life, the recognition of the value of supervised play for the proper physical and moral training of the young is the most noticeable development of social progress in recent years. Proof of this is supplied by the steady adoption of the vacation school and playground work into the public school systems of many of our large American cities; by pleas for the playground from moral, physical and psychological subjects; by the greater and lesser monthlies, and by current daily literature: all emphasizing the increasing thought of the times toward formative as opposed to reformative methods in dealing with child life.

The very obvious need of some provision for children whose parents are unable to lessen the evils of enforced idleness during school vacation first led philanthropists to utilize the budding idea of the playground, and it was not until they had been established that there dawned on educators the vision of moral as well as physical safety and direction, promotion and healing through that dominating trait of children—the boiling passion of play.

Digitized by o.ooQle
-27-

Everv observer of children, whether acute or obtuse, admits that the desire to play is common with all children, wherever located, whatever the condition, whichever the race. All young animals share with children this desire for play, from the colt to the kitten, and the wise mother animals encourage this activity and through play teach the leading characteristics of their kind. Play is as much an instinct of childhood as is hunger. It is inborn, and to neglect the satisfaction of that instinct will ruin the child as surely as the neglect to feed him.

It is the aim of all endeavor in the playground work to recognize the need of the child for rational activity and healthy play. “Give the child adequate playground,” said an educator, ‘‘and the same spirit and imagination that form rowdy gangs form baseball clubs and games and drills.”

And modern educators returning to Greek civilization for inspiration advocate the educational value of child’s play, and the free public playground is endorsed by all who believe in dealing with causes, not consequences.

The organized supervised play of children forms habits of character that induce cheerfulness, self-respect and a respect for the rights of others; and its mission as a physical agent is suppressed by that of its moral. Our primary duty to all children is to ma\e them happy. ‘‘Be good and you’ll be happy,” might be truthfully read, “Be happy and you will be good.” It sounds much more reasonable and feasible.

Social interest in children is a dominant trait-before tyranny, deceit and injustice have awakened suspicion and self-defense, and so a child’s first inclination is to play with other children. But children playing without guidance or under repression, hampered b\' restrictions of space and city traffic are not developing balanced, self-controlled characters, though their offense is only perverted play. On impressions and observations depend character and the habits ‘‘that form us, that make us, that damn us.”

“What is it that children are most interested in and influenced bv ? Undoubtedly their plays and amusements. And until recently, and still only partially the important factor in human development—play—has been forced to grow wild, or be used hap-hazard by the child, instead of being utilized as the great river along which to guide young life to right and safety.

Small wonder that the streets have “gangs” and “toughs,” no wonder the multiplicity of prison and reformatory. Juvenile arrests increase sixty per cent, in summer vacation, and this fact was one of the hints society received relative to the value of overseeing and providing for children at their play. Accidents, too, etc. Why, despite the efforts of church, school and home and the many societies organized for good, does evil flourish in our midst ? Because of the gap that exists between the home and the school, the gap of the child’s play without heed or supervision.

An effort will be made by the playground committee of Washington, D. C., to secure an appropriation of $100,000 from Congress this year for the purchase and maintenance of grounds.
PROVIDENCE. R, I., PLAYGROUNDS.

Eastern cities arc keeping up the good work of introducing playgrounds, inaugurated by the city of Boston back in the 80‘s. The city of Providence, Rhode Island, recently equipped playgrounds in Davis and Tockwotten Parks, and have ordered an equipment lor Willard Hill Park to be put in this spring. The outfits in each of these parks consist of a frame of apparatus as illustrated above for boys, and a frame having six eight foot and six ten foot swings and four teeter ladders for the girls. There is a merry-go-round, parallel bars, seesaws and an equipment for basket ball. They have erected sheltered sand pits in which the little ones can dig. It is needless to say that the playgrounds are popular with the children. Long lines of bors awaiting their turn at some desirable piece of apparatus are not uncommon, and in the evenings the men and youths art actively at work.

The usefulness of the playgrounds is, however, seriously limited by the lack of efficient supervision; the men in charge being merely caretakers with no knowledge whatever of gymnastics or the use of apparatus. The result is that the stronger boys learn a few tricks and stunts, more or less dangerous, and the weaker ones receive no attention. Even such apparatus for little ones as swings and see-saws is monopolized by the stronger and more aggressive children, to the exclusion of the timid and weak.

Thus the moral effect of the playground is wholly lost or completely reversed —instead of a child learning to “take its turn” it learns that “might is right” and “to the victor belongs the spoils.” Weaklings are effectually taught that they have no rights that the stronger ones are bound to respect, and get thoroughly discouraged.

In one park the boys habitually drive the children from their swings, but in another the “worm turned” and the girls routed the boys completely, capturing their apparatus frame (the one shown above) over which they climbed and slid in boy fashion.

Ex-Governor Dyer, who has recently been elected mayor, is strongly in favor of playgrounds and will no doubt see to their better supervision this season. The chairman of the City Council, Joseph Balch, is also a playground enthusiast, having for several years introduced bills in the Council for their equipment. It is hoped they will secure a completely equipped playground and athletic field for the city’s largest park where it is needed badly.—W. L. C.

Digitized by Google
GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By DR. E. H. ARNOLD.

(Illustrated.)

In position—stand!

RAISING AND LOWERING.

HEAD LOWERING AND RAISING.

1. Head forwrad lower—raise!...................................(Pig*	1)

2.	Head left lower—raise!................................(Fig.

3. Head backward lower—raise!.............................(Fig.

ARM RAISING AND LOWERING.

1.	Arms forward raise! Lower!.............................(Pig*	4*.)

2. Arms sideward raise! Lower!...........................(Pig* *r> )

3. Arms left raise! Lower!.....................................(Pig.	CL)

Digitized by t^ooQle

Cl CO
4.	Arms backward raise! Lower!..........................(Fig-	7.)

5.	Arms fore-upward raise! Lower!.......................(Fig-	8.)

6.	Arms side-upward raise! Lower!........,..............(Fig.	9.)

7.	Arms	obliquely	fore-downward raise! Lower!..........(Fig.	10.)

8.	Arms	obliquely	fore-upward raise! Lower!............(Fig.	11.)

9.	Arms	obliquely	side-downward raise! Lower!..........(Fig.	12.}

10.	Arms	obliquely	side-upward raise! Lower!............(Fig.	13.)

11.	Arms	obliquely	fore-side-downward raise! Lower!.....(Fig.	14.)

12.	Arms	obliquely	fore-side-upward raise! Lower!.......(Fig.	15.)
LEG RAISING AND LOWERING.

1.	Left	leg	forward raise! Lower!......................(Fig.	16.)

2.	Left	leg	left raise! Lower!.........................(Fig-	17.)

3.	Left	leg	backward raise! Lower!.....................(Fig-	18.)

4.	Left	leg	right raise! Lower!........................(Fig.	19.)

(This is better demonstrated in a free hang with the other leg raised forward.)

TRUNK LOWERING AND RAISING.

1.	Trunk forward lower! Raise!......................... (Fig.	20.)

BENDING AND STRAIGHTENING.

ARM BENDING AND STRAIGHTENING.

1.	Arms for thrust bend!........(Fig.	21.)	1	Arm bending into starting

2.	Hands on hips place!.........(Fig.	22.)	|	positions from which

3.	Hands on shoulders place!....(Fig.	23.)	|	straightening (2—0) or

4.	Arms forward fold!...........(Fig.	24.)	j	thrusting (1) is done.

Digitized by Google
5.	Arms backward fold!.................(Fig.	25.)	\	Arfmben?.nf into startingpositions

)	°	'	\	from	which	straightening	t,a—6)

0. Neck firm!...........................(Fig.	2f).j	J	or	thrusting	(i) is done.

7.	Forward thrust! Bend!....................................................(Fig-	27.)

8.	Arms	sideward straighten! Bend!........................................(Fig.	28.)

9.	Arms	upward straighten! Bend!.........................................(Fig.	29.)

10.	Arras	downward straighten! Bend!.......................................(Fig.	30.)

LEG BENDING AND STRAIGHTENING.

1-. Knees bend! Straighten!..................................................(Fig.	31.)

2.	Left knee forward raise! Lower!................................(Kig. 32.)

3.	Right knee forward raise! Lower!.........................................(Fig.	33.)



Digitized by CjOOQle