Vol. 8.

AUGUST, 1901.

No. 90

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St,, Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis,

(From the American Physical Education Review.)

THE PLACE FOR PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOL AND COLLEGE CURRICULUM.

By D. A. SARGENT, M. D., Harvard University.

NO one questions the value of a vigorous mind in a vigorous body, and most persons are united in the opinion that the best way to secure this desirable result is to give both body and mind a large amount of functional activity. The very possession of such bones, muscles, organs, and faculties as we have, implies that they have all had an important part to play in bringing man to his present state ot superiority among animated creatures. While conceding pre-eminence to the influence of the brain in the struggle for existence, we have yet to learn of a brain being developed, sustained, or transmitted without a body. Admitting therefore that both brain and body are necessary parts of the human organism, the practical question arises as to the relative amount of care and attention to be given to the development of each in a scheme of education. Looking at the subject largely we find plenty of evidence that the nations that have given the most

Digitized by v^ooule
—122—

attention to the care of the body have not only been of a superior quality physically, but that they have invariably attained the greatest mental pre-eminence.

According to Grote, the historian, Greece devoted more time to the physical training of her youth than to all other branches of education combined, and yet Galton tells us that the Greeks were as superior to us in intellectual ability as we are superior to the African negroes. Among modern nations Germany and England rank the highest in mental attainments, and yet these nations give more attention to the physical training of their school children than any others, the former through its admirable system of gymnastics, and the latter through its highly organized athletic sports and games. If we seek for further evidence of mental superiority associated with fine physiques we can find it in smaller groups than those represented by races or nations. The Fellows of the Royal Society in England probably represent as high an order of intellectual ability as any single group of men that could be selected. Yet upon the evidence of the Committee on Anthropometry from the British Association for the Advancement of Science these men average 69% inches in stature and about 165 pounds in weight. The English professional class average 69.14 in height which is only exceeded by the Scotch agricultural population, and by the London police, who represent a body of men selected especially for their fine physiques. During my experience aj Yale University from 1873 to 1878 the first divisions in scholarship were almost invariably the best divisions in gymnastics. At Bowdoin College according to the investigation made by President Hyde in 1890, the best scholars as a class were found to have the best physiques. At Harvard University it has been found that the percentage of scholarship men who show a high degree of physical power as indicated by the strength test, is fully as large as that of the great body of students, while the percentage of weaklings is really less. Dr. Wm. T. Porter found from the data obtained by the examination of 30,000 school children in St. Louis, that among pupils of the same age those who were in the highest grades were the tallest and weighed the most, and those who were in the lowest grades were the shortest and weighed the least. In 1896 Dr. Porter’s discovery was confirmed by Mr. Chas. Roberts, of England, who made a similar investigation with the school children of London. Mr. Roberts found that there was a definite relation between size of body as determined by stature, weight, and chest-girth, and precocity and dullness of intellect in children. In other words it has been found that the more intelligent classes are taller and heavier at corresponding ages than the less intelligent. The same conclusion has more recently been reached by Gratsianoff in Russia and by Dr. Hastings in Omaha, Nebraska.

As an illustration of the influence of judicious physical training upon a dull and sluggish state of mind the experiments tried at the Elmira Reform-atory in 1886 under the direction of Dr. Hamilton D. Wey give us most convincing evidence. Dr. Wey selected some half dozen of the most obtuse dullards that could be found in the Reformatory, and had them put through a special course of vigorous physical training for one year. This class began at once to improve mentally and morally as well as

Digitized by taOOQle
—123 —

physically. All of them passed from the lowest into the higher grades, and most of them maintained their improved mental standing after the period of special training had elapsed. It is a little more difficult to show the relation between a good physique and high mental attainments in individual cases, because there are many exceptions. But this is true of any deduction that can be made in regard to the human organism.

If the student of biography will look up the life history of the men who have been the foremost leaders of the world in every branch of service and kind of endeavor, he will find almost invariably that they have been men with sound bodies and vigorous minds. Of course there are many men like Pascal, Darwin, and Herbert Spencer, who have been able to accomplish a prodigious amount of work though suffering at times from feeble health. Nevertheless it takes a pound to balance a pound. The energy put forth in their intellectual efforts must have had a physical basis, and their bodies must have been tough and enduring enough to meet all the demands of their hard worked mental organism through a long term of years. If by cutting off the drains in one direction, and husbanding their resources in another Darwin and Pascal were able to do a great amount of work in their chosen fields, this is hardly an argument against the building of better bodies as a foundation for still better service. Considering the multiform demands made upon the time and energy of a great man, I am not so sure that a little invalidism does not sometimes afford the best means of conserving his force and prolonging his life. But to argue that the best mental results may be attained through the agency of a feeble body, is to argue that the most work may be done by the efforts of a feeble engine— which is a physical impossibility. The body may be made feeble through the inordinate activity of the mind, but the mind is never made active and enduring through the weakness of the body. “Cultivate the physical perfection of the body, and the mental perfection will follow as a matter of course; neglect or suppress the physical and force the mental faculties, and failure of both will certainly foliow.” While most persons are prepared to accept this physiological truth many maintain that it is not' necessary to make any effort to give the body, as a body, any special exercise or training. They claim that the ordinary duties and employments of life will give one all of the physical training and development that he needs.

This may have been true in primitive times when it was necessary for a man to do his own ploughing and planting, reaping and mowing, to chop his own wood, hunt his own game, catch his own Tish, make his own toots, build his own house, and do the hundred and one things necessary to maintain a comfortable existence. But times have changed. Now a man does some one thing for himself and everything else is done for him. The minute division of labor and the extensive use of steam and electricity have wrought most radical changes in our methods of working and living. Not only is all of the mental work now done by one class and all of the physical work by another class, but even the mental and physical work is so divided and sub-divided, that it is possible for one to perform some necessary function in the
business or industrial world by the employment of a very few muscles and faculties. Think of the mental vacuity and muscular inertness of a man who spends his life in polishing a wooden handle or watching a railroad ticket drop into a box, or who simply tends a machine that now does the work once thought possible only to human skill and intelligence. Yet these are fair examples of the mental and physical ability required of hundreds of occupations that now furnish man with a livelihood.

Apart from the work of the professional classes, and that of the great organizers, financiers, inventors, merchants, and executive heads, chiefs and leaders of various arts, trades, and industries, which appeal to one’s pride and ambition and call for a high grade of intelligence, the ordinary employments of life contribute little or nothing to man’s intellectual or physical ability. In spite of all that we hear about the struggles of poverty, there never was a time in the history of the world when the great mass of mankind could meet the simple exigencies of life with so little expenditure of time and energy as to-day. When we consider that the prime motive that has brought man to his present state of mental and physical efficiency has been the struggle for existence, and that the primitive man probably had to exercise more real mental acumen and sagacity, had to be more agile and alert, and bring into action more varied qualities of mind and body in order to live, than the great mass of our present population, some of the tendencies of our present civilization may well make us pause. We already know that there is a difference of five inches existing between the average statures, and twenty pounds between the average weight of the best and the worst nurtured classes. We also know that criminals and lunatics average less in height and weight than the general community, and that there is an ever widening gulf between the physical and mental stamina of the highest and lowest strata of society.

Inasmuch as the peculiar tendencies of our civilization have deprived the great mass of our people of an incentive to use more faculties of mind and body than they are obliged to just for a living, and inasmuch as we know that neither can be long kept from degenerating unless furnished with their customary nutriment through exercise, the question of supplying some artificial aids and means of both mental and physical development becopies one of the greatest importance. It is difficult to see how the stability and integrity of the race can be maintained in any other way.

Many persons have already comprehended the problem, and the efforts that are being made to interest old and young in parks, play grounds, athletic fields, gymnasiums, public baths, museum^, libraries, art exhibitions, lectures, conferences, debates, etc., are all steps in the right direction, and are doing a great deal to improve the mental and physical condition of our people. But in order to attain the best results we must carry this movement farther. We must make the improvement of the body an essential requirement of our school system.

There is a tendency to regard school children as that portion of the community who are to earn their living by their mental attainments in contrast to that unfortunate part of the community who are supposed

Digitized by CjOOQle
—125 —

to be dependent solely upon their physical efforts. Consequently the amount of mental work has been greatly increased while the time formerly allowed for exercise, recreation, etc., has been correspondingly diminished. Parents complain that children come home from school loaded with books, that they must study all evening in order to prepare their lessons for the next day. They can find no time to assist about the house work, or to do errands and chores that would at least furnish them with some sort of exercise, but they must hurry off to school, either by steam cars or electrics for fear of being late. There is not a single exercise in the school curriculum that requires them to lift their arms above their heads or to use their hands and fingers, except to thumb the leaves of a book or handle a piece of chalk. And yet we know that arm movements are more nearly associated with mental action than leg movements, which in walking require but little attention, and that it is almost impossible to develop the chest and thereby enlarge the lungs without using the arms. As a consequence of our one-sided method of school education we have reason to expect some unfavorable results. In the schools of this country we have but few reliable data as to the amount of disease among school children.

We know that in the schools of Boston only about 50 per cent, of the pupils who enter the elementary schools ever get through the 4th grade in the grammar school and only 15 percent, to the high school, while less than half of that number graduate. Although many children are withdrawn and put to work to help support the family, a large number are known to drop out from ill health or inability^ to stand the mental and nervous strain. Those who graduate from our high schools and those who enter college represent in a physical sense as well as a mental sense the survival of the fittest. As a fair example of the amount of sickness that prevails atpong school children let me quote from the report made by Professor Axel Key to the Swedish government some few years ago. He says:

“According to my examinations of 15,000 boys in the middle schools more than one third are ill, or are afflicted with chronic maladies. Short-sightedness, which is for the most part induced by the overtaxing of the eyes in school-work and well merits the name of school sickness, rises rapidly in height of prevalence from class to class. Thirteen and a half per cent, of the boys suffer from habitual headache, and nearly thirteen per cent, are pallid; and other diseases arise in the lower classes and then decline, to rise again in the upper classes. Diseases of the lungs are most frequent among organic disorders. Diseases of the heart and intestinal disorders show a considerable tendency to increase in the higher classes. As to the average of illness in the different classes, it appears that in Stockholm 17 per cent, of the children in the first class were ill at the end of the first school year. In the second year the illness curve rose to 37 per cent, and in the fourth class to 40 per cent. •

“Among the school girls, the future mothers of the generation to come, investigations instituted in thirty-five schools with three thousand and seventy two pupils brought out a fearful amount of illness. Sixty-one per cent, of the whole, all belonging to the well-to-do classes, were ill or afflicted with serious chronic disorders; 3b per cent, were suffering
—126—

from chlorosis, and as many from habitual headache; at least 10 per cent, had spinal disorders, etc.”

Sixty-one per cent, made sick in learning how to live! What sadder commentary could be made upon our present school system. It would be surprising if such a condition of ill health as portrayed by Prof. Key had not forced itself upon the attention of the school authorities, and obliged them to take measures to improve the physical status of the school children. Indeed efforts in this direction have been making for several years past, and I am pleased to state that there has been a perceptible improvement at least in the physical condition of the students who come to college. This improvement may be attributed largely to the increased attention given to gymnastics and athletics, the extensive use of the bicycle, and the iticreased participation in recreative games, the improvement in the sanitary condition of school buildings and dwelling houses, and the great interest taken in the selection and preparation of food products, and in matters of personal hygiene. This sanitary movement, though popular with the higher classes, has not yet become sufficiently general to have produced any very marked effects upon the health and physique of the great ipass of pupils now attending our public and private schools.

The subject of physical training which in its best sense means applied hygiene is still regarded with indifference by most parents and teachers. Parents want their children to have practical education as they term it, but the majority of them fail to see the bearing which physical training has upon mental acquirements which are the results most desired. The teachers feel that their reputations depend upon the amount of verbal knowledge they can pump into the heads of their pupils in a given time, and consequently look upon any kind of physical exercise as one of the many distractions that tend to interfere with the attainment of this object. The school boards are governed largely by the wants of their constituencies, tempered somewhat by the opinions of head masters and teachers in the various departments. As the governing boards are usually of a practical turn of mind, the measures for physical training generally adopted after all interests are consulted, are those which promise the most, cost the least, require the smallest amount of time, and interfere as little as possible with the existing curriculum. A scheme of physical training so hampered and restricted could hardly be expected to be very prolific in good results. It implies the making of promises which cannot be fulfilled, the employment of incompetent, half-trained teachers, the attempt to work under unfavorable ‘conditions, without apparatus, without change of clothing, without baths, without sunlight and almost without air. Under such conditions, with no attempt made at classification according to physical needs, with everyone doing the same thing, without any moral enthusiasm on the part of the teacher, without hope of approval or reward on the part of the pupil, without even the inspiring strains of music to relieve the monotony, our public school children are put through what some persons have been pleased to term educational gymnastics. After a few years of this kind of work, is it to be wondered at that both teachers and pupils should unite in one prolonged cry for recreative exercises or for more plays and games?

Digitized by LjO ?Le
—127—

Under the most favorable hygienic conditions it is very difficult to accomplish much in the way of physical improvement by giving to it only ten minutes a day. When parents and school boards expect to see defective constitutions rebuilt, vigorous health attained, and all of the physical evils and defects that have been acquired by ten hours a day of school work, removed by a few minutes a day of gymnastics under the conditions I have described, their expectations become simply laughable.

Fortunately there are a number of schools in the country where it is not thought necessary to sacrifice one’s health and physical vigor in order to obtain an education, and where if a boy is prepared for college, he is prepared physically as well as1 mentally for the ordeal before him. But I regret to add that these schools are vastly in the minority, and that the subject of physical education has not begun to receive the attention which it merits from parents, teachers, and school and college authorities.

The causes which tend to make physical training of some kind a necessity are more numerous and more urgent to-day than ever. Some of them arise from organic necessities. A large part of our youth must have an opportunity to exercise the motor impulses, ot the race would soon deteriotate. You can not suppress in one generation what hundreds of generations have been fostering and developing through necessity. When the law requires children to attend school in order that they may have their mental sensibilities played upon, and be filkd with enthusiasm to live nobly, act courageously, and do the thousand and one things necessary to make good citizens and perform some useful function in society, it would hardly be the part of wisdom to suppose that these children were going to postpone their physical activity until they completed their mental education. Fortunately for the community in one respect, though unfortunately, I think, in another, our youth do not propose to be educated that way. Inasmuch as educators persistently ignored the claims of the body, and adhered to the old r^giffie of mental drudgery without pleasure, school boys and college youths were forced to find interests and enjoyment in more active pursuits.

At first these took the form of improptu school games, midnight carousing, town and gown fights, and systematic hazing. In the early sixties and seventies, this inborn love for motor activity began to show itself in organized sports and games. This was the beginning of modern athletics. With the growth and development of this subject during the past 25 years most of my hearers are quite familiar. Every school and college of note has its athletic club or association, while base-ball, football, and rowing clubs have increased correspondingly.

The public interest in athletic contests has also increased enormously, the papers being filled with every detail in regard to practice and training, and the great fcot-ball games draw together from thirty to forty thousand people to witness the final struggles.

Naturally enough a subject of so much general interest operating through a quarter of a century would tend to produce certain marked results, though there probably would be a wide difference of opinion as to what these results were. In my opinion • some of the favorable effects of athletics may be summarized as follows:

They have afforded our school and college youth a subject of immediate interest to discuss, rally round, and enthuse over. They have taught them

Digitized by Google
-128-

to respect deeds rather than promises, to be governed by laws rather than by hap-hazard opinions, to submit to discipline, set selfish interest aside, and render obedience to their captains and leaders. Athletics have advanced the tone of youthful morals by setting higher ideals of manhood for the weak, giving a legitimate outlet for the superfluous energy of the strong, and furnishing a fair field of activity for the courageous and daring. The achievements-of individual athletes, clubs, teams, and associations have provided live topics for written composition, and have probably afforded a better drill in the writing of good idiomatic English than any other class of subjects. The interest aroused by athletics has in my opinion also contributed in no small degree to the enrichment of the college curriculum, by obliging instructors to make their courses more interesting and attractive in order to command attention. The management of athletics and the handling of men under trying conditions and circumstances has afforded an admirable training m executive ability and some of our foremost young men in business and government affairs got their first experience that way. Inasmuch as a large per cent of all of our college graduates now go into business instead of the professions, this i& a matter of no little importance. Athletics undoubtedly have furnished a great incentive to a large number of youths to take vigorous exercise, and to work with definite ends in view. The extensive practice of these invigorating exercises, the adoption of the training diet, and more rational methods of living have contributed in a measure to the improvement of the general health of the community.

Most of the objections which have been made against athletics have arisen more from their excesses than their legitimate uses. Nevertheless there are certain well founded objections which are worth considering. In the performance of athletic feats the young are pre-eminent. Old age and middle age yield supremacy to youth in physical accomplishments. For this reason the attention bestowed upon athletics by men of eminence and distinction is not always understood, and sometimes leads to conclusions as to the relative abilities of youth and age in more important affairs which are not always warrantable. In the opinion of many the prominence now given to athletics by the press and public, the praise and adulation bestowed upon individual athletes by schools and colleges, the celebrations, and the banquets are having a demoralizing influence upon a large class of our youthful population. A young man whose good work in the class room never attracted attention, whose social charms and accomplishments never brought him into notice suddenly finds himself raised to distinction by an athletic victory. He feels for the first time in his life his own importance, and with this sense of importance comes an increasing appreciation of the method by which he has risen. Henceforth this young man’s presence may be required in the recitation room, but his mind and thoughts are occupied with the scenes of his ephemeral triumphs. It is claimed that athletic contests not only fascinate the participants but allure hundreds of non-athletic young men from their studies; and thus interfere with the serious intellectual work of the schools and colleges. The protestations of the instructors are of no avail, for on the subjects of sports the whole country seems to be against them. Moreover many teachers have felt obliged to ally themselves with this athletic movement in order to have any influence over their pupils. Its power in politics, in and out of college, has long been manifest; every alumni dinner is over-burdened with the athletic menu, and hardly a college president has been appointee for the past twenty years who has not been known to favor this popular subject.

Digitized by ejOOQle
-129-

The value of athletics has so impressed itself upon the mental constitution of the young men of the present day that it is a question if those who oppose them do not lose something of their power and influence as authorities in their own special subjects. '

There is certainly a growing feeling among the student classes that college professors, like ministers of the gospel, are expected to preach against athletics in deference to their positions, for the strongest arguments in favor of vigorous physical exercise may be drawn from the lives, teachings, and writings of these very professors. It is a serious thing to run against the p jsit ve convictions of a large body of men who have gained their knowledge by experience. If it does not breed contempt for the authority of thoce who oppose them, without knowledge to the contrary, it certainly tends to confirm them in the strength of their own opinions and methods of doing things.

Here again we have perhaps the foundation of another argument against athletics. For many claim that they tend to cultivate an athletic frame o f mind, or a combative spirit, and with this spirit a disposition to carry things by storm, and to resort to rush line tactics, in business, in polit cs, and in war, instead of the calmer and more deliberate methods which characterize the intellectual classes. With these far-reaching efforts of athletics I do not purpose to contend.

What most interests us is the effect which athletics as at present conducted are likely to have on the cause of physical education. Even admitting all the evils, and I have not mentioned half of them, that may be attributed to the popular furor over competitive sports and games, I am prepared to maintain that they are simply the result of the conditions under which we live, and of the aims and motives that incite most of us to action.

Some one has said that fundamentally the great motives of conduct in life have been the hope of heaven, the fear of hell, or the love of God. For our purpose we will assume these motives to be the hope of reward, the fear of punishment, or the love of truth. It would be difficult to think of any branch of human activity that is not influenced by one or the other of these three motives. Beginning in the nursery and extending up through all the schools and colleges, out into the professions and into every branch of business and department of labor and service, either the hope of reward or the fear of punishment holds sway.

We have had a remarkable exhibition of the influence of these motives upon the conduct of the men who participated in the late war with Spain. When admirals and generals con‘end for rank and distinction for doing their duty, we can hardly exyect school boys and college students to be unmindful of pnzes and rewards, of honors and approval. The only thing in athletics that brings prizes and approval is victory, and the only way to attain victory, where competition is keen and the spirit of emulation intense, is by hard, grinding work. This means that a lot of time and energy must be devoted .to some one sport, and that a great many personal sacrifices must be made. As a general thing the school or college which has the largest number of men to select from and will devote the largest amount of time and money to athletic training, will win the greatest number of athletic, victories. If other institutions are willing to enlarge their field of selection and pick up ready-made athletes all over the country, and give them an equal amount of train ng, they in turn will be likely to attain more than their legitimate share of athletic victories. To be always successful in athletics will certainly advertise a college,
-130-

but it advertises it the wrong way, for it simply implies that that institut'on is devoting more time to athletics than to anything else.

Soon after coming to Harvard in 1879, one of the first things that occured to me in attempting to organize my department and to insure harmonious relations between the different academic and athletic interests was the necessity of getting the different colleges to come to some agreement as to the appointment of athletic trainers, the classification of competitors, and the number of years they were to be allowed to compete, the condition under which the contests were to be conducted, etc. An intercollegiate committee was appointed to draw up regulations and recommendations covering these points. The several college faculties, however, in deference to the wishes of the students and alumni refused to adopt the regulations of the intercollegiate committee and the matter was dropped. It is interesting to note at this time that nearly all of these regulations have since been adopted by the students themselves, and that they have even exceeded the expectations of the faculties and put an academic requirement on all competing athletes at the intercollegiate games. Thus it has taken about 20 years, a new college generation, and an immense amount of fussing and fuming to bring about a reform, the necessity for which was perfectly apparent a long time ago to the executive heads of most of our colleges and to those who were in a position to know the facts.

Given to absorbing interests, one appealing to the mental side of one's life, the other to the physical side, if competition required that the standard of both mental and physical work should be continuall raised, a time would soon come when it would be impossible for the same person, unless extraordinarily endowed, to reach a high degree of excellence in both mental and physical attainments. When this time arrived it would be necessary for the person who desired to attain a position above mediocrity to decide whether he was to devote the greater part of his time and energy to mental or to athletic pursuits. This time arrived at Harvard some years ago. An examination of the college rank list showed such a dropping off in mental attainments among the athletic men that the faculty felt obliged to require a certain class-room standing of all competing athletes. The same measures have been adopted at Yale, and, as I have already intimated, the students of these two universities now insist upon the athletes of other colleges giving equal evidence of their rights to compete as college students.

No one who knows anything of the fundamental necessities of amateur athletics, that is, to insure men competing on equal terms as far as possible, will question for a moment the justice and desirability of the students’ action in this matter. On the other hand no one who recognizes the aims and purposes of our institutions of learning, will hesitate to commend the wisdom ol college faculties in requiring college athletes to give satisfactory evidence of their mental abilities. The very existence of such places as gymnasia, boat-houses, athletic fields, running tracks, tennis courts, swimming tanks, etc., in connection with schools and colleges implies that they are expected in some way to further the main objects of these institutions. No one will admit that they were simply to develop athletes as such, or simply to make student athletes, but all might unite in the opinion that they were designed to develop athletic students.

As I have already intimated there never was a time when vigorous, athletic qualities were so much needed among educated men as at the present day. The demands of the times are not so much for a few brilliant or deeply learned men, as for a large number of highly intelligent men. Men who not only have the courage of their convictions but the physical hardihood and mental tenacity to enable them to stay in their places and work at their post of duty aftjer their more brilliant associates had wearied of well doing and dropped out of the struggle.

The qualities that enable men to endure are not the overwrought, high strung conditions of nerve and muscle that sometimes win athletic victories, but rather that perfection of structure and harmony of function that usually assures good health. This condition cannot be maintained without giving a certain portion of one’s time to some kind of muscular exercise inasmuch as 4?5 per cent of the whole body is made up of muscular tissue.

When I first went to Bowdoin College some thirty years ago, it was cus-

Digitized by Google
-131-

tomary for man}' of the students to work upon farms, or in shops, milla, or at some other kind of physical labor for half of the year in order to earn money enough to pay their college expenses. During my first years here at Harvard there were students connected with the university who were defraying their expenses by doing manual labor, and there are a few who are helping themselves along by their physical efforts at the present time. But the conditions of college life are so different now from what they used to be that it would be exceedingly difficult for a student to earn enough money bv manual labor, even if he could get it to do, to defray his college expenses and keep up with his studies at the same time. It would be much easier for him to earn money by teaching or doing some kind of clerical work though this would not give him t}ie change trom mental to physical effort which his system so much needs.

The. college authorities recognize how hard it is for a young man to earn his own way and ,do the necessary mental work to entitle him to a degree. Because of this difficulty arrangements are made to furnish assistance to meritorious students in need of pecuniary aid. Harvard University invests something like $90,000 annually in the abilities of some 250 young men, in hopes of getting at least a fair return for this outlay in the good service these young men are likely to render to the community in the future. But what assistance is the university giving to the large number of students who are poor in physical capital and vital resources, upon which their ability to render service of any kind so largely depends? Harvard furnishes, without doubt, the largest plant and the best general equipment of any institution in the land foi improving the physical condition of the students; but right into direct competition with this splendid opportunity she has brought all of her honors, prizes, pecuniary stipends, and rewards, and the personal power and attractiveness of some 400 instructors to keep the students from getting the very physical benefits which the athletic equipment of the university was designed to give them, and which of course all of the faculties and governing boards are desirous for them to have.

But as though all of these opportunities for honors, rewards, and distinctions were not enough, the University holds over the head of each student a requirement of 18 courses and the dread punishment of withholding its diploma, should he fail to attain a certain rank in scholarship.

Now what are the motives that incite one to regular systematic physical effort? We have already referred to the honors and rewards that come to victorious athletes, and the same class are also stimulated to action through dread of the chagrin and disfavor that follow’s defeat, or the failure to realize the object for which they have been striving and training. But even admitting that athletic honors and distinctions furnish just as laudable motives for physical activity as college degrees and scholarship honors do for mental activity, the chances for any considerable number of students attaining athletic distinction is very small indeed. At Harvard University not more than 10 per cent of the students ever attain positions on the various athletic teams, and not more than 20 per cent of the whole number ever try for them. That leaves over 70 percent of all the students at Harvard without any motive for physical training such as appeals to them in other departments of college activity, and in all the varied pursuits of life. To be sure, there is the grand motive in the love of God and truth and the attainment of health and physical perfection for its own sake.

Although these high aims and motives are beginning to appeal to many persons as part of the divine plan of evolving a better condition of affairs, I fear , there is little hope of getting our schools and colleges to adopt them as a fundamental basis for mental activity. If, therefore, as practical educators we would have the physical department act in harmony with the other departments of education, we must adopt the same method of stimulating pupils to active efforts which they do. That is, we must furnish them with some immediate and imperative motive for action. At the present time it is possible for a student to attend a course of lectures on physiology and hygiene, write down the results of another man’s intellectual efforts, commit them to memory, and a few months later re-write them in an examination book, and get credit for his labor toward a degree. If, on the other hand, the same young man is moved by the words of the instructor to reform his habits of living and improve his physical condition, he may work faithfully and vyell for fopy years in the gymnasium, thereby making

Digitized by tjOOQLe
-132-

hiniself, as anyone will admit, a better man for anything he is likely to be called upon to do, without receiving the slightest recognition for his efforts fr&ni the faculty. The difficulty of the mental as well as the physical efforts involved in the two processes and their relative value, I must leave my hearers to determine.

Inasmuch as the only motives in the way of prized, honors, distinctions, etc., which the physical department can offer, seem to conflict with the best interests of college life and have proven inadequate for the great majority of students, why not adopt identically the same motive for physical efforts as for mental efforts, and place all to the credit of the man who is striving for a degree. Of course everything depends upon credit being given for work actually done, the presumption being that every earnest, systematic effort, mental or physical, on the part of the student is for his personal improvement. If it were otherwise intended it would not be permitted by the college authorities.

The adoption of the credit system would tend to bring all of the work of the physical and academic instructors into harmony, for all would be working with the same end in view, the improvement of the whole man in hopes, of making him a better citizen and a more creditable representative of the college. The adoption ot such a measure would also insure to the college, not only that student athletes should not carry their athletics to such an excess as to lower their rank and mental standing, but that scholarship men should not carry their mental work to such an excess as to impair their health and physical standing.

If the colleges and universities would make physical training an essential part of their curriculum and give credit for the results attained, the fitting schools would be induced to prepare all their pupils physically as well as mentally for their college eourse. We have already seen that the pupils as a class who have the best physiques are able to do the best mental work. Would it not be wise therefore to recognize the value of physical training as an essential perquisite to the attainment of the highest intellectual results in a school, a college, a community, or a race? After thirty years’ observation in this field of endeavor I cannot help thinking it would.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—The North American Gymnastic Union (Nord - Amerikanischer Turner-Bund) has just issued its annual report. The organization consists now of 255 societies with 34,002 members, an increase of 98 members as compared with the previous year. The report as a whole is favorable, it gives accounts of all the interesting gymnastic events and furnishes also the statistical data in reference to the different societies.

CORRESPONDENCE.

A. K., Chicago— Beyond the general announcement of his withdrawal as editor, sent out by Dr. Fitz we have no knowledge of what is goihg on in A. A. A. P. E. circles in regard to the P. E. Review.

Mr. John H.—To qualify us to recommend you for the place it would be necessary lor us to know you personally as also to become familiar with the work you have done in the past.

Miss L., and others.—There are valid reasons far the tardy appearance of Mind and Body of August. The managing-editor during the hot vacation days had to depend almost entirely upon the editorial committee and' relied upon it all the more since the A. A. A. P. E. Convention gave its members living in the East such a splendid opportunity to bring an exhaustive report on that interesting meeting. The other two committee members were married recently and are, as might be expected, to be excused. We shall try to “catch up.”

Digitized by CnOOQle
AfllNP ftND BODY. %

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Published Monthly,

w

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

‘WlMCon.Bin.

W Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 46a East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee; Wis,

WE have before us a picture of a lady-golf-chaijapion in the attitude of striking the ball. Not so very many years ago the position this lady assumes would have been characterized as mannish and un-lady-like. It lacks the grace prescribed by the then predominating Delsartean advocates.

• A great amount of physical effort is apparently required to give an efficient start to the golf-ball. Not the slightest evidence of graceful “relaxation7’ is conveyed by the picture.

Whither are we drifting? Speaking with our Delsarte friends, “No salutary effect without relaxation!”

Are the young and the still-young ladies of the more fortunate classes (for obvious reason the gamo of Golf, at least in this country, has been taken up only by the more well-to-do people) ignorant of the principles of hygiene so often laid down and amply illustrated in the lectures by Professor So-and-So or Madame De X? Are they not sufficiently cautioned against the evil consequences of such forceful, jerky actions of the body necessary in the game of Golf?

Are they not afraid of losing their natural or acquired grace? Do they not consider that “relaxation counts at least as much as activity” and “that'grace is health?”

If the ladies of the better classes disregard all the teachings of our physical culture specialists, what will become of those poor mortals; of the gentle sex, whose duty and fate it is to follow suit?

We have golf-costumes. But, by this time, we also have acquired a golf-walk and a golf-dance.

If Saint Delsarte had not been a third-rate step-father to the American Delsarte system, he might even now turn himself in his grave.

As it is, we find ample ground for rejoicing, not perhaps because we wish this “system” anything bad, or because we are afraid lest a natural death might not soon enough befall the Delsartean fad, but because we see in these excrescences a proof, that you cannot befog the sound-minded American people too long or too often and that natural instincts will*always gain the upper hand and be victorious in the end.

The introduction of “Golf’ is the beginning of the end of Delsarte in America. For that reason and because “Golf’ certainly is a healthful out-door sport, we believe in Golf.

—Jf the intellect is to be cultivated, the brain must be exercised, ,

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.



DELSARTE AND GOLF.

Digitized by

Google
-134-

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By LURA W. SANBORN, Director of Physical Training, Chicago Normal School.

WHEN I speak to a club of physicians about the value and place of physical training in a public school system, I feel, on the one hand that I am addressing the best friends and the heartiest supporters of the work which I represent, while, on the other hand, I know that among physicians we meet our strongest opposition.

The reason for this is mainly ours, the teachers of physical training, or rather those who are not teachers, but who pretend to be and who draw salaries as such.

The average physician sees, tor the most'part, either the lack of any result from school gymnastics, hence waste of time, or he meets the cases which have been injured through injudicious practice of exercises.

That there is, in some places, much time and money wasted on school gymnastics, there is no doubt; that the value of the work in other places cannot be overestimated is equally certain.

The fault in the first place is solely with the teachers, or rather with the governing boards, whose attitude seems to be that anybody can teach gymnastics, instead of requiring the highest qualifications of those to whom they entrust the training of that side of the child, without the development of which he is hampered in every walk of life.

Physical training, properly so called, is not the mere performance of a dumb-bell drill or a little calisthenics. It is not—where a gymnasium is provided—the performance of clever tricks on apparatus. Its purpose is not the exhibition, nor even the attainment of great muscular strength.

Physical training should be educative, hygienic, preventive, remedial, recreative. It must be on a firm footing of physiologic and scientific principles. To quote Dr. E. M. Hartwell, of Boston, “The attainment of the ethical end of education must be considered from the point of view not only of the growth of mind but also of the growth of body, for, as Montaigne says, ‘We have not to train up a soul nor yet a body, but a man, and we cannot divide him.’”

The interdependence of mind and body is well recognized. There are few sympathizers with that spiritual hero of the fourteenth century, who wrote on the wall of his cell, “A pale face, a wasted body, and a lowly demeanor are the marks by which a spiritual man may be known.”

“Physical training,” says Dr. Hartwell, “is the regulated practice of some form of muscular exercise, such as serves to promote the health of the organism or to develop and discipline its motor functions. The effects of muscular, or rather neuro-muscular exercise—for we cannot exercise the muscles without exercising also those parts of the nervous system connected with them—are two-fold, and it is evident that the development and health of the brain depend upon its exercise in conjunction with its muscular terminal organs. Neuro-muscular exercise to be of educational value should be adapted to the age, intelligence, and skill of the individual.”

Through educational gymnastics the pupil should gain in power of attention, in volition* in nerve control, in rapid response to stimuli* in

Digitized by v^ooQle
-135-

quick and accurate thought, in alertness, dexterity, grace, and ease of motion. He should gain courage and self-confidence through knowing and testing his own powers. Function makes the organ—it is as natural for a child to move about, to play, to exercise, as it is to breathe.

The proper kind and amount of exercise assists nature in the process of growth in the symmetrical development of the body, and in the performance of all its functions. It keeps the chests from being cramped, the shoulders and heads from drooping, the spines from curving. It keeps the roses in the cheeks and elasticity in the step. It gives children healthy bodies, which must “support the studious and deep-thinking minds of the coming generation.”

To accomplish these results the individual must be studied from a physical point of view, and here is one of the most important aspects' of the whole question.

For the purpose of furnishing a means of activity and recreation light general exercises and games may be given to children in classes. Beyond this the needs of the individual child must be considered and that work which will do the most for him be given him. The same set of exercises must not be given to the physically weak and the physically strong, to the well-nourished and the poorly-fed child, just because they happen to be in the same grade in arithmetic cr in history.

The ordinary school teacher should be trained to recognize by observation and tests the usual defects common among school children. Then with the basis of applied anatomy, she can give exercises which will overcome the deficiencies, and interest the parents in the correction of the defects of their children. She can develop the sunken chests, and straighten up the shoulders. She can regulate the work and the play periods in school hours, and prevent the fatiguing of the children which causes them to fall into careless postures.

She can recognize abnormalities in the ejres and other sense organs. She knows the signs of neurasthenia, poor nutrition and lack of motor control, and can call the attention of proper authorities.

A course in hygiene should be given in every school, and every teacher should possess the necessary knowledge to give it, and be herself a living example of the principles which she teaches. Physical training in the schools is powerless to overcome the conditions found when children are poorly fed, never bathed and poorly clothed, or worse yet, fashionably tortured.

It is absolute ignorance of the ordinary laws of healthy living that causes much of the abnormal condition of schoolchildren. Many of the parents are ignorant. Instruct the children not only in the abuse of alcohol and tobacco but in the abuse of foods, the dangers resulting from constriction of the body by tight clothing, the necessity for exercise and air. and frequent bathing.

Last year, three hundred and thirty girls, fresh from high-school, took the physical examination at the Normal School, preliminary to working in the voluntary gymnasium classes. Out of these 330, sixty-seven reported health good and the examination revealed no special defects. This, of course, does not mean that the remaining number

Digitized by CjOOQle
—136—

were sick, but a more or less prolonged account of troubles, was given, and special exercises were prescribed.

Of the defects noted, the most numerous was that of flat, hollow, or depressed chests, and round shoulders. In some cases this was the result of poor posture, comparatively easily corrected, but in other cases the lung capacity was far from the normal, and the student had never taken deep breaths and didn’t know how to use her lungs. This defect i* frequently accompanied by protruding abdomen and tipping of the pelvis, which means more than merely an ungraceful posture. There were 141 students in this class.

Fifty-five were found to have, in slight or marked degree, spinal curvature, six cases being serious enough to require, besides special exercises under constant supervision, mechanical pressure and braces.

Those whose examination revealed some irregularity in the heart, in most cases only slight, numbered thirty-five. In a few of these cases, exercise, except in the mildest form was prohibited.

On matters pertaining to food, bathing, etc., the ignorance displayed Iflras startling. A bath once in two weeks was not unusual, and a breakfast of cakes and tea was the preparation for a hard day’s work and from one to three hours spent on street cars. Thirty-seven students bad daily headaches, forty-four had continued colds.

These girls were in the special gymnastic classes and were taking prescribed exercises daily for eight months. I was unable to make the same thorough examination at the end of the year, but a limited expression from the girls is indicative of their improvemen t. Reports were sent in by 125 girls. Of these, 87 had improved in general health; 93 had gained in endurance; 92 had improved in carriage; 60 were less nervous. Of 54 who were formerly subject to constant colds, 52 were less liable. Of 42 who suffered from constant headaches, 32 now never have them. Of 30 who formerly had indigestion, 27 had entirely recovered. Nearly all had gained in self-reliance, alertness, accuracy, and control, both physically and mentally.

This year, judging from the two hundred of the entering class, already examined, I can state with assurance that the condition is much nearer the normal standard.

This difference in the students, of the two classes, I attribute to two things. First, that the physical examination required by the Board of Education before entering the Normal School discouraged the weaker ones; and, second, that the condition of others was greatly improved during the summer. I understand that about one-third of the applicants examined in June were sent away with good advice to be carried out during the summer, and upon second examination in September were found to be much improved.

This examination is the first step toward improvement along the physical side of school life.

President Eliot says of the students entering Harvard University, that “It is reasonable to know that students in whom the college is to invest its money, have at least a fair chance of possessing the health and strength necessary to usefulness after they have received their training.” And it has been found at Harvard that the holders of scholarships

Digitized by CaOOQle
-137-

are, most cases, physically as well as mentally superior to the average student.

How vastly important it is, then, that those to whom we entrust the training of our children, should possess at the outset the necessary foundation for a fine mind, good nerves, and a controlling will.

Physical training should have a regular place in the school curriculum. It should come not twice a week, nor three times a week, but every day. A few brisk exercises or a good, lively game should have a place any time and frequently.

When the attention wavers and the brain is full of cobwebs, when the body becomes tired and restless from long sitting, and when the child slides down in the seat and sits on the end of the spine, and the chest is cramped and the shoulders drooping, then is the time for ten minutes of exercise and fun and recreation—for a game in the open air if possible. The pent-up nervous energy' will have an outlet, the brain will be refreshed and the child will accomplish twice the amount of work in the next period. More than this, the self-conscious and diffident child will forget himself in the interest and spontaneity of play, and little by little will gain self-reliance.

The backward and the inattentive child may be aroused by stimulating the brain through the muscular terminal organs, and new interests and new powers will be awakened.

When our citizens realize with Herbert Spencer, that “Success in the world depends much more upon energy than upon information; and that a policy which in cramming with information undermines energy, is self-defeatingwhen they “believe that the preservation of health is a duty/*.... and that “all breaches of the laws of health are physical sins, then will the physical training of the j’oung receive all the attention it deserves.”

When they realize that a six-weeks summer school course or a few seasons in a gymnasium, acquiring skill on parallel bars, or even the ability to lead a class through a dumbbell drill, is not sufficient preparation for a teacher of physical training, then physical training in the schools will mean vastly more than it does to the average parent of to-day, and the physician will find in this department of school work, one of his most reliable prescriptions.

And the children—how they love it! And what a reward is “the exquisite realization of health !”

—He who wishes to acquire the far vision of the seaman must use his eyes like a seaman.

—It is now more or less clearly recognized that no skill, no learning, no intellectual greatness, can carry with it its fullest influence without a certain element of physical capacity in the individual.

—To learn how to rightly exercise every part and organ of the body, and how to effect this without undue effort or injurious strain, is to discover the elixir of life and such a philosopher’s stone as will render the short tenure of life as free from bodily troubles as the art of man can make it.
—138—

(From The Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.)

BEAUTY AS A MEANS OF HEALTH.

BEFORE one of the New York Working Girls’ Clubs, Dr. Louise Fiske Bryson recently gave an address upon this subject, reserving in more ways than one the usual order of copy-book aphorism. While acknowledging the impossibility of any protracted happiness without virtue, and the maintenance of beauty’s fine edge without goodness, the doctor affirmed that systematic efforts to be beautiful will insure a fair degree of health, and that happiness is the best safeguard against vice. The difference in appearance between one woman and another, it was stated, is more than anything else an affair of style; that beauty of beauties so hard to define and so easy to recognize, which makes Ihe girl of no-colored hair, features of indifferent turn, and lines none too perfect, infinitely more attractive than other maids of faultless curves and innumerable strong points not cemented by this magic quality. Style may be defined, for want of something better to express it, as an attractive manner of holding the body, a firm, graceful way of doing things and of moving about. It is the visible sign of inherent power and reserve force. It is the outcome of long, deep breaths and the use of many muscles. The prayer of the New York child, “Lord, make us very stylish,’’ when viewed aright, is recognized as an aspiration based upon sound scientific principles and worthy of universal commendation.

Proper breathing is the first art to cultivate in the pursuit of beauty. The lungs have their own muscular power, and this should be exercised. The chest must be enlarged by full, deep breathing, and not by muscular action from without. Inflate the lungs upward and outward, as if the inflation were about to lift the body off the ground. Hold the shoulders on a line with the hips, and stand so that the lips, chin, chest, and toes come upon one line, the feet being turned out at an angle of sixty degrees. It is wrong to make the bony structure do most of the work in keeping the body upright. The muscles should hold it in position. In walking, keep face and chest well over the advanced foot, and cultivate a free, firm, easy gait, without hard or jarring movements. It is impossible to stand or breathe aright if the feet are pinched. When correct posture and breathing are interfered with, the circulation is impeded, and deleterious substances in the blood tend to make the complexion bad. This is one of the many evils of tight shoes. To be well shod has a marked influence on style. The feet symbolize the body in their way as much as the hands. A clever shoe-maker says that in a well-fitting shoe the human foot feels like a duck’s foot in the mud. It is held firmly in place, but no-where compressed. Nothing can exceed the vulgarity and hygienic wickedness of a shoe that is manifestly too tight. For misery-producing power, hygienically as well as spiritually speaking, perhaps tight boots are without a rival. Next to the search for style pure and simple as a means of health, the care of complexion and the cultivation of the right kind of expression are of great importance. The first is largely a matter of bathing and the general hygiene of the skin, while the second—a good expression—is best secured by the constant preference of higher thoughts over lower ones. This is the essence of intellectual living, and is fortunately within reach of us all.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-139-

THE NEED OF EXERCISE.

INSUFFICIENT exertise causes the muscles to become smaller and softer, less energetic in their contraction, less precise in their action, less capable of endurance, and less powerful in their combined influence. Their non-use may lead to excessive wasting, as seen in the bandaged limb some weeks after a fracture, or even to a change of muscular dements into fat, as has been noticed after certain nerve-injuries. All the organs are influenced by the action of the skeletal muscles. Insufficient action of the voluntary muscles induces feebleness and a tendency to degeneracy in most of the tissues and organs.

This want of tone is shown in the pallor, coldness, dryness, and transparency of the skin; in the want of color of the mucous surfaces; in the dry and lustreless condition of the hair ; in the softness and flabbiness of the flesh; in the inability for sustained moderate exertion; in the ease with which irregular and difficult heart action is induced; in the “shortness of breath” and the quickness of respiratory exhaustion; in the want of appetite and of ability to digest ordinary food; in the torpor of the bowels; in the deficient action of the kidneys; and in the state of the nervous system, characterized by indecision, want of buoyancy, and a feeling of inadequacy to cope with ordinary daily obstacles.

The term “exercise” is usually restricted in the action of the skeletal muscles, but it should include the indirect culture of the nerve centres and other organs by systematic movements. Of the importance to all persons of daily muscular exercise there can be no question. The object of systematic exercise is the development and maintenance of a sound, symmetrical organism.

The daily work of the blacksmith develops and strengthens the muscles of the arms and trunk; and especially the muscles of the right side; the work of the farm laborer calls into the action all the muscles, but some sets proportionately more than others; the drill of the dancer, those of the limbs; the work of the shoemaker, those of the arms; the practice of the boxer, those of the chest and arms, etc. In most cases, certain parts of the system become well or even excessivel}' developed, while other equally important parts lag behind in growth and vigor. The heart and lung development of the blacksmith and laborer, the tipper-extremity-culture of the dancer, the heart, lung, and lower-extrem-itv development of the shoemaker and other persons following a sedentary line of work, are not proportional to those of their best physical parts. As the strength of the cable is only that of its weakest link, so the capabilities of the human body are only those of the weakest part called into action. If there is a one-sided physical development, then will the strong part, in the fulness of its power, tend to call upon the weak part for a sudden, sustained exertion beyond its power. The weak part endeavors, struggles, falters, wavers, breaks, and the whole structure topples, even in its apparent prime. It has been frequently noticed that the muscularly strong man often fails in life’s work, where the weaker yet uniformly developed though perhaps not completely sound man succeeds. Too often the noted boxer, the heavy hitter, the successful oarsman, the celebrated gymnast overtaxes the non-developed

Digitized by tjOOQle
-140-

part, especially the heart and lungs, and in a few months becomes a physical wreck.

The demands of modern life require a uniformly developed, well-consolidated, well balanced organism. It is a sound body, rather than a strong body, that is wanted. It should be the aim to establish such an accordance between heart, lung, muscle, stomach, kidney, and skin as will enable the possessor of the organism to perform the duties of life efficiently, regularly, and without marked physical inconvenience.

WHERE SUMMER PLAYGROUNDS HELP TO MAKE AMERICAN CITIZENS.

0 those who have made themselves acquainted with the work of

vacation schools it may be of interest to know something of the work which is carried out in Brooklyn, N. Y. There the vacation schools and playgrounds were organized three years ago and are maintained largely by the borough school board. When first instituted, the yards of nine public schools were used for playgrounds, last year there were eleven, and this year there are eighteen.

Originally intended as a place where children of the more crowded districts might spend a part of the day in play, free from the dangers and temptations of the street, these playgrounds have also come to serve the purpose of a sort of training field in American patriotism for the children of all nationalities who assemble in them each afternoon of the summer session. The responsible position of supervisor of these summer playgrounds has been successfully held, since the organization of the work, by Mrs. Ada M. Locke, who receives every encouragement from the president, the superintendents, and other members of the school board.

In the games the children are taught first of all by the aid of patriotic games, carefully directed, to love, honor, and respect the flag. There are flag drills, broomstick drills, games of soldier boy, and, at the close of the session, a salute to the flag by all the school, sometimes as many as 500 children taking part at one time in this patriotic exercise.

In each playground there are nine teachers, selected with great care; for their magnetic personality, sympathetic, yet not sentimental natures— their tact, patience, grit, and abundance of common sense have everything to do with the success of the playground. Hobart H. Todd, as director of the games, has such wonderful influence over the children that the unruly ones soon become orderly in their play and give out the best that is in them.

In each playground are marked out courts for basket ball, hand ball, drive ball, and volley' ball, and there are horizontal ladders, balance swings, see-saws, teeter ladders, shuffle boards, ring toss, swings, jumping ropes, and awnings under which the younger children are protected while playing in the sand with little shovels, wheelbarrows, pails, and brooms. Then there are the less active games of crokinole, checkers, archarena, together with puzzles, picture blocks and

Digitized by

Google
-141-

books, and also the raffia and basket work, and the making of scrap books, doll dresses, and aprons. Then games with musical accompaniments, where there is movement of rhythmic nature, and also story telling form other features of entertainment for the young children.

CALISTHENICS.

By FRITZ KRIMMEL.

(Concluded.)

Group III.

1st Exercise.

a)	Sjjfc on floor and cross arms in front......................... 1—4

b)	Pause.......................................................... 5—8

c)	Straddle legs and swing arms s. w............................  9—10

d)	Return to pos. c...........................................   11—12

e)	Repeat c, d................................................   13—32

2nd Exercise.

a)	Lie down on back and lower arms s. w. down (back of hds.

on floor and feet together)..................................... 1—4

b)	Pause.......................................................... 5—8

c)	Bend legs upw. and swing arms upw., hds. closed above face... 9—10

d)	Straighten legs andlower arms backw. down, hds. on floor... 11—12

e)	Return to pos. c............................................  13—14

f)	Return to pos. a............................................. 15—16

g)	Repeat the last 4 movements twice.......................... 1 7—32

3rd Exercise.	s

a)	Rise to squatting pos., hds. on floor.......................... 1—8

b)	Jump to front-leaning, straddle pos........................* 9—10

c)	Return to pos. a............................................. 11—12

d)	Repeat b, c.................................................. 13—32

4th Exercise.

a)	Front-leaning pos., legs together.......................... 1—2

b)	Pause.......................................................... 3—8

c)	V2 turn	left	to	back leaning pos.............................. 9—12

d)	1/2	"	“	“	front	“	“	   13-16

e)	1/2	“	right	“	back	“	“	  17-20

f)	y2	“	“	“	front	“	“	  21-24

g) Rise to fundamental pos. and close ranks.................... 25—32

—In the Amateur Championship Contests of Great Britain American athletes won five first prizes getting everything they went after except the ^-mile run in which Long finished second.

—The International Olympian Games Association was incorporated in Chicago with a capital of $200,000. The incorporators are Volney W. Foster, William R. Harper, and John Barton Payne. Standing committees will be put to work, and details for the construction of the stadium necessary for the international athletic contests will be perfected. It is the intention of the general committee to make the revival of the Grecian games at Chicago in 1903 one of the wonderful things of the new century.

Digitized by t^ooQte
-142-

FRESH AIR FOR SCHOOLS.

AIR is as essential to the products of physical and dependent mental energy as it is to the intensity and brilliancy of a candle flame. The physical energy-of the body is as much the product of the oxidation of carbon within it as the energy of the engine is the product of oxidation in the fires under the boilers. The normal brilliancy of a candle flame is obtained only in the purest air. The engine develops its greatest energy only when its fires are freely fed with air. A withdrawal of oxygen from the air in quantity equal to 1-500 of the volume of the air reduces by 1-20 the luminosity of a candle flame burned within it. The quantity and intensity of vital energy suffer a corresponding, if not an equal or even greater change when protactedly exposed to abnormal atmospheric conditions. The breathing of impoverished air results of necessity in the dulling of the vital fires of the body and of the keen edge of the intellect. It means a weakened body and a dulled mind. A lowered vitality of the body, besides exposing it to an increased liability to communicated, contracted, or constitutional disease, also impairs its effectiveness as a vital mechanism. The aggregate of physical and mental vitality lost through ignorant or indifferent regard, and even culpable disregard of the exact and delicate dependence of the activities of body and mind on the maintenance of a normal, including atmospheric, environment, surpasses all common conception or belief. That air quality is fully as important as food quality in the production of vital energy7 is a conception which has yet to be borne in upon the public, if not the professional, belief and conscience. A rule which may be safely insisted upon for general adoption and application is that pure air should be supplied to enclosures in the maximum quantity tolerable. Only two considerations should be allowed to limit the quantity of air supply: air draughts and bank drafts.

—Of artificial means of attaining physical perfection there are none.

—Muscles can grow only by exercise and by the simple expedient of using them.

—He who would develop the hunter’s keenness of hearing and powers of endurance must lead the hunter’s life.

—The boy who is first to reach the open air beyond the school-house door has probably not an evil future before him; he has at least made a good beginning.

—It may be safely said that that miserable creature, the juvenile sexual hypochondriac, is never to be found among those who are foremost in gymnastic work.

—A well-developed, perfectly proportioned girl who is possessed of normal muscular strength, who can walk naturally, and can carry herself with grace, attracts attention.

—“I would have the disposition of his limbs formed at the same time with his mind. ’Tis not a soul, ’tis not a body we are training, but a man, and we must not divide him.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
-143-

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—Gymnastic Games. Classified by E. A. Arnold, compiled by Annie R. Hughes. Dr. Arnold has undertaken the somewhat difficult but thankful task to classify the gymnastic games os commonly known and practiced. His general classification is as follows:

I.	Without Purpose.

II.	General Imitation.

III.	Sensual Apparatus: a) Sight; b) Hearing; c) Touch.

IV.	Accuracy of Motion.

V.	Steadiness of Motion.

VI.	Accurate Imitation.

VII.	Simple Reaction.

VIII.	Discrimination.

IX.	Judgement.

X.	Organized: a) Low Organization; b) High Organization.

In our next month’s issue we shall reprint Arnold’s Introduction to Games as part of the book to let our readers judge for themselves of the intent and purpose of this meritorious publication.

—Recent Advances in Photography. The camera of the amateur photographer is playing an important part in the world of art these days. A delightful phase of its value as a depicter of Nature is shown in The Ladies’ Home Journal. In this issue two pages are given to the last of that magazine’s prize photographs of rural scenes, and the collection is a notable one, interesting alike to the picture-taker and the lover of pictures. Some of these scenes have all the distinguishing qualities of paintings, with the added charm of being true to Nature.

—Home-Grown Flowers. The love of growing things is so universal that in almost every home will be found flower-bearing plants. The successful care of them needs a considerable amount of special knowledge. An expert in such matters is Ward MacLeod, whose writings on the care of plants and whose answers to plant questions appear only in The Delineator. The article deals with the shipping of cut flowers, bulb plants for the winter window garden, and the care of chrysanthemums.	'

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

— The quartet of American expert tennis players: Davis, Ward, Whitman, and Learned should give a good account of themselves in England.

—The Argonaut Boat Club of Toronto is one of the oldest rowing associations in America and it is safe to say that they have a larger sting of victories to their credit than any similar organization.

—The “Smart Set” are still interested in golf and this facinating old game still holds its own. Public links have been laid out in a large number of our cities.

—The interest stimulated in college rowing by the Po’keepsie regatta has put new life into a large number of boat clubs that have been dormant for years.

—Lawn Tennis which is not as costly as Golf, is a game that is still popular with the masses. Tournaments innumerable have been held so the interest does not lag. A promising crop of young experts has been developed this season.

—Champion E. C. Schaeffer of Philadelphia broke several swimming records at Buffalo and won signal honors in the A. A. U. swimming contest. He won the 220-yard handicap, breaking the American record, held by himself, and finished second in the 440-yard handicap, also breaking another of his own records, the best American time for the distance. His time for 220 yards was 2m. 50 4-5s., and for 440 yards 6m. 25 l-5s.

—The reports from the different colleges and school “gridirons” now occupy a very prominent place in the athletic calendar.

Digitized by Google
—Coach Woodruff of the University of Pennsylvania football team, speaks very hopefully of the prospects for this year’s team* This is different from the convictions of the undergraduates, who have been mourning over the outlook. Coach Woodruff says things are not nearly so bad as they might be. The same cry of lack of material was heard in 1896, he said, and a good team was obtained. This year’s team may be a light one, but a good-playing light team is far preferable to a slow heavy one, he says.

—I. Kistler, the University of Pennsylvania swimmer, recently swam from Philadelphia to Chester and back.

—W. W. Coe, Princeton’s famous heavy weight shot putter, made a wonderful record in his recent trip to England. He will be heard from next season.

—The announcing throughout the A. A. U. Meeting was a striking feature, there being five such officials, one for the track events and one each for the field events that were going on, all with good voices, adding the novel feature of announcing the coming of each competitor and also his performance when the time came. This enabled every spectator to keep a detailed score of the events, like the shot and broad jump, that are usually suffered to go on unnoticed. It was pronounced on all sides a feature well worth copying by promoters of athletic sports.

—New stands for the football games at the University of Pennsylvania ate being erected. The main stand will be built on the north side of the field and will have a seating capacity of 11,000. The covered baseball stand on the east side of the field will be torn down and a stand erected that will have a seating capacity of 3500. This will bring the entire seating capacity up to 25,000. A permanent stand at one side of the field will be erected for the cheering body of the university, as a means of encouraging cheering at the games.

A. A. U. GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIPS.

The annual gymnastic championships of the A. A. U. were decided In the Pan-American stadium. These events, seldom witnessed outside of a gymnasium, attracted a large crowd. The contests which were decided by points were close and interesting in nearly every contest.

Following is the summary:

Vaulting horse, rear. John F. Bessinger, New York Turn Verein, first, 39*4 points; A. Heyda, Pastime A. C., New York, second; Emil C. Brendlin, Central Turn Verein, New York, third.

Side horse. John F. Bessinger, New York Turn Verein, first, 41% points; Emil* C. Brendlin, Central Turn Verein, New York, second; Charles Manga, Swiss Turn Verein, Philadelphia.

Horizontal bars. John F. Bessinger, New York Turn Verein, first, 39% points; A. Heyda, Pastime A. C., New York, second; Emil C. Brendlin, Central Turn Verein, third.

Parallel bars. Emil C. Brendlin, Central Turn Verein, New York, first, 28 points; Charles Mang, Swiss, Philadelphia, second; John F. Bessinger, New York Turn Verein, third.

Club swinging. Frederick Metz, Jr., Y. M. C. A., Newark, N. J., first, 41 points; Ralph O. Wilson, Y. M. C. A., Montclair, N. J., second; Joseph D. Harris, Pastime A. C., New York, third.

Flying rings. Paul M. Kempf, Y. M. C. A., Newark, N. J., first, 41% points; F. Kunath, Anchor A. C., Jersey City, second; William E. Scheer,-Knickerbocker A. C., third.

Tumbling. Frank Hamilton, German Y. M. C. A., Buffalo, first, 38% points ; Charles Mang, Swiss Turn Verein, Philadelphia, second. Two competitors.

Rope climbing, 25 feet. F. Kunath, Anchor A. C., Jersey City, first. Time 6 4-5 seconds. William Wedell, Central Y. M. C. A., Buffalo, second; William E. Scheer, Knickerbocker A. C., New York, third. Kunath’s time is a new world’s record for the distance.

All-around standing apparatus for possible 180 points. John F. Bessinger, New York Turn Verein, first, 160% points; Emil C. Brendlin, Central Turn Verein, New York, second; Charles Mang, Philadelphia, third.