Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis,

SOME CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING THE HYGIENE OF EARLY SCHOOL LIFE.*

By JULIUS NOER, M. D., Stoughton, Wis.

THE medical man’s point of view regarding the hygiene and physical regimen of school life often gives rise to misunderstanding and not infrequently to the most unreasonable opposition from the pedagogue. The physician, says the pedagogue, is too materialistic, is too much -occupied with the pathologic side of the child and not infrequently is biased, catering to the hysteric dilettante for the mere sake of humoring the misguided parents.

Under the head of “Mental Fatigue in School” appears, among other propositions of a similar character, the following translation, from -a paper by Prof. Albert Spitzner, Leipzig:

“The propositions generally advanced, that present methods of public education imperil the health of children, is not only applied to certain «vils for which individual teachers or schools are called to account, but directly attack the normal foundation of a school. The censure of physicians docs not refer to the harming of already sick or nervously inclined pupils, but to injury done to mentally and physically normal

* Read at the Fifty-Second Annual Meeting of the American Medical Association, in the Section on Diseases of Children, and approved for publicaticn by the Executive Committee of the Section:	Drs.	H.

E. Tuley, I dwin Rosenthal, and Samuel W. Kelley.

Digitized by

Google
-194-

children, by methods and practices considered normal.” Dr. Pellmann, tersely expressing himself, says, '‘Children work too soon, too much, and badly; that is to say, under unfavorable hygienic conditions.” In interpreting his meaning we are reminded of the long list of studies, the rushing through of courses, the long duration of hourly, daily, and weekly lessons of useless studies, the method of teaching, unscientific in its disregard of the laws of physiology and purely in favor of psychology, the evil of home tasks which rob children of their short periods of recreation, etc. We receive also the practical suggestion of omitting home lessons, instructing by means of observation lessons, instituting a beneficial interchange of physical and mental occupation, etc.

Further on the paper continues: “It may be truthfully said that the judgment of the medical profession on these matters is not based on an actual, exact, and technical examination of the methods employed, but on inference from facts connected with nervous diseases of children.” Psychologic pedagogy must protest against such arguments.

Again, this same report says: “In view of what has been said, the doctrinary foundation upon which the medical profession bases its opinion of psychic and in part physiologic conditions and processes, can not be accepted by teachers who must protect their profession against medicine and its encroachments; that is to say, must place psychologic pathology and pedagogic hygiene and therapeutics in so clear a light that the facts connected with the intellect and the development of chib dren be studied in a manner consistent with their real meaning and pedagogical observation.”

This represents briefly the case of the routine pedagogue versus the physician, as regards the school curriculum and its influence upon the development of the child. We may, by reason of our purely materialistic tendencies, have some ‘difficulty in grasping the exact meaning of pedagogic therapeutics and hygiene, as well as psychologic pathology, but otherwise there is certainly no ambiguity in stating the case.

It is perhaps true that the physician is often too radical, and that occasionally when in doubt, liable to err on the side of physical well being. Occasionally he may also be guilty of humoring the wishes of an hysterical parent. Errors of this sort are a necessary concomitant of the imperfections and shortcomings of human reason and human nature. When, however, we study the basis of such criticisms as have been offered by Hasse, Pellmann, Nathan Oppenheim, Francis Warner, Bow-ditch, J. M. Rice, and others, whose reasons are not based upon inference, but upon the data—possibly yet too meager—furnished by physiologic and anthropometric observations, from data already at our disposal, it is clearly evident, 1, that mental and physical abnormalities exist in school children and, 2, that these abnormalities are always aggravated, if indeed they are not actually produced by pedantic, pseudo-educational methods.

As a matter of fact, the physician’s capability and wisdom in educational matters has always been acknowledged in the most difficult department of education, that of the mentally and physically defective,

i.	e., idiots, imbeciles, the feeble-minded and the defective classes. When, indeed, reason becomes deranged he is called upon to restore it to its

Digitized by LnOOQle
-195-

normal balance, which he often succeeds in doing, not by the administration of medicine, but by the adaptation of wise training and the judicious application of the laws of physical and mental hygiene. It appears, therefore, eminently proper for the physician to interfere in matters relating to school hygiene, even though this may involve the criticism of the curriculum and also some of the more absurd conclusions of psychologic pedagogy.

Very briefly and imperfeetly epitomized, the general import of the medical protest against the prevailing public educational methods may be summarized as follows:

1.	We insist that there is no evidence by which educational values can be determined, except shrough the study of material manifestations transmitted through the nervous system. Thought and mind are immaterial, but we have no way of'measuring, or estimating the value or extent of their action, except through the evidences of material production. For this reason we are forced to study the physical and physiologic changes produced in the body as the result of psychologic activity.

2.	Education produces nothing new in the child; it simply unfolds and brings into intelligible activity the latent forces of the nervous system. Most of' us agree with Prof. H. H. Donaldson, who says, “Education consists in the modification of the central nervous system.”

3.	One of the most important and essential pre-requisites necessary for a good education is good nutrition. Psychologically, mind is immaterial, but physiologically, we are forced to the conclusion that sane thought and vigorous intellectual activity is possible only through the medium of brain cells that are well nourished and physiologically active. It appears, therefore, entirely reasonable and logical to conclude that all educational methods which ignore the physiologic evolution of the child, are faulty and open to criticism, from the physiologic and hygienic standpoint. As a matter of fact, we not only ignore the most obvious requirement of practical hygiene in our school curriculum, but we insist upon a uniformity of educational training which is physiologically as absurd as it is impossible of practical application. “In fact,” says Dr. Nathan Oppenheim, “I know of no harder experience, no more trying ordeals than what a child at this time undergoes. His experiences in the school environment are designed to encourage irritation and waste of nerve and muscle tissue; the circumstance of instruction are useful for deadening, instead of encouraging, a normal standard of intellectual development.”

When we consider how variable is the inherent mental capacity of children, in fact so variable and so difficult to determine that we find it almost impossible to draw a line of demarcation between the normal and the abnormal child; when we consider that this constant variability to respond to educational stimuli, so manifest at all the different stages of development, it becomes evidently absurd to attempt to lay out a uniform system of mental training applicable to all alike, exclusive of pronounced idiots and imbeciles. That this method does injury to a great many children is not only the testimony of physicians, but also of a great many progressive educators and thinkers as well.
-196-

Regarding the influence of school life upon normal, healthy children. Dr. Francis Warner, London, says:

‘‘I do not think that the boy or girl at the older ages of school life, who is free from developmental defects of any kind and shows no abnormal nerve signs or indications of delicacy, i. e., the normal child, is very likely to fall into ill health or a nervous condition if a wisely conducted training at school is continued. Of the 100,000 children that I have examined at schools, 80 percent, of the boys and 84.10 percent, of the girls were normal and not reported as dull mentally. It is, however, far otherwise with the children who have some defect; anemia, nervous disturbances or hysteria may become manifest as adolescence approaches, especially in girls. When such becomes established, particularly if anemia and nerve disturbance occur together, a long period of ill health may result.”

His table of statistics shows, of all cases with developmental defects at all ages, 38.4 per cent, of the girls, and 49.9 per cent, of the boys were mentally dull. Of all dull children, at all ages, 57.6 per cent, boys and 52.6 per cent, girls also presented abnormal nerve signs. This appears to indicate that about 18 per cent, of the children examined have some developmental defect, and that of these defectives 44 per cent, are mentally dull.

It is impossible, by reason of insufficient data, to form a reasonable, accurate estimate of the existing number of defective children which imperatively demand special school training. In Germany and England, where special classes are maintained for defective children, they average about 1 percent, of the school population. Dr. Charles F. Folsotn gives the nhmber of pronounced intellectual idiots and imbeciles as 1 to 650 of population. That we have in our public schools a very large percentage of mentally abnormal and physically defective children who require segregation and special training is evident from the physiologic and anthropometric examinations made in many of our cities.

I have briefly referred to this subject of the dull, the backward, and the defective child, to emphasize the practical value of regular, periodic, physiologic examination of school children. Such examinations would disclose incipient cases, classified by teachers as dull, stupid, backward, disorderly or incorrigible, when in reality the child is the subject of some developmental abnormality, which makes ordinary school work intolerable to hin\. The early discovery of these cases and their segregation for special training is one of the important problems of public school life. Pupils of this character are a drag and a danger to the normal child. I am fully aware of the practical difficulties to be met in a solution of this question; but that these are not insurmountable has been shown by the experience in some of the European countries.

The study of the defective, i. e., the idiot, the feeble-minded, and persons afflicted with sensory aphasia resulting from an injury to the central sensory nerve cells, has made it possible for us to understand in a measure how ideas are built up during the developmental period. The fact that these observations are based upon changes that may be termed pathologic does not diminish their practical value.

The mentally defective represent arrested brain nutrition, partial
-197-

or total, at an early period of development. It was early shown by Dr. < Sequin and others that a partial restoration of the dormant nerve cells of the idiotic brain could be effected by the application of judicious training along the lines of primitive development. The recognition of this principle has done wonders for the idiot, so that he has not only been improved, but even educated and cured. These well-known facts are referred to because they clearly indicate that the early school training of the child is largely a problem of localization of stimuli at different points in the nerve centers. This stimulation, if it is not prolonged to such an extent as to produce fatigue, promotes nutrition and tends to the reproduction of the action after a period of rest.

That we have vastly overrated the intellectual value of this formal training to the child there can be no doubt. That we have carried it to unreasonable extremes and burdened it with artificial, psychologic, and other incomprehensible nonsense is undeniable.

Returning again to the normal child, it is a mere truism, often enough reiterated, to state that our schools should have the benefit of good hygiene, good light, proper heating, ventilation, and seating. Regarding these matters there is general agreement so that improvements in these departments are simply a matter of financial and mechanical detail. When, however, we come to the more vital and difficult problem of the school curriculum and the general methods of training to be adopted in early school life, viz., the number of hours that should be given each day to purely mental tasks, and the age at which school life should begin, there is very general disagreement between the physician and the routine pedagogue.

When we insist upon the fact that well-known physiologic studies show that the child is an exceedingly immature and delicate animal, undergoing important developmental changes having no analogons in the adult; that his plastic tissues and delicate nerve cells are easily warped and injured by long-continued mental or physical efforts; when we report that children have actually been injured by injudicious school work, and that for this and other reasons, we favor shorter hours, more attention to the physical side of the child, more nature study out of doors in contact with actual natural objects, less of text-books and less of the exhaustive rote drill, which simply burdens the memory; when we insist upon these things as a natural outcome of the observations of the laws of the development, we are told that these are questions of psychologic pedagogy, which must be settled by the pedagogues themselves. While it is true that the practical details must be left to the teachers, it does not follow that they are to control absolutely the principles upon which we desire to have our children educated. This would be equivalent to saying that we, as physicians, should have absolute control over the treatment of our patients, irrespective of the consent of the patient and his family. The absurdity of such a proposition is still more apparent when we consider the fact that the pedagogues disagree on both diagnosis and treatment.

As regards the claim that physicians base their criticism upon inference, it can be very easily shown that this is not the fact. As an illustration, I submit the following case:
-198-

O. N. is aged nearly 10 years, at the opening of school, September, 1900. Stature, weight, and development are normal. There are n6 physical defects, unless left-handedness can be so called. He has attended public school since 7 years of age. Mental faculties are good, except a little glow to learn to repeat text from memory. The daily attendance at school from 9 a. m. to 12; and from 1:15 to 4 p. m. At the opening of the school year this boy is in good flesh, with nutrition, sleep, appetite and digestion good, presenting in every way the physical features of a normal, vigorous boy. After some months of school each year he gradually grows thinner, becomes restless, nervous, fidgety and shows dark lines under the eyes. Toward the end of the school year these svmptons increase, the nervousness increases, digestion and nutrition are disturbed. He talks in his sleep, gets out of bed at night, wandering about the room, talking about his examples and his examinations. During the summer vacation, which lasts about three months, the abnormal physical symptoms gradually disappear, physical vigor is restored, the nervousness disappears and sleep becomes quiet and pieceful. This result occurs without medical treatment or change in the environment, except the omission of school work.

Now, is it mere inference when I say that the abnormal physical disturbances in this case are due to the fatigue produced by faulty educational methods? I have at two different periods of three months each taken this boy out of school and placed him under private instruction, with the result that he would accomplish fully as much intellectually in two hour’s instruction per day as he did in six hours at school.

That cases of this sort are of common occurrence is well known to every observant practitioner. That injury is done in these cases is undeniable. That these abnormal consequences of pseudo-educational methods can and must be prevented, without detriment or hindrance to the child’s intellectual development, is unquestionable.

Granted that our diagnosis is correct, rational preventive treatment would appear to be along lines already indicated, namely, the shortening of hours of the primary school to, say, one hour in the forenoon and one hour in the afternoon. If more time is to be taken up at school, it should be devoted to Sloijd or manual training, together with the study of Nature and natural life and its activities, as it exists in the child’s environment.

That this is practically possible, and that the results are exceedingly favorable, has been shown by the experience at Girard College and other similar institutions. The elementary school of the University of Chicago, under Professor John Dewey, is a most excellent demonstration along the same lines.

Regular periodic medical inspection, which should include physiologic and anthropometric examination of the school-children, should be a requirement in all public schools. These examinations would not only furnish valuable physiologic and anthropometric data, but would disclose cases of infections and other communicable diseases. They would also detect mental and physical defects—-stigmata—not readily recognized by parents and teachers. These children with marked mental and physical abnormalities, developmental defects, or stigmata, should be

Digitized by ejOOQle
-199-

segregated for special training. Every town with a school population of from 800 to 1000 will have a sufficient number of children of this sort to fill a room, which should be in charge of a person having the ■exceptional qualifications necessary for success in this kind of work.

DISCUSSION OF PAPERS IN SYMPOSIUM ON SCHOOL HYGIENE.

Dr. C. F. Wahrer, Fort Madison, Iowa—The series of papers on backward •children showed a difference of opinion as to where the line of demarcation is to be placed between backward and normal children, and again between backward and defective children. In one of the papers appears the suggestion that for these backward children special schools should be maintained. This would be placing upon these unfortunate children a stigma which they do not deserve. To take a •child who is pronounced to be backward by a teacher who has not made a special effort to develop the latent mental powers of the child, and place it in such special schools seems to me entirely wrong. The best talent of the teacher should be brought to this work of developing the mental powers. A child may be backward only when forced to go in a direction counter to his natural trend, and prove to be a genius when allowed to develop in his proper direction.

Dr. Shelly, of Kansas—It seems that where a child under 10 or 12 years of age in a country school is brought into contact with a child in a city school it is found that the country child surpasses the city child. If anyone else has made this observation I should like to know it.

Dr. Clifton Scott, Des Moines—I do not think that the observation made by the last speaker is correct. I observed in one school that the country boys •easily became leaders in their classes but that many of the “town” boys did just as well. It was only the boys from the country who had a special ambition to get a good education, and who were earnest in their work that came to the school, and this in itself would explain the difference, as it is not fair to compare these select few from the country with the city as a whole. The reason that Austin Flint was the greatest physiologist in this country was because he had specially good opportunities in early life. Much depends upon these advantages, though I would not have it understood that I believe in crowding studies upon young children. However, the disadvantage from the loss of good, early opportunities can never be overcome.

Dr. Edwin Rosenthal, Philadelphia—In our city we have a wonderful institution, the Girard College. The plan adopted there is to teach the scholar aged from 6 sears upward. Occasionally they meet with children who can not be taught, and all that they have been able to do with these is to make farmers of them.

Dr. James Work, Elkhart, Ind.—We have had papers presented from so many different States that it is evident that the subject commands a very general interest. I infer from this that there must be a widespread defect in our school system, or else that we must be a degenerate race. I am of the opinion that the classification in our schools according to intellect is not carried out sufficiently, hence the studies are not well adapted to the individual needs of the pupils.

I \cas much interested in what Dr. Darnall said about the ill effects of closely-fitting clothing, for, I believe it is a factor of considerable importance. In dressing children it is important to secure equal warmth and equal pressure when selecting their clothing. 1 am satisfied that physicians as a rule are not sufficiently emphatic in impressing upon parents, who have the greatest interest in our sehools, the importance of the pupils attending to the organs of elimination.

These organs are the bowel, skin, kidneys, and lungs. One must expect a child	;

to be dull if it goes to school daily without having had a proper evacuation of the bowel, or if baths are not had two or three times a week. Too, some of us -do not understand the first principles of preparing food for children. The great need in most of our schools is that we have trained mothers at home.

Dr. A. W. Wilmarth, Chippewa Falls, Wis.—Mention has been made of the establishment of schools for backward children. Such schools have been already established in Providence and in Philadelphia. It would be well if teachers could give more time to individual pupils, but this is utterly impossible in the present state of our schools. Some provision must be made for these children.

Digitized by Google
—200-

Dr. B. R, Shurly, Detroit—It seems to me that one remedy is to be found in giving medical advice to the school board. Every such board in our larger citits employs legal counsel, yet, so far as I know, medical advice and supervision in our schools are sadly neglected. Along this line we certainly have work to do which will prove of gteat advantage to children, and particularly to those who are backward.

Dr. W. T. Learned, Fall River, Mass.—1 have been interested in this subject since the rearing of my first bora child without his mother. I followed out the plan then in vogue of giving two waters and one milk, but finding that he did not do well I soon increased the proportion until the whole milk was given, and then the improvement was marked. I made the interval three hours, and the quantity that which the child could digest and be hungry by the time of the next feeding. This resulted in natural development. His school work began between the age of 11 and 12, at which time he weighed about 100 pounds. Field work was made a part of his education, and at the age of 18 he weighed 185 pounds. At the age ot 21 he entered a university to study law, and passed with honor at the end of one, instead of two years. This picture is presented, not to show that there was anything unusual about the boy, but to emphasize what can be done by an entire freedom from cramming and the maintenance of good health. A moderate amount of brain work and the determination to do something constitute in my opinion, the best education that we can give our boys and girls. I am totally opposed to the custom of putting a little one of 3 years in £ kindergarten and keeping him in school until a diploma is presented as evidence of education. It seems to me that there is no greater defect than that of so drilling and perfecting children in tuition that they can get a living without work.

Dr. ]. Noer, Stoughton, Wis.—I wish to emphasize that cases like the one I reported are common. By taking a child out of school and placing him under a private tutor for two hours a day he can accomplish just as much as in six hours at school, while at the same time the nervous symptoms will disappear. I fully concur with Dr. Rosenthal that the method pursued in Girard College is an ideal one. An experiment along the same line is now going on in Chicago, in the Elementary School of the University of Chicago, in charge of Professor John Dewey. It seems to me that this opens up a great field for improvement in the education of young children. I have given this subject considerable attention as a physician and as a member of a school board, and I can not resist the conclusion that there is altogether too much pressure used in conjunction with the early education of the growing child. The physician has a duty to perform in this matter and he ought to use his influence for improvement. He should also be prepared to give an intelligent explanation of the physiologic side of this question to teachers and parents.

—The Effects of Training. Eugene A. Darling studied a number of students under training for football, rowing, etc. A considerable degree of cardiac hypertrophy was found, while the immediate effect of a severe effort like a race is an acute dilatation, which, however, is merely temporary, and becomes less marked with each succeeding effort if the man is in good condition. The hypertrophy is more or less permanent, but is not to be considered an undesirable thing, any more than a corresponding hypertrophy of the biceps. Albumin, casts, and ( red blood corpuscles were found to a considerable amount in the urine passed immediately after hard playing; during training, in six cases out of sixteen albumin was present in small amounts. No ill effects, which could reasonably be attributed to training, were to be discovered nine months after stopping the training.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receiot ©f $4*.00 for 4: new subscribers.
-201-

COL. PARKER’S OPINION IN REGARD TO PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

The following excerpt illustrates the high opinion of Col. Francis W. Parker in regard to physical training. He says:

“It would be perfectly impossible for me to express, in a few words, what I think of the great necessity for physical training throughout all grades of school, from the kindergarten to the university, inclusive.

“The body is the organ of the mind, an organ of reception, an organ of expression, the medim of countless actions and reactions. It may never be known scientifically what a tremendous influence the body and all its organs, every nerve and muscle, vein and artery, exert upon the brain, and consequently upon the development of the intellect.

I have watched many children during their school course; I have had much to do with the training of teacher^ and am ready to say that the majority of teachers who fail, do so because they are lacking in vitality, and that they could have succeeded had their physical training been what it should have been. Most teachers have good intentions, they wish to do well in school; but they have not the physical endurance, the physical ability, to sustain prolonged arduous study and work.

“I am ready to say that thousands of people become enervated, afflicted with chronic diseases, and are early grasped by the grim hand of death, because they do not exercise properly. The best curative I know for nervousness is physical and manual training. There are thousands of children in our schools who are unfitted, by physical weakness of muscle and brain, to give their attention to educative work. They are driven and nagged by teachers to go over ground, to go through books, to be promoted, and to finish, and by the time they finish school, they are physically unable and incapable of doing any good work in this world. There are thousands of teachers in our schools, who could govern and teach far better, if they had physical training every da}' regularly. As it is now, many of these teachers are fatigued, worn out, lose their vitality,. and sink into the lowest of mechanical rut instruction. Both, pupils and teachers, need regular gymnastic exercises as they need food; every artery should be filled with fresh blood, every muscle and every nerve should be invigorated by the proper movements.

“A pupil who is properly training in bodily exercise, should acquire the physical and brain-power of prolonged attention also of persistent and continuous acts of expression—he should sing, speak, draw, and write better and better. In this we find the concentration of physical training upon all other school work, as well as upon all life's duties and pleasures.

“These few lines fail utterly to express my strong belief in physical training. The more I see of good work in the school, the more I believe in it; the more I study psychology, especially physiological psychology, the stronger my belief becomes in physical training.”

—The Boston Skating Club will flood the baseball field of the American Base Ball Club this winter and use it as a skating park.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-202-

PHYSICAL TRAINING OF SCHOOL CHILDREN.

Read before the Lawrence County Medical Society by PERRY WOOLERY, M. D., Heltonville, Ind.

HE members of our profession, and especially those engaged in the

general practice of medicine, have largely to do with the individuals of school age, the school boys and girls representing a large proportion of our communities.

Whatever contributes to their welfare in mind or body appeals at once to our interest. Strong and healthy educated men and women are what the world needs to-day, and the object of this paper is to discuss ways and means of accomplishing this end.

We have to deal with these children through boards of education or private corporations, which in many towns are slow to believe it of any importance to expend money on physical training, but the need of such is apparent. Pupils are*taught words, facts, and figures. Their cerebral centers are engorged with blood and at the expense of bodily growth and development. The teacher wonders why the }roung mind does not show more energy; why it does not grasp and retain, and digest all the mental food. The fact is forgotten or not known that the voluntary muscles contain perhaps one-fourth of the blood, and that through their activity a large proportion of the potential energy of the body is changed into work and heat.

Springtime comes and the pale face indicates the lack of recreation and muscular exertion. Such exertion is needed, not alone to stimulate growth of our muscle, but to set free that energy which stimulates the mind. Therefore, physical exercise properly directed is of vast importance to children. One need but observe the sitting or standing posture of the child, the awkward gait, the difficult breathing when singing or speaking, to appreciate the fact. The better condition we get the muscles of the child, the quicker the response to central nervous stimuli.

What we need to-day is a definite system of physical training, which by gradual and continued exercise will not only develop muscle, but educate the mind to control and co-ordinate the whole muscular system. Dr. Keatling says in his Cyclopedia of Children’s Diseases:	“Every

movement of the body depends as much on the proper co-ordination of the muscles for its accuracy, grace, and force as upon the strength of their contraction.”

During the past four years I have made observations of a number of school children in country districts and was very much impressed with the fact that something was lacking in their development besides the intellectual faculties. I myself have attended country schools for fifteen years, and do not remember but one instance in which gymnastic exercises were taught and enforced by the teacher in charge.

Lack of such physical training is nothing short of criminal from three standpoints, viz.: hygienic, educational, and recreative.

The teacher should be well informed and thoroughly familiar with the human body, and able to examine the pupils and adapt the exercise to their needs.

Too much time is spent to-day in discussing systems and too little in the study of the needs and how to meet them.

Digitized by

Google
-203-

I think each county should have a physical director, a medical man, to visit each school once or twice each month to see that the children * have proper training calculated to develop the body as well as the mind. This plan was adapted and carried out in some parts of New York the last few years and has proven very satisfactory.

The same things can be seen in botany. Some plants thrive better and are more healthy and fragrant that live in sunshine, while others are more beautiful that live without sunshine or fresh air. As a shower of rain is to the growing corn, so is the manual training of the body to the development of the mind.

Great responsibility rests on the family physician in this respect, for many parents look on him as the guardian angel, metaphorically speaking, in the growth and development of the child, physically and mentally. Sad indeed we would be if in any instance we felt that by lack of our proper advice and professional skill we had dwarfed one of these little ones. Let us remember that:

The tissues of their life to be

We weave with colors all our own ;

And in the fields of destiny,

They reap as we have sown.

BASKETBALL CONTESTS in GYMNASIUMS CONDEMNED

At the session of the State Convention of the Y. M. C. A. at Butler, Pa., Joseph N. Thompson, physical director of the Geneva College Association, spoke in “The True Purpose of the Gymnasium.” He advocated the discontinuance of basketball contests, especially with outside organizations. He gave as his reasons the bad moral effect of the monopolizing of the “gym” to develop and amuse a few star players to the detriment of the many.

GYMNASTICS ON THE SICKBED.

During convalescence from infectious disease, and in conditions requiring rest in bed, great benefit may be derived from systematic gymnastics under the physician’s instructions. Convalescence is shortened, and recovery is more complete than without these gymnastics. As a typical example is described the case of an elderly woman, with fatty degeneration, arythmia and edema of the legs. Medical treatment and rest had not alleviated any of the symptoms. Zeehuisen instituted a series of gymnastic movements as she lay in bed; each was performed but once, and with first one leg and then the other, three for the thigh and one for the knee. At first the movements were passive, then active, and then against slight resistance, always in the morning. After two weeks each movement was repeated twice. The success of these measures in the course of two months was remarkable. Pulse, respiration, and skin were normal; after a course of treatment at Bad Nauheim the patient has been completely cured for years and to date. These bed exercises are especially beneficial for bedridden obe.se patients, in certain gynecologic affection?, in gout and particularly in traumatic neuroses.

Digitized by CjOOQle
I

9

—204—

X li T*r„„„	_ _	,	-	Published	Monthly.

ftND B0DY- * FREIDENKER FUBL.SH.NG CO.

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.	Mll-wauvLlcee,	‘Wlacoaa.sln.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee.Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION REVIEW.

______ \

AFTER an intermission of several months the above named publication, the official organ of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, has announced its re-appearance.

Below we reprint the official announcement which is informing the members of the A. A. A. P. E. that a new corps of editors and collaborators have been secured.

We take pleasure in congratulating the A. A. A. P. E. upon the re-appearance of its “Review,, and hope that it will continue as an eminent source of information to the members of this organization.

* *

THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION REVIEW.

At the National Convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, held in New York City in April, 1901, it was voted that the next National Council of the Association should be elected by the New York Physical Education Society. This has been done, and the National Council now stands as follows: Watson L. Savage, M. D., Columbia University, President; Henry Ling Tavlor, M. D., First Vice President; Matilda K. Wallin, M. D., Second Vice President; Jessie H. Bancroft, Secretary; Elizabeth C. MacMartin, Treasurer; Josephine Beiderhase; Jacob Bolin; Luther Gulick, M. D.; Emanuel Haug.

The editorship of the Physical Education Review has passed to Dr. Luther Gulick, of Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, New York. With Dr. Gulick is the following group of associate editors, each one being responsible for the review of the literature of his department from the standpoint of physical training: Thomas H. Balliet, Ph. D., Springfield, Mass., Psychology; Franz Boas, Ph. D., Columbia University, Anthropology and Anthropometry; Maximilian P. E. Gros'zmann, Ph. D., New York City, School Hygiene; Theodore Hough, Ph. D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Physiology ol Exercise; Fred Eugene Leonard, M. D., Oberlin College, History of Physical Training; German Literature ; R. Tait McKenzie, M. D., McGill University, Artistic Anatomy; Henry Ling Taylor, M. D., New York City, Orthopedics;- French Literature; Matilda K. Wallin, M. D., New York City, Swedish Gymnastics and Literature.

Owing to the change in administration, the June and September numbers of the Review have not yet been issued. They will soon go to press and will be mailed promptly, when published, to the members of the Association, to subscribers, and exchanges.

All business communications for the Association or the Review should be sent to Jessie H. Bancroft, Secretary, A. A. A. P. E.,

New York City, Oct. 28, ’01.	80 Joralemon St , Brooklyn, New York City.

JEHT" ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.
-205-

PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Paper read before the Teachers’ Association in Avon, N. Y., by CARL L. SCHRADER.

HYSICAL training, as you well know, is not a recent invention,

indeed, it has a history dating back as far as education itself. Physical training has had its pioneers and its martyrs, it has had its admirers and again its enemies. To go into this history at this time would mean losing sight of the purpose of this paper. In order, however, to demonstrate to you how physical training gradually grew into a science, a few glimpses into its history will be in point. The aim of physical training or educating man physically has been different with different peoples and at different epo'chs although the care for health and strength have probably predominated with all of them. With the Greeks it was preminently the love of beauty of form and of nature that prompted them to give their bodies the most careful attention; not, however, at the expense of their mental development, for invariably they have attained mental preminence also.

According to Grote, the historian, Greece devoted more time to physical training of her youth than to all other branches of education combined, and yet Galton tells us that the Greeks were as much our superiors in intellectual ability, as we are superior to the African negro.

What the Greeks and Romans accomplished with their training of their bodies is sufficiently illustrated in the numerous marble images that they have left as unmistakable evidence. McClaren, an Englishman, very fittingly writes that we have lost as much in physical strength by discontinuing the system of bodily exercises of the Greeks and Romans, as we have gained theoretically through our knowledge of physiological science. True, we have not lost their love for the beautiful because we all admire the statues of ideal man- and womanhood, for, who of us has not at some time or other seen a beautiful man or woman, the sight of which would fill us with a sublime respect, and which unconsciously wakened in us a wish to be formed like him or her?

But with this desire our emotion usually ends. This ideal of mankind is something which must be acquired and earned by personal and individual perseverance. True, during our lifetime all of us cannot hope to reach this goal of perfection, nor can either perhaps the next generation. For, we must not forget that it has taken many generations to lower our physical standard, and we must, therefore, not expect to accomplish it all in one life time, although we may feel justified in believing that it will not take very many generations to acquire better types of man-and womanhood than in the past, because we have Science to aid us in our work. Are we, withal, not a little selfish to give up our efforts with resignation, simply because we can not expect to reach this goal ourselves? It is one of our duties to bestow benefits on those who are some day to figure on this stage of life after we have left it. Holmes jestingly remarked one day:	“In	order to create a perfect human being

we must begin to educate it several generations before.” And so it is. But do we not individually derive all the benefits we could hope for for ourselves? Are health, pleasure of life, buoyancy, and freshness of mind and body provided for our old age of so little value? The ancient

Digitized by

Google
—206—

philosophers well realized this desideratum and made physical training the chief part of educational life. Truisms which are quoted over and over again give ample evidence of the assiduity with which they thought and spoke of the subject.

Plato’s strong words “To train the mind while neglecting the body is to produce cripples” are worthy to be engraven on every school building. A general and gradual decline of physical training took place after the fall of the Greek and Roman nations. Only during the age of chivalry do we find a revival of it, in the form of tournaments with heavy arms, hurling of great weights, etc. The purpose had entirely changed, the training was meant to prepare man for warfare which in those days was the only honorable occupation. Feats of great strength are on record from those days, and the tremendous armours and weapons that are now conspicuous exhibits in museums, give evidence of the physical superiority of these mediaeval knights.

Again in the 14th century, known as the Humanistic age, attempts were made to restore physical training to its proper esteem. But it was left for the Philanthropic age, the 18th century, to awaken the general interest of the common people toward bodily education, and of education in general. All our pioneers in the history of education, Rousseau, Basedow, Froebel, Pestalozzi, and others were imbued with the idea that mind and body must be treated alike. Here then we find entirely different aspirations at work. Physical training takes on a pedagogical aspect. Unfortunately, however, it was encountering several setbacks upon the suspicion that nothing less than revoluntary ideas were impelling the leaders in this movement. Physical training, however, as an educational factor had come to stay, and it spread very rapidly over the continent.

Even though this movement was agitated in this country many years ago, it was for a long time confined to small circles, and although the progress made up to the present day is very gratifying, it is still only a small percentage of people that are enabled to derive any benefits therefrom. Physical education was never of such vital importauce, never so serious a necessity as it is to-day and will be more so to-morrow. Nearly every new invention tends to lessen man’s physical activity; civilization seems almost synonymous with physical degeneration. The prevailing division of labor has so minimized man’s bodily activity or, still worse, so unbalanced it, that each trade or handicraft impresses its mark upon the individual who performs it.

Considering these facts does it not seem logical that steps should be taken to counteract this degenerative tendency? With the remarkable, good results that have been obtained from proper physical training sufficient arguments are on hand that this is our course to pursue, and to do so quick. The attention of the physical directors everywhere is centred upon the schools, and especially the public schools, because like all branches of education, physical education requires sound foundations.

I have, sofar, mainly dwelt upon the evil influence of our daily life in general. Let us consider what school life has done for or against our physical welfare. Our present method of education is being attacked quite severely from different points of view, but, to my tuind, no criticism

Digitized by CjOOQle
-207-

is more just than the one made upon the cramming and drudgery now so common. Statistics furnishes evidence too appalling to be ignored. Permit me to quote here as a fair example of the amount of sickness prevailing among school children a report made by Prof. Axel Key to the Swedish government. He says: “According to my examinations of 15,000 boys in the middle grades, more than one third are ill, or are afflicted with chronic maladies. Short sightedness, which is for the most part induced by overtaxing the eyes in school work and well merits the name of a school disease, rises rapidly in prevalence as you pass from the lower to the higher classes. Thirteen and a half percent qf the boys suffer from habitual headaches, nearly thirteen per cent, are anemic. Other diseases prevailing in the lower classes, decline in the middle grades to rise again in the upper classes. As to the average of illness in the different classes, it appears, that in Stockholm 17 per cent of the children in the first class were ill at the end of the first school year. In the second year the illness curve rose to 37 per cent, and in the fourth class to 40 per cent.

“Among the school girls, the future mothers of the generation to come, investigations instituted in thirty-five schools with three thousand and seventy-two pupils brought out a fearful degree of illness. Sixty-one per cent, of the whole number, all belonging to the well-to-do classes, were ill or afflicted with serious chronic disorders. 3G per cent, were suffering from chlorosis, and as many from habitual headache; at least 10 per cent had spinal disorders, etc.”

Dr Sargent of Harvard adds to this: “Sixty-one per cent made sick in learning how to live! What sadder commentary could be made upon our present school system ? It would be surprising if such a condition of ill health as portrayed by Prof. Key had not forced itself upon the attention of the school authorities and obliged them to take measures for improving the physical status of the school children.”

Investigations of this nature happily tended very materially to pave the way for a rational system of physical care for our young. If for a moment we stop to think, how sudden the change is for a child when entering school after having enjoyed perfect liberty and obeying now only under restraint the demands and hygienic or rather unhygienic conditions, one need not wonder why in a year’s time certain symptoms of disease begin to manifest themselves. WTith school life we begin to gradually destroy the innate impulse to move. On the one side we suffer from overtaxation of a onesided mental and nervous activity and on the other from showering a lot of “doubts” upon them and suppressing every desire of bodily activity. The twisting, kicking, and wriggling of the child on its uncomfortable seat is nature’s danger signal and ought to be heeded.

This restlessness is most evident during the first year, less so in the second, and it gradually diminishes as the child advances in years. It decreases as the power of attention increases. Teachers all know, or at least ought to know, that a child can concentrate its attention but a very short while at a time. (Ribot, the French psychologist, treats this faculty of attention very minutely.) If this is true—and it will hardly be contradicted—it becomes necessary for the teacher to know how to

Digitized by CjOOQle
-208-

titilize this need of physical mobility in the child, instead of suppressing it.

Nature endowed man from childhood up with this untiring impulse for activity, necessaiy for the development of strength as well as for the prevention of one-sided or sickly conditions. It is the teacher’s office to awaken and keep alive this natural craving for motion, the manifestation of which has never yet been stamped out in any healthy boy or girl, lest it grow weaker as the years go on.

Here, then, is the foundation for a well regulated system of physical training which must find place in the daily program of the school. The mistake is frequently made to use the recesses for this purpose. It is a grave mistake although the intention may be the very best. Part of every gymnastic lesson or even the whole of it may be play; still it would constitute an organized class exercise, whereas recesses should be reserved for physical relaxation, and no restraint should be put upon the children within the limit of decency. But so long as the teachers are sent out from our normal schools without any training in this direction, so long must we rely on their good judgment to direct at least some exercises which will tend to meet this demand of children’s nature. True, this is an addition to the already heavy burden of the teacher. But is not he or she, perhaps, as much in need of some invigorating exercises? 0, indeed! Who of you has not found himself or herself in a morbid condition during the recitations which made you disagreeable to your pupils? Perform some exercises with them and do ‘them better than the pupils. In case of a game take a hand in it yourself and let them feel that you are one of them. Do not enforce the the rigor of the class room. The results of such exercises will fully repay you in the class room. Those of you who have already tried this phase will bear me out in my statement. The fact that were physical training has ever been introduced it hardly ever has been dropped again, will also corroborate my claims.

The unfolding of the mind must go on harmoniously with that of the body; the one must not be developed at the expense of the other. As long as the child is permitted to ramble about, to run and jump, and climb at its heart’s content, so long need but little attention be given to the bodily welfare; but as soon as this liberty is stamped out the question of physical welfare becomes a vital one. The period of childhood is preeminently marked by a remarkable growth in structure. Circulation and respiration are called upon to enhance the assimilation of food sp as to restore the wear and tear of the body and make for growth besides.

These two functions can only be regulated by. muscular activity, and the craving for this activity is supreme in every child. But instead of aiding nature to do its best, we have refused to recognize this fact; we have ignored the physical side of education and retarded where we ought to have promoted it.

The kind of exercise best adapted to assist iu increasing these functions are the general exercises, those which bring into play large groups of musles. Of the general exercises again there is none that can take the place of running games. Where, however, games can not be played a well-prepared set of exercises will do much to stimulate both circulation and respiration. Exercises as well as games must progress with the age and development of the child, not only because the child tires of performing the same thing on every stage of development, but mainly because the demand for, and purpose of, exercises changes with the advance of years. Wherever it is possible, the exercises should be given outdoors in order to obtain the very best results. But in most cases it will be found necessary to remain in the school-room. We must, then, endeavor to come

Digitized by LaOOQle
-209-

as close to the outdoor effects as possible, by providing plenty of fresh air, keeping the windows open during the entire exercises. You need not fear that any of your children will catch cold as long as they are active. But exercises are better undone, than to be performed in rooms, where the air is vitiated.

Thus far I have credited physical training only with the promotion of health or the hygienic effects, and it is these which will appeal more to the general public, while the educational aspect can as yet only find due appreciation on the part of the teaching profession. Physical training is a neuro-muscular process. It requires the nervous system to initiate any movement, while again the central nervous system finds expression only through muscular manifestation. We distinguish on the brain cortex a particular area, the function of which is to direct and control all movements. We speak of this as the motor area. All claims and requirements which are made upon, or for, the other centres of the brain and are necessary for development, are certainly applicable to this, the motor area. The brain is spoken of as being plastic during early life, and it gradually hardens as age advances. This hardening process is perceptible even after the age of twenty.

Upon this ground Prof. James of Harvard has formulated the following statement : “Outside of their business the ideas gained by men before the age of twenty-five are practically the only ideas they shall have in their lives; they cannot add anything new. Disinterested curiosity is past; the mental grooves and channels are set, the power of accumulation is gone.”

We have innumerable illustrations hereof in our daily life. We see students advanced in years struggle earnestly wjth subjects, which the younger ones master without perceptible effort, and the greater the difference in age, the greater will be the difference in acquisition. Just so it is in physical training. Simple exercises performed by the children with the greatest ease and grace cause the older students, who begin this work late in life, great difficulty and make them move most awkwardly. The power of coordination has not been developed, the motor centres have not received the proper training and, having never acquired elasticity, are stubborn in acquiring new impressions. This lack of coordination and this awkwardness is very frequently accompanied by embarrassment, which oppresses the older students when they are unable to perform even some of the simplest arm or leg exercises. It is for this reason that physical training is not generally as popular in the higher institutions of learning as it should be. If the students of normal schools and colleges had passed through the preliminary physical work in their early school life and could have received the instruction in physical training which belongs to that stage of life, it would be the most popular department in any school, without calling to aid the many artificial means now almost indispensable. Imagine a student entering a normal school, never having learned arithmetic or algebra and then led into a class of geometry or trigonometry, and you will notice in him the very same conduct and sentiment.

This will make plain that in order to develop this power of coordination and to educate the motor centres, it becomes necessary to commence and continue physical education simultaneously with the other branches. In physical training as little as in any other branch can there be set an arbritary limit. As I have stated above, there is in this training a rational and continued progression which will suit age as well as sex.

I must not close this address to you without having mentioned the influence which physical training' has upon the moral making of man. We know that morality premises will-power. We also know that we perform no movement without will-power, unless it be reflex. Vice versa we cannot manifest will-power without movement. If then we desire to create and cultivate will-power in order to form proper habits of action, we are again directed to the plastic age when the mind, figuratively, is wax to receive and marble to retain. Soundness of character and noble morality are the results of the accumulated impressions of juvenile life. It is as easy to acquire a good, as it is to acquire a bad habit. Physical training properly conducted offers here an opportunity which can not be overestimated. The relationship of the individual to the class is the product of an education very different from all other school work. All of the exercises are simultaneously performed by a class so that it requires a certaiu effort on the

Digitized by v^ooQle
-210-

part of every individual pupil to keep time. The child thus soon realizes that it is a part of a whole' and that it would make a mark of itself by failing to do well. It feels responsibility for the class, so to say, considers it a duty to his fellow pupils to do well. The children early take pride in their performance and it only requires good judgment on the part of the teacher to keep up this moral aspect and build on it.

No other work in school-life calls for a greater sense of subordination to a superior purpose than does physical training. The teacher issues his commands, and the children all respond, and that promptly, if the command given stimulates such response. An order given timidly will, as a rule, bring out a timid response. Tlje respect for authority, a quality which unfortunately is lacking very markedly in most children, is hereby being promoted in a striking manner. Furthermore, physical training teaches the child to do, and, what is more, to do well; it promotes self-confidence of being able to do; it awakens a consciousness of the child’s own resources, a reliability on self which grows with the individual. This self-confident attitude in rest and motion is necessarily founded upon a pure motive, and this motive is a safeguard against vice. I venture to say that physical training, of which athletic is a part, has done more toward the solving of the temperance question than all the preaching in the land taken together. The young men of schools and colleges who take part in athletics, and happily the numbers are swelling rapidly, learn early that physical training and intemperance do not agree together. Athletes, being instructed in the former properly, are timely led into proper channels; they are made conscious of their worth; they have been morally strengthened and become temperate in habit. If any argument was necesssary to prove the value of physical training in moral education, I need but refer you to the different reformatories of this country where physical training has been introduced and applied for this very purpose and—be it said—with remarkable success. If then this training has been found to be the means of curing morally diseased minds, what better method could we wish for to direct the moral training of the young and to bring up men and women with sound bodies as dwelling for sound minds ?

As I have stated above, it rests with the public school teacher to further this cause, to encourage this movement. It is only a question of time when all States will have taken action upon this question, many having done so already. But why wait for that ? The sooner we sow, the sooner can we harvest. The general sentiment in a community is often against this movement as long as the people are ignorant of the subject. With the greatest confidence some parents take ie upon themselves to legislate for Nature’s physical demands. Very justly one of the great educators remarks that the pride of Science is humble when compared with the pride of Ignorance. As little as we listen to some parents’ objections against reading, arithmetic, or writing, as little should their objections count in the matter of physical training.

In closing my paper let me cite a few lines of no less an authority than Herbert Spencer:

“Perhaps nothing will so much hasten th^ time when body and mind will both be adequately cared for, as a diffusion of the belief that the preservation of health is a duty. Few seem conscious that there is such a thing as physical morality. Men’s habitual words and acts imply the idea that they are at liberty to treat their bodies as they please. Disorders, entailed by disobedience to Nature’s dictates, they regard simply as grievances, not as the effects of a conduct more or less flagitious. Though the evil consequences inflicted on their dependents and on future generations are often as great as those caused by crime. The fact is that all breaches of the laws of health are physical sins. When this is generally seen, then, and perhaps not till then, will physical training of the young receive all the attention it deserves.”

—Field-Day at the Western College, Oxford, Ohio, occurred on Nov. 13, the events included quarter-mile and half-mile runs, marching, races of various kinds, a tennis tournament, and games of basket-ball, curtain-ball, and battle-ball. The unusually large number of sunny days this autumn has afforded a rare opportunity for out-of-door work on the athletic field and the college golf links.
—211—

THE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF SCHOOL TEACHERS.

A year ago the Chicago Board of Education, on the instigation of Dr. W. S. Christopher, a member of the Board at the time, adopted the plan of requiring all candidates for entrance to the Chicago Normal School, maintained by that Board, to pass a physical examination at the hands of a board of medical examiners, appointed and paid by the Board. As a result of one year’s trial it is asserted by those who are in a position to know, that the physical improvement among the candidates is noticeable and fully bears out th‘e claims made by those who proposed the innovation. As one of the examining physicians puts it; “It shows that m one short year the effect of the plan has been to arouse the young women to the necessity of care for their health. Knowing that this examination was coming, these girls have taken care of themselves. They have had soup for lunch instead of a few cookies. They have not dieted, as they used to, on slate pencils and pickles.” The advisability of employing as teachers only those who are in good physical condition is certainly recognized by all physicians. And this year the Board has extended the examination to graduates of the Normal School, and all others applying for certificates to teach in the Chicago schools. The teacher who is suffering, weak, or afflicted with any bodily ailment that lowers the tone of the system will become nervous, peevish, irritable and impatient, in spite of all efforts to avoid it, which is the very opposite to the condition one should be in who has under her control the young and impressionable. In providing for the qualification of women who have to assume the important work of molding the plastic minds of children, small attention has been given to the physical condition, and yet it is much more important than many of the literary qualifications that are required, especially when we consider that patience, forbearance, leniency, and a cheerful disposition are so essential in a schoolroom. But the application of a physical test to all young women who desire to teach, granting certificates only to those who can pass such a test, would be a blessing to them also. Many a woman has been made a permanent physical wreck in the school-room, usually because physical defects existed when she entered. For the sake of the future of both the teacher and of the children let the first qualification required of the former be a healthy body:

ATHLETICISM AND LONGEVITY.

The point as to whether athletics, as carried on in colleges, is conducive to long life is a somewhat open question. Dr. James M. Whiton, a graduate of Yale in the class of 1853, tells the tale, in the Boston Courier, of the first Harvard-Yale rowing regatta, and presents some instructive figures bearing on the matter. He writes as follows; “It is noteworthy that, at the end of nearly forty-nine years, nearly one-half nre still living—20 of 41, or 48.78 per cent. Of the 27 who rowed the race, 15 survice, or 55.55 percent. But in the Yale Class of’53, though this included, as President Woolsey pertinently remarked, ‘a great many boys,’ only 50 now survive v)f 108, or 46.29 per cent.; of the Harvard

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-212-

Class of ‘53, but 40 of 90 survive, or 44.44 per cent.,, These facts would seem to show that the practice of athletics does not shorten life, but at the same time it must be borne in mind that in those days sport was not carried to excess. It was pursued more for the fun of the thing, and not, as nowadays, as a very serious business, one almost of life or death. Training in colleges in America is at the present time abused, the result being in many cases a breakdown of the nervous and physical organization, not unfrequently ending in death.

SYSTEMATIC EXERCISE FOR THE TREATMENT OF THE FEEBLE-MINDED.

In taking up the subject of the development of children who are below par mentally, there is no question but that the physical condition of the child has been deemed of too little importance, and his physical development has been more or less neglected until recent years by his caretakers. In the use of the term “feeble-minded” the writer means to include not merely persons who are regarded as imbeciles, but also children who are lacking in some great sense, such as “eye-sight” or “ear-sight.” He was struck some years ago, on visiting a large institution for the blind, how deplorable the physical condition of tfye children seemed to be and on inquiry he found that as yet but little was being done for them in these institutions along this line. In this case it was not due to the lack of thought or ability of the physicians visiting the institution or of the instructors in charge, but to the prejudice of the managers, who regarded the introduction of a gymnasium and systematized exercise for the blind as a “fad.” Of course, in the blind, many of the causes which produce this condition produce also ill health, undoubtedly, in many casts; the mere fact of being blind, of being unable to work to the fullest extent, or play to the fullest extent, has a depressing influence upon the physical condition, and therefore probably in all institutions for the blind the physical, condition of the students is very far below the average.

This has been recognized on all sides now by managers of these institutions and the results already obtained warrant the further extension of gymnastic methods among this class of people.

In the feeble-minded themselves there is no doubt that the use of specially directed gymnastic exercises will help this class of patients. Imbeciles can be made, without much effort, to imitate proper calisthemc movements without trouble, and the results will speedily appear. Drs. Taylor and Pearce have recently pointed out that organic vascular heart disease is a very large etiological factor in the production of imbecility, and they believe that many of the higher grade cases can be bettered by attention being paid to therapeusis of the cardio-vascular disorders of imbeciles. The use of carefully watched exercise could be included in these measures, and there is no doubt but that much can be done in the future for these unfortunate cases which the laity and the majority of physicians are at present willing should remain as they are.

Digitized by CjOOQie
-213-

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—It may be interesting to our readers that the pupil of the Rigidity-system professor, mentioned in the editorial of our last issue, has discontinued his training according to the professor’s prescriptions—the novelty having worn off—and is now retailing the lessons to his friends in order to reimburse himself—with a vengeance.

—Prof. Otto Mauthe, of the Dayton (0.) Turngemeinde, gave a public exhibition of gymnastics with all of his large classes. The program is unusually interesting.

—Prof. W. Fleck is touring in the South in the interest of the North American Gymnastic Union, establishing new societies. In this undertaking he has been very successfully so far.

—December is the month of the meetings of the different state-teachers’ societies. We shall cheerfully send sample copies of “Mind and Body” upon application.

—A number of interested people are endeavoring to collect a list of donors to gymnasiums, buildings, or equipment, baths, athletic field’s, etc., whether in Turner circles or not. It should include gifts to Athletic Clubs, Y. M. C. A’s., colleges, churches, clubs, etc. Will not the readers of “Mind and Body’’ assist in looking up such instances and reporting them to the editor? This list will be published when a sufficiently large number has been received.

ATHLETICS AND ITS RELATION TO NATIONS.

Herbert S. Duncombe, vice-president of the Chicago Athletic Association, in a well-worded speech voiced the sentiment of all true athletes. He said, in part:

“The history of the rise and fall of great nations ist the history of the pastime pf its citizens. For an undisputed illustration we must but turn to the Olympian games of ancient Greece. Probably no institution -exercised a greater influence in molding the national character and producing the unique type of physical and intellectual beauty, which we see reflected in Greek art and literature, than the public contests of •Greece. For them each youth was trained for months in the gymnasium, -and the games, which at first were of no more importance than a village bout, grew in time to be the high feast to which every Greek gathered, from the mountain fastness of Thessaly to the remotest colonies of Marseilles. Statesmen and philosophers gathered to witness the triumph of him who was strongest in the arena or swiftest in the race, and bent their backs and bowed their heads while the successful athlete was crowned with the wreath of everlasting glory, which was to win him a place among his nation’s great, in the grove of Altis. We may honor the bard, the orator, the statesman, and the philosopher of the Greeks, but we must place side by side with him their most reverenced athlete.”

—Balliet of Princeton is coaching the Purdue (Ind.) University football “team this season.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-214-

MILD FOOTBALL MEETS A REBUFF.

Scholastic football found scores of supporters among the 500 principals of schools, cooperating with the University of Chicago at the Fifteenth Educational Conference held on Nov. 8f at the University. The executive council voted to encourage athletics under association control, and on the recommendation of a committee declined to consider the substitution of a milder contest for football.

Directly opposite views to those recommended at last year’s conference were taken in two instances. A general separation of high school and academy students in classes according to scholarship, which was deemed advisable at the meeting a year ago, met with scant favor with the deans and principals at the session mentioned, and by an almost unanimous vote the plan was declared impracticable. An increase of the work in general history was urged instead of an amendment of one course to make way for another, as was planned last year.

“Association football, where the ball is kicked and not carried, can no more be substituted for American football than pink tea can replace the ham and eggs of the workingman,” said Principal James E. Armstrong of the Englewood High School. “There seems to be little probability of change in the rules that ate governing football. We can urge the playing of the game inside closed grounds that all players will get fair play without interference from spectators, and we may insist that the players in schools live up to the rules of the Illinois High School Athletic Association, which was formed last spring, but there appears little prospect of any radical change in the game for the present.

“In so far as moral degeneracy is apt to result among students by reason of profanity on the athletic fields, and the betting by those who do not partake in the games, I do not see that the pupils stand in any more danger from football than they do in their society and fraternity life and in the college dmccs. It is unfair to call athletics to task when there are other things in student life which offer equal possibilities for bad effects.”

The report of the committee headed by Mr. Armstrong, which dealt with athletic problems, was accepted without a dissenting vote.

Resolutions were passed by the executive body which concurred in the suggestions made by Superintendent Cooley for the public schools of Chicago that each player should have a physician’s certificate and the consent of parents, and that each should maintain a passing grade in full school work.

It was also resolved that football should be discouraged, except when played under the rules of State scholastic athletic associations.

The plan to separate students into classes on the basis of scholarship, submitted by J. 0. Leslie of the Ottawa High School, met numerous objections and was deleated for the present.

“Where classes are large enough in high schools three sections might be made on a bans of scholarship, and after two months of school a second classification might be made,” said Mr. Leslie. “The section of slower students might be met by the instructors, who could go over lessons in advance and ease possible difficulties.”

“Such a plan as this, if put into effect, would make bright pupils conceited and dull ones hopeless,” objected Principal Thompson of Galesburg.

A paper upholding the merits of the quarter system in secondary schools, in place of the semester, was read by Supei intendent J. Stanley Brown of Joliet Township High School.

FOOTBALL PLAY ? WAR, DECLARES OPIE READ.

Marshall Field was the scene of wildest enthusiasm. College yells, megaphoned and yelled withouih the aid of invention ; yells hoarse and yells shrill—roar, hoot, groan, squeak, raised a din that would have frightened to the bush a tribe of Choctaws. For the fourteenth time within a period of nine years, Chicago and Northwestern met in a contest of strength and agility, and the game was close enough to send waves of enthusiasm from first one side to the other and then back again with a wild dash like a breaker from an impetuous sea.

It was a day for strength, for youth, and age had to take its chances. One old fellow, who, thirty years ago had his nose broken with a shinny stick, but was still sportive enough to rush into a crowd of howlers, was knocked down. He scrambled to his feet, apologized for being weak, waved his hat, and shouted for his side.

It was a time to look unmoved upon black and blue flesh. Breathless a player lay upon the ground and they were sponging his face. “Why doesn’t he get up?” said an athletic girl. “He oughtn’t to let a little thing like that knock him out.”

Evanston was wild. Decorated with purple, with a brass band and a thousand rooters,

Digitized by v^.ooole
-215-

the representatives of that classic town flew up frantic from their seats when a Northwestern man seized the ball, turned’the flank of the enemy, and made a touchdown. The band snorted “A Hot Time,” and aVild-eyed man who carried a skull on a pole lowered his emblem of mortality and boxed its bony jaws. The Maroon side was silent. The slim youth who led the “rah, rah” orchestra wiped his brow, and with his eyes fired both barrels of his contempt at the purple. But a ftw moments later, when Chicago scored a point, he beat time for a pandemonium.

Colonel Bill J. Weatherby of Lexington, Ky., here to attend the horse show^sat calmly looking for the first time upon a game of football “If they haven't killed that fellow, then I never saw a dead man,” he said after a whirlwind of Maroon and Purple. “Oh, they needn’t sponge him. Blamed, if I don’t believe they’ve stabbed him. No, sir, he’s getting up, and he’s going to play again. Play ! Why, if that ain’t fighting, I never saw any and I went through a feud. Why wouldn’t it be a good idea to send these fellows up into the mountains whenever a feud breaks out and stamp it into the ground ?”

“Ah, that was a nice interference,** a man remarked, and the Colonel looked around to him. “Interference ! Do you call it merely an interference when one man knocks another down and then throws all his neighbors pn top of him ? Would you call it an interference if a bull should tread your countenance into the landscape ?”

Then came a desperate scuffling, a tug, an auger twist and another player was stretched our upon his back. Chicago was nearly wild, for the ball was almost home. The leader of the pandemonium orchestra beat a furions gallop, h'vanston was wavy, silent and anxious, but the purple snatched the ball out of the very jaws of the goal, and then among the up-lake classics a storm arose. The leader of the Chicago orchestra lapsed into momentary inactivity and the members of his sangerfest rested their lungs.

Then came the cessation of hostilities between the two halves of the war, with Northwestern six and Chicago nothing. Out came the Evanston band of enthusiasts, a procession, with the skull man carrying his poison bottle label high above his head. The Northwestern band played a gallopade and the Chicago puffers of brass grunted a soulless and belated threnody.

“Well, sir,” said the Golonel, “no wonder that the American boys can whip the world. You can’t kill ’em, or at least they refuse to stay dead. I have seen six killed to-day—killed apparently as dead as any man that .ever fell after a county convention in the mountain*, and I’ll be hanged if they ain’t as lively as kittens in a bed of catnip.

“But to be serious, of course, they will die >n a day or two. It’s the excitement that keeps ihem alive now. When a man’s exited its difficult for him to realize that he is dead. Down town in a museum I saw some iron c’othes that folks used to wear about a thousand years ago, and if I were going to play this game I’d ng me up a suit.”

When the armistice was at an end the battle was resumed with an increase of fire and with a vigor astonishing to behold. Chicago began to improve, and at the conclusion of a kick, which a young woman declared was full of poetry, the “pandemoniums” broke out in fury. The Colonel took off his hat and bowed to the multitude.

“They are doing good work now,” he said. “As I am a guest of this town, I should like to see my side win. I am soiry my old friend Jack Chinn isn’t here. .Why, sir, nothing cold keep him from moving that ball where he wanted it. You know they even say that recently moved a pole at a race track.”

The game ended with a score of five for Chicago, one short of a tie, but far short of a victorv.

Evanston crowded the trains and went home howling.—Chicago American.

—The November Delineator. A seasonable atmosphere rises from the various useful and valuable features of the November Delineator. The styles shown are those for early Winter; the dressmaking article tells about the making of coats; the fancy needlework article bears upon Thanksgiving and Christmas gifts; the crocheting articles are those of a Winter character; the gardening article deals with the pruning and the protection of rose trees throughout Winter. Every woman who wishes to get splendid value for expenditure should buy The Delineator for itself. It in turn will help her to economize in household matters at every point.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)
—216—

—The Thanksgiving number of The Ladies’ Home Journal is replete with good fiction and interesting and novel features. It opens appropriately with an article which tells “Where the President’s Tuikey Comes From.” Then there are delightful stories by Hezekiah Butterworth and Laura Spencer Portor, and a new love story, called “Christine,” by Frederick M. Smith. Cleveland Moffett has an interesting story about Ira D. Sankey, the great evangelist, and Edith King Swain recounts the famous ascents she has made in various parts of the world. Will Bradley’s original designs for a house begin with the breakfast-room, and Wilson Eyre, Jr., presents plaps for a country-house and a garden. Mr. Bok gives much gpod atdvice to young married couples in his editorial. Another most timely feature is “Why Should a Young Man Support the Church?” by the Rev. Francis E. Clark. Many home-made Christmas gifts are shown, and the first of “The Journal’s Amusing Puzzles” appear. The regular departments are exceptionally good and the illustrations superb. By The Curtis Publishing Company, Philadelphia. One dollar a yeaf; ten cents a copy.

—Physical Training. Supplement to Association Men. Luther Gulick, M. D., Editor. Issued Bimonthly, $1.00 a year. Vol. I, November 19Q1, No. 1.—This new magazine is intended to respond to the desire of the physical directors of the Young Men’s Christian Association for some medium of their own, in which the scientific topics of their work might be discussed, in form of a permanent publication.—Dr. Luther Gulick treats the subject of Gymnastic Therapeutics in the first issues. Considering that we have so few publications on this subject, that open their columns to scientific dissertations, the directors of physical training of the Y. M. C. A.’s must be congratulated upon the new venture.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—The Carlisle Indians have an Esquimau on their football team.

—Football is booming at Cornell this year. The team has one head coach -and 20 assistants.

—Glass, of the Yale football team, is a young giant, being 6 ft. 4 in. tall and weighing 217 lb.

—James E. Sullivan, of the Knickerbocker Athletic Club of New York, continues to hold a strong grip on the presidency of the Metropolitan Association of the Amateur Athletic Union, having recently been elected to that office for the ninth successive time. He has also been elected delegate to the national body of the A. A. U. for the 13th time.

—Squash is steadily growing in popularity as an indoor pastime.

—Cross country running is very popular in and around New York this season.

—The Sportsman’s show will be held in Boston this year in the Mechanics Building.

—Whippet racing is being revived in New Jersey. An attempt was made to popularize the sport here some six years ago, but it petered out on account of lack of interest.

—Charles B. Young is the captain of the Cornell track team.

—Peter O’Connor, the world’s champion broad jumper, has begun training again, having fully recovered from the effects of the injury to his leg which prevented his doing justice to his athletic reputation since he arrived in this country. He sailed for his home in Ireland lately and made his final appearance on this side of the Atlantic at the athletic carnival of the Greater New York Irish Athletic Association, which was held at Celtic Park, Long Island City, on October 13.

—The University of California track team will journey east next spring to meet the teams of the big universities in athletic contests, and also to compete in the intercollegiate games at Mott Haven.

Digitized by Google