

SlSWJ

Vol. 25



aprS^wm.

MIND iffi BODY

A MONTHLY JOURNAL

DEVOTED TO PHYSICAL EDUCATION

New Ulm, Minnesota.

No. 268

CONTENTS

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS:

Some Factors in Human Efficiency, by Alice Ravenhill Playgrounds, an Asset to Public Schools, by Minerva

Stern.....................................

Dehydration of Food................................

A Study of School Recesses, by W. H. Heck.....””...

Mass Athletics at Camp Dix, N. J., by H. J. Norton GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND:

Mass Exercises for the 11th Annual Field Day of the

Philadelphia Public Schools....................

Intercollegiate Athletics and the War..............

Civilization and Deterioration................

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE:

New Food Grains....................................

A State Program for School Health, by Horace Ellis.

Brain Disease .....................................

Attractiveness.....................................

“The Art of Being Well”............................

Exercise and Recreation............................

Work and Worry.....................................

Making Bread With Sea-Water........................

NOTES AND COMMENTS:

Department of Psychology in the Los Angeles Public

Schools.......................................~

A Public School Physical Education Conference at Chicago, 111.............................-............

Extract from the Annual Report of President Benj. Ide

Wheeler, of the University of California.......

Normal College Notes..........................

General Program of the Fifth Annual Conference of the Middle West Society of Physical Education and

Hygiene........................................

Book Review.......... ................ ............

49

54

56

57 66

76

78

80

81

81

84

85 85

85

86 86

87

88

91

92

93

95

Digitized by
SUMMER SESSION

for

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS. PLAYGROUND WORKE RS. COACHES, PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHERS, JULY 1st lo 27th.

Courses offered this year:	Educational	Gymnastics,

Aesthetic and Folk Dancing, Eurythmics, Military maiANAPooi Training, Soccer, Basketball, Indoor Baseball, Playground Work and Games, Philosophy of Physical Education, Scout-craft, Anthropometry and Physical Diagnosis, Personal Hygiene, Sociology. Write for the complete program.

NORMAL COLLEGE of the

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

415	East Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU

OF THE

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

416—419 C5.	(i a it #1., £«blimapolt«, $nt».

••HPVrBNT TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICRR1 AND ASSOCIATIONS FRBF Of C(I A KGli.

Registration is restricted to graduates of the Normal Schoo% J Gymnastics, and of the Noimal College, or Ite North American Gymnastic Union.

iManufacturers of

Playground Balls

of every description for both In and Outdoor use

BASE BALL AND ATHLETIC GOODS BASE BALL UNIFORMS

Send for Sample Book and Catalog

RAWLINGS MANUFACTURING CO.

Cor. 23rd and Lucas Ave.	ST.	LOUIS,	MO.

WANTED—Physical Directors and Athletic Coaches

$800 to $2,500.

There is an urgent war-time demand for Physical Directors and Athletic Coaches. Hundreds of September openings will be listed with us. This may be your opportunity of a lifetime to get exactly what you want. Positions filled in every section of the country. Write us your needs today.

The Specialists’ Educational Bureau

Robert A. Grant, Manager	1016-18	Nicholas	Bldg.,	St. Louis, Mo
EflSRART

MIND ANEPUCCf

Vol. 25.	APRIL,	1918	No.	268

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14. 1916, at the post office at New Ulmt Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

■ »	—	  ■■■	■■	'	'	■»■	■■	■■■	O

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

O — i	i	i.	i	o

SOME FACTORS IN HUMAN EFFICIENCY

ALICE RAVENHILL, Fellow, Royal Sanitary Institute, Late Lecturer on Hygiene, University of London, Kings College for Women

A most important factor in efficiency has been hitherto regrettably obscured by the omission to revise well-intentioned dogmas of the past in the fuller light of later learning. Even now the community at large seems reluctant to accept what the late Sir Francis Galton insisted should animate conduct with all the force of a powerful religious motive, namely, a general realization of the unutilized, inherent capacities in human nature coupled with the noble and patriotic duty of their development thru the multiplication of thriving, gifted families. After fifty years, this teaching is still a closed book to the majority. It behooves the more thoughtful, therefore, to interest the rising generation in the promotion of conditions for themselves and their successors corresponding to those which have contributed in the past to the high standards of achievement among such of our predecessors as were conspicuous for their abilities; who attained to standards of conduct which

Digitized by LjOOQle
50

modem youth must be fired to emulate and surpass. Ignorance is no plea for the disregard of these truths. The factors which characterize the finest quality of human material have been tabulated for our information, based upon evidence collected over many years with all precautions necessary to scientific accuracy. Human nature varies in its grades of capacity over a relatively wide range. A study of the family history of several hundred world-renowed men shows conclusively that power manifested in some form of rare ability in these selected individuals was reflected in a higher general level of attainment among a striking proportion of their relatives in preceding and succeeding generations. And there is a sufficiency of evidence to justify the conclusion that, given favorable conditions plus a good quality of nature, the proportion of such gifted members of any nation is susceptible of great increase.

Unquestionably the representatives of these selected families possessed quite definite characteristics — characteristics which manifested themselves to a greater or less degree in every case passed in review. First and foremost among these comes energy, or fullness of vitality — energy, however, so contro led that its exercise always results in achievement. Next in order comes capacity for keen perception, for accurate observation, for fine distinction in the field of senses. A third distinguishing quality is initiative coupled with industry and associated with perseverance. Then follows a marked power of adaptability to unfamiliar conditions; a love of liberty; an ever-present courtesy, or consideration for others; and always good health over a considerable period of life. Is it not time that our young people were acquainted with these facts? Is it not time that they were trained to trace the connection between, these factors in human efficiency and the responsibility of parenthood? Would not two essential foundations for the goal we have in view be by these means well and truly laid? The public conscience must be awakened to what one writer calls the “holiness of generation,” and equally must it be trained to realize that the purpose of education is the utilization of knowledge for the welfare and advancement of the race.

If this premise be accepted it becomes necessary to re-adjust a prevalent misconception as to the significance of that unpopular and much misunderstood subject, economics. If the history of the word be traced onward from the meaning attached to it by the Greeks to that assigned to it today by a nation most precise and apt in its vocabulary, the French, we shall perceive that, far from being confined solely to the right regulation of house-hold affairs or to the restriction of expenditure, it is now employed to signify the wise and judicious use of all or any of our resources, and covers the intelligent planning and correct arrangement of work to this end. To many minds the thought will be unfamiliar that this word ‘economy’ applies also to the wise and judicious use of human material, and that an important factor in efficiency is such wise arrangement and judicious control of conditions that the highest qualities of nature are the product. Perhaps this
61

aspect of our subject will be more familiar if designated by the name assigned to it by the pioneer of eugenics, who classified under the designation “nurture” the numerous factors under our control by means of which the resources of nature can be quickened into activity. These multiple agencies in vital development may be again subdivided into two main groups: those associated chiefly with environment and those ranked under the head of education. To the first group belong food and cleanliness, air and sleep, conditions of light and warmth, occupation and companionship. To the second is assigned the formation of habits, the development of latent gifts and of the power to use them, the acquirement of experience thru a study of the arts and sciences, and, generally, the adjustment of self to society.

But the following quotation from a recent writer indicates how well-nigh impossible it is to separate successfully and accurately into water-tight compartments these multiple factors in efficiency, interwoven as are nature and nurture by countless intricate threads. He writes:

Education, by which is meant not merely school instruction, but the influence of home and the surrounding society, is not a lea necessary condition of national vigor than wages, sanitary regulations, and the like; the spiritual as well as the physical training of children, the nature of their amusements, the bent of their interests, the character of their aims and ideals at that critical period when the boy or girl is growing into manhood or womanhood — all these are things which conduce directly, as well as indirectly, to the vigor of the race.

So, if nature is to be sound and luxuriant, if nurture is to be intelligent and well adjusted, we find ourselves called upon to cultivate a more intelligent public opinion and to expend the conception of parental responsibility on the one hand, and on the other to extend our own sphere as educators until it embraces the uttermost ramifications of our complex social constitution.

Take, for example, the formation of good habits as one of the most potent factors in human efficiency, indispensable to the harmonious working of the individual mind and body, essential to the happiness of the family group, and influential in the maintenance of the right relations by society. The process must begin at birth and be systematically continued for many succeeding years. It demands of both parents a general acquaintance with the order of development of the physical and mental functions and of the conditions favorable to the acquirement of a sound and balanced nervous system; well nourished, suitably stimulated, and abundantly refreshed by sleep and exercise. Upon such a firm foundation the teacher, skilled in his craft, should be able to superimpose his edifice of physical, mental, and moral training and instruction; but, unless he be assured of parental cooperation, his efforts may be frustrated by needlessly accentuated and detrimental inequalities of growth, nutrition, and consequently of development, in the pupils to whose interests he devotes his powers. Combination of forces is here again an integral factor in achievement. For example, it is an accepted physiological fact that the actual quality
52

of brain tissue is determined before birth; for this our ancestors are responsible. But for control of the bodily functions from early infancy; for opportunity to exercise all the fundamental muscular coordinations; for the habit of prolonged, quiet sleep; for a sound digestion; for the experience acquired by means of ample, free play; for prompt obedience; for courtesy to companions; for a thirst to learn what, why, and how, before school days begin; for all these habits parents are responsible.

On the other hand, for ability to concentrate attention; for training in the correct methods of study; for the spirit of ready cooperation and a respect for the rights and wishes of others; for a sense of obligation to train for effective self-support; for the realization that opportunities for personal advancement carry associated responsibility for public service; all these and many more factors in human efficiency call for the united, sympathetic infleuences and example of heme, school, and community.

Coordination and cooperation are recognized as the keynote of success by those interested in the promotion of efficiency in agriculture, in commerce, and in sport. How much more should they ring out loud and clear to insure corresponding harmony of methods and ideals in the educators, active in home, school, college, workshop, and office.

It is too much to hope that coincidently with these prerequisites to the economical rearing of an efficient race the mutual suspicion may be banished which too commonly prevails among taxpayers, parents, educational and medical experts, and school trustees? I reiterate these facts at the risk of wearying my hearers; for the date at which this active cooperation between the man in the street and the specialist shall merge from the stage of pious aspiration into that of productive practice depends largely upon the teaching profession and its ally, the press.

We all know that human existence rightly regulated could be one of harmonious equilibrium. We all agree with Francis Bacon that “knowledge is first to be acquired and then put in action, in order that the harp of man’s body may be tuned to harmony.” But do we sufficiently impress upon the public, and more especially upon the young public with which we are so closely associated, that it is, as Bacon pointed out, our duty to “gather this excellent dew of knowledge,” because it “is a rich store for the relief of man’s estate”; the word “estate” being employed, as was customary in those days, to include man’s physical condition as well as his personal property. We have gathered a sufficiency of that “dew” to understand that costly disharmonies in our human economy result from a faulty quality of inherited nature; from detrimental conditions before and after birth. We all know the importance of suited food, exercise, rest, occupation, and surroundings. We all know that the body is furnished with a marvelous system of defensive I agents against disease and misuse. We all know the direful effects of neglect, of insufficient training, vocational or otherwise; we all know that even such details as a habitually asymmetrical posture , hampers mental and physical efficiency. But convention, inertia,

Digitized by

Google
53

absence of a health conscience, failure to grasp the responsibility of knowledge, contribute to two disastrous results. Few who possess this knowledge exemplify it by personal practice, perhaps the most potent channel of influence, and few feel it incumbent on them to preach the new gospel to the unlearned at all ages.

In some cases moral, religious, or scientific arguments would carry the most weight; in others, more stress must be laid on the economic aspects of the matter; but to all the light of right knowledge must be brought. It can now be demonstrated to taxpayers, as a result of carefully conducted investigations, that public funds are grievously wasted when schools are ill lighted, poorly ventilated, or inadequately cleaned, because of the detrimental effects upon the pupils. That large classes, long lesson periods, and overworked teachers are the falsest possible economy can also be demonstrated. Or to turn to another far-reaching agency in human efficiency — there is no further excuse for public ignorance of the fact that to permit conditions which encourage the multiplication of the poorest quality of human material, and to accept, without giving careful heed to possible re-adjustment of controlling factors, the steady limitation of families among the most desirable elements in the population is cutting at the very foundations of national stability and progress. Society at large must comprehend the extent of the moral and economic crime which leaves the youth of a nation untrained in a sense of racial responsibility.

The educational expert must come more out into the open and preach his revised conception of his art, which he has permitted too long to be tinctured by mediaeval limitations. It is he who must point out at all times that the end of learning is the betterment of life, not merely personal enjoyment or advancement. He must take a firmer stand on the revision of methods and subject-matter within his province; his appeal to parents and public must be framed on lines which compel their attention. Finally, he must enlist in his support a press which will present facts with becoming gravity and insistent emphasis, so that the national attitude toward the quality of human life and the standard of achievement of each individual unit may become one of individual responsibility — a responsibility based upon a sense of the reverence due to humanity at its best, and characterized by united and vigorous activity in raising the standard of efficiency to levels hitherto unattained, because detrimental, but preventable conditions, sluggishly and most uneconomically condoned have been permitted to interfere with those primary factors, a sound inheritance, good nurture, intelligent education, and a highly developed sense of personal responsibilities, domestic, social, and racial.

Owing to pressure of other work we regret that Mr. Emil Rath was unable to furnish his April installment on “The General Pedagogy of Physical Education.” The series will be resumed, however, in an early number.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
64

PLAYGROUNDS, AN ASSET TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By MINERVA STERN, Philadelphia.

Playground teachers should throw open their grounds for the use of the public school children in some definite way.

One way that met with great success in Philadelphia for several years, was to offer the grounds to the principals and teachers of public schools for league or practice games, in soccer, basket and base ball. But a still greater success came from one teacher's untiring efforts to interest the teachers in her district in co-operating with her in organizing a Girl’s Grammar School Captain Ball League, in which all games were to be played on the playground.

This, I say, proved more successful, because it was extended by the playground with the personal co-operation and help of the playground teacher to such an extent, that it relieved the busy school teacher of responsibilities, such as organizing the league, arranging and providing the schedules, marking the courts for games, etc.

I shall endeavor to explain from practical experience how to organize and conduct such a league and its benefits.

First—Secure the approval and sanction of the Grammar School Athletic League, then write to all grammar schools within your district, inviting them to enter a team in the league.

You will find it hard to interest some schools in entering a team in such a league the first year, for various reasons. It means work after school hours for the teacher in charge; then there are teachers who do not like to venture upon a new proposition, especially where the schools lack play space and the girls are to use the playgrounds for practice; then there are various other difficulties, the school teacher has to overcome, such as, interesting the parents in giving their consent, for some parents have never visited the playground in their district and may not understand that playgrounds are under supervision and only the best behavior is permitted there.

You must expect to get all kinds of excuses from the principals, stating why their school will not be able to enter the league at this time, but do not take the excuses; find some way to have them enter.

One teacher came to me and explained his case; he would like very much to enter a team of girls, but did not see his way clear to do so; their school yard was too small for games;besides the teachers were all busy after school hours with University studies and could not coach the girls, but he felt the school needed just such an event to arouse more school spirit; they belonged to the

G.	S. A. A. but so far their girls had never received any benefit from it.

I at once offered to coach the girls, which pleased the teacher very much; the next day the girls came to the playground to receive their first lesson in Captain Ball.

The interest and progress these girls made, not only in Captain Ball, but in their lessons (for a girl must be in good standing both in lessons and deportment each month to be eligible to play) won the

Digitized by CjOOQLe
55

k admiration of their teachers, and first one teacher, out of curiosity, came to watch the game, then another came, when they realized how much the presence of a teacher inspires the players, the team never again came to the playground, even to practice without one ■ - of the teachers. One teacher brought the girls to the playground nine o'clock Saturday morning to practice for Monday's game. -'	If you are patient and work hard to arouse the interest, you will

^	no doubt gradually secure the help and co-operation of all the

r1 teachers as well as the girls.

Therefore, if out of twenty schools but three or four respond favorably, do not be discouraged, organize your league and arrange a schedule for three or four teams as I did.

Second—Arrange your schedule in such a way that each school will play but one game a week, using the rules and regulations of the G. S. A. League.

Third—Referee all games yourself providing you thoroughly understand all the fine points of the game; if you do not, secure some one who does. I find the same referee for the entire season a great advantage.

i	Of what benefit is a league of this character to the public

schools, when in most cities there already exists such a league under ~r; the auspices of the Athletic Association?

There are many schools without the play space required for team games. In such cases this offers them the use of the play-rw/ ground for their practice at most any time, giving them an op-portunity they never had before.

To the school already entered in the G. S. A. League, an op-/•r portunity is offered to enter a second team in this sectional league. It also creates a good school spirit among the girls in schools where such a spirit is lacking.

A GAME OF CAPTAIN BALL

Digitized by
56

A league of this character is of great benefit to the playground. It brings boys and girls to the playground, who perhaps never visited the ground before; not only does it bring the players out, but the entire school body generally turn out to root for their teams. Interest also extends to the homes of the children and the parents generally come to watch their child play.

Thus you will find your attendance increasing, not only on days when games are scheduled but the boys and girls will enjoy visiting the playgrounds at other times, soon realizing it is their playground.

The above is a picture of the winning team of the fall season 1917, with the silver cup, which was presented to them by the Grammar School Athletic League.

Therefore make more use of the opportunities you have of co-operating with the public school teachers. Put the playground to the general use of the schools in every way possible, for in many cases they are in great need of just such an opportunity and if not immediately, they will gradually avail themselves of your offer.

DEHYDRATION OF FOOD

It would seem that the old fashioned method of drying fruits and vegetables, which became almost obsolete after the rise of the modern canning industry, is again coming into vogue and is being extended to food products not heretofore subjected to this process. Instead of the primitive methods of the household in former days, however, improved, scientific and mechanical methods are being employed and are being adapted not alone to factories, but to the home and the farm, where products over and above present market demands may be dehydrated and placed on the market as required. Considering the large percentage of water in all fruits and vegetable products amenable to dehydration, the saving in bulk and weight is a transportation economy, as well as one of freight costs to the consumer, which is of great importance, under present circumstances. As examples of products not heretofore saved as food, in addition to about all the vegetables and fruits raised on the farm, are beet tops, the outer green leaves of the stalks of celery, fruit on the point of becoming overripe, undersized fruits and vegetables which would otherwise waste, and many other products which will suggest themselves to farmers and gardeners. Practical and efficient apparatus have now been devised to dehydrate all such products cheaply and effectively on the farm. One such apparatus, described in the Scientific American, consists of a series of trays for containing the fruit or vegetables, one tray superposed on the other. The hot air as the agent of dehydration is applied to the bottom tray and passed upward through all the other trays, not passing off until completely sat: urated, thus economizing in the matter of heat. The contents of the lower tray become cured first, when this tray may be removed, I the remaining trays dropped to occupy this space, and another ( tray of fresh product added at the top. The process thus becomes

Digitized by Google
57

a continuous one. In the process of dehydration about 10 per cent of the water is allowed to remain in the products, which prevents their structural disorganization and preserves their flavors and other natural qualities when cooked. The possibilities of the dehydration process in augmenting and making available large quantities of food heretofore not utilized to the best advantage will be apparent.

A STUDY OF SCHOOL RECESSES*

W. H. HECK, Professor of Education, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

This study is based upon notes taken from October, 1915, to December, 1916, during conversations with ten superintendents, 2 principals, and two representative teachers of 41 city, town, or rural schools or school systems in nearly every section of Virginia. Listed as one each in this group of 41 are three counties, eleven cities, and 27 smaller communities, including over 180 elementary and 53 high schools and over 51,000 elementary and 8,000 high-school students. The schools as a whole are probably typical of average conditions in many states.

Recesses are one of the most neglected phases of school management and have received little attention in educational literature, a page of discussion being an unusual amount specifically for this subject. The literature on play tells of some games for these periods but does not deal with the recess problem as a whole. It is earnestly hoped that more interest will soon be shown in recesses, which occupy about one-sixth of the school day and influence the organization and success of the remainder. This large proportion of the child’s school life must be used to the greatest possible advantage and made to serve indispensably in furthering the aims of education.

Although the main points in this study are the uses of the recess, the initial points are (a) the amount and (b) the distribution of recess time in relation to the total school time.

The length of the school day for the different grades has mainly been decided by tradition and is changed almost as slowly as religious dogma. But either scientific justification for, or modification of, present schedules is an extremely difficult question, due to the many contributory problems of school hygiene, personal hygiene, curriculum, methods, fatigue, boredom, home and social conditions. Most administrators change the school day only under pressure from outside, or inside the system; and those using this pressure, on account of some interest not accommodated by the existing schedule, seldom realize the related problems involved. The present report does not deal directly with this question, which will be studied in detail later on, but only indirectly as affecting recesses.

We now come to a summary of actual conditions in the state, as represented by the data collected for the present study.

•From The American School Board Journal.

Digitized by LjOOQle
58

The schedules of grades 1 and 2 are too varied to be combined in single averages. The figures reveal an extreme lack of uniformity.

Each of the grades 3-11 approximates six hours of school, one hour of recess, and five hours of school work. In each, the recess is about seventeen per cent (16.7-17.4) of the total school time; and for each minute of recess there are about 4.8 minutes (4.76-4.90) of school work. The average deviations of the five groups from their group averages of school time are 30, 25, 21, 22, and 23 minutes, respectively, and from their group averages of recess time 15, 14, 16, and 13 minutes. In each group the longest school day is 420 and the longest recess 80 minutes; the shortest school day ranges from 220 to 320 and the shortest recess from ten to thirty minutes.

The general similarity in these schedules is partly explained by the uniformity in the same school or system for grades 3-11, but only in part. The full grammar-school schedule begins with the first grade in five schools or systems, with the second grade in four, the third grade in 16, the fourth grade in five, the fifth in five, and the sixth in four. Only six high schools (five in separate buildings) vary at all from the full grammar-school schedule, and they average twelve minutes less school and eight minutes less recess.

Half-day schedules are not reported for grades beyond the fourth. In the third grade three morning sections average 185 minutes of school and twelve minutes of recess; four afternoon sections average 170 and ten minutes respectively. In the fourth grade two morning sections average 157 minutes of school and twelve minutes of recess; one afternoon section has 120 and ten minutes, respectively.

The distribution of the recess time has little uniformity. Nearly all of the half-day classes in the morning have one recess of ten or fifteen minutes, coming near the center of their schedule but often varying somewhat to coincide with the first recess of the full-session day. The afternoon sessions are shorter and may need less recess, but it is inadvisable to omit this period altogether, even when not included in the full schedule of the school. However, the complaint is often justified that marching in the halls and play on small school grounds disturb the other children at work. This is one phase of a more general problem, that of having recess periods, like arithmetic periods, through the day, especially when the school has much-needed teaching of games, light exercises, etc. By arrangement of rooms and exits for specific classes or divisions, by tiptoe marching in halls, and by use of play space some distance from the school, this difficulty could be met. It is about the only way of getting full use of limited outdoor, or even indoor, playgrounds.

The first recess in a full schedule comes from 10:15 to 11:10, generally at 10:30, and lasts from ten to twenty minutes—ten in 25 schools or systems, fifteen in eleven, and twenty in four. The length of this recess does not vary inversely as the variations in the second, or long, recess. The third recess comes from 1:55

Digitized by C.ooQLe
59

to 2:40, the time varying in relation to the time of dismissal from 3:00 on, and lasts for ten minutes. The first recess is omitted in six high schools, and the third recess in 27 elementary and 32 high schools.

Nearly all the schools have gross recesses, the two or three minutes required to get hats and wraps and to march out being taken from the recess time; but the minutes required to form in line, return to rooms, and settle down to work again are generally taken from the following class period. All recesses of less than fifteen minutes should be net, and the schedule should allow at least five minutes more for getting out and in.

The second recess is the pivot on which the school day turns. The dispute as to the one or two-session day is primarily a matter of this recess. In Europe the period is generally 120 minutes or more and really makes two-sessions, so the discussion of a change to “undivided instruction” is important; but in America the period is generally 60 minutes or less and is really a long recess in a one-session day.

In the schools or systems here studied this recess begins from 11:43 to 1:15, depending (a) on the time of opening school (8:45 to 9:00) and of dismissal (2:15 to 4:00), and (b) on the time for other recesses. The amount of the second recess varies from fifteen to 70 minutes, eight schools having 30 and nineteen having 60 minutes. There are 30 schools or systems with 35 minutes or more, and fourteen with 30 minutes or less, some schools varying from others in the same system.

Where should the line be drawn between a one and a two-session day? It would be arbitrary, tho sometimes convenient, to make 30 minutes the point of demarcation. As will be shown later, the eating of lunch at school or at home is almost universal at this period and cannot be made a distinguishing characteristic. Some city schools, especially high schools, shorten this period, primarily on account of little room for play.

Altogether, it seems best to deal with the problem of this recess as a matter of m'nutes, rather than as a dividing line. If a large percentage of children wish to go home, the time should be made sufficient for the journey and the home meal; if there is space for genuine play for most of the students, the time should be made sufficient for more than tidbit playing; if there is little other opportunity during the day for social recreation, as in many rural schools, the time should be made sufficient for such an essential. In fact, the noon recess can be made the climax of educational opportunities.

Definite relaxation periods between recitations are reported only from two primary schools, tho similar breaks in the routine are probably customary in others. And the change of classes, and especially of rooms, furnishes a little relief for the older children. The German “pauses” of ten or fifteen minutes an hour are more like relaxation periods during change of classes than what American recesses are or ought to be. In addition to these recesses two or more relaxation periods of about five minutes each would well be

Digitized by v^.ooQle
60

worth the time both for the younger and the older children. These little periods could be differently used in the classrooms according to grade and be varied from day to day for the same class, with conversation, singing, marching, games, stories, etc.

Suggested Length of School Day.

It is impossible to make suggestions that would suit all the schools here represented, with their different internal and external conditions. As mentioned before, the amount and distribution of the total school time are influenced by many of these conditions; and, in turn, the amount and distribution of recess time are conditioned by the length of the school day. But the author is led by this knowledge of the general conditions in the schools here represented, which are probably similar to those in other states, to suggest a schedule subject to local modifications. A comparison with the data just given will show that there is nothing radical in this schedule.

Starting with the first grade, the total school time should increase by more or less equal degrees until a school maximum is reached in the grammar grades, preferably the sixth. The prevalent custom of increasing unevenly up to the second, third, or fourth grade and then jumping to a maximum has nothing to commend it. The child makes no corresponding jump in physical or mental growth at this time; the school does not, or certainly should not, have such a sudden increase in instructional requirements; and there is no parallel change in the home and social life of the children. Gradual development of school child, of school requirements, of school time—mutually consistent with each other; this is the desideratum.

The excuse from some rural and semi-rural schools, that the younger children must be kept in school until their older brothers and sisters can go home with them, has only limited application. It has been found in actual practice that most of the younger children get home without difficulty, if they are dismissed early, and that the few remaining at school (especially to wait for school wagons) can play quietly on the school grounds or, in bad weather, can read or amuse themselves quietly in some supervised room. Their teachers and their classrooms can generally be used for departmental instruction of upper-grade divisions and thus relieve the congestion of work therein.

If the school day lasts three hours in the first grade, with children varying around 6 1-2 years of age, and should increase one-half hour each year, it would reach five and one-half hours in the sixth grade, with children varying around 13 years. This increase should not be continued on thru the elementary grades and into the high school, because the strains of puberty and adolescence render the older students unable to bear increased strains of school work and confinement. And the older children can profitably spend more time out of school in preparation or in other educational interests. However, a shorter school day for the high school than for the grammar grades seems an extreme application of this principle; secondary school boys and girls ought to get without strain as much or

Digitized by Google
61

more profit out of the maximum school time. Thruout the school, individual cases of chronic or temporary inability to stay in school without injury for the full time required can be met by special reduction, tho such excuses may easily be abused.

An increase of fifteen minutes each year, or 30 minutes every other year, from the fifth to a maximum of one hour in the eighth grade (the first year in Virginia high schools) could be added to the total school time to allow more preparation of lessons in school under supervision and thus decrease the time for home study. It is to be doubted whether the length of the school day should be thus extended beyond a total of six and one-half hours, even in the high school. Time must be left for the exercise, recreation, home associations, social relations, and individual pursuits of the out-ofschool life.

This paper does not recommend an all-day school, extending until the late afternoon and including many of these out-of-school activities. Altho the schools in some industrial centers and in the comparatively disadvantaged parts of great cities may have to supply to children a home and social life they could not otherwise get, there is at present no evidence that an approach to a modified Spartan barrack system for children is needed in most American urban and rural communities to replace and reduce, rather than increase, home responsibilities in the afternoon.

Suggested Schedule of Recesses.

On the basis of the total school time here mentioned, theoretical calculation of the total recess time could be made. Starting with twenty minutes for the first grade, the recess time could be increased by ten minutes for every half hour of total school time. This would give a maximum of 70 minutes, or 21 per cent, of the five and one-half hours in the sixth and higher grades, one minute of recess being given for every 3.7 minutes of school work. For every fifteen minutes of study added there could be five minutes more of recess, making a maximum of 90 minutes, or 23 per cent, for six and one-half hours and of one minute of recess for every 3.3 minutes of school work. Thruout this schedule the proportion of time devoted to recess becomes larger as the total school time increases. But this theoretical calculation partially fails before the problem of distribution of the recess time in the earlier grades. The increases per grade up thru the sixth would make combined recesses almost impossible and would cause confusion in most schools thru the exit and re-entrance of individual classes thruout the day. However, this difficulty would not apply to the sixth and higher grades with a short recess from 10:40-11:00 and a long recess from 12:30 1:20. Such a schedule would give 1 2-3 hours of school work from the opening of school at 9:00 until the first recess, then 1 1-2 hours until the second recess, and then 1 1-6 hours until dismissed at 2:30—the intervals of work decreasing by ten and twenty minutes, respectively, as the school day advances. Of course, an earlier opening of school would not affect the proportions of this schedule. A compromise for the sake of easy organization could be made in case of the earlier grades by letting the entire school have recess from 10:40-11:00, by

Digitized by CjOOQle
62

dismissing the third grade along with the second at 12:30, and by giving the fourth and fifth grades the recess from 12:30-1:20 and dismissing both at 2:00. With this schedule all recesses would be at the same time and no class would be kept at work when the play of others might cause distraction. If this distraction is not a local problem, the third grade could be held until 1:00 (or 12:45 on account of insufficient previous recess); the fourth grade could be brought in from the second recess at 1:00 and dismissed at 1:30; and the fifth grade could be brought in even at 1:10 and dismissed at 2:00. In case of increased length of school day thru additional study time from the fifth grade up, the second recess could well be given from 12:00 to 12:50 (with rearrangements for lower grades) and a third recess added from 2:10 to 2:25 for the sixth and later grades. The extra 15 minutes of recess would serve as a compromise for the 10-20 minutes suggested.

If a large percentage of the children go home at the second recess for luncheon or dinner, fifteen, or preferably 30, minutes should be added to the suggested allowance of 50 minutes. The additional time should be added to the total school day, without changing the above mentioned intervals of school work, and postpone to that extent the dismissal of the grades concerned. Such an extension could be made temporarily or permanently for purposes of extra play or social recreation.

A great difficulty in all schedules is the length of recitation periods, especially in the high schools with their unit credits for periods of 40 minutes. It would be better to work out first a satisfactory schedule for the school work as a whole and for the recesses, and then try to adapt the periods to this schedule, rather than vice versa as is usually done. These periods ought not to be the same for each grade or for some of the subjects in the same grade; and the fetish of uniform length for high-school periods will be gradually discarded thru various combinations of recitation and study time. Furthermore, there is little valid proof in favor of specific subjects at specific times of the day or in a hard and fast sequence. It does seem probable that some such schedule as is here suggested could be used in many schools without much modification. But the schedule is given primarily as a basis for suggestions from others.

Two Functions of Recesses.

Before discussing the management of recesses, it is well to mention their two main functions. On the basis of tests before and after recess, especially the noon intermission, several German and American students have drawn positive conclusions as to the recuperative value of such pauses; but the technique of some of these researches is open to criticism. There is an almost universal belief that recesses relieve the strain of school work, and this belief seems justified in practice tho with little scientific proof. The relief probably comes more thru a change from the immobility of seat-work, the repression of discipline, and the boredom of instruction than thru a reduction of actual fatigue; and the recuperation is to be sought more in better will to work and better discipline than in the

Digitized by
63

quality or quantity of test results. However, the point of the present study is that the negative tho highly important function of relief is secondary to the positive function of exercise, recreation, and association. Recesses are not merely essential in the daily shedule; they are essential in education. And the real worth of these periods can never be realized thru emphasis upon one of their functions alone.

Keeping-in.

The bad practice of keeping-in at one or more recesses exists in sixteen schools, while 25 schools prohibit or greatly discourage the practice. There are some partially extenuating conditions, as detention for only a small part of the recess, detention of only those who must leave in wagons or for work immediately after school, detention of only those who are disorderly in marching or in play, letting the kept-ins go out for a little while after recess, etc.

However, if the recess is a hygienic and social need, no punishment should deprive the child of his right, not merely privilege, to get the full value of it; if the recess is not such a need, it should not be a part of the daily program. One deprivation may not injure a child, but the practice tends to grow into a habit and is nearly always open to abuse. Furthermore, it is a poor method of discipline, it interferes with flushing the rooms by opening the windows (a hygienic need in most schools), and it generally keeps in a teacher when she ought to be outdoors or, at least, free from responsibility. The author has had confessions from a large number of teachers in his summer-school classes that keeping-in does not generally check disorder or increase diligence. Superintendents and principals often complain that some of their teachers hinder them from prohibiting the practice; but this excuse is hardly valid, as the prohibition should be made and the local faculty then be expected to find other forms of punishment, if really necessary. That other forms have been found successful is daily proved in many schools.

When keeping-in at recess is abolished, it is very seldom reinstated ; in fact, the abolition of keeping-in after school is the natural next step in reform. This does not apply, of course, to an extra study period for students that need some extra instruction in a given subject. Most of the schools included in the present report allow keeping-in after school, tho a few may use this time only for individual instruction and not for punishment. Many set maximum time limits, generally 30 minutes. Detention of students for disorder or neglect seems necessary to the peace and sanity of mind of some teachers, and few schools have the courage to deprive the faculty enitrely of this nervous outlet. In any case, the kept-in child should be given a short recess at the time of dismissal, and then be called in for some truly educative work or personal conference, not for sullen study at, rather than of, some penal task. All children and teachers must be out of the school before a stated time when the janitor takes charge to clean up for the day.

Staying-in.

Should students be allowed to stay in at recess of their own accord during fair weather? Not any more than they should be al-

Digitized by LjOOQle
64

lowed to stay away from a recitation. If they are too unwell to attend the recitation, they ought not to be made to do so; if they are too unwell to attend the recess, they ought not to be made to do so. As has been suggested, the recess belongs to the child as a right, not merely as a privilege; but it also belongs to him as a duty, just as much as his geography or his geometry. It is an obligatory period during the school day. Studying at recess ought to be as reprehensible in discipline as playing in a study period; in fact, its consequence may be more serious, especially when indulged in by just those overstudious boys and girls that need the recess the most. Loafing or gossiping in classroom and hall do give some relaxation and recreation, but they are feeble substitutes for outdoor movement and play. Even those students not vigorous enough, temporarily or chronically, to take part in games are far better strolling, or even standing, in the open air. Small school grounds do not allow much play, but they allow at least some exercise and fun and noise—three essentials of growth. Outdoor recesses change both physical and mental attitudes and tend to neutralize the effect of less natural attitudes in schools. (The rainy-day schedule will be discussed later.)

About half of the schools or systems here studied prohibit staying-in without special permission, except in play or toilet rooms. Others permit students to stay in or return to their own classrooms, others permit use of hall or halls, and a few permit free use of the building as a whole. The requirement of outdoor recesses for all students, except an excused few who can be congregated in one room, is greatly to be desired.

Marching.

Marching in and out at recess is not a matter of taste, not even of convenience, but a matter of order, of co-operation, of emphasis upon group rather than individual action. Its purpose is primarily social. In large schools children may be marched out to prevent interference and loss of time, but such reasons are insufficient in small schools with adequate exits. Children in school should become citizens of a society and merge their individualities as far as necessary into the general good. However, as their individual tendencies must be considered by teachers in instruction and, to a less degree, in discipline, children often fail to see the greater significance of the group life as a whole and their proper subordination to it. The excessive individualism in American homes, often leading to over-indulgence and self-importance, may be encouraged by individualistic school methods, however admirable in themselves and however inevitable to some extent in all good teaching. Along with these methods could well go exercises that demonstrate the expression of the individual thru and for the group, the unreliability of being out of place and out of step, the impertinence of self-display, the inefficiency of confusion, and the ugliness of disorder. All these points may be, and sometimes are, emphasized in the instruction and discipline of the school, but children generally are not mature enough to see and especially not mature enough to appreciate them; while the incarnation of these ideals in bodily movement impresses itself thru

J
65

eye and ear and especially thru the kinaesthetic sense. The author has no intention of suggesting a scheme of symbolism, for this 'ism has already done much harm in education; he is simply stating the impressions gained over and over again, not only from the demonstration of social order and co-operation by children marching together but also from the recognition and enjoyment of this social order and co-operation by the children themselves. They do not understand its full social significance but they see the value of self-control and sub-ordination to the group purpose. They unconsciously develop thru it an espritde corps of love and pride in their school.

Furthermore, the hygienic value of such marching will be readily granted, imbued as it is with genuine pleasure. It builds up the body and lifts up the spirit. A child that does not Ike to march with his school should be sent to a doctor; there’s something out of gear in his body or mind.

Recesses offer the most frequent opportunities for this group demonstration thru marching Each child in his place in the class line, each c’ass in its place in the-school line, and all in unison representing the school. Recreation and discipline fused into one. On fair days the marching could well be continued out on the school grounds and be elaborated into attractive figures becoming a recreative drill. Classes or divisions could compete with each other, with banners to be carried by the winners. Even on city sidewalks a 1 ttle diversion of this kind would not be unwelcome.

In 34 of the schools or systems here studied the children march out and in at recess, and in two they march in but not out; while n eighteen some form of music—piano, phonograph, or drum—is used. In some of the large high schools there is no marching at all, and apparently no need of it for purposes of control; but probably the students would enjoy, take pride in, and greatly benefit by this social exercise if well done.

The trouble with most school marching is that it is not taken se=-riously by anybody. It is just a way of getting in and out. In some of these schools the marching would inspire the most phlegmatic, but in other schools there are various degrees of carelessness. No snap and fun and pride can develop out of slovenly marching. If this school service is worth doing at all, it is worth doing precisely. Within suitable limits for the age of the children in each grade and their power of exact musuclar control without strain, the stricter the requirements, the better the results. Erect carriage, proper place, even distance between individuals, hands by side, no talking, exactness in time, orderly turning, etc.—these and other characteristics add dignity, power, beauty, and enjoyment to marchings and should be insisted upon by official authority and the public sentiment of the school.

Should boys and girls march separately? This depends upon circumstances. Segregation of the sexes tends to increase, rather than decrease, sex consciousness and should not be required except when necessary. If there are separate playgrounds for boys and for girls, it is more convenient to march the boys out to their playground

Digitized by t^ooQle
66

and the girls to theirs; yet even then the separation could generally be made out of doors and not interfere with the combined marching. However, there is a possible disadvantage in having the grammar and high-school boys use the stairways at the same time as the girls. When the entire class does march together in double file, the boys had better march with boys and the girls with girls, probably a pa'r of boys alternating with a pair of girls. This arrangement generally seems to give better order, time, and appearance, tho it may be largely a matter of training.

MASS ATHLETICS AT CAMP DIX, JEW JERSEY

As Organized by HERMAN J. NORTON, Y. M. A. C. Camp Athletic Director.

Having spent my four months of absence from the Rochester school board as Y. M. C. A. Camp Athletic Director at Camp Dix, New Jersey, I herewith submit my plan of organization for mass athletics and recreation which proved to be practical and most successful.

When I arrived at Camp Dix, there were about twenty-five thousand soldiers going through intensive training in various branches of military schooling. From early morn until late at night, every day except Wednesday and Saturday afternoons and Sunday, these men were experiencing the strict formal army training and discipline which is absolutely essential in the making of good soldiers.

The first real problem to present itself in developing a comprehensive camp athletic program was that of athletic organization. This had to be considered from two standpoints, first, that of the army with its prescribed daily military routine; and secondly, that of the Y. M. C. A. with its athletic directors, buildings and athletic equipment.

First, considering the problem from the army standpoint, we found that there was no definite division athletic or recreation policy for organization, but each regiment, however, had at least one strenuous formal setting-up or physical drill period each day. This period did not allow for much free play and very little athletic equipment was owned by the regiments; secondly, from the Y. M. C. A. standpoint, we had nine athletic directors in camp, one attached to each of nine buildings which were evenly distributed throughout the cantonment. These nine directors, including the Y. M. C. A. Camp Athletic Director, made a force of ten men whose responsibility it was to provide athletics and recreation for twenty-five thousand (25,000) soldiers. We had close to three thousand dollars ($3,000) worth of athletic equipment including footballs, baseballs, bats, volleyballs, basketballs, etc. distributed among the nine “Y” buildings for use by the soldiers housed within their immediate vicinity.

The following chart prepared by the writer, was submitted to Division Athletic Officer Lt. Col. Wait C. Johnson, approved and put into operation in each regiment throughout the camp. It

Digitized by CjOOQle
67

was through the operation of this plan and the splendid cooperation of the army athletic officers and Y. M. C. A. athletic directors that organized mass athletics were successfully carried on at Camp Dix.

TrrTTnnT AT R L S TIP OFFICER

COMPARTS

g* A ^ frp.lftgj	ifr A. .•*■£»		.»■
5  P.B.  9.B.  V.B.  B  V  T	T|:  I:!:  V.B. ’  B  L i		3  F#B.  3.3,  ‘ Y.B.N  >7^	7 f  3  P.B.  B.B.  V.B.

*sr.!ig.		Sports Uann?«r
r	_	Boot ball
3	_	3oooar
P.B.	.	Playground Dali
B.B.	.	DnsVat Ball
V.B.	-	Volley Dali
B		Boxing
W	-	Wrestling
T	-	Tug of War

,A\\ 1/7//

Athlotlo Counoil 1 Athletio Officer froa aaoh Co._________

A detailed explanation of the Division Athletic organization follows:

A.	Division Executive Committee on Recreation

Lt. Col. Wait C. Johnson, Division Athletic Officer; Herman J. Norton, Y. M. C. A.; Byron S. Walton, Fosdick Commission.

B.	Division Athletic Council

Lieut. Col. W. C. Johnson, Chairman. All Regimental Athletic Officers. Herman J. Norton, Byron S. Walton. Any other chairman sees fit to appoint.

C.	Regimental Athletic Council.

Regimental Athletic Officer, Chairman. All company or battery athletic officers. Nearest Y. M. C. A. Physical Director.

D.	Company or Battery Athletic Council.

Company or Battery Athletic Officer, Chairman. All company or battery sportsmanagers. Nearest Y. M.

C.	A. Physical Director.

Digitized by v^ooQle
68

Duties of Division Executive Committee and Athletic Councils

A.	Division Executive Committee on Recreation.

1. It will be the function of this committee to outline the Athletic or Recreational policy for the camp and to give supervising directions for the same.

B.	Division Athletic Council.

1.	This council is responsible for all Inter-Regimental

activities.

2.	All council members are responsible for promoting such Athletic or Recreational activities among their respective regiments as are authorized by the Division Executive Committee.

C.	The Regimental Athletic Council.

1.	The duty of this council is to promote Intra-Regimental (Inter-Ccmpany or Battery) Athletic tournaments and

Contests.

2.	This ccuncil will meet at the times and places designated by the Regimental Athletic Officer.

D.	The Company or Battery Athletic Council.

1. This council is responsible for running off all Intercompany contests. The chairman (Company or Battery Athletic Officer) is responsible for instructing all Sportsmanagers to report with their teams at the playing fields at the time designated for Inter-company or Battery contests.

In the early days of our experiences at Camp Dix, we endeavored to schedule inter-company contests in soccer football, baseball, basketball, volley ball and tugs of war on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons, in other words, on the soldiers holidays each week. We soon found that they did not like to be held to set schedules of any sort on these days since the remaining days of each week were scheduled to the minute with military duties.

In order to meet the above situation, the writer organized what he termed “The Athletic All-’Round Point Contest”. This plan with its aim and organization as described below was submitted to Division Athletic Officer Lt. Col. Wait C. Johnson, with the request that the contests be played daily, also that those men scheduled to participate in said contests be excused from the daily army settingup or physical drill period. This request was granted as the following order from army Division Headquarters will show:

Memorandum:

Headquarters, 78th Division,	November	1,	1917.

Camp Dix, New Jersey.

To provide an opportunity for every soldier in camp to participate actively in at least one organized athletic sport and to provide a daily recreation period to vary the regularly prescribed physical drill, men
69

engaged in any one of the five sports composing the All Point Contest, that is, tug-of-war, basketball, volley ball, soccer and playground ball, will be excused from participation in the daily physical drill; provided, that at the same time they are engaged in games under the provisions of the All Point Contest.

The schedules for these games will be announced in each regiment by Mr. Norton, Y. M. C. A. Physical Director. The games will take place at the same time and only for the period scheduled for physical drill. In order that too much time shall not be wasted in going to and from the playing fields for various games, Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors are authorized to confer immediately with regimental and organization commanders with a view to laying out playing fields adjacent to the areas upon which organizations hold their physical culture work; and further to assist the Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors, it is requested that organization commanders furnish them with a copy of the weekly schedule of military duty for their regiments showing time3 when physical drill work is scheduled.

Men forming these various teams will be required to be present for the games as regularly as if participating in the prescribed physical work.

In order to properly co-ordinate and supervise this physical recreation, regimental commanders will require that company and battery commanders appoint a company athletic officer and one sports-manager, in each company, for each of the sports mentioned above.

It shall be the duty of the company athletic officers to control all inter-company or battery activities, and to secure officials for conducting all the athletic contests in the All Round Point Contests in which their individual companies engage. They will also be held responsible that the men composing the team of their companies, in any one sport, be present at the time the games are scheduled to be played.

By command of Brigadier General Mallory.

W. T. MACMILLAN,

Major, Infantry, Adjutant.

Athletic AlI-’Round Point Contest Organization for Soccer Football, Playground Ball, Basket Ball, Volley Ball and Tug Of War

The Aim.

The aim of the All-’Round Point Contest is two-fold:

First — To provide an opportunity for every soldier in camp to actively participate in at least one organized athletic sport or game daily, and by means of these game contests to provide a daily relaxation or recreation period which will not only tend to balance the strict, formal, daily army discipline periods, but which will also act as a powerful factor in the development of that army morale and esprit de corps which is recognized as absolutely essential for a successful army.

Second — To develop an efficient athletic organization within each regiment with the idea that the army athletic officers

Digitized by ^ooQle
70

will be so trained in the rules and manner of conducting intercompany and inter-regimental contests that they will be able to act as play or athletic leaders for their company or regiment when they get to France.

Prizes.

1.	For Intra-Regimental League Contests.

a.	Three banners will be given, one to each of the three company teams finishing with the highest total points in all five activities.

Note: Three banners to each Regiment.

2.	For Inter-Regimental League Contests.

a.	Three banners will be given, one to each of the three Regiments finishing with the highest total points in all five activities.

Scoring of Points.

1.	For Intra-Regimental League Contests.

a.	Each	team winning a game scores......10	points

b.	Each	team losing a game scores....... 5	points.

c.	Each	team forfeiting a game loses....15	points

2.	For Intra-Regimental League Contests.

a.	Same method for scoring points as for Intra-Regimental League Contests.

Rules.

1.	For Intra-Regimental League Contests.

a.	Each company within a Regiment is requested to enter

a team for each of the following league contests. Soccer Football Team composed of 11 men 3 subs Volley Ball	“	“	“	11	“	3	subs

Playground Ball “	“	“	9	“	3	subs

Basket Ball	“	“	“	5	“	3	subs

Tug of War	“	“	“	25	“

61 men 12 subs—73 men Note: 73 men participating from each company.

A player cannot play on two different teams.

b.	Sports managers are responsible for having their teams report at the grounds at the time scheduled. They will also see that the proper amount of athletic equipment is on hand for each contest. Y. M. C. A. physical directors will cooperate with regimental and company athletic officers and sports managers at all times.

c.	Teams must report at the grounds and be ready to play at the time scheduled. In case only one team reports and is ready to play at the time scheduled, said team wins the contest by forfeit and scores ten points. Note: Team forfeiting loses 15 points.

d.	In case circumstances arise which make it impossible to play a scheduled game, the sports manager

Digitized by

Google
71

of the team in question must notify the sports manager of the opposing team at least two hours prior to the time game is scheduled, or forfeit game and lose 15 points.

e.	Company (or Battery Athletic Officers will agree upon umpires or referees for each contest. Y. M. C. A. physical directors will aid in securing officials.

f.	No contestant can play on any company team other than his own.

2.	For Inter-Regimental League Contests.

a.	Each Regiment will participate in the Inter-Regimental League Contests by entering its five winning teams of the Intra-Regimental League Contests.

b.	Points will be scored the same as in Intra-Regimental League Contests.

c.	Regimental Athletic Officers will be responsible for having their teams report on grounds at scheduled time.

d.	Rules under caption c and d above apply here also.

e.	No contestant can play on any Regimental Team other than his own.

ALL-’ROUND POINT CONTEST FACTS

Activity	No.  Co.  Team	No. Players per team participating	Total  players  partici-  pating	Grounds  Needed  per  Regiment	No.  Reg.	Remarks
Soccer	144	(113 subs) 14	2016	3	12	
Volley B.	144	(11 3 subs) 14	2016	2	12	
Playg’d B.	144	(9 3 subs) 12	1728	3	12	
Basket B.	144	(5 3 subs) 8	1152	3	12	
Tug of war	144	25	3600	3	12	
Total 5	720	Average  14	10512	15 times	12-	-180 fields needed

Digitized by LjOOQle
72

Miscellaneous Camp Athletic Activities

1.	Football.

An inter-regimental elimination football league was run off with twelve participating. Officers were encouraged to play and did play on their regimental team, thus creating a splendid democratic spirit throughout camp. Each regimental athletic officer was allowed to carry thirty-five men on his football squad and these men were excused from military obligations daily from 4 to 5:30 P. M. Thus 420 men actively participated in football contests.

2. Liberty Loan Day Athletic Meet.

Over two thousand soldiers actively participated in the following events in the Liberty Loan Day Athletic Meet: Team

Composed of	Remarks

Road Relay Race	36	men

100 yds. Relay	25	men

Sack Rush	15	men

Bayonet Charge	1	man

Paul Revere Race	15	men

Wheelbarrow Race	2	men

Obstacle Relay Race	15	men

Bareback Mule Race	1	man

Tug of War	25	men

Shoe Race	10	men

Centipede Race	6	men

Each man to run 1-2 mile.

To be run in file method.

10	sacks placed at 50 yards.

2 hurdles, 2 dummys, barbed wire. Each man carries rider 20 yards. 5 teams can enter from a Regt. Each man runs 100 yards.

1 mile race.

Elimination contest.

Label shoes, throw any direction. 7 ft. pole, straddle, run 75 yds.

3.	Mass Boxing Instruction.

The writer outlined the following plan for giving mass boxing instruction to all soldiers in camp and turned same over to the camp boxing instructor, Jeff Smith, under whose charge the men are now learning how to handle themselves in the manly art of boxing.

The Aim of the Boxing Instruction is two-fold:

First,—	To provide a graded course of boxing mass

drill exercises including those fundamental movements which will quickly condition or prepare the various muscles of the body for combative boxing bouts.

Secondly,— To provide mass ring boxing bouts by means of which the following qualities necessary for effective bayonet fighting are developed:

1.	Shiftiness in attack and defense.

2.	A quick mind, instant decision, coolness and a perfect judgment of direction and distance.

3.	An ability to know exactly what the next move of an opponent will be.

4.	An aggressive or combative spirit under self control.

Digitized by
73

Method of Giving Instruction.

First,—Mass Drill with free arm and foot movements without boxing gloves.

1.	Mr. Smith (Camp boxing instructor) will give a normal course of boxing instruction to the officers in charge of the daily setting-up drills and thus enable them to give their men the mass boxing drill daily or bi-weekly as deemed best.

2.	Men will assume the same field formation for the boxing drill as for their regular seting-up drill work.

Second,—Mass Ring Boxing Instruction.

1.	25 boxing rings will be constructed within each regiment.

2.	A company will be sent to the boxing field

for a period of one hour.

3.	Within each company there will be five shifts of men; 50 men to box 3 three minute rounds in each shift, making a total of 9 minutes of actual boxing plus 2 minutes rest in each shift or a total of 11 minutes per shift or 55 minutes to handle a company.

4.	Each boxer within a ring will have a boxer assigned to him as a second. Thus 100 men will be active all the time. The men acting as seconds for the boxers of the first shift will become the boxers for the second shift.

5.	A bugler will sound Attention! at the be- -ginning and end of each round. A new shift of men will enter the boxing rings each time the bugler sounds Assembly.

6.	Each boxer will be provided with a pair of eight ounce boxing gloves.

4.	Passive Athletic Recreation.

Passive Athletic Recreation was provided for the soldiers every two weeks in the big Y. M. C. A. auditorium, the capacity of which was 3300. Big boxing, wrestling and stunt programs, including local contestants as well as outside talent were staged every other Thursday night. Invariably the auditorium was packed to the doors.

5.	Inter-Regimental Basketball League.

16 different teams were entered in this league. Each team plays once a week. The Y. M. C. A. auditorium is used for these contests on Monday and Friday nights and the Knights of Columbus Hall on Tuesday and Thursday nights, two contests being played on each court each night. Many collegiate star basketball players are in training at Camp Dix and some exceptionally fast basketball teams are being turned out.

Digitized by CjOOQle
74

6.	Recreation for Officers.

Trapshooting, handball and team contests in baseball, volley ball and basketball were provided for the officers, particularly I or those officers whose work confines them to their desks most of the day.

TYPICAL POINT CONTEST ORGANIZATION BLANK

Showing Comoo Schodulod Within Each Regiment Each Day

ARMY Y M C A ATHLETIC ALL-’ROUND POiNT CONTEST

Games Scheduled for Week Beginning...... Regiment..............

DAYS	... |. Soccer #  x ! £ Teams ) r		i  3  hu	Volley  Ball  Teams	e  t\	z  !?  bu	Playg’d Ball Teams 1	e  E  P	i  "V 1 bu	Baaket  Ball  Teams	11 •U*!A	0  z  2  jj  bu	| Tug ! of | War	f:  i E  ip'	II
1st Day	A vs B I		1	A vs B		1 | A vs B		1	1 1	A vs B	1	1	A vs B		1
	C vs D		2	C vs D		2	C vs D	1 '	2	C vs D		2	C vs D		2
	E vs F		3	E vs F	1	3	E vs F	1  1	3 i	E vs F		3	E vs F		8
2nd Day	G vs H		1	G vs H		1 G vs H |		1  ,	2.1	G vs H		1	G vs H		1
	I vs K		2	I vs K		2 1 vs K			2	I vs K		2	I vs K		1 2
	L vs M |		3	L vs M		3 | L vs M|			3 !	L vs M		3	L vs M		1 8
3rd Day	A vs C		1	A vs C	j	1 | A vs C			1 I	A vs C		1	A vs C	11	
	B vs D |	' |	2 i	B vs D		2 | B vs D			2 i	B vs D		2	B vs D		2
	F vs G		3!	F vs G	i	3 | F vs G			3 1	F vs G		3	F vs G		8
4th Day	H vs I	i	i i  , i	H vs I	1 1 I H vs I				i 1	i H vs I		1	H vs I		1
	K vs L		2 ’	K vs L	i2!		K vs L		2 t	K vs L		2	K vs L		2
	E vs M		3	E vs M	!31		E vs M		3	E vs M		3	E vs M		8
5th Day	A vs D		1	A vs D	1 1  1		A vs D	i	1	A vs D		1	A vs D	J  1	1
	B vs C		2	B vs C	I  1 2		B vs C	1  1	2	B vs C		2	B vs C	1	2
	E vs G		3	E vs G	!3		E vs G	!	j 3	E vs G		3	E vs G		8
6th Day  i		F vs H		1	F vs H	11		| F vs H	i	1 1	F vs H		1	F vs H		1
	I vs L	:	! 2 I	I vs L	i2		! I vs L	i	i 2	j I vs L		2	I vs L	2	
	K vs M	I	3	K vs M	i 3		K vs M	i	3 i	K vs M		3	K vs M		3
7th Day	j A vs E	1	1	A vs E	! i		A vs E		1 1	1 A vs E		1	A vs E		1
	B vs G		2	B vs G |	1 2		i B vs G		! 2 |	B vs G		2	B vs G		2
	C vs L		3	C vs L	! 3		[ C vs L		13;	I C vs L		3	C vs L		3
8th Day	j F vs K		1	F vs K		| 1	F vs K	i	1	F vs K		1	F vs K		1
	| H vs M		2	I H vs M		I 2 i H vs M		j	i2	H vs M		2	H vs M	2	
	1 D vs I ;		3	D vs I		3 D vs I		i	1 3	D vs I		3	D vs I	13	
9th Day	j A vs F		1	j A vs F	.	1 I A vs F			j_i	i A vs F		1	A vs F |	i	1
	0 vs K	!	2	CvsK	i 1	i 2 j C vs K			2	C vs K		2	C vs K	j	2
	j D vs L		3	j D vs L	!	[ 3 | D vs L		i  i	3	D vs L		3	D vs L		8
10th Day	E vs I		1	j E vs I	i	! 1 j E vs I			-  ! 1	j E vs I		1	E vs I	1	1
	1 G vs M		2	G vs M		j 2 | G vs M			j 2	j G vs M		2	G vs M	1	2
	B vs H		3	B vs H	i			I 3 ! B vs H			1 .3	I B vs H		3	B vs H j	I	| 3

Digitized by v^ooQle
75

DAYS	Soccer  Teams	Time 1	£  to.	Volley  Ball  Teams	1	£  •o  3  b.	Playg'd  Ball  Teams	Tim. |	z  2  J*  b.	Basket  Ball  Teams	1  P	Field No. I	Tug  of  War	I	£  1
11th Day	A vs G		1	A vs G		1	A vs G		1	A vs G		1	A vs G		1
	I vs M		2	I vs M		2	I vs M		2	I vs M		2	I vs M		2
	F vs L		8	F vs L		8	F vs L		3	F vs L		3	F vs L		S
12th Day	B vs K		1	B vs K		1	B vs K		1	B vs K		1	B vs K		1
	C vs E		2	C vs E		2	C vs E		2	C vs E		2	C vs E		2
	D vs H		8	D vs H		8	D vs H		3	D vs H		8	D vs H		S
13th Day	A vs H		1	A vs H		1	A vs H		1	A vs H		1	A vs H		1
	F vs M		2	F vs M		2	F vs M		2	F vs M		2	F vsM		2
	E vs L		8	E vs L		8	E vs L		3	E vs L		3	E vs L		S
14th Day	D vs K		1	D vs K		1	D vs K		1	D vs K		1	D vs K		1
	B vs I		2	B vs I		2	B vs I		2	B vs I		2	B vs I		2
	C vs G		8	C vs G		8	C vs G		3	C vs G		8	C vs G		S
15th Day	A vs I		1	A vs I		1	A vs I		1	A vs I		1	A vs I		1
	C vs M		2	C vs M		2	C vsM		2	C vsM		2	C vs M		2
	D vs G		8	D vs G		8	D vs G		3	D vs G		3	D vs G		S
10th Day	B vs F		1	B vs F		1	B vs F		1	B vs F		1	B vs F		1
	H vs L		2	H vs L		2	H vs L		2	H vs L		2	H vs L		2
	E vs K		8	E vs K		3	E vs K		3	E vs K		3	E vs K		S
17th Day	A vs K		1	A vs K		1	A vs K		1	A vs K		1	A vs K		1
	B vs M		2	B vs M		2	B vs M		2	B vs M		2	B vs M		2
	E vs H		8	E vs H		8	E vs H		3	EvsH		8	E vs H		8
10th Day	D vs F		1	D vs F		1	D vs F		1	D vs F		1	D vs F		1
	C vs I		2	C vs I		2	C vs I		2	C vs I		2	C vs I		2
	G vs L		8	G vs L		8	G vs L		3	G vs L		3	G vs L		S
19th Day	I vs L		1	I vs L		1	I vs L		1	I vs L		1	I vs L		1
	B vs E		2	B vs E		2	B vs E		2	B vs E		2	B vs E		2
	C vs H		8	C vs H		3	C vs H		8	C vs H		8	C vs H		S
20th Day	D vsM		1	D vs M		1	D vs M		1	D vs M		1	D vs M		1
	F vs I		2	F vs I		2	F vs I		2	F vs I		2	F vs I		2
	G vs K		8	G vs K		3	G vs K		8	G vs K		3	G vs K		S
21st Day	A vs M		1	A vs M		1	A vs M		1	A vs M		1	A vs M		1
	B vs L		2	B vs L		2	B vs L		2	B vs L		2	B vs L		2
	C vs F		8	C vs F		3	C vs F		3	C vs F		3	C vs F		S
22nd Day	G vs I		1	G vs I		1	G vs I		1	G vs I		1	G vs I		1
	H vs K		2	H vs K		2	H vs K		2	H vs K		2	H vs K		2
	D vs E		8	D vs E		8	D vs E		3	D vs E		8	D vs E		8

Note:—The above ie an Infantry Schedule including 12 companies. Each company phv r every other company once. The League calls for 66 contests in each of the five activities, or Sw-organised contests are scheduled to be played off within a regiment every 3 weeks.

Digitized by VjOOQle
76

O - ■■■■-» — ■ ■■■ - ■ ■■■ ■ ■■ ■■■■ ■■■■ ■	—. o

| GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

O' — ■ .M — — —	» '	..I. I I. I o

MASS EXERCISES FOR THE ELEVENTH ANNUAL FIELD DAY OF THE PHILADELPHIA SCHOOLS.

May 25, 1918. Belmont Plateau.

'“The Jolly General”—Neil Moret.	Victor	Record	No.	35608.

The Mass Exercises will be competitive and are for pupils who participate in this event only. These exercises will be performed during the morning, before a committee of judges. Only schools receiving a 70 per cent mark will be permitted to participate in the Mass Drill to be held in the afternoon. Such schools will assemble at the south end of the field at 3 o’clock, back of the folk dance groups.

A school may enter for the Mass Exercises not less than 16 nor more than 32 pupils, either girls or boys, or both, providing the number of each sex is divisible by four.

Introduction (8 counts).

Part I. 64 counts (2 counts to each movement).

a.	1. Raise arms sideward 1-2.

2.	3-4 arm circle outward (to position front of chest, left arm

over right) 3-4.

3.	1-2 arm circle inward (to position of arms sideward) 5-6.

4.	Lower arms 7-8.

b.	1. Jump to side stride position and raise arms sideward, 1-2.

2.	Lower trunk forward, swing arms downward, and clap

hands 3-4.

3.	Reverse, 5-6. 4. Return 7-8. e. Repeat a. 1-8.

d.	1. Face left and jump to side stride position, raising arms sideward 1-2.

2.	Swing arms forward, clapping hands 3-4.

3.	Reverse 5-6 4. Return 7-8.

B.	Repeat a. b. c. and d, but face right in d.

Part II. 64 counts.

,jsl 1. 4 steps in place 1-4.

2.	4 steps forward (last step a closing step) 5-8.

3.	Close ranks (thru forward) 9-12.

4.	4 steps in place 13-16.

b.	1. 4 steps forward 1-4.

2.	1-4 wheel left. 5-8.

3.	4 steps forward 9-12.

4- 1-4 wheel left 13-16.

c.	Repeat b. 1-16.

, d- 1. 4 steps in place 1-4.

2.	4 steps backward (last step a closing step) 5-8.

3.	Open ranks (thru forward) 9-12.

- 4. 4 steps in place, on last count bend arms to thrust 13-16.

Digitized by v^ooQle
77

Part III. 64 counts (2 counts to each movement.)

a.	1. Thrust sideward 1-2.

2.	Bend arms to strike overhead 3-4.

3.	Reverse 5-6. 4.	Return 7-8.

b.	1.	Thrust	sideward	1-2.

2.	Swing arms left bent overhead, right behind back 3-4.

3.	Reverse 5-6. 4. Return 7-8.

c.	Repeat	a. 1-8.

d.	Repeat b, but right arm bent overhead, left arm behind'

hack, 1-8.

e.	Repeat	a. 1-8.

f.	1. Jump to side stride position, and thrust sideward 1-2.

2.	Swing arms sideward 3-4.

3.	Reverse 5-6. 4. Return 7-8.

g.	1. Jump to cross stride position left forward, and thrust left

arm obliquely foreupward, and right arm obliquely back downward 1-2.

2.	Jump to cross stride position right forward, and swing arms

to opposite position 3-4.

3.	Reverse 5-6. 4. Return 7-8.

h.	Repeat f 1-8.

Part IV. 24 counts.

a.	1. Balance-hop left forward, left arm sideward, right arm

curved overhead 1-2.

2.	Balance-hop right forward, opposite arm position 3-4.

3.	Two gallops left sideward, arms sideward 5-6.

4.	Step and curtsey left sideward, waving right arm forward

7-8.

b.	Repeat a opposite 1-8.

c.	1. Swing-hop left backward, arms sideward on count 1,

wave right arm forward on count 2.

2.	Swing-hop right backward, opposite arm position 3-4.

3.	As 1. 5-6.

4.	Step right backward on count 1 (arms sideward), close left

to right on count 2, bending arms to thrust 7-8.

Part V. 64 counts (2 counts to each movement).

a.	1. Lunge left forward and thrust sideward 1-2.

2.	Bend arms to strike overhead 3-4.

5.	Reverse 5-6. 4. Return 7-8.

b.	1. Lunge left sideward and thrust sideward 1-2.

2.	Swing arms, left bent overhead, right behind back 3-4.-

3.	Reverse 5-6. 4. Return 7-8.

c.	Repeat a, but lunge right forward 1-8.

d.	Repeat b opposite 1-8.

e.	Repeat a 1-8.

f.	— (

g.	— ■< Same as f. g. h. of part III.

h.	— (

Part VI. 24 counts. Same as Part IV.

Part VII. 64 counts (2 counts to each movement),

a.	1. Lunge left forward and thrust sideward 1-2.

Digitized by

Google
78

2.	Bend arms to strike overhead and bend upper trunk back-

ward 3-4.

3.	Reverse 5-6.	4.	Return	7-8.

1>. 1. Lunge left sideward and thrust sideward 1-2.

2.	Swing arms left bent overhead, right behind back and

bend trunk right 3-4.

3.	Reverse 5-6.	4.	Return	7-8.

c.	Repeat a, but lunge right forward 1-8.

d.	Repeat b opposite 1-8.

-e.	Repeat a. 1-8.

f — (

g.— < Same as f. g. h. of Part III, but come to fundamental posi-n.—	( tion on last 2 counts.

Part VIII. 32 counts (2 counts to each movement).

a.	1. Swing arms sideupward and rise on toes 1-2.

2.	3-4 arm circle outward (to position front of chest, left arm

over right), and bend knees 3-4.

3.	1-2 arm circle inward (to position of arms sideward), and

straighten knees, rising on toes 5-6.

4.	Lower arms and heels 7-8.

b.	1. Jump to side stride position and raise arms sideward 1-2.

2.	Lower trunk forward, swing arms downward and clap

hands 3-4.

3.	Reverse	5-6.	4.	Return	7-8.

c.	Repeat	a 1-8.

d.	Repeat	b 1-8.

Part IX. 32 counts.

a.	1. 4 steps in place 1-4.

2.	4 steps forward (last step a closing step) 5-8.

3.	Close ranks thru forward 9-12.

4.	4 steps	backward	13-16.

b.	1.	4 steps	in place	1-4.

2.	4 steps forward (last step a closing step) 5-8.

3.	Open ranks thru forward and halt 9-12.

4.	Hand salute 13-14; lower hand 15-16.

INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS AND THE WAR

The emergency of war has thrown a new light on the problems of physical education in American colleges and has justified anew the most persistent of the many charges brought against intercollegiate athletics during the past ten years. As the president of Williams College says, “We are annually graduating a few men of extraordinary athletic ability and many men of undeveloped intellectual power. In athletics a few only are highly trained, the majority not at all.”

Reed College in the first months of its existence seven years ago declared its belief that intercollegiate athletics are antagonistic to the physical development of the student and adopted a policy of no intercollegiate games whatever, but “athletics in moderation and at little expense for all students, especially those in greatest need, instead of excessive and costly training for a few students.

Digitized by L.ooQle
79

especially those in the least need.”

By the customary policy of vicarious athletics no college can fully meet its obligations as an agency for national defense. The experiences of the past three months in raising an army have driven this truth home as never before. The first call of the government was for thousands of college students and recent graduates to enter at once the training camps for officers. The immediate need was for men with minds and bodies disciplined by persistent physical training under trained leaders and by regular participation in rigorous athletic games. There were not enough available intercollegiate athletes to meet 20 per cent of the need. Thousands of the college Seniors and recent graduates were unable to pass the physical examinations. The universities and colleges had not adequately provided for this part of their preparation. A majority of these men had been without incentives and equipment for regular athletic training. Statistics furnished the National Collegiate Athletic Association by 143 universities and colleges engaged in intercollegiate athletics show that only about 17 per cent of the total male students participated in the games, and that not half of the students in these institutions engage in any form of systematic or organized exercise. Of these institutions, all of which promote intercollegiate athletics, 37 per cent are reported as “doing nothing to foster and encourage the types of physical exercise and healthful recreation that a student is likely to use in after-college life.”

These colleges spend about sixty times as much money for each member of an intercollegiate team as they spend for the games of each of the other students. Thus our universities, taken as a whole, have failed to conduct their athletics in such a way as to achieve all that the nation has a right to expect of them as agencies for national defense.

To what extent intercollegiate games are responsible for vicarious athletics it is impossible to determine. But two facts are ‘ndisputable:	(1)	intercollegiate	games	are	the	dominant influence

in the entire life of some of these institutions; and (2) nearly all of them have had twenty years or more of experience to demonstrate whether this dominant influence tends to bring everybody into the games. The net results, as reported to us by the promoters of intercollegiate athletics, are not encouraging.

Unfortunately we have had little experience with athletics conducted solely for all students, entirely free from the good and bad influences of intercollegiate athletics, whatever they may be. Reed College has now had six years of devotion to its athletics policy — six years with no intercollegiate athletics whatever. Careful records for these six years show that from 93 to 95 per cent of the men students participate in athletic games at least once a week. Every student in the institution is expected to participate in athletic games thruout his entire college course and to have frequent examinations for the discovery of physical defects and the prescription of a corrective physical regime. Partly as a result every undergraduate except one who applied for admission to any branch of the Army and Navy passed the preliminary physical examinations.

Digitized by kjOOQle
80

CIVILIZATION AND DETERIORATION*

In order to understand what the debasing influence of intercourse with the assumedly higher Caucasian peoples has wrought in undermining, with astonishing speed, the constitution of a once physically splendid race, it is essential to recall the Hawaiian of only a few generations ago. The details of bodily superiority need not be reversed here; but certain items of the Hawaiian customs and hygiene are worth inquiring abot*t. The popular belief in the bad effects of inbreeding seems to be negatived by the physical superiority of the chiefs, who were often closely intermarried within their class. As is well known in the science of animal breeding, when dominant characters are desirable ones, it is an advantage to have them accentuated by inbreeding. The danger in this practice lies in the possible existence of inferior dominant features that are transmissible rather than in any inherent defect or danger in the intermarriage itself.

In speaking of the evidently healthy integument of the Hawaiians, Maccaughey says that in the ancient regime the better class of natives kept their skins in excellent condition through daily baths in the sea and in fresh water and by oiling the body with cocoanut oil. The effectiveness of such hydrotherapy is well appreciated today; but we fail to realize the unquestionable merit in the inunctions with oil that indoubtedly confer a suppleness and pliancy to the skin quite contrary to the extreme detergent action of the water bath. It is not without hygienic significance that the skin is normally lubricated by a sebaceous secretion which the bath tends to remove, often to a degree no longer compatible with a perfect epidermis. The value of massage was duly appreciated by the chiefs and women of rank among the Hawaiians; for they employed an exceedingly thorough and elaborate system which aided to keep skin and bodies in perfect condition.

The nervous temperament that is a by-product of our higher civilization and is characteristically American, leaves its mark in the muscular activities of our people. In emphasizing the beautiful muscular development and the absence of nervousness among the ancient Hawaiians, Maccaughey points out that this brings about an ease with which the limbs are habitually moved. The gait of the men and women alike was almost invariably graceful, smooth and dignified, we are told. When we bear in mind the 4'nervous, jerky motions” that characterize so many moderns, it may well be asked whether a return to the older simplicity of life with its admirable poise is not worth debating in some respects. Perhaps the charm of some of the native dances with their graceful rhythms lies in the suggestion of a serene life devoid of civilization's stirring excitements.

To a people remarkably free from disease and disfigurement, the inroad of members of a different civilization has brought disease, drunkenness and debasing influences that have undermined the constitution of the race with astonishing speed. The primitive Hawaiian, with fine physical and mental traits of the greatest promise, is disappearing, Maccaughey writes, and in a few years will have vanished forever. Is this the civilization of peace?—The Journal, Am. Med. Assoc., Editorial Sept. 15, 1917.

*Maccaughey, V.: The Physique of the Ancient Hawaiians, Scient. Month., 1917, 5, 166/

Digitized by CjOOQle
O'

81

©

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

o	-	—■	■"	   ■	■	o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

New Food Grains.—Looking forward to the time when increased food supplies for the population will be really necessary, investigations have been carried on in many quarters to discover products which may be available but which have not hitherto been used to any extent for human food. In the Oklahoma Agricultural College such investigations have been carried on looking to the adaptation of grains raised in that state and in the southwest which have heretofore been used almost exclusively as stock food. Among these grains are kaffir com, millet, milo, feterita and the various sorghums, in addition to cottonseed, which has been available heretofore in the form of the oil, and which has been used to a certain extent in the culinary arts. Cottonseed meal is said to contain 51 per cent, of protein, a vastly larger percentage than meat, and when mixed with kaffir com meal and other meals is said to make a palatable and highly nutritious bread. The other grains mentioned, by mixing, it is said may be used for bread making with success. When it is considered that the state of Oklahoma alone in one year produced 30,000,000 bushels of grain sorghums and the other grains which can be converted into flour for bread making, the importance of this addition to the wheat supply will be seen, especially when supplementing the immense crops of Indian com always raised in this country.

A STATE PROGRAM FOR SCHOOL HEALTH

HORACE ELLIS, State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Indianapolis, Ind.

First and foremost in any rational program of reformation must be a campaign for education. The popular mind must be urged to activity because voluntary action is rarely possible. In a state program for school health this campaign for education must be insistent, scientific, continuous. Righteous movements, like the progress of the world at large, have their periods of Dark Ages when all that is known and all that is felt which tends to the upward impulse slumber. The fires of intelligence can be kept, alive only by constant exhortation to alertness on the part of the fire-keepers.

The old adage “Health is wealth” is true. Health is happiness, also, and efficiency in living as well. When the poet sings,

I’d like to be a boy again,

A care-free prince of joy again,

I’d like to climb an apple tree,

Just like I used to do,

Digitized by LjOOQle
he emphasizes a health condition in childhood, which, if guaranteed to the school children of today would give ample assurance of a stalwart sturdiness in the race. This campaign of education for our schools should set forth thru public discussion, thru the public press, thru the parent-teachers meetings, thru the institute, in a concrete, sane, and scientific way the factors entering into health, its conservation and its protection.

In a general way teachers should be advised to take particular charge of children when they arrive at the school buildings in the morning or after the noon recess. They should guard against wet feet, damp clothing, or extremes of heat or cold. Thirstiness, depression, nervousness, and even hunger are some of the things which will appear in any group of children newly arrived at the school, if proper inquiry be made. Just here the teacher, in a complete sense and in a legal sense, stands in loco parentis. How can she hope for a successful day if she neglects these fundamentals? Negligence is inexcusable and will cause great suffering among the children and thwart the noblest academic purpose of the future. The teacher's care should be as watchful when pupils return from play. Far more important than conducting recitations is this regard for the health and comfort of the pupils of the school. But the teacher's special obligation comes in the afternoon when the pupils make ready for the homeward trip. Plenty of time must be allowed to prepare every child for the outdoor experience. The energies are at low tide, wherefore the danger is intensified. Children may not be trusted to robe themselves for stressful weather conditions. The personal attention of the teacher is absolutely vital in every case. The success grade of a teacher should be determined very largely by her efficiency in these particulars.

But this campaign of education should go much farther. Concrete instructon must be given teachers, school officers, and pupils on how to keep well as well as on how to ward off disease. Upon careful inquiry it has been determined that instruction of the most elementary character is needed. Some first suggestions here follow:	There	are four groups of organs of elimination of the waste

products of the body; the skin, the lungs, the kidneys, and the intestines. If these four organs be kept in normal functioning condition, children will have rugged bodies and be able to withstand the attacks of disease germs surprisingly well. If these organs be neglected, school children succumb speedily to the slightest attack.

The skin. — Much nonsense and foolishness have been indulged in, in the matter of bathing. Promiscuous bathing may be very dangerous. Not all constitutions are able to withstand the shock of a daily cold bath. Bathing in water is not a guarantee against filth. Be rid of the thought of a daily water bath. The proper bath, which all people young and old should take daily upon rising in the morning, is the frictional bath. Five minutes each morning, devoted to the vigorous rubbing of the body with a moderately coarse towel without water, will insure the opening of the pores of the skin and thus allow the skin to perform the normal
83

function of carrying off the waste products of the body, which, if allowed to remain in the body, poison and destroy the tissue. Children should be urged to use the little rubber Japanese mits.

The lungs. — Deep breathing is not chest breathing — it is abdominal breathing. Watch a baby breathe and you will understand what is meant by deep breathing. Chest breathing means constriction of the diaphragm which in turn means the utter expulsion of all air from the lower lobes of the lungs; and when this air is kept habitually from certain portions of the lungs, those portions become enfeebled and form a certain abode for tubercular and other germs. Let the children have plenty of fresh air,, teach them deep breathing and nose breathing, and the lungs will guarantee purity of the blood thru nature’s process of osmosis.

The kidneys. — Here again is the source of great danger, because teachers shyly avoid discussion of the subject. There is a popular notion that diabetes follows in the wake of riotous living or drunkenness. It is not uncommon for men and women alike, whose lives are above reproach, to suffer from this sad affliction. If the skin be neglected and the lungs be neglected, then triple responsibility falls upon the kidneys, and disaster follows. They cannot do their own work of elimination and the work of two other vital organs of elimination. Urge children to drink large quantities of water daily; not less than three pints, probably more. In case of violent playground exercise they ought'to drink much more than this. It is vastly more important to wash the body frequently and thoroughly with water inside than outside. Those strange acute pains in the back, of which many good people complain, suggest unerringly kidney trouble. These will all disappear — in fact will never occur — if care in the safe-guarding of the kidneys be exercised.

The intestines. — This question about the intestines is thought to be of such a delicate character that no word may be spoken concerning it, and yet the fact is that most of the diseases, excepting contagions, follow as the result of the neglect of the intestines. Intestinal sluggishness means the storing up in the system of all the violent poisons of the foods taken into the body after the nutritive parts have been separated out. Troubles inevitably follow. Constipation is a crime to childhood and is utterly unnecessary if care be exercised on the part of parents and teachers. Children and adults too, particularly teachers, should drink much good water daily; drink two glasses of warm water before breakfast; eat sparingly of meat; eat much fruit and green vegetables; eat whole-wheat bread.

If care be exercised in the matter of diet, irreparable injury to the body will be prevented. If disregard of these simple suggestions be allowed, dire consequences ensue. Why should parents and teachers neglect this all-important matter? The day for pills-and castor oil and those other horrible nostrums, once regarded indispensable, is gone. One or two ripe, juicy apples for each school child is worth vastly more than all these old-time poisonous-stimulants.

Digitized by UaOOQle
84

In this state program for school health the second campaign :is the campaign of action — concerted action. The schools, the city dubs, the municipal officials, and state authorities must do team work. A little spasm of voluntary effort here, and a little one there, by any one of the agencies here named, yields small results. The movement must be general. When Boulder, Colo., was told frankly by a distinguished biologist of her state university that there existed in her municipal limits a positive menace to every life within the city, young and old alike, thru the rats which infested the dump heap—a bubonic plague menace, a diphtheretical menace, a typhoid menace—forthwith the City Council, the University, the Woman's Club, the public schools, the state Board of Health, organized a sensible campaign against the danger and speedily eliminated it. This team work in action means success, just as team work made the Panama Zone the most healthful locality in the world. So will concerted action yield similar returns to any community.

This state program of health would be incomplete without a third campaign—the campaign of appreciation. Here the public press, the platform, the pulpit, the round table, the open forum, play their important role. A “well-done” after a campaign of education and action, freely bestowed upon those making the campaign satisfies a soul naturally hungry for some sort of appreciation. But it does vastly more than that. It guarantees against retrogression, stagnation, and a recurrence of old time conditions. It is not the little bronze badge that is valuable, but if voted by a city council to a club for its services in upholding a valuable ideal, its value may not be estimated. So also of the loving cup, the banner or the statue; a city, a school, an individual, displays with conscious pride the little trophies won by its citizenship in defense of good things. When men seriously give attention to these three factors in a state program for school health, length of years, efficiency in service, and happiness undreamed of attend its citizenship.

Brain Disease. In brain disease, so common at the present day, there is.no practice so valuable as an adjunct to a perfect cure as reasonable eating. By this we mean neither starving nor stuffing. Of the two extremes stuffing is by far the worst. This practice tends to develop the disease, to induce loss of memory, depression of spirits, increased or lessened sleepiness, unusual irritability, epileptiform condition of the nerves, and often transitory coma. In this type of disease the nerve tissues should be properly fed, and carbonaceous food should by no means be excluded. The brain should not by any means be allowed to remain utterly inactive, but the manner and scope of its exercise should be changed, as cerebral exhaustion and brain-suffering can readily be intensified by utter indolence. New sights and sounds, new friendships, and new pursuits—if the pursuits are not too exacting—will often impart new vigor. Sometimes a simple change of posture at night will secure untroubled sleep. If there is undue sleeplessness, the head should lie low on the pillow; if undue sleepiness, it should be kept high.

Digitized by Google
85

Attractiveness. Most parents are fond of inculcating in the-minds of children, the idea that beauty in undesirable, and that it is really a snare to the possessor. And yet, in spite of all this,, everybody wants to be beautiful. The desire begins with life, and ends only with death—if, indeed, it ever ends. Almost the first thing the little girl will do, after she is able to run alone, will be to climb into a chair and survey herself in the looking-glass. You may preach to her till you are hoarse that beauty is only skin-deep, and that pretty dresses are not better than plain ones, and she will listen to you, perhaps; but when she gets a new ribbon, or a hat with a bright feather in it, she will strut like a peacock, and look down from the supreme height of satisfaction upon her little friend, whose hat does not show a feather. Why is it? Because every human being is bom with the desire to be beautiful. All' who have any self-respect try to be beautiful. They will do almost anything which promises to improve their appearance. It is perfectly right and proper that everyone should strive to look as well as possible—where the health, physical or moral, is not in danger of being injured by the means employed. But natural beauty may be attained without the aid of artificial appliances. We believe that cleanliness, open-air exercise, and kindness practised toward all will do much toward making a plain face attractive.

“The Art of Being Well.” No knowledge is of greater importance than that which will enable its possessor to attain and maintain health and strength of body and of mind, and whatever contributes to this end may be considered of value. There have been many theories and speculations advanced on this subject some of which have proved of value, and others mere fancies. It may be considered as established that it is of the utmost importance that the body be kept clean. The importance of internal cleanliness is even greater than that of the external conditions, for the waste matter retained in the body, which should be carried off, poisons the system to a far greater extent than the accumulations found on the skin would do, important as this is.—“ Health” London.

Exercise and Recreation. These are, or should be, inseparable. Whether one walks, gardens, attends a gymnasium or plays golf, the exercise should be free from the spirit of drudgery and filled with the zest of enjoyment. A man’s exercise should, if possible, be his hobby. No matter how poor the hobby, if it induces outdoor exercise, it is justifiable. The amateur geologist,, botanist or ornithologist is perhaps less fortunate than the man who has a chicken yard or a garden, because one hobby can be cultivated only on favorable occasions and in selected places, where--as the other is an urgent daily absorption. The woman who has no maid to take the baby out for its two-hour airing is fortunate. Lacking the necessary baby, the influence of the poodle is not to-be despied.—Public Health Reports, May 7, 1915.
86

'Work and Worry. Multitudes are hurried to their graves 1)efore their time, and it is haste rather than steady continuous labor of the body or mind which drives them there. “Studying too hard,” “over-worked,” are terms which we know well, and many deaths are attributed to them. Trouble certainly kills, but as regards study, it is very rare a thing for a man to think himself to death, unless his thoughts are always in a morbid and distressing groove. Study is a bliss to the student; he would rather study than eat. The greatest students in moral philosophy and divinity have lived long and worked efficiently to fourscore and more. Thought is to the brain what exercise is to the physical constitution. Men may study hard, and after fifty years of age may devote as much as five, ten, or even more hours a day to their labors with no evil effects. If the studies are pleasurable, they promote the general well-being of the system, both physical and mental, but— and this is an important point—sufficient sleep must always be obtained.

Making Bread with Sea-Water. It has long been a custom in certain parts of France to make up the dough for bread with sea-water instead of using, as is customary, fresh water with the addition of the salt required to make the bread both healthful and appetizing. Mr. Albert Saint Semin, a French naval pharmacist of the first class, urges the wider adoption of this practise, which has, according to him, several advantages: the bread keeps moist longer, owing to the affinity for water possessed by the magnesium chlorid sea-water contains; it is very wholesome, since it provides not only the chlorids of sodium and magnesium, but other mineral substances which the body can make use of. In a communication to the Revue Scientifique (Paris) he says:

“By way of reducing the traffic movement of salt, it is highly desirable that there should be legislation authorizing bakers in coast towns to make

use of sea-water...... Rolls made with sea-water are said to remain

fresh for more than a week. During a journey of five months made from Havre to San Francisco, in a sailing-vessel carrying 160 passengers and

a crew of 26,.....exclusive use was made of such bread, and there was

not a single case of illness on board.”

The water must be collected at a suitable distance from land and should be taken from a depth of six or seven yards if possible. The yeast must be prepared with fresh water and the salt-water used for mixing the dough. Along the English Channel and the Atlantic Ocean the water is of suitable salt content to be used directly. Mediterranean water, however, has a salt content so much higher that it is advisable to use one part of fresh water to three parts of salt water. The French writer adds:

“Bread made with sea-water, useful for everybody, is to be especially recommended for growing children, for convalescents, and for all those who need to repair the wastes due to fever or to hard labor.”

—From “The Literary

Digitized by LjOOQle
o

87

NOTES AND COMMENTS

DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY IN THE LOS ANGELES

PUBLIC SCHOOLS

A Department of Psychology has been established in the Los Angeles schools this year. Its function is to determine the types of children who are not being adequately handled by the regular course of instruction, and to recommend to the Board of Education the changes which may accomplish the desired end.

Dr. A. H. Sutherland of the Department of Psychology of Yale University has been chosen to organize this department. Seven teachers who have had special training in the Los Angeles Public schools under the direction of Dr. Grace Femald were transferred to the department as assistants for two months. With these assistants a mental survey was made of twenty-four elementary schools. It appears that about 70.4 per cent of the population in ungraded rooms is three years or more mentally retarded while those pupils who failed of promotion last February, 36.2 per cent are three years or more mentally retarded. It is estimated that there will be over 5000 children whose failures are so frequent, and whose school retardation is so great, that they should be taken care of outside the regular course of instruction.

With the co-operation of the University of Southern California, and the State Normal School, special work has been planned for those teachers who desire to make studies of the backward children. Over one hundred teachers have enrolled in this course for training in experimental and scientific methods. The aim has not been to teach the teachers the standard school room tests, but to give them a training course in experimental psychology, so that they may be able to interpret tests. Along with this course the teachers are beginning to make individual studies (case studies) in their rooms.

Among the most important means of education for the backward children is the play-ground, but up to the present time there is no satisfactory work on the playground designed for backward children. It has not yet been worked out. Among the many good ideas which have been positively stated are some which seem promising, and the teachers who by daily contact realize the deficiencies of the pupils, are attempting to make a selection from these and standardize them so that progress may be measured. If any progress is made by the pupils, these playground activities will be described later by one of the teachers who has been foremost in their development.

During the present year the department of psychology is to pay special attention to the problem of feeble mindedness, but its interest in normal and very bright children is just as vital. An important reason for studying the numbers and locations of the feeble minded is that the school room must be made safe for demo-

Digitized by LaOOQle
88

cracy. That is to say, the normal and bright children must have a better chance to avail themselves of the opportunities of education and must have the entire and undivided attention of the teachers for that purpose. The teachers and principals are co-operating by learning to apply methods of psychological measurements looking toward more intelligent conduct of their schools.

We are also looking forward to the time when pupils from the Fourth Grade up, will themselves use the standardized mental tests to measure their own progress. By keeping these records daily or weekly, as a man now keeps his golf score, and by keeping his curve of learning or progress, it will make the school room activities a game and an inspiration. If this time comes within twenty-five years, we should see the school room a place for learning with a minimum of recitations; a place for self improvement and growth, instead of a place of torture. A place in which the teacher works with the pupils and the pupils help the teacher.

A PUBLIC SCHOOL PHYSICAL EDUCATION CONFERENCE AT CHICAGO, ILL.

TO THE SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS:

The following is a report of the section formed by the Physical Education teachers of the Chicago High Schools. It contains in condensed form the results of their discussions and deliberations at the Lane High School.

The large body was divided into six committees as follows:

Committee on Athletic Fields

Committee on Swimming Pools

Committee on League Games

Committee on Programs

Committee on Gymnasiums

Committee on Qualifications for teachers.

These committees reported back to the central body and their reports were all accepted with the exception of the report of the committee on Qualifications for Teachers, which was not voted on but by common consent deferred for study and for future action.

1.	The committee on Athletic Fields recommends that:

Each school should be provided with an athletic field adequate

as to size and equipment,

Athletic fields should be improved in all schools where they are not in good shape,

Every new school should be equipped with an athletic field,

There should be three large fields centrally located for interschool athletic contests and field days,

In order to derive the most benefit from outdoor athletics, students should have two periods for one class lesson.

2.	The Committee on Swimming Pools recommends that construction of Swimming Pools be as follows:

Regulation size 60x24,

Inlet should be put at deep end if one and on the sides of deep end if there are two,
89

Shallow end should be slanted at a grade of one foot to 20 feet in length.

The flush rail should be raised several inches above the level of floor and drain put in floor,

Every pool should have a skylight,

Instructors room should have glass front.

Individual mixers on the shower baths,

Showers separate from the swimming pool for athletic teams, in boys’ dressing room, preferably in connection with the gymnasiums.

Individual showers separate from swimming pool for athletic teams in girls’ dressing room, preferably in connection with gymnasium.

Filters of sufficient capacity to change water in ten hours if necessary.

Room for spectators.

Sanitation:

The school chemistry department should make periodic tests of the contents of the water.

Board should furnish soap and towels and each pupil should be required to make a thorough wash before entering water and be inspected at this time.

New pools should have re-filtration system.

Equipment:

Hair dryers of electric type should be furnished,

Life poles 16 feet in length on three sides of the pool,

Spring boards and plunging boards necessary,

Running track for suspended belt for teaching pupils, (Method of teaching left to discussion)

III.	The Committee on League Games recommends as follows: In line with the idea of the superintendent of schools regarding the democratization of athletics, we recommend the elimination of inter-school athletics that require the use of the school gymnasium and the substitution of inter-school athletics and games in their place.

We recommend the extension of outdoor inter as well as intra school athletics. At present the facilities for conducting outdoor sports are inadequate. Many of the schools have no field in connection nor within practicable traveling distance. Those fields at our disposal are not in proper condition for playing, nor for controlling the spectators. Neither is there sufficient money appropriated for care of grounds. To remedy these conditions in the quickest and most practicable way is considered a most important necessity by this committee.

IV.	The Committee on Programs recommends as follows: Since a number of schools have reported that they have succeeded in arranging programs in such manner that pupils of each semester are enabled to take Physical Education work together, recommend:

That the principals be requested to endeavor to arrange programs so that this can be done.

Digitized by CjOOQle
90

In case this arrangement is impossible, we recommend:

That the pupils of the four years be divided into four groups consisting of IB group, IA group Ilnd year group and a Illrd and IVth year group.

We recommend that wherever possible two double periods per week be provided for physical education. (This is embodied in another resolution.)

We recommend that one period of the eight be set aside as an organization period for the development of special classes in Physical Education and other subjects.

V.	The Committee on Gymnasiums recommends:

That at least four periods per week be given to Physical Education with the option that these four periods may be arranged in two double periods wherever desired.

That an emergency fund be placed in the hands of the Supervisor of Physical Education in order to meet the extra demand for supplies that will arise on account of an emphasis being put on outside athletics for the entire school and that said emergency fund be so placed as to avoid the normal delay in the delivery of such material.

VI. Thecommittee on Qualifications for teachers recommends as follows:

For the future the entrance requirements for teachers in the elementary schools and teachers in high schools should be different — those of the high school being greater. The following is a list of the entrance requirements for teachers of Physical Education in high schools:

1.	High School graduate or equivalent and,

2.	Graduate of at least a two year course in an accredited normal school of Physical Education. No equivalent and,

3.	Either two years’ teaching experience in Physical Education, or

4.	Two years’ student work in a teachers’ college or university.

OR

1.	Three years training in an accredited normal school of Physical Education — no equivalent,

2.	1 year’s teaching experience in Physical Education, or

3.	1 year’s student work in a teachers’ college or university.

So that a teacher has a total of four years’ work beyond high school training when she or he applies for entrance to examination. This is to apply to future candidates for positions of Physical Education teachers in our high schools.

The above is held up for further consideration.

In addition to these reports of the committees, which, as stated above were adopted with the exception of one deferred for study, the section as a whole passed three resolutions as follows:

1.	English teachers should be asked to co-operate with Physical Education Department to extent of assigning topics for English work which have a bearing on Physical Education, such as “The Importance of Hygiene,” etc.

2.	No pupil should be excused from Physical Education in any course except on presentation of a doctor’s certificate.

3.	An allowance of one physical training teacher be made to every 400 pupils enrolled.

Digitized by
91

EXTRACT FROM THE ANNUAL REPORT OF PRESIDENT BENJ. IDE WHEELER, OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.

Intercollegiate and Intramural Athletics.

The war has played its part in altering the position of intercollegiate and intramural sports and of physical education. The students themselves, in whose hands the conduct of athletics largely rests, decided to continue intercollegiate competition, but to eliminate all unnecessary expenses, such as training tables and long trips. In spite of the decreased enrollment of men students, there was for the semester August-December, 1917, an increase of 8.6 per cent in the number participating in intercollegiate sports and a decrease of only 3.4 per cent in the number participating in intramural sports. The increase in the intercollegiate sports is due to the growing popularity of the “minor” sports, such as tennis, basketball, etc. The number participating for instance, in football, rowing and baseball, decreased. With the continuance of the war it is inevitable that competitive sports between universities and colleges will steadily shrink away toward the vanishing point. This may yield us a valuable opportunity of observing just how essential to the well-being of the college community these sports are. Meantime, while the shrinking process is going on through the decline in the number of male students, we shall be returning to the conditions of twenty-five years ago, when we had three hundred male students, all or a large proportion of whom could if they chose participate in athletics. In these latter years the intercollegiate athletics have come to be no more than a saving remnant of the student body, a group of highly trained specialists who go down like gladiators into the dust of the arena, while Rome looks on and howls. It is not to be denied that these sports have a distinct value not only to the participants but also to the college community. The physical exercise is valuable, so is the effect on the institutional consciousness, the impulse toward college loyalty and the sense of solidarity. But the result is out of proportion to the mechanism. Everything is done for and through the few, and nothing for the mass. California Field and the Running Track with their vast encirclement of bleachers stand idle, so far as the many are concerned, most of'the time, waiting for the specialists to come. Out of four thousand male students, perhaps two hundred ever use the two fields. And yet these fields stand in the midst of the college life occupying the most valuable of its lands, and their tiers of bleachers are called to full use only for two or three occasions of the year.

, And yet our criticism is in reality directed less against these provisions for the athletes than against the lack of provision for the average student. The essent:al fact is that in twenty-five years while the number of our students to be cared for has multiplied by twelve we have only doubled our space. In making the transition we have crowded out the average student. But it is the non-athletic who needs our attention most.

Digitized by CjOOQle
92

In considering the proper site for a new Gymnasium we must recognize first of all that the ground occupied now by California Fields and the Running Track is insufficient for general student purposes, even if the bleachers should be removed. In the second place, the lot at the south-east of the Sather Gate could serve only for a gymnasium to be used by those occupying the California Reid and the Track. Thirdly, the open field west of California Hall coupled with the whole field west of Hilgard Hall is none too large to meet the joint needs of a general student athletic field and military drill ground. If we limit ourselves to land now owned by the University, this is clearly the best site; if we are to go outside, the Bunnell tract, between Grove and Milvia streets, would offer advantage in grade. Fourthly, the new gymnasium must be located and equipped for general use, not for the restricted use of intercollegiate athletics. This points to a site midway between fields just mentioned. Fifthly, it was clearly the purpose of Mr. E. V. Cowell, in providing for an athletic field and a gymnasium, that the interests of the entire student body should be served rather than the interests of a special group. His gift was noble and his purposes large and far-reaching. Our response in planning for its use must be equally large. These tentative suggestions which I here present involve I believe such a response. It means that the whole northwest area of the campus properly graded and equipped should constitute the Cowell Field of the future — a field devoted to the physical and moral upbuilding of all the students of the university for all the days to come.

NORMAL COLLEGE NOTES

The Normal College of the N. A. G. U. has given, out of its rank of students many of its efficient men for service, and stands ready to again give from her trained and ready men of the class of 1918, who are to go immediately after graduation. In spite of all of the unusual stir of the times, however, the regular routine of the College has scarcely been interfered with. A number of instructors have been called into war service principally of the medical department. Mrs. O'Hara is taking the place of Dr. Mumford, in Corrective Gymnastics. Dr. Carl Sputh, a former graduate of the school is giving the Physiology in place of Dr. Jewet V. Reed.

The basket ball season closed with the successful record of having won every game. They were entertained at dinner at the Athenaeum by Mr. G. H. Westing and Dean Rath on April 2nd, as a final winding up of their success. The Senior stars, C. Smidl,

H.	Smidl, A. Schaffner and G. Kaldfleisch will not be on the team next year.

As the spring advances outdoor life becomes a leading factor. Among the girls bicycle and hiking clubs have been formed. Outdoor track meets will soon be held, to give the Seniors, especially, opportunities to win points to wear their emblems before graduating.

For the same reason swimming meets for the men and women

Digitized by
9a

were held April 2nd and 3rd. The events in the women's meet. were as follows:

20 Yard Dash — Free Style

1.	A. Vomdran. Time, 17 sec.

2.	K. Mitchell. Time, 17 1-5 sec.

60 Yard Dash — Free Style

1. A. Vomdran. Time, 63 2-5 sec.

20 Yard Dash — Back

1.	G. Law

2.	K. Mitchell

3.	E. Comick

20 Yard Dash — breast

1.	G. Law

2.	F. Points

3.	L. Stoeber

Plunge for Distance

1.	K. Mitchell, 47 1-2 ft.

2.	C. Comick, 42 ft.

Diving (Front, Back and Two Optional Dives)

1.	A. Vomdran

2.	K. Mitchell

The spring vacation of the College was postponed until the week of April 8th, during which Dean Rath was present at the American Physical Education Association Convention in Philadelphia, and, on April 11th spoke upon “Fundamentals Regarding the Selection of Exercises.”

On Saturday, April 6th, which was chosen as Liberty Day, the student body represented the school by marching in the Liberty Loan parade. Many displayed their true patriotic spirit, as well as school spirit, by remaining a half day for the parade. The women marched in regulation blue skirt and white middy. The men wore the regular gymnasium costume with red and white insignia and white hats.

GENERAL PROGRAM OF THE FIFTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE MIDDLE WEST SOCIETY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND HYGIENE

To be held at DETROIT, MICHIGAN, May Third and Fourth, 1918

Theme — Relationship of Physical Education to:

A.	Biological Significance

Dr. Joseph E. Raycroft of Princeton University Commission on Training Camp Activities, Washington.

B.	Sociological Significance

Joseph Lee, of Boston, President of Playground and Recreation Association of America.

C.	Moral Significance

Rabbi Leo M. Franklin, Temple Beth El, Detroit.

Digitized by UaOOQle
D.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

Intellectual Significance

Dr. Chas. F. Chadsey, Superintendent of Public Schools, Detroit.

SECTION MEETINGS

SECTION	CHAIRMEN

Men's Colleges

A. A. Stagg, University of Chicago.

Normal Colleges

Prof. W. P. Bowen, Michigan State Normal College, Ypsilanti.

Public Schools

Miss Eva Reynier, Supervisor of Physical Education, Public Schools, Grand Rapids.

Playground and Recreation

G. F. Ashe, Acting Supt. Recreation Commission, Detroit, Mich.

Private Schools

Chas. W. Yeager, Supervisor Physical Education, Detroit University Schools.

Turners

E. W. Miller, Director of Gymnastics, Detroit Tumverein.

Women’s Colleges

Miss Blanche Trilling, Director of Physical Education, The University of Wisconsin.

Y. M. C. A.

Martin J. Foss, Dean of Physical Education, Chicago Y. M. C. A. College.

Y. W. C. A.

Miss Vesta Little, Director of the Department of Physical Education and Hygiene, Y. W. C. A., Detroit.

INFORMATION CALENDAR

Thursday, 8:00 P. M.—Demonstration Detroit Public School Physical Education. Showing all phases of work from First Grades thru the High Schools.

Friday, 9:00 A. M.—Registration at Headquarters.

10:00 A. M.—General Meeting.

12:00—Luncheon.

2:00 P. M.—Section Meetings.

4:30 P. M. Auto trip to Belle Isle Park and other places of interest. 7:30 P. M.—Banquet at Hotel Statler, followed by recreational evening. Conducted by G. F. SAHE, Acting Superintendent Recreation Commission.

Saturday, 10:00 A. M.—General Meeting, followed by Business Meeting.

2:00 P. M.—Kite Day, Northwestern Play Field. Supervised by Recreation Commission.
95

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ETHEL PERRIN, President J. TRUITT MAXWELL, Sec. and Treas.

W. J. MONILAW, Member at Large CHAIRMEN OF THE SECTIONS.

HEADQUARTERS — HOTEL STATLER Rates, $2.00 per day and up; Registration Fee — One Dollar Admission by Badge to all Sessions, including Auto Trip.

Visitors will be welcome in the schools either before or after the conven-. tion. Pre-Convention Headquarters at Board of Education, 50 Broadway.

For early information regarding sect ion program, write to section chairman.

Habit.—Habit keeps us all within the bounds of ordinance, and saves the children of fortune from the envious uprisings of the poor. It alone saves the hardest and most repulsive walks of life from being deserted by those brought up to tread therein. It keeps the fisherman and the deckhand at sea through the winter; it holds the miner in his darkness, and nails the countryman to his log cabin and his lonely farm through all the lonely months of snow. In most cases, by the age of 30, the character has set like plaster, and will never soften again.—William James.

BOOK REVIEW

Another book by Wm. A. Stecher has just been published by John Joseph McVey, Philadelphia, Pa. Its title is “The Theory and Practice of Educational Gymnastics for Junior High Schools,” also for Boys’ and Girls’ Clubs and all associations having gymnasium and playground work.

This beautiful little volume is not only a good companion to its predecessors written by Mr. Stecher, but the arrangement of lessons, the compilation of material is superior to them, so that teachers will derive much benefit and help from it. In fact, preparation of programs and selection of exercises will be made easy by using this volume. The arrangement of material in six assignments for each half school year of three grades, the seventh, eighth and ninth, constituting those of the junior high school, allows the teacher’s individuality to manifest itself in applying the lessons as they are and to amplify on them. The gymnasium roster for each of the twelve assignments is a new arrangement to aid the teacher. A chart is inserted, showing the aims in track and field activities for both sexes at different ages and gives the figures showing what may be considered average and also good ability.

The book is the only one of its kind on the market and will prove of real value, not only to the teacher in junior high schools, but also to those in full course high schools, grammar schools, clubs and societies that have gymnasiums. It is difficult to see how one can profitably get along without it. The price of the book is $1.50.	D.	M.	F.	Krogh.

Digitized by LaOOQle
SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, STATE NORMAL SCHOOL LA CROSSE, WISCONSIN.

Prepares young men and women to become teachers and directors of physical education* Excellent equipment, large athletic fields. Three gymnasiums. Swimming pool. Special opportunities for practice teaching in the public schools of La Crosse and in tne various departments of our large Normal School. Two and three year courses. Credit given for satisfactory work in colleges and other normal schools. Summer Sessions June 17th to July 26th. For information and catalog address

F. W. Maroney, M. D., Director	F.	A.	Cotton,	President

WHERE DO YOU STAND?

Do you Want to Know Nature's Law*? Are you tired of Disease and Suffering* f	Ignorance	of the Law i* no Excuse.

Send 30c cash or stamps for our booklet “HOW 1 BECAME ACQUAINTED WITH NATURE CURE", by Henry Lindlshr, M. D.

NATURE CURE PUBLISHING COMPANY 516 So. Aahland Boul.,	....	CHICAGO.	ILL

Sworn Statement Required

By the Postal Law.

STATEMENT OF TBE OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minnesota, required by the Act of August 24, 1912.

EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 45 W. JDhr.s^n SL Philadelphia.

MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 45 W. Jjhnson St., Philadelphia. BUSINESS MANAGERS*-—A. St2inhauser and H. Pa/ne, New Ulm, Minn. PUBLISHER:—MIND & BODY PUBLISHING CO.

OWNERS:—W. A. Steeher, 45 W. Johnson St., Philadelphia.

Albert Steinhausar, H. Payne, Ntw Ulm, Minn.

Known bondholders, mortgages, and other security holders, bolding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities: None.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER.

Affirmed and subscribed to before me this 31st day of March, 1918.

L. B. KROOK,

Notary Public, Brown Co., Minn.

(SEAL)	My	commission expires March 7th., 1923

L	J

Digitized by LiOOQle