Vol. io.	DECEMBER,	1903.	•=*>	No.	118

. .S'

o

DR. HARRIS says (Report Com. of ^ \tion, 1891-92, Vol. I., page XXII): The specia.'^^^em of our-time is “how to restore and conserve * ^ £vs

,{1	/

energy.17 The large problem for teachers of ph ^ training is not how to train the athlete, but how ^ invigorate the wreak. The problem, for example, of t* *p college trainer and of the physical director are quite different. The trainer aims to eliminate all weak or mediocre men and to push the remainder, a small percentage of the student body, to the limits of physical efficiency. This in a eonsideiable number of cases is carried farther than prudence would dictate.

—W. E. Day, Dayton, 0.

COIfcTTZEItf-'X’S:

Mr. Geo. Wittkh’s Report on Methods of Physical Instruction in City Schools.— Development and Care ol Children. By John C. Cook, M. D., Chicago.— Bad Advice to Husbands.—The Physician and Physical Education.—In the Gymnasium. By Dr. Robert Nohr.—Competitive Exercises Among the Boers.—Extracts from European Journals on Physical Training. By Carl L. Schrader.—What the Seminoles Play.—The Running High Jump. By W. E. Day, Dayton, O.-Football Scored by a College Man.-Athletics.



^	^*** * ^ ** * **	**

Digitized by

Googk

5 *■ \is
—258—

2.	The gradation and progression of heavy gymnastics (apparatus work) and the principles underlying the same.

3.	Are games and field work taught? If so, who conducts them?

4.	Where are the exercises performed ?

5.	How many special instructors are employed ? And how often does each one visit each school of his district ?

6.	How often does the director visit each school of the city, and in what manner docs he control and oversee the work?

7.	Do the class teachers conduct the exercises given by the physical instructor daily between his visits, or not? If so, what is the duration of each daily lesson ?

8.	Do the class teachers receive special instructions in the method of teaching physical training at the Normal School, or later?

II. PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE HIGH SCHOOL.

1.	Gradation of free exercises with and without hand apparatus and heavy gymnastics (apparatus work).

2.	Is the individual, or class, method in teaching apparatus work in use?

3.	Who conducts the field work (athletics)?

4.	Has every high school a gymnasium?

5.	Are the sexes separated during gymnastic instructions?

6.	How many lessons per week? Duration of each?

7.	Are competitive games, such as football, etc., under the control of the director of physical training?

8.	Have anthropometric measurements been taken? Were they worth the time involved ?

9.	How far does the influence of the director extend regarding hygienic conditions in the schools?

10.	Is the physical training of the Normal pupils under the control of the director of physical training?

I shall not discuss the answers to the questions, but simply give them as they were sent me.

BOSTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

ROOMS OF THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE, MASON STREET.

Dear Sir:	In	the	grammar	grades	the Swedish system is used. Sixteen

minutes a day are given to the exercises. The classes are conducted by the grade teachers who have received and who still receive special instruction. There are two assistants to the director, and every grade teacher is visited at least twice a year. The class rooms arc used ordinarily for the lessons, but the teachers may, if they prefer, use the corridors or halls. A few of the grammar schools have gymnasia, and a few more have apparatus in the basements, corridors, etc. We are extending this idea as fast as possible. In the high schools the work is done bv special instructors in the various gymnasiums. The period is about 40 minutes, and the pupils exercise twice or three times a week, as the case may* be. A very lew measurements are taken, and I think they are worth the trouble. Strength tests are barred.

As to athletics the usual tests as to physical condition, scholarship, etc., are applied. No boy can be a member of a school team who has not passed an examination given him by me. (The sexes are separated I should have said.)

As to school hygiene the director can simply make recommendations. How effective this has been in my own case is shown by an extract from my last report which I send you.

“In summing up what has been done in physical training for the last few
—259—

years, the important things are: the rapid development in the grammar schools along the line of providing gymnasia lor the new buildings and gymnastic apparatus for some of the older ones; the introduction and rapid extension of the work for young men in high schools, and the medical examination of school athletes. In school hygiene the important things are: the improvement of school furniture; the systematic changing of old furniture for new in a certain number of rooms each year; the introduction of ribbed glass; the examination of the eyes and ears of backward children, and the amending of the regulations in two instances.

“As to recommendations for the future, it seems hardly neeessary to make any. That the work should continue along the present lines; that all new schools should have playgrounds or plav-spaces out of doors, in the basements, or on the roofs; that pupils should be encouraged to use the playgrounds before and after school; that new grammar and high schools should have gymnasia; that buildings of more than two stories in height should have sanitaria on the upper floors; that buildings more than two stories high should have separate and special stairways communicating directly with the yard or with the street. All these and many others seem to me to be self-evident propositions.

Respectfully' submitted,

James B. Fitzgerald,

Director of Physical Training.”

Miss Laura Plummer of the Boston Normal School for Public School Teachers was kind enough to send me the following program of the course in gymnastics:

The course in gymnastics in the Boston Normal School for public school teachers consists of

(1)	a study of the theory of gymnastics,

(2)	a daily drill, and

(3)	practice, as teacher and critic, of these exercises, by every student in the senior class.

Two terms of twenty weeks constitute the full course.

Two periods a week, of three-quarters of an hour each, are given to the study of the theory of gymnastics.

A study is made of the bones, joints and muscles of the body; of the principles underlying the classes of a gymnastic lesson; and of type movements.

The practical work consists of a daily gymnastic lesson of twelve minutes. This is usually taken in the recitation room, but sometimes in the yard. Fiee standing exercises are given, and such games as are taught to children in the grade school. The teaching is done by the senior class, supervised by the teachers of gymnastics.

There is an elective course, taken by about one-fourth of the senior class. Five periods a week for one term are assigned to this work.

A further study is made of gymnastics and of related problems, as well as of school hygiene.

Work m the gymnasium enlarges the opportunity for practical work which now includes apparatus exercises.

So much for Boston.

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK.

OFFICE OF THE CITY SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, PARK AVENUE, COR. FIFTY-NINTH STREET, BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN.

September 8th, 1903.

Mr. George Wittich, Director Normal School of the North American Gymnastic

Union, 568 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Dear Sir:

New" Y'ork has just undergone a change of policy in regard to its physical training in the public schools, and it is not possible to give you all the matter that you wish tor this reason. I do not care to describe the work which we arc
-260-

going to do in advance of doing it. After we get it under way I shall be glad to do so to any extent; thus I cannot answer questions 1, 2, 3 and 4.

(5)	a. In the elementary schools we have, approximately, 60 gymnasiums and about 500 plaj'rooms, basements, or yards. The children exercise in all these places.

(5)	b. A number of grammar schools practice field work extensively and have regular meets iu spring. The practice work is done under the guidance of male class teachers.

(6)	We are now securing additional teachers for the elementary schools. We have at present on the roll twenty-three. Each supervisor (or teacher) in the elementary schools supervises about 500 classes. Counting twenty classes a day’s teaching, it would take 25 days (20: divided by 500 equals 25) or a term to make a round.

(7)	It is planned that each class shall be visited, if possible, twice a term.

(8)	The class teachers conduct the exercises between the visits of the special instructor daily.

(9)	The class teachers will have regular instruction throughout the year. These will most likely be conducted by the district supervisors.

(10)	The duration of the daily lessons varies throughout the grades as follows:

Time schedule on the basis of1500 minutes per week—300 per day.

Years. I.	II.	III. IV. V. VI. VII. VIII.

Recesses and Games, Setting Up etc. 6_______6_________6________6_______6_______6_______6_______6

46	39	3Q	39	24	24	24	24

This covers both recesses and physical training. In the upper grades there will be no recesses. Therefore the 18 minutes are given to physical exercise. In addition to the above time for physical training there will bt given, at three periods in the day, a little setting-up exercise, card about which I enclose.

Department of Education of the City of New York.

TWO MINUTE SETTING-UP EXERCISE.

(Two be taken twice in the morning and once in the afternoon.)

CLASS, STAND.

1>EEP BREATHING (4 times'. Inhale end exhale forcibly. The inhalation particularly should be forced to the utmost. The neck should be pressed firmly backward against the collar.

STRETCHING (4 times). Bend the back gently forward; straighten the back, raise the chest and lilt the arms as hig and as far back as possible ; keep the elbows straight. The last part of this exercise should be done with a great vigor as possible. Count two while the upward position is held.

KNEE BENDING (8 times) Keep the trunk erect; bend the knees half ways ; rise.

DEEP BREATHING (4 times> as at first.

CLASS, SIT.

(11)	No system of physical training is used. It is the aim to have the exercises meet the needs of the children.

SECTION 2. HIGH SCHOOLS.

The teachers do not do uniform work throughout the schools, the work being wholly taught by each special instructor, each teaching that which seems to him best. We have considerable of both Swedish, German, and those teaching other work.

(4)	Exercises are executed almost wholly in special gymnasiums.

(5)	The sexes are separated.

(6)	The work is conducted by special high school instructors.

(7)	There are two lessons given each week; each lesson is 45 minutes. f8) Games are not under the control of the director of physical training.

(9)	The relation of the director of physical training to school hygiene is not yet determined. His recommendations with reference to the course in physiology and hygiene have been followed.

(10)	Anthropometric measurements have been taken b\ some of the high school directors, who regard them as worth the time involved. It is not a uniform practice.

Digitized by Google
—261—

(11)	I fear that it will not be possible for me to furnish you with the photographs that you desire, although 1 may be able to do so.

(3. Our normal schools do not teach physical training by any uniform plan. Each school has its own instructor.

Sincerely yours

Luther Halsey Gulick,

Director of Physical Training.

BOARD OF EDUCATION, CITY OF CHICAGO.

OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, TRIBUNE BUILDING.

September 16, 1903.

Mr. Geonge Wittich, Director Normal Sehool, North American Gymnastie Union, 558-568 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis.

Dear Sir: I herewith answer questions as requested concerning district schools.

1.	Exercises are provided for each of the eight grades, increasing in difficulty-Wands from 4th to 8th grades. Indian clubs and dumbbells from 7th to 8th grades.

2.	60 schools are provided with as many apparatus as space would allow. 16, 20 poles, 4 pr. flying rings. 2 horizontal bars, 6 balancing boards, installed in the corridors or assembly halls, used by all grades. 76 schools are supplied with Sutler's Combination Apparatus, consisting of parallel bars, horizontal bars, 2 ladders, substitute horse and jumping boards. Apparatus being portable cam be placed in rooms, corridors, assembly halls or outdoor. This apparatus is used in the lower grades, parallel bar exercises are limited to knee hang, sitting position, and hand hang exercises. (Principles, strength, agility and dexterity.

3.	Appropriation for 20 schools has been made for field work and games.

4.	In general, classes are conducted in class rooms, or corridors; higher grades make use of the assembly halls.

5.	More attention is given to the general work, but in some cases special exercises for individuals are desired, corrective work. Respiratory exercises are given before and after regular lessons, unless conditions are unfavorable.

6.	We have 8 instructors for the elementary department.

7.	The director occasionally gives instruction to the pupils, and institutes tm the teachers.

8.	The class teachers conduct the exercises given by the specialists daily during their absence.

9.	In a number of schools class teachers receive special instruction once a week from Oct. 1st to April 1st. Attendance is not compulsory.

10.	10 to 15 minutes daily are allotted to the physical exercises.

11.	The German system of physical training is in use.

high schools.

1.	Simple and compound exercises with and without hand apparatus, developing all parts of the body, is the material used in free exercise.

2.	Apparatus class work is used in most high schools; in one or two schools individual work has been introduced.

3.	Field work is practiced by voluntary classes after school. Games are practiced as class games.

4.	The exercises and games are practiced in the gymnasium during inclement weather; in favorable weather they are taken out in the playground.

5.	The sexes are separated during physical insti uctions.

7.	Mostly one lesson per week of 50 minutes is given, two schools have gym-nasties twice a week, 25 minutes each time.

8.	Athletics and football are controlled by a separate board of teachers (one teacher for each school).

9.	Report in regard to sanitary conditions always considered.

10.	Measurements have been taken among the voluntary classes (after school closed). Objections are: too much time consumed, and the masses lose the time they should have for exercising. No allowance is mide to pav for extra help.

'll. ? ?

NORMAL SCHOOL.

Under separate supervision.

Yours truly	Henry	Suber,

Supervisor ol Physical Culture.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
—2 62-

Mr. Alvin Kindervater. supervisor of physical training in ST. LOUIS, reports the following:

The material is carefully sifted, . graded and adapted to the perceptive faculty of the majority of the pupils of each grade. The same consists of free exercises in standing and walking and games in the primary and grammar grades, and of a complete course of physical training, including apparatus and field work, in the high schools.

Procedures in the development of the exercises lead from the simple to the complex, along a long scale of gradually increasing difficulty to the more difficult forms of exercises requiring strength and control, and implying a high form of mental and physical co-ordination.

1.	The free exercises and games are planned and arranged by the director and given to the class teachers in pamphlet form, containing 16 lessons for each grade of the primary and grammar schools. The director imparts his instructions to his assistants in monthly meetings.

2.	The grammar grades have neither heavy gymnastics nor field work; from the 5th grade on the wand is used, and the club is added in the 7th grade. The first three grades have games twice a week in the yard, and during inclement weather in the basement. 16 different games are played during the year, each one 6 days of each three weeks. The time allotted to exercises and games is 15 minutes daily, about the middle of the afternoon session, the class teacher conducting the same between the visits of the special instructor.

The special instructors visit every school once in three weeks and give a new lesson and a game each time. At the end of each quarter the work is reviewed in the presence of the special instructor and marked. Points considered in examination are:

1.	Attitude of head and trunk in sitting, walking and standing.

2.	Execution in general.

3.	Discipline, attention and precision.

The director visits each school once or twice a year and reports to the superintendent of instruction at the end of each quarter. His report is based largely upon those of his assistants.

The exercises are taken in classrooms, basements, halls, yards.

The Normal pupils receive instruction in practical work and method ©f teaching physical exercises.

HIGH SCHOOLS.

The gradation and progression of the free exercises begun in the primary and grammar schools are carefully continued throughout the high school; apparatus and field work is added. Much attention is paid to games that require alertness and presence of niind.

The individual method of teaching apparatus and field work is in use.

Athletics of the high school are under control of the so-called “Athletic Association.” This together with the football and baseball teams is an independent organization with a professional coach.

I shall not discuss any of the answers or conditions described in the answers, because most of the faulty conditions are not caused by the

Digitized by CjOOQle
—263—

directors in charge, but by prevailing conditions and circumstances, and because the object of procuring these answers was simply to learn the conditions of school gymnastics in the cities.

But I can not forebear to state that I was somewhat disappointed upon finding the questions pertaining to “gradation and supervision” treated rather evasively, for I consider these two points the most essential of all.

DEVELOPMENT AND CARE OF CHILDREN.

chairman’s address before the section on diseases of children at

THE FIFTY-FOURTH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION AT NEW ORLEANS, MAY 5-8, 1903.

By JOHN C. COOK. M. D.f Chicago.

IT is with no little temerity that I enter on my duties of opening this Section of the Fifty-fourth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, while it is a great pleasure to appear in this capacity in my native heath, as it were, for my childhood and early boyhood days were spent in the sunny, south, and I feel that my early impression enables me to appreciate the high-grade sensitiveness of the southern gentleman, and when, added to this, he is one of our own cloth, I feel that I can bespeak for myself and my breathren the cordial welcome always accorded a visitor in the southern fold.

To this glorious old city that has been the scene of so many disquietudes we have come to study with you the best methods of the most important subject now before not only the medical profession but before the whole world, namely, how best to save the lives of the tender babes and develop them into sturdy manhood and womanhood, and let it be the privelege of this Section to consign to oblivion the dogmas and superstitions surrounding the treatment of diseases of children, and by our scientific accomplishments reflect the rays of the noonday sun on true preventive medicine.

It is also within the province and power of this Section of the great medical body to refute the most dangerous and far-reaching condemnation of the medical profession that has ever been made, namely, that physicians are a national detriment because they preserve the weak and thereby weaken the whole nation. But we are at the wheel and helm not only to preserve the weak but to strengthen them, and so prove ourselves, a9 in the past, the greatest body of human benefactors that ever has or will exist.

Let us see anatomically and physiologically what this specimen is we call a child. Is it true that a man is simply a grown-up child or a child an immature man? Once clear on this subject, we are better prepared to study its requirements and judge of its capabilities. Fehling gives the percentage of water in a very young fetus as 97.5. Instead of this being a permanent feature, it is merely a transitory one and diminishes steadily until after birth it is 74.7 per cent. The decrease continues gradually but more slowly until in the adult it is only 58.5 per cent. Oppenheim’s researches show us that the osseous system under-

Digitized by U.ooQle
-264-

goes marked changes, that the organic and inorganic elements bear inverse ratio to the age from one to twenty-five, and this fact gives us an insight to the relative period over which ossification is spread.

Thus the walls of the shafts continue to grow thicker from birth to puberty and in some instances do not attain full development before the twenty-fifth year. Take, for instance, the bones of the head and face. The upper and lower jaw begin to ossify in early life and continue to change all through childhood and youth and do not attain full development until after puberty. Again, taking as an example the layers of cartilage which act as cushions between those important parts of the skull, the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoidal bones do not allow them to unite until the twentieth year. This condition serves to make other changes that are equally if not more important. We should keep these things in mind for their bearing on the rightful exercise of a child’s functions.

The muscular system develops simultaneously with the osseous, but neither of them make a harmonious and uninterrupted development. A child is more supple than an adult, not because he has more muscle but a relatively larger proportion of muscle to tendon. As a matter of fact there is less of the elements that fnake the body weight, and the percentage of water is greater and the myosin less.

A few facts of relative proportion will serve to illustrate the anatomic and physiologic difference between childhood and adult life.

The circulatory and respiratory system, the changes in the heart are noteworthy. In the fetal stage it occupies nearly the entire thoracic cavity. At birth it is still relatively’’ larger than the adult life. Mathematically, the new-born heart is 0.89 per cent of the body weight while the adult heart is only 0.52 per cent.

The rapid and irregular strides made by the lungs at different periods of development make the compensation between the lungs and heart a little uncertain during the developing period. Also the relative difference between the heart and the arterial system at different periods of growth makes an uncertain and unreliable blood presure through youth and adolescence.

The blood elements themselves are different in childhood from adult life, rich in the so-called young-form elements, while the over-ripe is only one-half as abundant as in maturity.

The changes in the nervous system from birth to maturity afford us many examples of the difference between the child and adult. At birth the central nervous system, as well as the peripheral, is almost entirely unmedullated. Hence, we find the fibers of the spinal cord, the medulla, corpus quadrigeminus and the pons Yarolii mainly somatic. The motor nerves receive their attachments much earlier than the inhibitory centers are developed, hence the many objectless movements that characterize the unmeasured exercise of the young.

Thus maturity is gradual and full growth is only reached between puberty and adult life. It is our duty to guard and conserve every atom of energy through this period of unfolding and budding life, realizing that they are bundles of possibilities unsolidified, which begin at the beginning and end we know not where.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—265—

The study of biology teaches us that the higher the organism the slower the development, hence the necessity for a long period of protection and care. Take with this the many periods of stress and functional demands on the nervous system and we can realize the greater necessity for a wise and careful guardianship.

And who shall give this care and protection to the child who has been unfortunate in the selection of its parents? How much have we a right to expect from the state and how much is the state at liberty to interfere?

As citizens we have a right to expect common protection to our lives and property in return for a consideration the state exacts of us, but the state has a higher and more exalted motive in surrounding us with every care and protection, for we are its soul and body, its producer and consumer, its parent and offspring and, as every child born is a possible parent and citizen, it behooves the state to give it every protection and opportunity for a full development of all its best and highest capabilities, with a minimum facility for the development of the depraved side of humanity.

There is a wonderful significance in the fact that humanity continues its life on the earth by means of successive generations, and to conserve the nation’s integrity one must protect and conserve the rising generation, and were it different how* meager our advancement would be. It is only step by step of succeeding generations that the greatest heights of science, art and humanity are attained.

REGULATIONS OF CHILD LABOR.

Let us see what is being done by the state for the betterment of our successors. In speaking of the state, I refer to it in its specific rather than its general meaning, as the government of the United States hats concerned itself little, if any, in the rising generation, while the states that have taken any action at all have regarded the subject from such different points of view one would think they were dealing with entirely different nations, with different environments and with entirely different objects to be attained.

Arkansas, Kansas, Georgia, Oregon, Idaho, North and South Carolina, New Mexico, Texas and Florida have not grabbled with the subject at all, while about halt as many states have only covered one phase of the subject.

The state of Washington does not allow small children to work in mines or females to act as public messengers. Utah protects her children from working in the mines only. Arizona protects her children against public exhibitions. New Hampshire has no law on child labor, but a very efficient compulsory education law. Alabama and Virginia have child labor laws pending. Fortunately in some of these states there are few manufacturing establishments.

Many of the other states have very efficient laws, others voluminous ones. Some states have legislated well on the labor question with little or no attention to compulsory education or provision for a child’s time who is not allowed to work.

As early as 1874, in the Ten Hour Act, Massachusetts began to

Digitized by CjOOQle
-266-

throw a safeguard around her children. In 1870 an act was passed making ten years the youngest age a child could be put to work in a factory. In 1883 the limit was raised to twelve years during school time, and in 1885 a law was passed prohibiting children working under twelve any time of the year. In 1888 the age limit was again raised to thirteen years.

These figures show the necessary changes from actual experience and have some bearing on the whole subject of the age at which children should be allowed to become wage earners. And yet, notwithstanding the fact that many of the states have enacted excellent laws on the subject of child labor, the application of them falls far short of the purpose for which they were intended. In many instances they only legalize the subject, protect the state and vicious parent, act as a sedative to public conscience and pervert their own purpose.

In all states having labor laws they take the age of the child as the standard of capability and the affidavit of the parents takes prestige over everything else in establishing this fact, which in man}* instances not only works physical detriment to the child but establishes in its innocent but honest mind its parents as liars; and, as the manufacturer is not required to be any better than the law, the applicant is accepted without investigation. With him it is business, not philanthropy. It requires but a slight stretch of the imagination to see this child at the juvenile court. One million seven hundred and fifty children under 15 years of age are wage earners in the United States at the present time, and this number has increased 100 per cent in the last ten years.

Just one hundred years ago Sir Robert Peel directed the people of England’s attention to the disastrous effect of child labor on the nation. He, with others, was startled to find they could no longer replenish the army from the manufacturing districts, the early factory labor had so dwarfed the rising generation.

Notwithstanding the vigor with which he and others attacked this plague, it took the best part of the following half century to consign it to oblivion. Germany, France, Austria and Russia soon followed England’s example, and now “Free America” owns and controls the market in child slavery.

The result of this can not be different in this country from what it has been in others—a physically, mental and morally weak and depraved generation, and I believe it eminently proper that a sentiment against this wholesale slaughter of childhood should emanate from a representative body of men such as this, who are devoting their lifes to the care and improvement of the rising generation, and who are better prepared and more willing to cope with the subject than are any other body of citizens.

And what can we do? Elevate public sentiment and guide sentimental legislation. The state can better afford to support and educate a child from 7 to 20 years of age than it can support paupers and discipline criminals from 20 to 50.

Not that I would deny any one the privilege of honest toil—far from me—for work is a civilizer, a developer of character and dignity, and endows the human race with an independence that nothing else wil
—267—

replace, and it is stated by men of keen observation and broad experience that no man in this country has ever risen to eminence, either in the medical or legal profession, who has not worked with his hands. It is not labor that makes or mars our character, but the kind of environments during the developing period that prepares us for our future and greater tasks of life.

Factories aggregating a great number under unhygienic surroundings tend to minimize, while individual labor under good sanitary conditions tends to magnify the individual unit.

If any development occurs after a child is put to running a machine in a large factory, it is a one-sided one, making a genius or a freak* as circumstances may determine, depending on the part over-stimulated at the expense of many or all the other faculties. Thus it is children come to have weak bodies and minds, not so much from heredity as from environment.

One may see how true this is (I quote from Oppenheim’s “Development of Child”) by the following report of the committee of the British Medical Association of 1883 in regard to the relative stature of boys between 11 and 22 in the population at large and at the industrial and reformatory schools. They found the tallest boys in proportion to their age in the public school. Below them came the boys in the so-called middle-class schools, and then those in the elementary schools and in the private military schools, and last of all the inmates of the industrial school, a difference of six inches existing between the first and last class.

This proportion is true at any period between the two mentioned ages. What has been found to be true of stature is also true of weight, a difference as great as twenty-five pounds existing between the first and last class; and what is true of body measure and weight is a strong indication of the mental state. Dwarfed bodies, as a rule, mean dwarfed minds and souls.

Thus* to break in on the nutrition and disturb the rhythm of development for one day means the marring of the body and harmony of a perfectly finished product. To conserve every atom of nutrition and force, protect every budding function, that we may deliver to posterity a perfect being becomes our highest and greatest aim in life.

How may we aid the state in adjusting this important matter? There are conditions which are familiar to all of us that should and must take prestige over all established state laws. As, for instance, the necessity of a child working to support its own life, to aid in the support of a helpless mother, or add to the maintenance of a young brother or sister, and I believe it is a conceded fact that there are no' established rules or scales of weight, measurement, or mental development by which all children’s ability to become wage earners can be established, as there are children that fulfill the requirements of the best established laws; yet by inheritance or previous enviroments they are physically and mentally unable to perform the duties required of the average child.

This is verified by a letter from Dr. James H. Dowie of New Holland, Georgia, who has had twenty, years’ experience with child labor in

Digitized by v^ooQle
-.268-

cotton mill life. Says the doctor:	“The	children who are physically

able for the duties do not succumb nearly so quick, if at all, to the factory labor. The wizen, wan and dejected ones so frequently seen in cotton mill towns are the result of over-taxation of the immature and lack of judicious application of efficient laws.”

As it is n Jt within the power of the medical profession to immediately change the present condition, we may improve it by lending our aid to the sanitary surroundings of the factories in which children are employed, see that at least 250 cubic feet of air space be allowed for each person employed from sunrise to sunset and that 400 cubit feet be allowed each person employed between the time the sun sets and rises, and that sufficient ventilation be arranged so that the air be changed every hour, with sufficient pure water to drink and an ample supply of sunshine, toilet facilities for both sexes employed, and to have such laws enacted as will provide for the protection, development and education of all children, with efficient administration and application of the law.

I would, therefore, recommend that each state have appointed a commission consisting of five members, at least two of whom shall be physicians, to have jurisdiction over all education and labor questions, and that said commission be appointed by the supreme judges of its state, and they in turn nominate or appoint inspectors so that the question of child labor shall be forever removed from petty politics and vicious contract labor.—“The Journal of the American Medical Association.“

BAD ADVICE TO HUSBANDS.

ONLY WHEN THE HEAD OF THE HOUSE IS AN ATHLETE IS HE ENTITLED TO RIGHTS.

In the course of a divorce trial in the city of New York the lawyer for the husband told the jury that on certain occasions his client returned to his home and found that his wife had been out all day.

“And,” he added, “when he demanded an explanation she told him it was none of his business. Who would not curse?” asked the man of the law. “I only wonder that he did not break every bone in her body.”

Hold on! It would never do for husbands !n general to get any such notion as to their “rights” into their silly heads. What would the wives do? If the head of the house happened to be a trained athiete he might attempt it, and even then an ambulance might be necessary—for him. In these days, what with women getting taller and men getting shorter, what with feminine athletics as a part of the course at every girl’s school and college—this bone-breaking proposition is a palpable absurdity. Fancy a ridiculous, spindle-shanked, hollowchested chit of a husbund trying to chastise a 150-pounder of a better half who had been brought up on basket ball and golf! Fancy it, we say—fancy it!

But that is not all. Suppose that a wile could not visit her mother and stay all day without accounting for every moment of her time under pain of corporal punishment, if the husband was strong enough to inflict it, the converse proposition would hold here. So if little Mr. Jones stayed out until 3 o’clock in the morning, and big Mrs. Jones, one of the athletes above mentioned, was not satisfied with his explanation that didn’t explain, she would have the right to break every bone in his body. That would be a nice state of affairs.

It is the part of wisdom to leave this question of the wife’s accountability in its present vague condition, if for no other reason, for the sake of the unfortunates who are in proper fear of their wives’ prowess.

Digitized by LjOOQle
—2ti9-

A/\lWD ftND BODY. -*r

Published Monthly.

MY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Sabaeription Price, $1.00 per Year.

TuTVlTxr at-oJK**, 'Wlacon ertn.

V Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D.f 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

THE PHYSICIAN AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

A POPULAR idea prevails that the opinion of the physician in matters concerning physical education, being based upon physiological and anatomical knowledge, must needs be considered as of the very highest value. This idea, however, is incorrect as can readily be proven.

The medical science is enlarging its scope continuously and rapidly, owing to new discoveries. So wide has this field grown that now no one physician is able to master all the different branches of medicine. As a matter of consequence, the medical work is more and more subdivided into specialties, leaving practically no time for interest in sublets which lie outside of his profession.

Physical training, although closely related to the medical science, is still not considered an eligible sister to the family and therefore without a place in the curriculum of our medical schools. Where then does the assumed superior knowledge of the physician come from, unless the knowledge of anatomy, physiology, hygiene, etc., would entitle him to such credit? Truly, these subjects are parts of the highest importance in the equipment of the physical director, but are more easily dispensed with than such things as pedagogy^ methods, etc.

The physician, if he recommends “exercise” as a therapeutie measure, has no idea of the dosage and physiological limits of the work, no judgment of all those details that only a specialist has an opportunity of acquiring.

We know many physicians who have familiarized themselves sufficiently with that part of physical training which springs from the art of teaching, and admit that these are to be considered authorities from their double knowledge.

All the others from the medical profession, however, are outsiders whose field of usefulness, as far as we are concerned, should be restricted to that of a general family adviser, or of the person whose word in all cases of contra-indication must be taken as final.

But even here we have fault to find with him.

At the last meeting of the Wisconsin Physical Education Society the president of the Milwaukee Normal School laid the blame for the many failures in physical education departments of schools at the door of the family physician. He maintains that as long as physicians do not emphasize the importance of the training of the body, but on the contrary are ever read}" to furnish certificates for permanent excuse upon the slightest wish of the pupil,—the work cannot be made compulsory in the true sense of the word.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-270-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools, f Continued A

A CLASS DRILL, team work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Combination Beetle Chase and Wander Ball/’ (See explanation below.)

As a preliminary a short run of about three minutes, during which time raise lower legs backw. alternately a given number of steps. Same with raising knees (also extended legs) forw.

Note.—Allow an interval of 12 to 16 steps between each of the above exercises.

After all have been provided with wands (iron or wooden), form ranks of fours 1. oblique from a flank line in successive order thus: Upon the command of “March!” the first four form a front rank by marching 1. oblique—1, 4!, the remainder continue as before, then the second four same as the first—5, 8!, the third—9, 12!, etc., until all have formed.

File down the center to place for the drill. Twos V2 wheel outw. (four steps)—1, 4! Again V2 wheel outw. (four steps)—5, 8! Then the outer rows take two steps outw. with closing (follow) step—9,12! Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!—13, 14!

WAND DRILL.

Wand in front of shoulders—raise!

1.	a) Raise 1. and r. leg forw. alternately and stretch arms forw.— 1, 4!

b) Raise 1. and r. leg backw. alternately and stretch arms upw.— 1, 4! Wand^down!

2.	Raise heels and raise wand forw.—1! Bend knees and move wand in front of shoulders, bend 1. arm over r.—2! Asl—3! Pos.—1! Same with r. arm over 1.—5. 8!

3.	a) Raise wand overh.—1! Bend trunk forw. and lower wand in front of ankles—2! As 1—3! Pos—4! b) Raise wand overh.—1! Bend trunk backw. and lower wand behind shoulders—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

4.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Bend 1. knee and move wand overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

Wand overh.—raise!

5.	Turn trunk to the 1. and r. alternately (arms remain in pos.)— 1, 4! Wand—down!

6.	a) Jump upw., raise knees and wand forw. and return to starting pos. by command or in slow rhythm G or 8 times, b) Jump upw., raise lower kgs backw. and raise wand overh. and return to starting pos. by command or in slow rhythm 6 or 8 times.

Straddle jump outw. (sidew.) and wand overh.—jump!

7.	Turn trunk to the 1. and r. alternately in two counts, 6 or 8 times. Pos.—jump!

Digitized by

Google
—-71-

In place—rest! Or some variety of gymnastic tactics.

S.	Stride pos. sidevv. 1. and raise wand sidew. 1.—1! Bend 1. knee, move wand overh. ar.d lower obi. behind shoulders (r. arm sidew. downw. obi. and 1. hand over 1. shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.,—1, 4! Alternately—1, 8!

9.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand forw. to vertical pos. (1. band upw.)—1! Bend trunk sidew. 1. and move wand upw. r. (1. hand in front of r. shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Alternately—1, 8!

10.	Raisel. leg backw. and wand overh.—1! Lower wand forw. to starting pos. and step over the same with 1. leg—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Alternately—1, 8!

11.	Raise wand overh.—1! Lower behind hips with extended arms—2!

As 1—3! Pos.—4!

12.	Breathing exercise—Inhale slowly and raise wand overh. in four counts; hold breath four counts; exhale and lower wand to starting pos. in one count.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry!—1, 2!

Close ranks in reverse order to that of opening the same, or close order , sidew. 1. or r. The ranks XA wheel 1. (or r.) to a front line, file 1. (or r.) and deposit wands.

APPARATUS WORK.

2,	3 or 4 Low Parallel Bars (side jumps).

Class Formation.—Three or four files of six to ten members, each at a fair distance from and facing the apparatus in flank order. If there are only two parallel bars available then two may execute the movements as near to the ends as possible and in opposite position, and at the second trial change sides so that all may execute each movement 1. and r.

The fourth division to stand at the head ot the files, followed by the third, second and first. The members of the fourth division execute the first, the third division the second, the second division the third and the fourth division the fourth exercises.

Marching Order.—Members leave the files to approach the apparatus and return on the I. (or r.) or the side on which they exercise to the rear of the files, the latter moving one step forw. with each succession.

GROUP I.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Rear vault mount r. to riding seat on nearest bar; rear vault dismount r. over both bars.

2.	Rear vault r. to straddle seat in front of hands; rear vault dismount sidew. r.

3.	Rear vault over both bars.

4.	Rear vault over both bars with V2 turn 1.

Note.—Repeat on opposite side.

GROUP 11.

1.	Front vault mount r. to riding seat on nearest bar; front vault dismount sidew. r. over both bars.

2.	Front vault mount to straddle seat behind hands; front vault dismount sidew. r.

3.	Front vault sidew. r. over both bars.

4.	Front vault sidew. r. over both bars with V2 turn 1.

Note.—Repeat on opposite side.

Digitized by

Google
-272-

GROUP III.

1.	Rear vault mount r. to straddle seat in front of hands; raise both legs forw., swing baekw. to front leaning rest on bars; dismount sidew. r.

2.	As ex. 1, to straddle seat; raise both legs forw., swing backw. to front vault r. over faither bar.

8.	Rear vault r. over nearest bar, swing backw. and back scissors mount (hands placed in rear); raise both legs forw., swing backw. to front vault 1. over farther bar.

4.	Rear vault r. over nearest bar; intermediate swing; lower backw. to upper-armrest with thighs flexed over body; kip to straight arm rest and front vault r. with V2 turn 1.

Note.—Repeat on opposite side.

GROUP IV.

1.	Front vault mount r. to straddle seat behind hands; raise both legs backw., swing forw. to rear vault r. over farther bar.

2. As ex. 1, to straddle seat; raise both legs backw., swing forw., M turn r. to cross-straddle rest on both bars (1. leg forw., r. backw.); reverse grasp of 1. hand and screw dismount 1. with Vi turn 1.

3.	Front vault r. over nearest bar, swing forw. and front scissors mount behind hands; raise both legs backw., swing forw. to rear vault 1. over farther bar.

4.	Front vault r. over nearest bar, swing forw., lower backw. to upper-armrest with thighs flexed over body; continue the turn to upper-arm balance; lower backw. to straight arm rest and rear vault r. with V2 turn 1.

Note.—Repeat on opposite side.

GROUP v.

1.	Rear vault mount r. to straddle seat in front of hands; raise both legs forw., swing backw., then % circle r. with both legs (under 1. hand) to outside cross-seat in front of said hand (the latter regrasping the bar;) rear vault dismount sidew. r.

2.	As ex. 1, to straddle seat, raise both legs forw., swing baekw., then V2 circle r. with both legs to straddle seat in front of hands; rear vault dismount sidew, r. with V2 turn 1.

3.	Rear vault r. over nearest bar, swing backw. and double rear vault r. (over 1., then r. bar).

4. Rear vault r. over nearest bar, swing backw., then % circle 1. (over r. bar), swing backw. and double rear vault r. (over 1., then r. bar).

Or: Rear vault r. over nearest bar, swing backw., turn over forw. to shoulder balance; then continue the turn to outside cross-seat in rear of r. hand; feint with both legs and double rear vault r. (over 1., then r. bar).

Clear the floor, retain the same formation for the exercises on the flying rings (jumping height)

Hand hang.

1.	Circle r. with both legs.

2.	“ 1. “ “ “

Digitized by LiOOQle
-273-

3.	Pull up; extend 1. arm sidew.; bend I. arm; extend arms.

Repeat by extending r. arm etc., and down.

4.	As ex. 3, but extend arm forw. instead of sidew.

5.	Raise knees and % turn backw. with extention of legs downw. to back hang; return in reverse order, and down. Repeat.

6.	Raise knees and V2 turn backw,, place both feet into the 1-. ring, transfer grasp of 1. hand to r. ring and Y2 turn 1. to backw. leaning hang; return in reverse order, and down. Same opposite.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and form one large or two smaller circles for “Combination Beetle Chase and Wander Ball

Explanation of the above game: The class to form a circle and to face inward, the members about four or five feet apart.

A medicine ball or basket ball is passed in circle 1. (i. e. from 1. to r. neighbor) as in wander ball. The beetle (or stuffed club as it is commonly termed) which is made of soft material and about sixteen to eighteen inches in length, is placed upon the floor in the center of the circle.	,	,

The ball is to be passed as rapidly as possible from one to the next member with the purpose that some one eventually drops the same. The one who drops the ball must pick it up and carry it once around the outside of the circle to his original starting point; simultaneously the one who delivered the ball last, steps quickly to the center of the circle, picks up the beetle and breaks through the circle at the nearest point of the member carrying the ball, and endeavors to strike the ball runner on the legs as often as possible until he reaches his starting point, when the ball is again passed and the beetle thrown to the center of the circle until the next member (victim) drops the ball. The game continues thus indefinitely.

Note.—The ball must not be thrown too hard or purposely out of reaeh to cause any member to drop the same. The member with the beetle must not head off the ball runner, but break through the circle where he can reach him easiest. This game can be played by all pupils, male or female, beginning with the age of ten years, with a great deal of interest. About sixteen members to a circle creates the most interest. If there be a larger number, then form two circles.

After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.)

COMPETITIVE EXERCISES AMONG THE BOERS.

THE Boers are quite active in promoting physical vigor. One of the favorite sports among them is climbing poles. One arm is tied across the back so that all the work is done with the legs and one arm. This reads simpler than it really is. Ax hurling is also very popular. An ordinary wooden ax is swung about the head and then hurled to the distance. Upon alighting the sharp end must stick in the ground. Still another sport and a unique one is the following. The competitors stand on a spade, one foot on either side of the handle and with hands grasped at the top of the handle. Upon the starting signal they hop forward and the one reaching the finish first, the distance usually being twenty feet, is the winner. Any one losing his foothold is disqualified. Hill-racing is still another favorite pastime, the steepest hills being chosen for such races. The physical endurance of the Boer is wonderful while in speed he could hardly be counted as an average sprinter.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-274-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR APPRENTICES.

Regular instruction in physical exercises is given the apprentices of the Royal Navv Yard in Wilhelmshavsn. The lessons are given once a week from six to eight in the evening. The young men participating are excused from their work on those days at 4 p. m. Those of the young men who are not prompt in their classes or shirk the lessons altogether have the pay for those two hours deducted while those who miss three classes without reasonable excuse lose the privilege of attending these lessons. There is no expense for the young men. It is to be hoped that this beautiful example will soon be copied in many other places.

MARATHON R^CE FOR PROFESSIONALS.

On Sunday, Aug. 2, this-great race was run. The distance to be covered was 40 km., from Acheres to Paris. Of 173 men entered, 152 started. The race was won by C. Cibot of the Club Athletique Parisien in 2 hours 34 min. 50 sec. Fifty-nine runners finished in less than 4 hours.

SHOWER BATHS IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

In 15 of the Berlin Schools shower baths are in operation. During the school year 1901 they were used by 180,783 boys and 94,342 girls. The cost for maintaining these baths was 20,000 Mk. (7Y3 Pfennig per bath). The experience has been such a profitable one that hereafter all schools are to be thus equipped.

CHANGES IN THE POWER OF VISION.

The “Zeitschrift of Schulgesundheitspflege” relates some observations made in the Realschule of Quedlinburg, concerning the beneficial influence of the summer vacation upon the eyesight. It was found that letters of a certain size were read at a 1.10 meter greater distance in October than what they were at the end of the winter. In some cases the power of vision was even doubled during the summer. Wherever the refraction of the eye was changed a decrease was found to be more common than an increase.

HYGIENE.

Air is the most important of foods, and breathing the most essential function in our organism. We eat daily 3 liters of solid and nitrogenous food, require however 12,000 liters or 15 kilos of air in 24 hours. Much as man knows about eating as little does he know about breathing. Every occupation which necessitates deep breathing is for this reason of great value, for example, loud talking, singing, gymnastics, wheel-riding, mountain climbing, etc. Laughing is one of the healthiest physiological functions. Sleeping apartments should be so aired that no one can detect that a person has slept there. Lamps should

Digitized by CaOOQle
—275—

be kept burning at full height while using them for work and should be extinguished outside of the dwelling room. A thimble full of street air contains more than 200,000 particles of dust. Good fresh air is only to be found in the open. Of all living beings man is least fitted to live crowded, and cities may well be termed “open giaves.”

INSTRUCTIONAL CONGRESS OF SCHOOL HYGIENE.

In the held of hygiene research there are two branches which at the present time claim preeminence in all civilized lands, namely school hygiene and public hygiene. Many eminent scientists have been active in bringing these two to the foreground. Physicians and schoolmen have cooperated in this movement; governments and municipalities are eager to promote this work. With all due appreciation of the progress made in the application of precautions for the health of the public and the influence which congresses of hygiene and demography have brought to bear one cannot lose sight of the ever confronting part that in order to promote a healthful education of our youths, much has remained undone in the hygiene of the school. New problems are arising constantly how to strengthen the youthful organism and how to find means by which to avert the evergrowing nervous condition, and to prevent the pregnant untimely collapse. Vital points of this nature have brought about the founding of organizations which aim to solve this problem. Thus the German “Verein fur Schulgesundheitspflege,” the French “Ligue des medecins et families pour 1’ amelioration de 1’hygiene physique et intellectuelle dans les 6coles,” the Swiss “Gesell-schaft fur Sehulgesundheitspflege,” the “Allgemeen Paedologisch Ge-zelschap” Antwerp, the “Vereenigung tot Vereenoondiging van examens en nnderwys” of Arnheim, and the “Fachcommittee of Hungarian School Physicians and Professors of Hygiene” in Budapest, were created.

Since we are convinced that in order to effect a hygienic education, the beginning has to be made in early life and by methodical advances, and that especially in the school, the mental overexertion and weakening of the individual is to be prevented by a well balanced physical or bodily care; furthermore, that the thriving development of a people is only insured when the health of its youths, especially during the school years, is promoted in every detail, finally in the conviction that by united effort of all nations the problem, a rational school hygiene, will be solved easier and more satisfactory, we, the undersigned (an unusal long list of eminent men follows) feel justified to call together international congresses which shall regularly convene once every three years. As an executive body the German organization has been considered, and the city of Nuernberg has declared its willingnees to entertain the first congress, to be held in 1904. Lectures and discussions which must pertain to school-hygiene may be rendered in any European language, especially French, German and English. Dr. med. Paul Schubert of Nuernberg has been designated to act as general secretary. Everybody interested in the promotion of school-hygiene shall be considered eligible. Every member is to pay a fee of 20 Mk.

The following divisions in subjects have been made:

Digitized by LjOOQle
1.	Hygiene of school buildings and their equipment.

2.	Methods of hygienic research.	#

8.	Hygiene of instruction.

4-. Hygienic advice to teachers and pupils.

5.	Physical education of school children.

6.	Diseases and medical service in schools.

7.	Secondary schools for weakminded children.

8.	Hygiene of school children outside of school and the organization of parents meetings.

9.	Hygiene of subject matter to be taught.

WHAT THE SEMINOLES PLAY.

After the Seminole war, in which the brave Chief Osceola was defeated, the government ordered all the Indians in Florida to remove to the reservation in the west. Most of them went, but a few took refuge in the region lying among the big Florida swamps, where their descendants live to this day.

As soon as the Seminole child is four years old he is set to work at some light task about the house. He stirs the boiling soup, watches the fire and replenishes it with sticks of wood, aids in kneading the dough for bread, washes and pounds the “koonti” root, a sort of potato, and contributes in many other ways to help his mother in her work.

But the children have plenty of time for play, too. The little girls have dolls made of sticks, with pieces of rag wrapped around them, and they are as fond of them as white girls are of their wax dolls with winking eyes.

The Indian children build little houses for their dolls and call them ‘‘camps,” while the boys take little bows and arrows and go into the woods to shoot small birds, saying when they return, ‘‘We have been turkey hunting.”

Boys and girls sit around a piece of earth into which thev stick blades of grass and call it a corn field.

One amusement of which the little Seminole Indians are fond is playing with teetotums. They take a dried deer skin and peg it out tight on the ground.

Then they take the round roots of a peculiar grass called “deer foot” and thrusting through them little sticks about as thick as a match and twice as long, the set them whirling on the deer skin by rubbing the upper end of the stick quickly with the palms of the hands. This they call “having dance.”

They also play at leap-frog, use the skipping rope and build “seesaws.” One traveler who penetrated to the regions of Canada, in which the Seminoles live, saw a very well-built merry-go-round which the little Indian children had made.

They must have originated the idea of the merry-go-round themselves, for none of the children had ever been away from home and the grown up people of the tribe had never been further than the nearest white man’s settlement, and in the place there are no such contrivances for the amusement of children. Nor could it be learned that any picture of merry-go-round had ever found its way into the Seminole country.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-277-

The Seminole boys and girls have a bad habit of eating between meals. A big kettle filled with stewed meat and vegetables, always stands ready with a big spoon in it for any one who happens to feel hungry and they will sometimes even get up in the middle of the night to take a spoonful of stew.

The streams of the Seminole country abound in fish and the Indians soon became good fishermen. But their ambition is to be trusted with a shotgun and as soon as they are old enough they are allowed to take one and go into the woods to shoot wild turkeys. When the Seminole boy is allowed to do this he counts himself no longer a child but a man.—Minneapolis Times.

THE RUNNING HIGH JUMP.

By W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Y. M. C. A., Dayton, O.

JUMPING or leaping may be divided into two general classes, artificial and natural. Pole and bar vaulting and jumping with the aid of weights is referred to as artificial, and the jumping with no assistance whatever is regarded as the natural method. Of the natural manner of jumping the favorite is the running high jump: it is popular alike with the spectator and the performer. The popularity of the running high jump when compared with other forms of jumping and all other field sports is due largely to the fact that it may be practiced so readil\r either in or out doors.

In the running high jump, from the spectator’s point of view, they can readily appreciate the additional skill, etc., needed to successfully negotiate %, V2, or 1 inch above the competitor and also that as the contest is narrowed down to a few competitors, keen interest is aroused as to the outcome, the final result always remaining in doubt until the best jumper has cleared the greatest height. On the other hand, in the running broad jump, the spectator does not so readily comprehend that it requires skill, nerve, etc., to have the necessary amount of speed in the run, judgment in striking the “take off” correctly with the proper foot, the requisite amount of speed in the rise in the air and correct method of alighting. All these factors in the running broad jump are not taken into consideration by the looker on, but as the spectator sees the stick moved higher and higer in the high jump his attention is arrested and maintained to the end.

The running high jump consists of a spring off on one or both feet and a leap into the air over a bar supported by two pins which project from two uprights or standards. Greater height is secured by the jump off one foot than two and also using the turn rather than the “straight jump.” The latter looks the prettiest to the spectators but it is not effective in clearing great heights. To jump over a bar 6 ft. 5 5-8 in. high without some assisting device seems like a fairy tale but this is the record for this event.

Before the advent of Sweeney, who holds this record, it was usually the custom to see at field days as many various styles as there were performers. His method which will be described later revolutionized the art of springing and now all good high jumpers use his style or a modification of it.

Digitized by LjOOQle
into the place of a man who has fought through a game till it is nearly finished, thus giving fresh strength to a team and introducing new elements of skill?

The final objection is the inequality of the scores.

Any game, he thinks, which has so many of the elements of unfairness and unfitness should not occupy the first place in the esteem of the American youth. Fair play is one of the ideals of the Americans.

“It would seem,” he says, “that our inventive genius should be equal to the task of discovering some way of relieving this great game of the objections that are so evident. The athletic ambitions of tht college student at present are in football to a large degree. It is a pity that these ambitions cannot be centered upon a sport in which the element of chance shall be eliminated as far as possible, skillful and strenuous effort meet no interference, the common conditions of fairness be preserved, results that have been honorably won receive due credit, and the final scores be measurably close.”

ATHLETICS.

—At the recent meeting of the Amateur Athletic Union the following officers were elected:

W. H. Liginger was re elected president, and the vice presidents are R. G. Penniman of the South Atlantic Association, J. B. O’Connor ot the Western Association, W. P. Hinchman of the Pacific Association, and C. H. Pyrah of the Atlantic Association. James E. Sullivan, representing the Metropolitan Association, was re-elected secretary and treasurer.

Records for 1903 allowed by the association included the following:

Seventy-five yards high hurdle race, six hurdles—M. Bookman, Milwaukee A. C., March 7; time, 0:10.

One hundred and twenty yards high hurdle race, ten hurdles—E. J. Clapp, Berkeley Oval, New York, May 30, 1903; time, 0:15 3-5.

Seventy yards run—W. A. Schick, Jr., New York, Feb. 28; time, 0:07 1-5.

Throwing fifty-six-pound weight, unlimited run and follow—B. S. Mitchell, New York A. C.t Sept. 7 distanoc, 38 feet 5 inches.

The record of 9:28 4-5 for the two-mile run, made by Alexander Grant on Sept. 26, 1903 at Travers Island, was accepted.

An amendment to the constitution, providing for a national registration committee, to consider and settle disputes over the registration of athletes where two or more sectional associations are concerned, was adpoted, as were one or two others of minor importance.

—100,000 Boys in Athletic League. Probably the largest organization of athletes in any city of the world is to be formed in New York. About 100,000 boys in the public schools of Greater New York will be banded together. The plan for the league was formed by Dr. Luther H. Gulick, director of physical training in the schools; Dr. W.

H.	Maxwell, superintendent of the schools and others, and the first set of games will be held in Madison Square Garden Dec. 26. There will be events for boys in the high schools and grammar schools.

—A man told me the other day that the strenuous life has come to stay. Business is such that success means effort, and effort means fatigue, and fatigue too long continued would mean a breakdown, and the twentieth century would see many such. He was guarded against it by playing golf, taking some regular exercise in the gymnasium, enjoying a plunge in the pool, followed by a good rub-down.

Never was the human body more needed than to-day, and y*et the natural activity which produced it has passed away, and it is in great danger.—The Seminar.

—The Turner Bund through its Normal School, the propaganda of the Turn Yercine, the promulgation of the idea that the training of body should go hand in hand with the mind in public schools, has done much to meet this need.

Digitized by C.ooole
HtHHHHHHHHmSH!

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

I

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

. 4 \

E. H. ARNOLD. M. D.. DIRECTOR.

Offers

A	Two Years’ Course of Prepa-

ration for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course	Mas-

sage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

or Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply t6

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

ffffff£f#£f£f£§i££f£f£§££f

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

Normal School ol Gymnastics

658-568 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

geo. wirncK DrnscTo*

~C »• O *■01 r.ATALOO

The Best Is Only Good Enough for the Progressive.

Manual of Physical Culture

for Public Schools.

By flnton Lcibold,

Supervisor Physical Culture, Public Schools, Columbus, O.

I. Free-Gvtnnastics (55 cts.\or.„ff.„:r 1

II. Physical Games......20 cts./P 1

The work is recommended by leading educators of Ohio. Address the Author

:cr<53o;o;<£o;<£o^

50 YEARS* EXPERIENCE

Patents

I RADE IY1 ARKS

Designs ! Copyrights Ac.

Anyone sending a sketch and description may quickly ascertain our opinion free whether an invention is probably patentable. Communications strictly confidential. Handbook on Patents sent free. Oldest agency for securing patents.

Patents taken through Munn & Co. receive tpecial notice, without charge. In the

Scientific American.

A handsomely illustrated weekly. Largest circulation of any scientific Journal. Terms, 13 a year; four months, |L Sold by all newsdealers.

& Co.36,Broadwa>New York

Branch Office, 625 F 8L, Washington, D. C.

Mind

and

Body.

Subscription Price, Jftl.OO per Year.

ooowowwSww^$2BB5SB2S

mnumnurrnmvvm



Digitized by LiOOQle
Byrnnasium Outfitters. * *

"<3-3rrcLrLSistic

iippatatus.

X-iOc3s©xs-

^ippaiatus. EoTx^lirag' -^.lle^s. -A-rLtlxropom.etxic ^.ppaiatias.

WRITE FOR CATALOG’S.

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.,

PROVIDENCE, R.L, U. S. A.



ATHLETIC GROUPINGS

TKKE^JEJR^^JUIFE.

Arranged and Grouped by ROBERT NOHR. M. D.

(•XsXsXS)®^^	comprise	the	following	positions:	CsX^XsXsXsXsXsXs)®®®9

1.	Greeting.

2.	Putting the shot.

3.	The Dash-start.

4.	The Dash-finish.

5.	Wrestling.

6.	Sparring—The Attack.

Price, postpaid, 25 cents.

Address

7.	Sparring—The Knockout.

8.	The Victor.

9.	Rugby Foot Ball (Start or lining up).

10.	“	“	“	Rush and tackle.

11.	“	“	“	The Touch-down.

12.	13 and 14- positions in wrestling taken from Catch-as-catch-can style.

FREIDENKER PUBL. CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

mmimmimnimmmiitmimiTmnTnm

Digitized by (oiOOQle