MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.

MARCH, 1917

No. 257

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Turner Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14. 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O	     —......imi.—II. ,1.1.——o

RATIONAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION.*

A Rejoinder by Carl L. Schrader, Cambridge, Mass.

Mr. Ehler seems to be “pouring the baby out with the bath.”

Away with ALL pedantic teaching no matter what the subject especially physical education which is saturated with fads and which oscillates hither and thither, largely through the efforts of those who appear to feel ordained to hold and to proclaim the secret to the heaven of physical fitness of mankind. To this sentiment which Mr. Ehler expresses I subscribe in full, and I also second his expression of contempt for the “overworked calisthenics,” which together with attempts at dancing and playing of games between desks, constitutes the generally recognized Public School physical education in many places. This substitute has killed rather than promoted any voluntary pursuit in the after school life.

No one professionally engaged in Physical education, who considers his work a vital factor in education will accept these

* See last issue of “Mind and Body.”

ORIQ1NAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

O'

■o

Digitized by
2

attempts made between desks as representative or adequate, beyond the hygienic need they serve. There are other points in which I am in accord with Mr. Ehler, but his suggestions, his “a rational plan” seem to me a jump from the frying pan into the fire.

We all agree that “the school room with its fixed desks, a small fraction of time, and untrained teachers” are all conditions which mock rather than get at the real thing. But why shouldn’t a “rational” physical training NOT DEMAND better conditions, and why can they not be provided? The playground propagandists with their rational program demanded and received! Why then surrender in this advocation? The examples cited by Mr. Ehler of a vacant lot a block away and another across the street, admirable as they are, serve no purpose nor lend any light when a problem of national import is under discussion. The fact remains that the average school is illy provided with indoor or outdoor facilities for real physical education. Undoubtedly the best way to utilize the outdoor play space is the organized recess, where a number of groups can play games without interfering with each other. However, when we consider the games feasible in such a scheme, we find that they are mostly of a kind where only a few pupils are active at one time, the others happy lookers-on, until their turn comes. Whether these be relay races or ring games, the effort on the part of the individual is very small, so that but little result is obtained aside from the play thought. We could hardly conceive of such a plan as “rational” even if only from an economic aspect, Five minutes of “peppy” gymnastics, or a stiff run of several minutes duration would g^ve better general results than the above plan of play. The additional opportunities before school, at noon and after school have always existed and are utilized in proportion to the interest which the respective school is able to awaken. But invariably we see only those play who naturally play well, the “dubs”, those we really have in mind when we talk of the “masses” come and go when the bell rings.

Mr. Ehler seems to be mortally afraid of the terms compulsion, obligation, and subordination, even to the extent of fearing monarchism and anarchism as possibilities in their practice. It is during a period of MUST that habits are introduced, experienced and mastered in order, later, to be practiced voluntarily. Mr. Ehler’s allusion to the spirit of team play is also misleading. A man joins a squad practising any sport by consent, but once he consents, the ensuing procedure is one of compulsion which in case of insubordination is followed by expulsion (unless the man is sadly needed). The manly lessons and habits thus learned in a training season become a part of the man’s later life. Since education as a whole is not a matter of consent but compulsion, why make a distinction in only one of its branches? Just as the only way to reach the mass for	I

the general education is by means of compulsion, just so will we only . reach the mass for physical education by compulsion, whether I it be all only by play or by physical education in its entirety. It rests with us that that which we make obligatory bears fruit and includes a program so constructed that not only individual fads

Digitized by <^.ooQle
3

but all phases of Physical education, even calisthenics find their proper place in the program covering the entire school life of the boy or girl.

“Wer Vieles bringt, bringt Jedem Etwas”.

The calisthenics, though stamped unnatural and formal, never-the-less are the predominating form of exercise in the constantly growing number of business men’s classes, where, please do not overlook it, attendance is voluntary.

All methods of teaching must go to the scrap heap if we accept Mr. Ehler’s conclusions of “carried over”. What I ask for example would we “carry over” in mathematics if it were not for the journey through endless, “unnatural” examples in Arithmetic, plain *nd solid geometry, trigonometry, etc., none of which ever re-appears in the same form in real life. It is a training for all emergencies, so that no new problem may ever baffle us. If coordination is of any service in life at all, then a preparation in many varied problems in co-ordination is as logical as the above mentioned “unnatural” academic procedure. I maintain, therefore, that much is “carried over” from “formal gymnastics”. From the statement that “values have been ascribed to the method of physical training by those who have been trained exclusively in its technique” it is but reasonable to conclude that those who fail to appreciate these values have perhaps failed to get these results in their teaching because of a lack of proper technique.

May I, in conclusion, quote Dr. Dearborn in answer to this assumption, “Attention: Certain of its aspects and a few of its relations to Physical Education” (pages 9 and 10) “Bodily drill and training under adequate instruction tend to develop in the child the power of objective observation. On the one hand, this training makes more real and exact the appreciation of space and of time, and their relationship to the individual. On the other hand, it tends to make observation more careful and precise as well as more prompt.------Attention, therefore, as psychologically the direc-

tion of the conscious will, refers directly both by definition and in fact to bodily activity or movements—activities of nothing other than the mechanism of efficiency, the most subject matter of physical education.”

“Is it not obvious that it is positively a duty of physical education to develop knowledge of the means by which this activity may be directed for useful attentive ends better than education or educational psychology so far has developed it?------In develop-

ing ever better voluntary control of the individual, especially when very young, developed also powers to attend. The child, for example, learns best thus to disregard many sensations that tend to distract the attention - the fidgets (kinesthetic), involuntary movements of peripheral or central origin, momentary pains, borborygmi, etc., etc., incidents all that tend to disturb the useful activities of attention. The drill of the gymnasium and the field better than all other means combined, merges all such distracting experiences in the one essential accomplishment of complete, voluntary control of the attentive mechanism of muscle and nerve.”

Digitized by VoiOOQLe
4

“The conditions of this phase of attention clearly are properly factors of physical education.”

“By the term Understanding Attention it is intended to suggest that some forms of gymnasium and field work require chiefly attention to understand what is heard or otherwise signalled, ex-ampled in the command exercises and notably in marching tactics. In these exercises, an error is so conspicuous and to an extent shameful that the incentive to continuous, alert and concentrated attention is at its maximum. Scarcely anywhere else is there in use a means that is better adapted to train the attention than such tactics. The educational practical problem is how to adapt and extend this easily secured concentrated attention, and how to make it a habit while the child’s psycho-motor brain apparatus is still plastic and easily interested. The present writer believes that here is a chance to make a substantial connection between mental power and “physical exercise”, to establish a pre-eminently important educational habit. This kind of attention required in difficult marching tactics is an ideal kind for almost every life pursuit - an intensive, alert, understanding attention of a trained organism at the instant command of the more or less subsconscious will.”

PROGRAM OF AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION CONVENTION.

Pittsburg, Pa., April 4th-7th, 1917.

Wednesday Morning and Afternoon—April 4th.

Visitation and Inspection of the Playgrounds of Pittsburg. Wednesday Evening, 8 P. M.—April 4th.

Reception and Opening Meeting of the Convention.

1.	Welcome to the City.

2.	Welcome to the Pittsburg Schools and Playgrounds.

3.	Presidential Address by Wm. Burdick, M. D.

President American Physical Education Association

4.	“The Gary School Plan” (Illustrated by moving pictures) By William A. Wirt, Sup’t. of Public Schools, Gary, Indiana

5.	Reception.

6.	Dancing.

Thursday Morning,—April 5th, 1917, 9:20 A. M.

PUBLIC SCHOOL SECTION

William A. Stecher, Chairman. Director Physical Education Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

1.	“A Plan of Athletic Activities and Honors for High School Girls” by Miss Anna Cressman, Germantown High School Philadelphia. Pa.

2.	“Military Tactics as Part of High School Work” By

E.	C. Delaport, Lane Technical High School, Chicago, 111.

Digitized by v^ooQle
5

3.	“Enlisting the Classroom Teacher as an Active Leader in Hygienic Living.” By Alexander A. Harwick, Dir. of Phys. Education Public Schools, Reading, Pa.

4.	“Pageants and Physical Training Activities.” By Mr. Thomas Wood Stevens, President American Pageant Association, Pittsburg, Pa.

5.	Discussion led by Eva H. Reynier, supervisor Physical Education, Grand Rapids, Mich., using motion picture films.

Thursday Noon—Luncheon Hour, 12:30—2.00.

1:15 P. M.—Public School Program Continued.

“A Plan for After School Physical Education Activities for Pupils in the Elementary Schools.” By William A. Stecher, Dir. of Phys. Ed. Public Schools of Philadelphia, General Discussion

Led by Mathias H. Macherey, Ass’t. Sup’r. of Phys. Ed., Newark Public Schools.

Thursday Afternoon—Sectional Meetings, 2:15 P. M.

WOMEN’S SECTION.

Miss Gertrude Dudley, Chicago University, Chairman. (Program to be announced later).

THERAPEUTIC SECTION.

Mr. E. M. Saunders, Pittsburg Public Schools.

1.	“The Treatment of Infantile Paralysis,” by Hartvig Nissen,

Pres. Posse Normal School of Gymnastics, Boston, Mass.

2.	“The Value of Respiratory Training in Defective Posture and Allied Conditions.” By David M. Silver, M. D. Pittsburg, Pa., Prof, of Orthopedic Surgery University of Pittsburg Medical School.

3.	“The Relation of Round Shoulders and Lateral Spinal Curvature to the Health of the Child.” (Illustrated by fluoroscope). By Frank B. Edmundson, M. D., Public Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.

4.	“A Physical Foundation for Community Growth.” By Donald B. Armstrong, M. D., Ass’t. Secy. Nat’l. Ass’n., for Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, N. Y. City.

TEACHERS SECTION, NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC

UNION.

Dr. Herman P. Groth, Pittsburg, Pa., Chairman.

1.	“The Value of a Swimming Pool for Gymnastic Societies.”

2.	“Gymnastic Societies and Camps.”

3.	“Gymnastic Societies and Boy Scouts.”

Thursday Evening, 8:30 P. M.

(Program to be furnished by Pittsburg Society).

Friday Morning—April 6th, 1917, 9:20 A. M. Sectional Meetings.

Digitized by CjOOQle
6

PUBLIC SCHOOL SECTION-SUPERVISORS.

Randall D. Warden, Chairman, Director of Physical Education, Newark Public Schools.

1.	“Obligatory Physical Training in Swiss Public Schools and its Democratizing, Unifying and Disciplining Influence on Citizenship.” By Frederick A. Kuenzli, Author, “Right and Duty” or “Citizen and Soldier.” (A Manual of Physical Training Preparatory Military Instruction).

2.	“Leisure Time, Its Dangers and its Possibilities,” by J. H. Francis, Sup’t. of Public Schools, Columbus, Ohio.

3.	“Extending the Class Athletic System,” by Frederick J. Reilly, Principal Public School No. 33, Manhattan, N. Y. Author: “The Rational Athletics for Boys and Girls.”

4.	“Standardization of Public School Athletics,” by John E. Lombard, Physical Director Public School, Athletic League, New Orleans, La.

5.	Discussion.

COLLEGE DIRECTORS SECTION.

Dr. Paul C. Phillips, Dir. of Phys. Ed., Amherst College, Chairman.

(Program to be announced later).

Friday Noon—Luncheon Hour. 12:15,—2.00.

SECTIONAL LUNCHEONS.

1:15 P. M. Public School Supervisors Program Continued:

“Report on Minimum Essentials of Physical Education and a Measuring Scale for the Same.” by Dr. Louis W. Rapeer, Penn. State College.

General Discussion.

1:15 P. M. College Directors Program Continued.

(Program not yet furnished).

1:15 North American Gymnastic Union Teachers Program Continued.

(Program not yet furnished).

1:15 P. M. Therapeutic Section Program Continued.

(Program not yet furnished)

Friday Afternoon, 2 P. M.

(Program to be furnished by Pittsburg Society).

Friday Evening, 8 P. M.

GENERAL MEETING.

Dr. William Burdick, Chairman.

1. “Relation of Physical Education to the Business of War,” by R. Tait McKenzie, Dir. of Phys. Ed., University of Penn.

2	“Physical Efficiency Tests,” A Practical Means of Popularizing Physical Education at the University of California, by E. L. Kleeberger, Associate Prof, of Phys. Ed., of California.

Digitized by UjOOQle
7

3	“A Survey of Physical Education in the Schools of the

United States,” by Dr. J. H. McCurdy, Springfield, Mass.

4	“Physical and Moral Degeneracy and Physical Education”—

A National Problem, by George W. Ehler, Madison, Wise. Saturday Morning—April 7th, 1917, 9:20 A. M.

GENERAL MEETING.

R. Tait McKenzie, Chairman.'

Subject — Organization — Standardization — Popularization

1	“How to Organize and Plan for Physical Education and Give

it its True Place in the General Scheme of Education.” By John P. Garber, Sup’t. of Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

2	“Standardization of Physical Education”—What the States

Should do to Make National Preparedness Effective, by E. M. Hartwell, M. D., Boston, Mass.

3	“The Popularization of Physical Education,” by E. H.

Arnold, M. D., New Haven, Conn.

Saturday Noon,— Luncheon Hour, 12:30—2:00.

(Program of General Luncheon to be furnished by Pittsburg Society). Saturday Afternoon, 2:00 P. M.—Council Meeting.

3:00 P. M.—Automobile Trip.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

An act providing for the establishment of physical education and training in the public schools of the Commonwealth, and creating the Bureau of Physical Education in the Department of Public Instruction to carry out the provisions thereof.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in General Assembly met, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same.

Section 1. That there shall be established and provided m all grades of all the public schools of and throughout the commonwealth Physical Education and training for pupils of both sexes, during the following minimum periods:

(a)	In the elementary public schools, twenty minutes in each school day, and also one hour of directed play after regular school hours in each school week.

(b)	In public high schools, two hours in each school week, and also two hours of directed play after regular school hours in each school week.

Section 2. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of Section 1 of this Act, there shall be organized and established a Bureau of Physical Education, under the Department of Public Instruction.

Section 3. On or before July Second, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Seventeen;

(a) the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall appoint a Supervisor of Physical Education (hereinafter called the

Digitized by
8

Supervisor), whose duty it shall be to direct and carry out the provisions of this Act under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Instruction. The salary of said Supervisor shall be Five Thousand Dollars per year.

The Superintendent of Public Instruction is hereby authorized and directed to appoint such assistants, clerks and stenographers as shall be necessary in the administration of the affairs of the Bureau.

Section 4. Immediately after his appointment, the Supervisor shall organize the said Bureau, and shall formulate and adopt the necessary and proper plans, courses and regulations for carrying out the provisions of this Act.

Section 5. It shall be the duty of the Supervisor

(a)	To supervise the giving of the education and training hereby required.

(b)	To advise and assist in the preparation of the facilities therefor.

(c)	On the first Monday of July, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Eighteen, and annually thereafter, to submit a report to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, in which shall be set forth, in as comprehensive a manner as possible, conditions in the public schools throughout the Commonwealth with respect to physical training and related matters, and the work of the Bureau of Physical Education during the preceding year.

Section 6. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall give said report such publicity as in his opinion may be proper.

Section 7. The sum of Two Hundred Thousand ($200,000.00) dollars, or as much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby specifically appropriated for the expense of the Bureau of Physical Education and for carrying out this Act during the two fiscal years commencing the first Monday of July, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Seventeen, said amount to be applied and disbursed under the direction of and with the approval of the State Board of Education.

• Section 8. This Act shall take effect immediately upon its approval, provided, that it shall not apply to schools in school districts of the third class until the opening of the school term in the fall of the year 1918, and shall not apply to schools in the school districts of the fourth class until the opening of the school term in the fall of the year 1920.

Section 9. All Acts or parts of Acts inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.

A Correction.

We regret to say that through an oversight we forgot to state in last month’s issue that the article by Dr. George V. N. Dearborn entitled “Intuition” was taken from the November 1916 issue of the “Psychological Review”. The Editor.

Digitized by v^ooQle
9

WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH PATRIOTISM?

By Max Eastman, Editor of “The Masses.”

Before we say what to do with it, we ought to decide what patriotism is. Patiiotism figures in literature as a virtue, except in Tolstoy’s writings where it figures as a vice, which is much the same thing. All you can do with patriotism as a virtue or a vice is preach about it. But instead of trying any longer to change the instinctive nature of man by preaching, what we have to do is find out the unalterable facts.of that nature, and then try to construct a world in which it can function without disaster. If this had been the policy of the idealists all along, perhaps Europe would still be in existence now.

Patriotism is one of the unalterable facts of man’s nature. It is a virtue if you like it, and a vice if you don’t like it. It is composed of two instinctive tendencies laid down in our nervous structure when we are born, reinforced by two other tendencies still more compelling. The, first two are pugnacity and gregariousness or group-loyalty.

All men and most animals are pugnacious. They love to fight. Everybody loves to fight. Some people get all the fighting they want at the breakfast table, and other people have to carry it out in the law courts or the battlefield where it makes more noise. Roosevelt likes to charge up San Juan hill, and then he likes to prosecute for libel anybody that says he didn’t charge up San Juan hill. War people fight for war and peace people fight for peace. When Roosevelt calls the peace people mollycoddles and college sissies, I only want to walk up and smash him. That’s the; way I like to fight.

Not only does everybody like to fight, but everybody has an irresistible tendency to identify himself with a group. Boys fight in gangs, and so do girls, and wolves, and cows, and elephants, and yellow jackets, and grown-up people. You don’t have to prod every single individual in order to bring a bee-hive around your head. You only have to prod the hive. Every individual identifies himself with the hive.

It’s exactly that way with a swarm of people trained by custom and habit to think themselves one—one family, one fraternity, one church, one clan, one tribe, one nation. Love me, love my dog. Love my dog, love the whole pack. That’s the way we work. We identify ourselves with the larger group, and we do this especially when the group is subjected to any kind of a prod from an outsider.

Patriotism was bom of war, it was bom of the necessity of uniting for common defense. And although a whole lot of different feelings, some heroic and some feebleminded, have got mixed up with the word patriotism, the basic sentiment is still one of fighting rivalry. Patriotism is made out of pugnacity and group loyalty— these two instinctive tendencies—combined.

These two tendencies are backed up by two others still more

Digitized by
10

compelling. And those are self-love and baby-love. By baby-love I mean the disposition of men and women to return in times of trouble to the affections and passions which swayed them when they were very young. There is a little child inside of everyone of us, and when anything gets the matter he always wants to run home to mother. Or he wants to run home to father, or sister, or brother, or nurse, or the nursery, or the old homestead, or the home town, or “my native land,” as the case may be. He wants to get back to the things he was sure of, the things he loved and leaned on in the days when there was no doubt and no trouble. For those things, as for no others, he will pour out his song and his sacrifice.

That is a large part of patriotism. It is what explains the queer, blind, puppy-like, almost chemical way in which otherwise intelligent minds will cleave to the proposition that their country is right, no matter what their country does, and no matter if it does two exactly opposite things at the same time. It is the native land part of patriotism, the part that comes before the hyphen. It is not usually so strong as the part that comes after the hyphen, but you can’t always tell how much of this sacred baby-love there is in a man by looking at him.

I know of two German brothers in Jersey City who came over here fifteen or twenty years ago, and built up a ten-million-dollar business. After they had been here about five years one of them, the aggressive one, decided to become an American citizen. The other said: “No, I’ll stick by de Vaterland.” When the war broke out, the one who had been an American citizen for ten years, packed up his kit and took the first boat back to fight, and the one who had “stuck by de Vaterland” stayed over in Jersey City in the vicinity of that ten million dollars. You can’t always tell. Generally speaking, however, when there is a choice, the part of patriotism that comes before the hyphen is not so strong as the part that comes after. But it is uncanny strong. Men cling to the place they were born in, as they clung to the breast that bore them.

Still more inconquerably, however, they cling to themselves, and the noble task of increasing their own importance. And nobody can understand the over-whelming force of the conviction people have that their country is the greatest country in the world; that it has the bravest soldiers, the prettiest women, the tallest church steeples, the biggest hotels, the best cooks, the most commodious bathrooms, the fattest hogs, the longest ears on its jackasses—nobody can understand that, who does not see that patriotic people are puffing themselves. I saw in the gallery of war pictures in Paris a drawing by Forain of a couple of starved and destitute hoboes dragging along the roadside discussing the war.

“We’re bound to win in the long run,” said one.

“Sure! we’re so rich,” said the other.

It is that patriotic “we” that slides in and corrupts everybody’s judgment, gets people to give up their happiness, and their lives, and their children’s happiness, and their children’s lives, over a point that does not concern them the least bit in the world. It concerns their imaginary self-importance.

Digitized by v^ooQle
11

Churches are supposed to be put up by the people to the glory of God, but when they get them put up how often do they call them God’s House, and how often do they call them Our Church? If a man can’t afford to have a steeple on his own hat, he is so much the more proud and anxious about the size and proportions of the town hall and the village church. You can make that a mathematical rule.

Well—that is what makes patriotism so coercive of your reasonable judgment. It combines the strongest possible appeal to altruism, the appeal of infant memories, with the strongest possible appeal to egoism, the chance to behold yourself enlarged and clothed in public splendor. In patriotism we have both the emotion of losing ourselves, which has been celebrated by the saints in all ages, and the emotion of magnifying ourselves so large that there is no possible danger of our getting lost, which is more enjoyable if not so celebrated.

That combination of remarkable emotional satisfaction is irresistible. Add to that the pleasure of fulfilling an hereditary instinct, the pleasure of sliding over those tracks that are laid down in our brain-matter, greased and oiled and waiting to be slid over— what I’ve called instinct of pugnacity, instinct of gregariousness— add those four things together, and you have something that no pledge or resolution, no theory, no gospel, no poetry or philosophy of life, no culture or education, and not even your own financial interest can ever conquer.

Men are militant patriots at heart, because in the long ages of tribal warfare through which they beat their bloody path, they had to be militant patriots in order to survive at all.

The individualistic and the peaceful tribes went down. The patriotic and pugnacious tribes survived. We are those tribes.

Write that motto on the walls of our peace palaces, our tribunals, our international Socialist congresses, our departments of foreign relations, and some result may come of the deliberations within.

Patriotism is a fighting self-identification with the gang, the tribe, the nation. It is there in our human hearts forever. What shall we do with it?

Tinker the tariff. Reduce armaments. Remove economic barriers. Abolish indemnities. Liberate the colonies. Shut up the diplomats. Establish a popular control. Give women the vote. Consolidate the working-class. Yes, all of that! But will that prevent the starting of a fight between patriotic people divided into exclusive national groups? It will not.

So long as people identify their selves only with their nations, fights will start between nations somewhat as they start between selves. And fights are known to start between selves without the mediation of economic difficulties, or armaments, or colonies, or ignorant diplomats, or kings, or emperors, or any of those notorious scapegoats upon which we are trying to load off the blame for a catastrophe whose cause inheres in our own character.

Wars will arise between nations so long as the instinct of fighting loyalty is allowed to attach itself exclusively to nations. And

Digitized by CjOOQle
as soon as, and in proportion as, we offer to that instinct larger groups to which it may attach itself, wars among nations will become less and less likely. That is all you can say. That is all you can do with a trait which is hereditary. You can’t ignore it, you can’t mortify it, you can’t preach it away, and you can’t reason it away. It is there like a mouth which is bound to be fed. But you can feed it a slightly different food. You can offer it a different object to cling to.

The patriotism of the people in New England clings more firmly now to the United States, than it does to Massachusetts or Rhode Island, and a war between those two states is hardly conceivable. The longer the United States lasts, the less likely does a war between the states become.

And yet what is the United States? An artificial institution that was created cff-hand, for the express purpose of absorbing a little of that excess colonial patriotism that was going to make a trouble.

Last summer a Frenchman asked me where I came from, and I said the United States, and he said, “Which United States? Say, why don’t you people name your country?” That is just what we have tried to do, and by a happy accident, in our most patriotic moments we call this artificial unit of loyalty—America. Well, why not make it America?

The name of our country is the name of our task. I put it to you as a fact guraanteed by the science of psychology that if some intelligent person with power would take the first steps toward a federation of the American republics, it need not be fifty years before half of the patriotic devotion of all the people on this side of the world would be consecrated to the job of perpetuating it.

A conference of the independent American republics looking to the preservation of their common interests, would be the most natural thing in the world at this time. Four semi-official Pan-American conferences have already been held. The fifth might be made official. And if our representatives at such a conference proved far-sighted enough to relinquish on this continent every form of that dominance which they so deprecate in the European ambitions of Germany, there might evolve out of it the beginnings of the American federation. This must become a true federation, a nation above the nations. It must have power and delegated sovereignty like those of our federal government. It must have a congress of representatives, who can express and adjudicate the differences between nations, while engendering above them a conspicuous state to which a portion of that tribal loyalty that so controls their citizens may learn to adhere. In such an absolute creation and in all the activities and thoughts and moods of international unity, which must lead to it—lies the one hope of destroying war. Internationalism—international federation—that is the program of preparedness, and that is the end of war.

To destroy war is not the special task of the working class. I thought it was once. I thought that we Socialists were scientific enough in believing that solidarity of economic interests in the work-

Digitized by Google
13

ers of all countries would ultimately prevent war. But now I think we were all wrong.

In the first place, we were wrong in thinking that modem war is desirable from the standpoint of the capitalist. Norman Angell’s books have undeceived us about that. War doesn’t pay. International capital is the greatest power on earth against war.

In the second place, we were wrong in thinking that economic interest could override those hereditary instincts that come into play in a war scare. Economic interest has very little to say at such a time. People who wouldn’t contribute eight cents to anything outside of their own belly in times of peace, will lay down their cash, credit, and commercial prospects and go toss in their lives like a song in times of war. And this applies to the working class and the employing class alike.

We can’t make that instinct of loyalty cling to the working class of all countries instead of to all classes in, our country in times of international excitement, for the simple reason that contact is impossible. It is the group surrounding us with whom we rush together for defense. And the abstract idea of other working classes in other countries, powerful as it may be in times of peace, is simply too pale and impalpable to check our fighting union with the group we feel.

No, the working class won’t abolish war, and the sooner they find it out, the sooner they will begin to save energy for the bigger things they have to do.

Moreover, peace won’t destroy war. Peace is nothing. Peace is a negation. Nobody will ever wage peace. Nobody but a few tired people, and people suffering from shock, will ever kindle to a negative ideal.

American union, international union, the union of the world— that is an ideal that has action and affirmation and distance in it. How jnuch distance, nobody knows—and who cares? It is a campaign that can be waged. And we are here, with our hearts and minds and muscles, at this bloody dawn of a twentieth century; why not get ready and go out and wage it?

A campaign for international federation, beginning with America, will appeal to every compelling interest of our time. It will appeal to the people who know that increased preparedness is a crime, and yet are at a loss for some affirmative program with which to fight it. It will appeal to the growing power of international capital, which has been taught already that its interests lie in preserving peace, and is only waiting to be taught by what political mechanism it can protect them. It will appeal to the labor movement in all countries, less powerful, less international, but already committed to a creed of internationalism. It will appeal to that new social force, the will of independent women, who are more disposed than men—especially in the absence of war—to take heroic measures against it. It will appeal to everybody who has either generosity or intelligent selfishness to guide him.

For it is no longer questionable that modern war and the joy of existence are incompatible. War makes it impossible to live. It makes it impossible even to die for a noble purpose.—The Survey.

Digitized by
14

UNCIVILIZED SOUTH AMERICAN INDIANS DO AN ATHLETIC HEX ATHLON.*

P.	P. Phillips, Buenos Aires.

Six days by steamer on the wide River de la Plata took me from Buenos Aires to the quaint Capital of Paraguay and two days further travel landed me just in the tropics where the River Paraguay divides the country of the same name from “The Gran Chaco” (a great hiding place) which is an immense palm forest claimed by both Paraguay and Bolivia. By taking a canoe, then a mule and finishing up with several horses, at the close of the sixth day after entering the Gran Chaco, I landed at a mission station called Makthlawaiya. All the way from the River to Makthla-waiya was in swamp and it was only on the few dry spots enroute that Indians were to be seen. To Mr. W. Barbrooks Grubb, the Administrator of the Station, I had previously made known my plan to try to pull off an athletic hexathlon among the untrained and uncivilized Indians of that great forest, so upon arrival I learned that a great feast had been prepared in anticipation of the white man’s coming and that Indians had already begun to pour in from the neighboring villages with their families and dogs.

Some forty thousand Indians of the Lengua, Sanapana and Suhin tribes live within a radius of one hundred miles from that point in villages of from fifty to eighty souls each and all, with the exception of those few who have lived under the influence of the mission are as heathen, superstitious and uncivilized as were the North American Indians in the days of Columbus.

Being the season when the pumpkins were ripe the feast took the form of what they call the “Kyaiya” a kind of harvest feast and with the rising of the sun the old men crowded into a small hut and gave a start to the feast by rattling dry gourds and chanting in such a manner that a kind of hilarious atmosphere was created calculated to get everybody into the correct mood.

/ Bullocks were killed and quartered by the young men and the young girls attended to the the cooking, while the old squaws looked after the babies. At mid-day when the food was all cooked and turned out on the ground, the old men marched out of the hut still chanting and rattling their gourds, formed a circle around the pile and proceeded to hand it out or rather throw it around and it was devoured and washed down with quarts of tea called mate. Then they smoked the pipe of peace and got ready for the performance of the hexathlon.

The weather that day unfortunately grew damp, cloudy and very cold so that the people hovered close together behind wind screens to protect their naked bodies from the chilly wind. I was further disappointed at the fashion in which the ten chosen Indians who were to perform the hexathlon events were dressed up. Or-

* Reprint from “Physical Training.”

Digitized by Google
15

dinarily the men wear nothing more than a heavy wool blanket which they usually drop off when they begin to do anything that obliges them to move about but as they were that day celebrating the feast of the “kyaiya” they would have it that all the rags and beads they could find together with feathers and strips of fur should be added to their makeup and adorn them in their performances. They took as much pride in appearing in additional clothes as some of our athletes do in abbreviating them and to have requested them to remove them would have turned them away sulking like spoiled children.

Ten strong, young, swift-footed Lengua Indians were chosen to perform the events, their names and personal histories I briefly mention to convey a faint idea of their customs and environment that naturally influences their records.

Kyelaim, who scored the highest number of points, age nineteen, married, two children, his mother gave birth to him thirty-three years after his brother who preceded him. His work is that of a cowboy.

Arturo (name given to him by the mission) age twenty-two, one child, ox-cart driver, his mother went to the woods to cut palm cabbages and returned with cabbages and Arturo as well.

Nipper, age twenty-five, single, cattle boy, survived hard spell of pneumonia which they seldom do.

Sambo, age seventeen, married, one child. Knows how to write his name, an axeman.

Yinik, age thirty-three, butcher for the mission, confessing Christian, man of remarkable memory, he cuts up and hands out an entire beef to the Indians of the village without making a written note, then correctly collects the amount from each on the following day. He is married and has two children.

Tomhung, half Toothli and half Lengua Indian, age twenty-six, married and has two children, is a man of wonderful physical strength and endurance.

Mamum-Elyawea, from a northern clan of the tribe, age fifteen, single, a cart boy, knows how to read and write.

Kylpithyoais, age fifteen, single, carpenter, father was a chief who became a Christian.

Cain, age eighteen, and Kyayithwase, age twenty, two sturdy sawyers.

None of these Indians spoke any other than their native tongue and they all worked for the mission station. None of them ever wore a pair of shoes or even sandals. A single blanket is their usual dress. At their work they display strength, endurance and agility and are highly delighted to work among the cattle. They eat all kinds of game and fish that are so plentiful, also honey, palm cabbages, pumpkins, mandioca, and beef when they can get it. They sleep on a pig skin on the ground with their heads on a palm log. They cover one side of their body as well as their head with a blanket and expose their backs to a palm log fire when they sleep in winter to keep warm and in the summer to keep off the swarms of mosquitoes.

Digitized by CjOOQle
16

All ten Indians were anxious to perform before the gathering at the feast. All completed to the best of his ability the six events. They had no thought about any prize. They had no idea as to what these events represented (for every exercise or dance that they know represents some phase of the chase or war). These boys had never in their life practiced such exercises except as necessity called for in actual life. The cowboys vaulted better because they are accustomed to vault the high palm log fences and thus avoid the toms of the angry cows. They could not grasp the proper form to jump and as the ground was wet and they were in their bare feet, they slipped in the runs. A thick palm log was used in the vault but as their style is to lean chest against the log, they were knocked out of making a high jump. Yinik, the butcher, made the lowest number of points, which aside from the fact that he was older than the rest, shows the effects of leaving off active hunting for the sedentary butcher’s job.

When the performer made a good jump there was silence among the old men and squaws but they simply roared with laughter when he happened to slip and knock the stick down.

The average height of these boys was five feet five inches and the average weight 150 pounds. Their skin is of a light chocolate color and their features slightly resemble those of the Japanese.

A summary of their performances shows the following:

Best time for fifty yds. potato race was fifteen and one-fifth seconds.

Best time for 220 yds. potato race was one minute, eight seconds.

Best running high jump was four feet.

Best standing broad jump was seven feet two inches.

Best fence vault was five feet.

Best twelve-pound shot put was twenty-one feet nine inches.

Best individual score for all six events was 170 points.

All events were carefully timed with stop watches and all distances accurately measured.

This report, while considered one of the rarest authentic records in existence, does not do credit to the ability of the Lengua Indian owing to the many reasons I have explained but it serves as a rough basis of comparison with men who have been trained for the events and who realize why they are doing them.

Considering their never before having tried them, their bare feet on the wet and slippery clay, the hindering rags, beads and feathers, their over eating, drinking and smoking before the trials, and above all their inability to grasp the idea why they were doing such events, considering these things I say, they did not do so badly and I am certainly convinced from my own personal experiences that ten trained athletes from any city Y. M. C. A. would make by far a more ridiculous showing if stripped of shoes and clothes, dropped off in a thorny swamp and told to travel forty-four miles on foot, pick up all of their food along the way by the use of the bow and arrow, to sleep on the ground out in the open with but one small blanket as bed and cover in rain and sunshine as did two agile Sanapana Indian boys with ease who accompanied the writer.

Digitized by ^ooQle
Si ate normal S<TtOuJ.

u.a Ainuitiuea

Digitized by v^.ooQle
INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES

For the Women’s Classes at the 32nd Bundesturnfest

Arranged by CHRIST. WUEST, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Music: Southern Roses, Waltz by Joh. Strauss. (Carl Fisher, N. Y.)

Introduction ad lib. no stop, no ritar. until tempo di valse, which is played twice; cut out pause also. Waltz to be played in strict waltz tempo, about 60 Metronome; it consists of 7 exercises, each 32 bars. Solo piano part is marked accordingly. Each strain twice in No. 1. In the first strain of No. 1 are 8 bars which must be omitted, to make the 32 bars which are necessary. In No. 2. play the first strain once only, the second twice as written. In No. 3 cut out the Introduction, (4 bars) and play each strain twice. This finishes the Waltz.

1.	Exercise, 32 bars; First strain of No. 1,

2.	Exercise, 32 bars; Repeat first strain of No. 1.

3.	Exercise, 32	bars;	Second strain of No.	1. twice.

4.	Exercise, 32	bars;	First strain of No. 2.	twice.

5.	Exercise, 32	bars;	Second strain of No.	2. twice.

fi.	Exercise, 32	bars;	First strain of No. 3.	twice. - No Introduction.

7.	Exercise, 32	bars;	Second strain of No.	3. twice.

This finishes the Waltz, cut out No. 4 and Coda.

Exercise I.

Step left sideward, arm circle left inward..................... 1

Close right, hand circle left inward in rear of left shoulder.	2

Step left sideward, 3-4 arm circle left inward to sideward

position .................................................. 3

Close right and tip clubs on forearm........................... 4

The same right (the left arm remains in sideward position)....	5—8

Re-tip clubs, and 3-4 double arm circle outward................ 9

Double hand circle outward in rear of shoulder................ 10

Double arm circle outward to starting position..............11-12

Double arm circle and double hand circle outward............13-14

Double arm circle outward, to starting position.............15-16

Repeat the exercises (1-16) to the right....................17-32

Digitized by UjOOQle
Digitized by
20

Exercise II.

Step left sideward and 3-4 double arm circle to the left to sideward position right...................................... 1

Place right foot obliquely back-inward, slight bending of knee

(courtesy) and tip the clubs on forearm...................... 2

Step right sideward and re-tip clubs.............................. 3

Close left and 3-4 double arm circle right to starting position...	4

The same right.............................................. 5—8

Double arm circle left sideward and double hand circle to the left (left hand in rear of left shoulder, and right hand in

rear of head)............................................. 9-10

Double arm circle to the left to starting position.............11-12

Movements as 9-10..............................................13-14

Movements as 11-12.............................................15-16

Repeat the exercises (1-16) to the right.......................17-32

Repeat the first exercise...................................... 1-32

Repeat the second exercise..................................... 1-32

Exercise III.

Step left sideward and double arm circle inward.................. 1

Close right and double hand circle inward in rear of shoulder...	2

Step left sideward and 3-4 double arm circle inward to sideward

position ................................................... 3

Close right and tip clubs on forearm............................. 4

Step right sideward, re-tip the clubs and 3-4 double arm circle

outward..................................................... 5

Close left and double hand circle outward in rear of shoulders. .	6

Step right sideward, close left, and 1 1-8 double arm circle outward to the obliquely side upward position.............. 7—8

Arm and hand circle outward as follows: the left arm begins with an arm circle, the right with a hand circle in rear of

shoulders, then the reverse, etc., to 14................. 9-14

Arm circle left and hand circle right in rear of shoulders to upward position............................................ 15

Bend arms to starting position.................................. 16

Repeat the exercise (1-16) to the right.......................17-32

Digitized by v^ooQle
TaktJ2B

Taht/4

Digitized by
22

Exercise IV.

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward in

rear of shoulders...................................... 1—2

3-4 double arm circle outward to forward position of the arms,

with hands crossed.......................................... 3

Immediately a horizontal double hand circle outward above

arms with arms moving sideward to sideward position....	4

3-4 double arm circle outwai d and double hand circle outward in

rear of shoulders......................................... 5—6

As 5-6, but a whole double arm and hand circle.............. 7—8

Three double arm circles outward to upward position........... 9-11

Layout left backward, lower arms to sideward position, with tipping of clubs on forearm (the tipping follows without

pausing.) ................................................. 12

Straighten right knee and swing left leg backward, re-tip the

clubs and raise the arms to obliquely side-upward position.	13

Close left (arms remaining in the oblique position)............. 14

7-8 double arm circle outward to starting position............15-16

Repeat the exercise (1-16) to the right.......................17-32

Exercise V.

Step left sideward and 3-4 double arm circle to the left to sideward position right....................................... 1

Place right foot obliquely back inward and tip clubs on forearm 2

The same (1-2) right....................................... 3—4

Repeat left................................................ 5—6

Step right sideward and re-tip clubs........................... 7

Close left, 3-4 double arm circle to the right and double hand circle to the right (right in rear of right shoulder, left in

rear of head)............................................. 8

Three double arm circle to the right........................ 9-11

Lunge left sideward with left arm raised upward, right arm bent, right hand in front of left shoulder, clubs vertical, right elbow down, look toward the left hand (the upward position of the clubs is assumed between the 11 and 12

measure) ................................................ 12

Straighten left knee, swing left leg sideward, and straighten

right arm upward......................................... 13

Close left (both arms remaining in the upward position)....	14

Double arm circle outward to	starting position..............15-16

Repeat the exercise (1-16) right............................17-32

Digitized by kjOOQle
Digitized by ^.ooQle
Exercise VI.

Double arm circle inward, and double hand circle inward in

rear of shoulders...................................... 1—2

3-4 double arm circle inward to sideward position.............. 3

Bend knees deep, and tip clubs on forearms..................... 4

Straighten knees, and carry arms forward....................... 5

Bend trunk forward, re-tip, and then swing clubs backward....	6

Straighten trunk, swing clubs forward, and upward to upward

position .................................................. 7

Knee-bend dipping (half deep), and double hand circle inward

in rear of shoulders....................................... 8

Double arm circle inward....................................... 9

Double arm circle inward...................................... 10

3-4 double arm circle inward to sideward position............. 11

Lunge left forward, and tip the clubs on forearms............. 12

Re-tip clubs, and two double hand circle outward in rear of the bent arms (the arms are somewhat bent and straightened

during the hand circles.)...............................13-14

3-4 double arm circle outward, and close left................. 15

Clubs are lowered to starting position........................ 16

Repeat the exercise (1-16) right............................17-32

Exercise VII.

Step left sideward, and double arm circle to the left............ 1

Rear cross-step right and double hand circle to the left, (left hand in rear of left shoulder and right hand in rear of

head) ....................................................... 2

Step left sideward, and 3-4 double arm circle to sideward position right..................................................  3

Place right foot obliquely back-inward, and tip clubs............ 4

Step right sideward, tip clubs, and 3-4 double arm circle to the

right......................................................   5

Rear cross-step left, double hand circle to the right (right hand

in rear of right shoulder, and left hand in rear of head)....	6

Step right sideward, and double arm circle to the right....... '	7

Close left, and clubs to starting position....................... 8

Three double arm circles to the	right......................... 9-11

Lunge left sideward, and lower (clubs) to sideward position right, (left arm bent over head, right arm sideward, clubs

horizontal.) look toward	the	right hand..................   12

Remaining in the position.....................................13-14

Close left and double arm circle right to starting position. .15-16 Rapeat the axercise 1-16 right................................

Digitized by LjOOQle
Takt 4-
WANTED.

The following copies of Mind and Body are needed to complete the files of libraries. Will readers who do not have their copies bound kindly notify us if any of these numbers can be secured and a generous credit will be allowed on renewal subscriptions for same.

Vol. 15, No. 167 March 1908 Vol. 16, No. 177 March 1909 Nos. 212, 213, 214, and 215 Vol. 23, No. 249 May 1916 No. 23, 251 Sept. 1916 Vol. 23, No. 252 Oct. 1916 Vol. 23, No. 255 Jan. 1917

Several copies are wanted of the last four issues named and we hope to have at least twenty-five responses. A postal card will tell us if you have any of these numbers to spare. Address

Mind and Body

16 No. Minn. Str.,

New Ulm, Minn.
VOLLEY-BALL.

Official Rules for the Brooklyn Turnfest.

Necessary Equipment.—A rectangular space 25 x 60 feet; a net (similar to a tennis net) at least 27 x 2 feet (a rope or cord will do for practice games); and a volley ball (or very light basketball).

in

o»

VOLLEY BALL FIELD.

Organization.—The rectangular space or field of play is divided into two equal halves, 25 x 30 feet, by a center line, above which the net is stretched so that at least one foot extends beyond the side boundaries and so that the top of its center is 8 feet from the ground. A line parallel to and 25 feet from the center line at each end of the field is called the serving line.

The players are divided into two equal teams. The members of one team have regular positions as forwards, centers and backs on the one side of the net. The opposing team stands in similar positions on the opposite side.

The object of the game is to bat the ball over the net with one or both hands, so that it falls within the opponents’ field in such a way that they return it, i. e., bat it back before it touches the ground. This batting back and forth over the net continues until one side misses, i. e., allows it to hit the ground, or fouls in returning it.

Definition of Terms.—The player putting the ball in play is called the “server”; his team, the “serving” team or side; and the continuation of his putting the ball in play, “service.”

The opposite team player is called the “receiver”; and his team the “receiving” team or side.

A fair ball is one that is batted over the net within the opponents’ boundary lines, or touches any part of the opponents’ body (before touching the ground and after going over the net).

A net ball is one that is batted, touches the top of the net and goes over the net within the opponents’ boundary lines.

The following are the rules for an official or match game:

Digitized by LjOOQle
28

1.	Field.—Shall be 25 x 60 feet with serving line 5 feet from each end, as described under “Organization/' The boundary line shall be visible from any part of the court.

2.	Ball.—The Ball shall be a regulation volley ball, not less than 26 inches in circumference and 7 ounces in weight, nor more than 27 inches in circumference and 12 ounces in weight.

3.	Net.—The official volley-ball net, 27 x 3 feet, shall be stretched tightly and fastened securely by its four corners, as nearly level as possible, and 8 feet from the ground at the center.

4.	Teams.—Nine players shall constitute a team.

A substitute may be entered any time the ball is not in play, but will not be entitled to serve until his team has received once.

5.	Officials.—The referee has entire charge of the game. He shall decide when the ball is in play, when it is not in play, when a point has been made, when service is forfeited, and shall impose penalties for any violation of the rules.

Two linesmen, stationed at opposite corners of the court, shall assist the referee in deciding whether the ball strikes out of bounds. One of the linesmen shall also keep score.

6.	Length of Game.—The game continues until one side scores twenty-one (21) points. For the Turnfest, the playing time shall be limited to twenty minutes, divided in equal halves. At the end of this time the best score wins. If tie each team shall receive one more service i. e. continue serving until the ball is lost to the opponent. This is repeated until the tie is broken at the end of a “double service."

A game may be declared forfeited by the referee for violation of the spirit of the rules, score 21 to 0.

7.	Choice of Courts.—If the team winning the toss made by the referee selects the service, the opposing team has the choice of oourts, and vice versa.

If one game only is to be played, the teams change sides after eleven points are scored.

If more than one game is to be played (five games are usually a match), the teams change sides after each game.

8.	Service.—The ball is put in play by a player (the server) .standing anywhere behind the serving line and batting a fair ball with one or both hands. If he bats a net ball, he is allowed another serve.

Failure to serve a fair ball, serving two consecutive net balls, or failure at any time, to bat back fairly the receiving team's fair return results in forfeiting the service to the opponents.

The same player must serve until the service is forfeited to the opponents.

9.	Playing the Ball.—All batting must be done with the open hand or hands.

The ball may be batted anywhere, on the batter's side of the .court, provided it does not touch the ground.

In returning the ball (after it has been served over the net) it

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
29

may be relayed over the net, i. e., passed by batting from one player-to another on the same side, provided no player hits the ball twice in succession.

If a player hits the ball twice in succession it shall count as not being returned.

Intentional delay of game forfeits that play (to opponents).

After the ball has been put in play, e., served over the net, a net ball is considered a fair ball.

A ball going out of bounds, which is touched by a player before it strikes the ground, without this same player having previously called “out” (of bounds), must be returned fairly or forfeit that play.

The lines bounding the field of play shall be considered as part of the playing space.

When the ball momentarily comes to a rest in the hands or arms of a player, and is not clearly batted, that particular play shall be forfeited (to the opponents).

If a player touches the net with any part of his body, reaches over the net, or advances beyond the net, that particular play shall be forfeited (to the opponents).

If two opposing players simultaneously touch the net, the play stops and is started again by the serving team irrespective of what the result was.

10.	Scoring.—Failure of the receiving side to return a fair ball counts one point for the serving side. (Note.—This means that only the serving side can score.)

11.	Addressing the Officials.—Only the captain of the team may address the officials.

For violation of this rule, a point may be awarded to the opponents; and for the second offense, the player may be disqualified.

12.	Indecent Language.—Any player may be disqualified at any time for indecent language.

13.	Players May-—Recover a net ball.

Return a ball which is out of the field of play, but yet in the air, to their own, or to the opponent’s field of play.

Touch or bat after any other player on either team has touched

it.

Helps in Playing The Game.

1.	Strike the ball with both hands. Always strike it lightly, except when serving; always strike the ball upward.

2.	Look for uncovered space in opponents’ court and play the ball for space.

3.	Play together; cover your own space. Do not play all over the field. A player should be able to cover about 10 to 20 feet of floor space.

4.	Bat the ball from one player to another when possible.

5.	Watch the play constantly, and keep your eye on the ball.

Digitized by LjOOQle
30



GUSTAV J. BRAUN, Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

ATHLETIC RECREATION PARK, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

A Brief Report of the Recreation Walking And Outing Club.

The recreation Walking and Outing Club was organized by Ernest and Albert Kumpf, Mr. and Mrs. Goulding, Elsie Wachter, Helen Denuell, Mr. and Mrs. McQuillen, Conard Schneider and Joseph McGee, who were of the opinion that they would like to take short hikes for pleasure out in the country, and also to see the different suburban sections near Philadelphia. A trip was proposed for Sunday, November 22, 1914, to start at the Athletic Recreation Park at 8:30 A. M. to take a hike through Fairmount park. That morning there were four out of ten that met;, the others were still a little too timid. But after they saw that some really started out on our first hike, and began to realize that it was going to be a real club, others began to follow.

On Thursday evening, December 3, 1914, we held our first meeting to organize a club and to nominate officers. The following meeting, December 17th, there was an election of officers.

The purpose of this club was not to see how great a distance a person could hike, but to go out for short hikes for pleasure and health, and also to see the different points of interest around Philadelphia.

After having gone through a winter of hard struggle to keep the club going with the attendance on our hikes averaging anywhere from two to five on a trip, spring came and put new life into the club, and it began to increase as the flowers started to bloom and the warm days came.

Then summer came. Of course, summer is no time to undertake long hikes. Instead of hiking, we went picnicking along cool creeks and under shady trees out in the country and also to places where there was bathing. The summer trips ended up with a two days' stay at Fort Penn over Labor Day. This trip was enjoyed by everyone that went, seventeen in all. It was enjoyed so much by everyone that they requested to go- there the following year.

After summer had gone from us, autumn came with the ripening of fruit and nuts and also with beautiful colored leaves and fall flowers which smiled at us as we went plodding along the country roads. Our autumn trips finished up with an anniversary walk, . taking the same route we did a year ago, only this time, instead of four members, we had twenty-five present. And this was followed with a banquet in the auditorium of the Athletic Recreation Park on Monday evening, December 6, 1915, to celebrate our first year in existence as a club.

Digitized by VjOOQle
31

Besides our trips every Sunday afternoon during the year, we had our socials once a month, which were always something new in form of amusement for young and old.

Our second year started out with a visit each .Sunday to different museums and places of interest until the nice spring weather eame. In the spring we had a May hike, starting out at 6 A. M. to go after flowers, and in June we spent a Sunday on a farm in Gradyville. Then summer came, bringing us back to places of bathing and to cool spots for picnicking. In August the club spent a Sunday at Wildwood, which was enjoyed by everyone. Our second trip to Fort Penn was again held on Labor Day. This time the attendance was larger. Instead of staying two days, we were there for four days. A special trip to Mauch Chunk and the Switch-back was held October 22d. This brought out a fair number of members.

The second year was closed up with our second anniversary walk on Sunday, November 20, 1916, and a second annual banquet in the auditorium of the Athletic Recreation Park, held on Tuesday evening, December 5, 1916, as this closed the second year of the club and was the beginning of the third. In the future we expect to accomplish better and greater things and also take longer trips. We have started a saving fund which will help to accomplish these things.

DANCE OF THE FAIRIES.

SCHOTTISCHE.	Music by HARRY LINCOLN.

Arranged by HANS REUTER, Indianapolis, Ind.

Introduction:	Meas.	'

Step left sideward arms in 3rd amplified, 1-2; cross right foot in rear, 3-4; bend trunk forward and circle right arm outward and straighten knees, 5-8........................... 2

Same right and hold last position with palms turned upward, 1-8................................................ 2

I.

A)	Step left sideward arms in 3rd amplified 1-2, point right

foot in 4th and right arm in high 1st 3-4, point right foot sideward and arm in 3rd amplified 5-6, cross right foot in rear and right arm in 5th 1-8,............................ 2

Repeat 1-8 to the right..................................... 2

B)	Schottische left obliquely forward with arms in 3rd

amplified to lateral 1-4 same to the right 5-8............ 2

C)	Leap hop left with arms to 3rd amplified and lateral,

same right 1-4............................................ 1

D)	Step hop left backward arms to lateral 1-2, pirrouette

right 3-4................................................. 1

8

Repeat all to the right ............................. 8

16

Digitized by C^ooQle
II.

A)	Arabasque left obliquely forward with arms to inter-

mediate amplified 12, Pas de Zephre right obliquely backward with arms to lateral 3 4, Schottische left forward with arms to 3rd amplified to lateral 5-8.......

Same to right..........................................

B)	Pas de Zephre left and right backward with arms to left and right lateral 1 1, leap hop left and right sideward with arms to right and left lateral and turn the head left

and right 5-8............................................. 2

C) Schottische left 1-4, pirrouette right with arms to 1st 5-8......................................................... 2

8

Repeat all to the right..................................... 8

III.	16

Same as 1.................................................. 16

IV.

A) 4 steps sideward crossing in rear with arms to 3rd amplified 1-4 step left sideward and hop 3 times with left (triple balance hop) with left arm to 5th right arm to 3rd amplified 5-8 .............................................. 2

B) Step right sideward with arms to 3rd amplified 1-2, p oint

left forward with arms to right lateral 3-4, same left 5-8. .	2

Repeat A) and B) to the right.............................. 4

C) Step hop left and right forward with arms to left and right lateral 14, step hop turn in 2 step hops with arms

to lateral left and right 5-8........................... 2

Step left forward with arms to 3rd amplified 1-2 point right forward with arms to left lateial 3-4 step right forward with arms in 3rd amplified 5-6, point left foot

forward with arms to lateral right 7-8.................. 2

Repeat C).................................................. 4

V.	16

A) Leap left sideward with crossing right in rear arms to 3rd amplified-1 turn right with arms to 1st 2-4, 2 steps right sideward with crossing in rear with arms to 3rd amplified, 2 pas de zephres sideward right and left with arms to 3rd amplified and lateral, step right sideward

and courtesy 5 8 .......................................... 2

B) Schottische left obliquely forward with arms to 3rd amplified and lateral 1-4, step and courtesy right and

left with arms to right and left lateral 5-8............... 2

Repeat A) and B)............................................. 4

Repeat IV. Repeat I.

VI.

VII.

Digitized by VjOOQle
33

DUMB BELL EXERCISES FOR MEN’S CLASSES.

Music: National Defense.	4	Measures	Introduction.

I.

Counts Meas.

A.	Lunge left forward and arms forward......... 1—2

4-4 arm circle right downward and strike bells .. 3— 4

Return '................................... 5— 8

Same to the right.......................... 9—16

Face left and repeat left.................. 1— 8

Face R. about and repeat right............. 9—16—16

B.	Lunge left forward and arms forward........ 1— 2

4-4 circle right downward and strike bells. 3— 4

1-4 turn right and arms sideward and straight

knees ..................................... 5— 6

Bend Trunk forward and lower and strike bells.. 7— 8

Straighten and arms sideward............... 9—10

Bend trunk backward and arms upward........11—12

Straighten and arms sideward...............13—14

Close left and lower arms..................15—16

Repeat left 3 times........................ —48—32

•C. Face left and 4 steps forward and jump to stride stand, jump to cross close stand, jump to position. (Repeat 3 times).......................... —32—16

II.

A.	Lunge left sideward and arms sideward...... 1— 2

4-4 arm circle right outward............... 3— 4

Return .................................... 5— 8

Repeat right, left, right.................. 9—32—16

B.	Lunge left sideward and arms sideward...... 1—2

4-4 arm circle right outward. ............. 3— 4

1-4 turn right and move arm forward........ 5— 6

Bend trunk left and arms sideward ......... 7— 8

Return and arms forward.................... 9—10

Bend trunk right and arms sideward.........11—12

Return and arms forward   .................13—14

Close left and lower arms................... 15—16

Repeat left 3 times........................ —48—32 .

C.	Face left and 4 steps forward 1-4, face left about

and 4 steps forward 5-8, repeat 3 times (marching on lines of the cross)................. —32—16

III.

A.	1-4 turn left and lunge left forward left arm , obliquely upward right obliquely downward.... 1— 2 Raise right leg backward and change arm position ........................................... 3— 4

Return..................................... 5— 8

Repeat right, left, right ................. 9—32—16

Digitized by
34

B. 1-4 turn left and lunge left forward left arm ob-

liquely upward, right obliquely downward.... 1— 2

Raise right leg backward and change arm position .............................. 3— 4

1-4 turn right and left arm upward, right sideward and leg sideward................ 5— 6

1-4 turn right and swing left downward and

backward arms to strike.................... 7— 8

Turn to forward and straighten knee, arms sideward ................................ 9—10

Swing arms downward and strike in rear......11—12

Repeat (9-10) ........ ....................13—14

Close left to right.........................15—16

Repeat right, left, right.................. —32

C.	As (1.—C.) but begin with right foot and face

right...................................... —16

Group IV.

A.	Lunge left sideward and raise arms right sideward ...................................... 1— 2

Change knee bending with 1-4 turn right and swing arms down with 1 and 3-8 double arm

circle right........................:...... 3— 4

Return............:........................ 5— 8

B.	As A, 1-4. Lunge left forward with 1-2 turn

right and swing arms foreupward and lower sideward ................................ 5— 6

Change knee bending and lower trunk forward

and strike bells under the knees........... 7— 8

Return..................................... 9—16

C.	March on the lines of the cross as C of 2, and to

right, beginning with the right foot....... —16

There have been a great many calls for copies of Heintz’ “Theory of Fencing with the Foil” since the notice was inserted in the February issue but not enuf to make it possible to reprint at this time. If any others desire this book let us hear promptly in order that the work may be begun. Subscribers please see notice on first 'page of this issue calling for back numbers of Mind & Body.

The Publishers.

Digitized by kjOOQle
PHYSIOLOQY AND HYQIBNB j

O—I mi.il.	m i	       in..—.O

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

PHYSIOLOGIC ASPECTS OF THE WORKING DAY PROBLEM.

The length of the working day has a pre-eiminently physiologic bearing, and recently has assumed increased political prominence. Lee* has presented the crux of the matter as follows: The eight-hour problem is primarily a problem of physiology; if the physiologic effects of any kind of labor are injurious, the conditions of such labor should be changed. This is fundamental, and should precede any consideration of the economic and social effects resulting from a change of conditions, a basic fact which is continually overlooked.

The most serious physiologic interference accompanying prolonged uninterrupted work is the familiar phenomenon of fatigue. Its existence is generally recognized, yet few except those who have attempted a more intimate analysis of work in relation to weariness realize the subtle ways in which fatigue not only damages the working human mechanism but also tends to lower the efficiency of its performance. Nowadays every student of medicine has opportunity to learn from his experimental study of physiology that the introduction of periods of rest during a laboratory experiment with a muscle diminishes the fatigue of the moment, aids recuperation, and delays the oncoming of exhaustion. This fact is demonstrated in each of us several times in a minute, since each beat of the heart is followed by a period of rest to enable the cardiac muscle to recuperate from the effects of the previous contraction. The beneficial effects of similar periods of rest in industrial labor, as Lee reminds us, are evidenced by the custom—not uncommon since the striking demonstration of the late Mr. Frederick Taylor in the lifting of heavy iron pigs—of giving workers occasional brief intervals of freedom from their tasks.

Any working day which, through conditions of intensity and rate of labor and environmental features, tends to cause the detrimental effects of fatigue should be modified. Here is a large field for the careful study of conditions relating to the hygiene of work. Formerly economic arguments were commonly employed to combat all attempts to reduce working hours for those performing heavy labor. Recently there has been a growing conviction that in many industries a shorter working period under more favorable physiologic conditions will frequently result in an output as large as that achieved on a longer working day basis, if not even larger. The question,

* Lee, F. S.:	Is	the	Eight	Hour	Working	Day	Rational?	Science,	Nov.

24, 1916, p. 727.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
36

however, is one not only of a shorter day, but also of more frequent periods of rest which may tend to eliminate the incipient fatigue which curtails efficiency.

Whether or not the reduction of the working period to the eight hour day is a physiologic necessity cannot be decided on any •a priori grounds. Lee points out that two factors are to be considered: the characteristics of the labor, and the capacity of the laborer. Different occupations vary greatly in their fatiguing power. Especially productive of fatigue are those characterized by great muscular effort; unusual quickness or complexity of muscular action; single acts, however simple, which are monotonously repeated over long intervals of time; constant strain through con-•centration of attention or through a bodily posture long maintained, and those occupations in which the work is carried on in crowded places, in extreme heat and humidity, in the midst of excessive noise, or under other unfavorable environmental conditions. Perhaps the ideal will hinge on the establishment of a system of labor in which the length of the working day shall vary for each person according to his personal capacity.

It would be folly to say that other aspects of the problem deserve no consideration in the discussion of the working day. Labor leaders insist on the propriety of certain demands from the standpoint of social justice: an opportunity for something more than machine efficiency, and more time for personal enjoyment and social betterment. If the ideal conditions of work demanded are afforded, a serious obligation to do his best will rest on the laborer as well as on each one of us.—Editorial, J. A. M. A., Jan. 13, 1917.

A Warning Against Trichinosis.—-The federal meat inspectors do not inspect pork or pork products to determine the presence •or absence of the organisms causing trichinosis, as even careful microscopic examination is unreliable. They do require, in establishments under their supervision, that pork that is to be made into products to be eaten raw shall be heated or subjected to extreme cold so as to destroy such organisms, but as federal inspection covers only establishments engaged in interstate commerce, it is not safe to rely on it altogether. Even such products should be avoided unless they are known to have come from establishments under federal or equivalent inspection. In fact, the Bureau of Animal Industry, United States Department of Agriculture, in a warning just issued against the danger in raw pork, gives no countenance to its use as an article of diet, but emphatically sets forth that the safest plan is to eat no pork products of any kind raw. According to the bureau, the records show that the number of cases of trichinosis increases during the holidays, partly because of hogkilling time, and partly because farmers frequently make up special .forms of sausage which are eaten without cooking. The rule of safety laid down by the bureau is to cook pork until it has lost its red color throughout all portions, or, if a trace of this color is still present, at least until the fluids of the meat have become moie or less jellied.

Digitized by kjOOQle
37

Dust and its Dangers.—In the clinic of occupational diseases it is well recognized that dust of various sorts is a menace to the health of a large number of wage earners. For 1915 it has been estimated by Frederick L. Hoffmann that at least 10 per cent of workers labored under conditions more or less detrimental to health and life on account of atmospheric pollution commonly classed as dust. * This impurity may be of the most diverse sorts. There are insoluble inorganic dusts, including metals in a state of fine division, silica, sand, coal, marble, and similar powders. Potter’s asthma, grinder’s phthisis, and the siderosis among metal polishers and others engaged in metal working are familiar illustrations of the harm done by this class of dusts, which usually produce irritation through being inhaled. Others represent soluble inorganic impurities which are more readily’ absorbed after being swallowed, and are dangerous because of their inherently poisonous qualities. A third class, the organic dusts, comprises such widely varying materials as “sawdust, fur, skins, feathers, broom and straw, grains-and flours, jute, flax, hemp, cotton, wool, carpet dust, street sweepings, tobacco-box dust, hides and leather, felts, rags, paper, horsehair, etc. Typical of the diseases caused by organic dusts are: flax dressers’ disease, a kind of pneumonia due to the inhalation of particles of flax; alkaloidal poisoning from African boxwood by workmen engaged in shuttle making, and malignant pustule and a febrile disease among rag storers.”**

Most persons contemplating the subject of dust and its hygienic aspects for the first time assume that the dangerous factor lies in the distribution of micro-organisms in the atmospheric contamination. Dust thus is a convenient terfn which may include a large variety of atmospheric impurities. „ The dust of the home, the schoolroom, the theater or the street can scarcely be of the same character, even if in attenuated amounts, as that which obtains in the distinctively dusty trades. Of what does it consist? A recent analysis of the “dust” collected'-in a vacuum cleaner from the book shelves of the library of an educational institution f disclosed, on microscopic examination, hair, green wool, white wool, cotton fibres, fly wings, sand grains, wood, paper, string, celluloid, pieces of finger nails, metallic iron and leather. The hair was probably derived from soft hats; the wool and cotton fibers from clothing; sand from the mud tracked in on shoes and the gradual pulverizing of the floor; fly wings from dead flies, and paper from book leaves. The remaining articles present explain themselves. In a water suspension of this dust, no life could be detected with a lens magnifying 320 diameters.

* Hoffmann, F. L.: Statistical Studies Relating to Occupational Diseases, in Kober, G. M., and Hanson, W. C.: Diseases of Occupation and Vocational Hygiene, Philadelphia, 1916, p. 777.

** Baskerville, C.: New York Med. Jour., Nov. 23 and 30,1912. t Rees, R. R.: The analysis of “Dust” Collected in a Vacuum Cleaner from the Book Shelves of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Library, Science, Oct. 27, 1916, p. 618.

Digitized by

Google
38

A qualitative examination of the "library dust” showed the presence of the elements iron, aluminum, sodium and calcium, which are easily accounted for by the wear and tear of materials of obvious proximity. One of the chief points of interest was the finding of the Bacillus coli communis. Rees suggests that it may come from several sources, the most probable one being the hands while handling books. The bacillus might also be present because of the coughing, sneezing and possible expectoration of people using the libralry. The total number of bacteria in the dust of such a confined space as a library would naturally be high, as the dust would catch the bacteria and have a tendency to hold them.

It might be argued, as Rees does, that where the colon bacillus survives, more harmful bacteria might also remain, such as those producing typhoid fever, cholera*liphtheria, and especially tuberculosis, which latter disease is caused by a germ especially able to resist the sterilizing influence of drying. But the experience of the comparative freedom of paper money, books, and many other articles frequently handled by man, from extensive contamination with harmful micro-organisms gives a feeling of a security from such possible sources of bacterial danger which may or may not be entirely justified. Only extensive researches can determine the real limits of safety from the commonest dangers of dust in every day life.—Editorial: “The Journal of the Am. Med. association,” January 27, 1917.

Two Summaries of Papers read at the Sixty-Seventh Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Detroit, June, 1916, on Vaccine Therapy.—

JRecent work tends to show that many substances, the so-called foreign proteins and their derivatives, may, when injected especially into the veins, quickly cause a severe chill followed by high fever, leukocytosis and certain changes in the blood, especially the appearance of ferments. These proteins may be derived from dfsease germs or they may consist of other animal substances, as serum, proteoses and milk. After the rather severe reaction, marked improvement and even permanent cure may result in certain diseases, especially typhoid, and in rheumatic and gonococcus infections. This may be due to the high fever and to increase in the ferments and leukucytes of the blood. Other factors are probably at work.

The nonspecific effort of vaccines is just now probably the most important problem that concerns the vaccinationist. The possibilities of development along this line are many, for the principle concerns an immense number of diseases, both in man and the lower animals. Questions concerning ultimate cure, recurrences, relapses and dangers cannot now be justly appreciated because of lack of data.

This form of treatment should be referred to neither as specific nor as vaccine therapy. It is nonspecific, and usually, but not necessarily, protein therapy.

The important domain of vaccines is protective, not curative, according to present data.—Dr. David John Davis, Chicago.

Digitized by CjOOQle
39

To summarize briefly, the writer feels that if vaccines have not fulfilled all of their early promise, they have at least given us a very effective extra means of combating infection, especially if used in conjunction with skilful and intelligent surgery, and that little harm will or can result from their use, even by the novice provided the injections are given hypodermically, rather than intravenously, as in the latter method the reactions are at times exceedingly severe and alarming. In a number of instances, notably ozena, it seems as if vaccine therapy alone might solve a problem which has been puzzling clinicians hopelessly for years, and until some more efficient substitute is discovered, vaccine therapy has its distinct place as a therapeutic measure in diseases of the ear, nose and throat. —George Morrison Coates,	D.t	Philadelphia.

Editorials from “Health” London, England.

There is nothing that contributes more largely to the general good humor of society than a man with a hearty sense of pleasantry. Troubles disappear at his approach, and under the magic influence of his contagious geniality cares and forebodings, which seemed to be tragedies, become trifles light as air and mere cause of laughter.

A person with a sunny, hopeful, humorous nature is like a physician in a city during an epidemic, and his presence sweetens life. CA cheerful frame of mind and good humor come with the desire and the determination to be cheerful, and powerful aids to the formation of cheerfulness are in having always at hand a pleasant and elevating book, in taking exercise in the open air, in choosing a sunshiny room and sunny-hearted companions, and, in all circumstances, in deciding to be active, to have some occupation to keep the mind agreeably and profitably employed. The person who cultivates the cheerful habit assiduously will find the reward in his own happiness, which will grow even greater when he perceives how much his cheerfulness and good humor adds also to the happiness of others. J

Universal Military Training.—On December 2l letters were mailed to the presidents and to certain past presidents of the American Medical Association and of other national medical organizations of a special character, and to the same officers of state societies inviting them to occupy the time at the hearing before the Senate Committee on Military Affairs which had been assigned to Dr. Lucien Howe, Buffalo, or to join in a letter to the chairman of the committee approving of universal military training. Out of a total of 117 replies received previous to the hearing, 112, including presidents or past presidents of thirty-two state associations, gave their unqualified approval as indicated in the letter; four were doubtful or hesitated to commit themselves and one was opposed to the military aspects of the bill. Several letters came too late to be presented. At the hearing, Dr. Howe made clear the positions of those who signed the letter to the committee, read abstracts from a number of the letters, and presented them to the committee.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
40

In presenting these letters, stress was laid on the fact that each signer expressed only his individual opinion, and not that of any organization with which he was then or had been associated. The bill'was advocated because of two provisions which would tend to improve the health of boys or young men. These were: first, a uniform and thorough examination of boys or young men, such as would reveal any physical imperfections, and therefore lead to the adoption of means for their correction, and second, the gymnastic exercises and military training would tend to improvement of the general health. Dr. Hugh H. Young, Baltimore, then presented to the committee other physicians who joined in the plea for universal training—beginning with simple exercises at home for boys of about 12, or if that plan were deemed impracticable by the committee, they advocated intensive military training for young men of about 18.—General Medical News, Journal, M. A., January 27, 1917.

Disease Not a Respecter of States’ Rights.—The greatest asset which our country can have is the healthy American citizen, and, valuable as it may be to increase the health of live stock and vegetation, it is of far greater importance that we throw every possible safeguard about the health of the man who is responsible for that live stock and vegetation. The argument has been advanced that since the States at the time of their entry into the Union reserved to themselves their police powers and since the administration of health is one of the police powers, that the states should themselves grapple with their own health problems and conquer them, and that it is therefore improper for the federal government to make appropriations the application of which will react to the health of states. This argument is fallacious in the extreme. As I have previously pointed out, this problem is not a purely intrastate problem. Milk which is produced under insanitary conditions in New Jersey may produce an epidemic in New York. Butter or cheese which is made under insanitary conditions or from polluted milk in Wisconsin or Illinois may produce disease in Virginia or the District of Columbia. Lettuce or watercress which is grown in soil which is polluted with human excrement may be shipped in refrigerator cars to a distant point and there produce an epidemic of typhoid fever. The man who contracts typhoid fever on a farm in Texas may become a chronic typhoid bacillus carrier and distribute the disease wherever he goes no matter what the state or what the city. Disease has absolutely no regard for state lines whatsoever. Disease is equally uninterested in states’ rights. Sewage poured into a river in one state is easily carried by that stream to another state. So I say to you that the problem of rural sanitation is not a local problem but one which concerns the health and the physical integrity of our entire nation.—Senator Joseph E. Ransdell, of Louisiana, in the U. S. Senate, July 14, 1916.

Digitized by Google
41

Fresh Moving and Cool Outdoor Air in Pediatric Practice.

By R. G. Freeman, New York.—Fresh moving and cool outdoor air is an agent of wonderful power and value to the pediatrician. It stimulates the appetite, induces quiet sleep, brings color to the cheeks, and increases the resistance of the organism to infection. The cold air of winter is much more stimulating and produces better results in children than the mild air of spring and autumn. The best results from fresh air are obtained by keeping the children out of doors day and night. These children are not subject to colds which others have during the winters; they have good color, good appetite and a normal, robust development. Outdoor sleeping porches enclosed on three sides and roofed, but open to the south, furnish the best fresh air at night, while in the daytime balconies and rooms without heat and windows wide open supply the air needed.

Where it is impossible to obtain complete outdoor exposure, substitute in cold weather rooms with cheesecloth scieens in the windows. Other methods of ventilation consist in patent ventilators put under the lower sash. These, however, allow more movement in the air of the room, but less open space, and some of them furnish no filtration of the dust from the air. The most important application of fresh-air treatment is to build up the vitality and resistance to disease of frail children. This is tme in early life, for children with marasmus and malnutrition who are impossible to feed so as to obtain an increase in weight will often gain promptly, with no change in food, on being kept out of doors or in front of an open window in winter. In all the acute infectious diseases there is now a general acceptance of the advantage of fresh air, excepting perhaps in measles and scarlet fever, although the writer has convinced himself that measles and scarlet fever are no exceptions. He has put patients during a severe measles epidemic complicating scarlet fever out of doors in winter without a single fatality, although some of the scarlet-fever patients were exceedingly sick when the change was made. The change to outdoor air seemed to help them all. The common colds of winter are favorably influenced by cold, fresh air, as are other forms of infections.—Abstract from “The Journ. A. M. A.”	______________________

Open Window Week.—The fresh air campaign which the health department of New York has prosecuted so vigorously during the past weeks culminated on Sunday, December 10, by what has been designated as the “Finley Hike.” This was an eight-mile walk from the Stadium of City College to Getty Square, Yonkers, in which representatives of various walking clubs, the students of City College, and as many of the public in general as could be persuaded to, joined the party. President Finley donated three silver and twenty-five bronze medals to be awarded to those whom the judges and scorers thought deserving. A further means of impressing on the public the value of fresh air is the attempt to organize a new “I. W. W.,” that is, “I Walk to Work” club. As an inducement to join this company the health department holds out the following:	“Walk a mile in the open air twice a day. It will add

ten years to your life. If you do not believe it, try it and see.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
O'

ATHLETIC NOTES

O'

'O

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

1916 AMERICAN CHAMPIONS

Aeronautics.—Aeroplane—Miss Ruth Law, New York City (distance); Victor Carlstrom (altitude with one passenger). Hydroaeroplane-Lieutenant R.,C. Saufley (altitude;) Corporal A. D. Smith (duration).

Athletics—Indoor Senior Team—New York Athletic Club. Indoor Junior Team—New York Athletic Club. Outdoor Senior Team—Irish-American Athletic Club. Outdoor Junior Team— New York Athletic Club. All Around Avery Brundage, Chicago Athletic Association. Intercollegiate Team—Cornell.

Automobiling.—Dario Resta.

Baseball.—World’s Champions—Boston Americans. National League—Brooklyn. American League—Boston. Batting—“Hal” Chase, Cincinnati, National League; “Tris” Speaker, Cleveland, American League. Pitching—Grover C. Alexander, Philadelphia, National League; “Babe” Ruth, Boston, American League.

Basketball.—A. A. U. Team—University of Utah. Inter-, collegiate Team—University of Pennsylvania.

Bicycling.—Professional—Frank L. Kramer, Orange, N. J. Amateur—John L. Staehle, Newark, N. J.

Billiards.—Professional. Balkline.—William Hoppe, New York City. Professional, Three Cushions—George Moore, New York City. Class A. Amateurs—Edward Gardner, Montclair, N. J.

Boxing.—Jess Willard, Kansas City (heavyweight): “Al” McCoy, Brooklyn (middleweight); “Jack” Britton, Chicago (welterweight); Fred Welsh, New York City (lightweight); “Johnny” Kilbane, Cleveland (featherweight); “Johnny” Ertle, St. Paul (bantamweight); Carlo Armstrong, Boston (amateur heavyweight).

Chess.—F. J. Marshall, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Court Tennis.—Jay Gould, Lakewood, N. J. (singles); Jay Gould and W. H. T. Huhn, Philadelphia (doubles).

Cricket.—Germantown Cricket Club.

Cross-Country Running.—Junior—William Henigan, Dorchester Club, Junior Team—Dorchester Club. Senior—Vilar Kyronen, Millrose A. A. Senior Team—Millrose A. A. Intercollegiate—John Overton, Yale. Intercollegiate Team—Cornell.

Diving.—Fancy—Arthur McAleenan, Jr., N. Y. A. C.; Mrs. Aileen Allen, Los Angeles. High—Albert E. Downes, N. Y. A. C.; Miss Evelyn Burnett, St. Louis.

Digitized by

Google
43

Fencing.—Foils—A. E. Sauer, Illinois A. C. (senior); A. S._ Lyon, Fencers’ Club (junior). Sabres—Sherman Hall, N. Y. A. C.; A. Strauss, N. Y. T. V. (junior). Duelling Swords—William

H.	Russell, Boston; L. M. Schoonmaker, Fencers’ Club (junior). Women’s Foils—Mrs. C. H. Voorhees, Fencers’ Club.

Fencing Teams.—Foils—N. Y. A. C. (L. Nunez, P. W. Allison and S. Hall). Duelling Swords—N. Y. A. C. (L. Nunez, V. P. Curti and W. Bowman). Sabres—Fencers’ Club (J. T. Shaw, A. S. Lyon and E. B. Myers).

Football.—East, Pittsburg; Middle West, Ohio State; Far West, Washington.

Golf.—Amateur—Charles W. Evans, Chicago. Open—Charles W. Evans, Chicago. Women’s—Miss Alexa Stirling, Atlanta, Ga.

Gymnastics.—All Around—P. Hoi. Norwegian T. and A-C. Team—Norwegian T. and A. C.

Lawn Tennis.—Singles—R. Norris Williams, 2d, Philadelphia. Doubles—W. M. Johnston and C. J. Griffin. San Francisco. Women’s Singles—Miss Molla Bjurstedt, Norway. Mixed Doubles —Miss Eleonora Sears, Boston, and Willis E. Davis, San Francisco.

Swimming.—Middle Distances—Ludy Langer, Los Angeles A. C. Long Distance—Michael McDermott, Illinois A. C. Women —Miss Claire Galligan, New York City.

Walking.—George W. Goulding, Toronto, Canada.

Wrestling.—“Sam” Schwartz, New Haven A. A. (amateur heavyweight); Alexander Aberg, (professional).

Jo Loomis of the Chicago A. C. won the “Special Sprint Race” at three distances 50, 60 and 70 yds. at the New York A. C. games last month. The three races were all scratch. Five men competed, the final award being made a point basis. His times were as follows: 50 yds. .05 4-5; 60 yds., .06 3-5; 70 yds., .07 1-5 which equals the indoor record. The final result was: Jo Loomis, first; Brooke Brewer of Maryland State College, second; and A. B. Kelly of Holy Cross, third.

Bills for the introduction, or the increase, of physical training have been introduced into the legislatures of California, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. There may be others but we have not received copies of them. The bills in the three states referred to are physical training bills without the military training feature so closely attached to the New York law. In another place in this issue we reprint the Pennsylvania bill. It will be seen that this bill contemplates the gradual extension of the work so as to allow time for the training of teachers of physical education.

Digitized by LjOOQle
44

FOOTBALL IS NOT REGARDED A GAME.

Aside from the college man’s fitness, or lack of it, in its relation to the general problem of American preparedness, football was the most interesting subject of discussion at the December meeting of Directors of Physical Education in colleges. It was mentioned rather unexpectedly in the address of Dr. W. G. Anderson, of Yale University, who said:—

“The danger to football’s position in American universities does not come from criticisms of it as a game. The danger comes from the evident truth that American universities are gradually ceasing to regard it as a game. The fault is not with football, but in the way it is taught and practised. Undergraduates look upon it as a vocation, not as an avocation. So much expenditure of strength and thought on football is demanded of players by their coaches and by college opinion that very few of them have enough energy left for their college studies. The curriculum necessarily becomes a side issue as football becomes primary, because it is not in human endurance to toil all day long. The curriculum has got to supply the body and mind of the players with the needed rest and relief from mental and physical strain which football imposes. Football has ceased to be recreation; it has become labor. This overemphasis of football probably rises from a desire to win games, but it doesn’t win them. It simply fatigues teams and saps their strength.

“It is safe to say that if intercollegiate football continues to take a larger and more important place in college men’s time and thoughts it will be doomed, because no institution that is primarily interested in turning out intelligent citizens is going to stand for having a large group of men year after year effectually hindered in their proper college work by the demands put upon their energy by an extra curricular activity.”

Dr. Anderson pronounced his belief in a strict medical censorship of the wouldbe athlete, outlining a comprehensive scheme for such supervision in Yale University. *

Professor Charles V. P. Young, of Cornell University, president of the society, called upon the directors to systematize their work and to adopt a stable, progressive programme of physical education. He declared that physical education was far behind other departments of the colleges in organization and standardization, of its methods. He outlined what should be the nature of the college physical training course, and called for a graded, progressive course of physical education from the kindergarten to the final year of the college.

Joie Ray of the Illinois A. C. recently broke the long-existing two-mile American amateur record of 9.14 1-5 standing to the credit of George Bonhag since 1910. The new time set is 9.11 2-5.
45

o

Qi.n-1	n	i.i—in...   I	I	    ...	ii	..

NOTES AND OOHDflBNTS

o ii— '	ii .....	i	■ ii 6

The following relates to the question of liability for damages because of accidents in playgrounds and gymnasiums.

DEAR SIR:

I am now at work revising my “Legal Principles of Public Health Administration, ”one chapter of which deals with medical inspection in schools, etc. I already knew of the Milwaukee case, but I did not at first find the Washington citation. The next. day after I asked for more definite information I found the citation.

( Howard v Takoma School District, 88 Wash. 167, 152 Pac. 1004) You may be interested in the case.

A school board fitted up a gymnasium in a basement. Floor was of concrete. There was a horizontal ladder, seven feet from the floor, reached by a stationary vertical ladder. When the horizontal ladder was in use they had a mat, from four to six inches thick under it. Younger children were told they must not go up there, and especially not when the teacher was not present. A little girl six years old went to the watercloset in the basement and when going back to the class room noticed the ladders. She knew that it was wrong, and she had been told she must not go up, and there was no mat out, but there was no one to see. She climbed up,, was exhausted, and fell, breaking her arm. The district was sued.

In the Milwaukee case, {Bernstein v Milwaukee, 149 W. 382) it was held that in maintaining public playgrounds the city acts in a governmental rather than in a corporate character. That is, it acts for the state, and a state cannot ordinarily be sued for tort. Therefore the city was not legally liable for injury on the playground. Now in the Takoma case, the court admitted that the school district acts in a governmental capacity, and that therefore under ordinary conditions it could not be held liable; but by statute of the state special provision is made for the liability of school boards. It remained therefore to consider whether there was negligence.

In the Takoma School District case, negligence was found in that (1) the horizontal ladder was unnecessarily high according to evidence. (2) The upright ladder was left in place, thus inviting little children to climb. It should have been removed or swung out of reach, when not in use. (3) Though the upright ladder was left in place the pad was removed. This is good law. Damages $500. awarded.

Unless there be special recognition for the liability of school districts en tort, they will not be held for such injuries, but the in- ■ dications for care deserve consideration in all school gymnasia and playgrounds.

May I suggest, that whenever reference be made to legal decisions, citations be given to enable those interested to follow the matter up.

Sincerely yours,

Henry B. Hemenway

Evanston, Illinois. .

Digitized by

Google
46

Jahn Physical Training Club, Chicago, 111.

We are in the midst of strenuous work. The chairman of the program committee, Colleague Hocke, shows no mercy; he always has a very select outline of work for our meetings. The work in the first semester was carried on as follows: Bayonet exercises under supervision of Hy. Suder; Football coached by Colleagues Burke and Crook; Basketball under the leadership of Colleague Maysack; the intricacies of the Terpischorean art, as interpreted by Chalif and others, were offered by Prohaska and several other wing-footed colleagues. Then we had a few lectures on topics of vital interest to our profession by the undersigned; and last, but not least, military drill under the command of Colleague Hocke. Altho we often cast appealing glances at Mr. Suder when he insisted too persistently on well bent knees and free ready arms for attack and defense, we stuck to our guns like good soldiers.

The outlook for next semester does not indicate any let up as the following outline shows: swimming, practice and discussion of methods of teaching it; military training; field events; soccer football; baseball and lectures.

The club is steadily gaining in membership. Emil Groener's name as president guarantees earnest desire and vigorous efforts towards professional advancement in physical education.

C. F. Weege.

State Normal School, Minot, North Dakota.

The winter term shows a gratifying increase in enrollment, over forty new students having registered. The growing needs of the school necessitated the addition of instructors. The Physical Education Department is the first department to enjoy the privilege of two instructors, Miss Doris L. McFadden having been secured as assistant beginning with the present term. Miss McFadden is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin. She comes with successful experience in the Minneapolis playgrounds, and in the Northside Neighborhood House in Minneapolis.

The gymnastic contests for boys held early in January created considerable interest, notwithstanding the fact that these contests were the first to be held here.

Two exercises, one prescribed, one optional, were given on each of the following pieces of apparatus: horizontal bar, parallel bar, and side horse. Altho this is the first year that some of the boys have tried this work, they showed an aptness and liking for the work.

Altho the winter is long and somewhat severe in this section of the country, opportunities for out door sports have been numerous. Sleighing parties have been frequent, while skating enthusiasts have made use of the indoor city rink. Skiing and tobogganing are now in order as the convenient hills just off the campus are of the proper height and slope to produce all the sensations dear to the heart of the outdoor enthusiast.

Basket ball has come in for considerable attention, there having been ten games scheduled for the winter term. Intra-class games in

Digitized by i^.ooQle
47

which all the girls take pait have been arranged, there being upward of twenty-five teams learning the game and taking part in the contests. The close of the season brings the inter-class games.

The high schools of the district are looking forward to the district basket ball tournament to be held in March.

At the close of the term, a physical education exhibition will be held. At this time the many phases of the work as presented at the Normal School will be shown, including work in the primary grades thru the last year of the Normal courses.

State Normal School, La Crosse, Wisconsin.

The annual gymnastic exhibition in our gymnasium was held January 26th. It was the last appearance of Dr. Sputh and of fourteen graduating seniors.

The girls of our department gave a farewell party to Miss Thompson, for two years head of our women's department, who resigned on account of ill health. Miss Gipe of the Girls Trade School of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, was elected to fill Miss Thompson's place.

Twenty-two new students were admitted at the beginning of the new semester.

Paul Schmidt, Reporter.

If there is one thing that a person does not understand who has been graduated from a reputable training school, it is the fact that the world at large, and schoolmen in particular, place more weight upon things that were not taught as “regular" subjects than they do upon technical training.

To these the following points applying to the rating of engineers may be of service, if in point 5 they will read “physical education" instead of “engineering science".

1—	Character, integrity, responsibility, resourcefulness, initiative	24.0

2—	Judgment, common sense, scientific attitude, perspective	19.5

3—	Efficiency, thoroughness, accuracy, industry	16.5

4—	Understanding of men, executive ability	15.0

5—	Knowledge of the fundamentals of engineering science	15.0

6—	Technique of practice and of business	10.0

General—75 per cent

Technical—25 per cent

100.00

Digitized by Tooele
48

BODY TRAINING IN SCHOOLS.

The report of a commission appointed last year, recommending to the New Jersey Legislature the establishment of compulsory physical, but not military, training in all the public schools, points the way to the introduction at Trenton of the model bill on this subject drafted by Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, of Harvard, at the instance of a committee of leading educators. This committee has set forth its ideas as follows:

We believe that the time has come when the public schools can, and should, enter deliberately and purposely upon a definite plan for the preparation of our youth physically for the exigencies of life and for all the demands of citizenship. We need to spend more money and more time upon physical training intended to develop the body so that both boys and girls may be prepared equally for the pursuits of peace or the vicissitudes of war.

This model measure is officially entitled “a bill to upbuild national vitality through the establishment of physical education and training in the public schools of the State.” Its proponents are careful to assert that they are not proposing to impose an “elaborate and expensive machinery” .upon any State, but merely to indicate the way to begin in the belief that public opinion has now been educated to the point where it will support physical training in the schools.

Football, basketball and other scholastic sports in our public schools are all well enough as far as they go, but they do not go far enough. They concentrate physical training upon a few picked athletes and neglect the great mass of the students, who must be content with a rooting part. Every youngster’s body as well as mind must have its share of attention if we are to become a symmetrically developed nation for peace or war.—Editorial Star-Eagle, Newark, Febr. 9, 1917.

At a meeting of the Newark High Schools’ Department of Physical Education in the Council Chamber of the City Hall, last week, it was unanimously voted that the Newark Department of Physical Training send resolutions to the Legislature of New Jersey, solemnly confirming and agreeing with the recommendations of the Committee on Military Training in the Public Schools. The memorial to the Legislature reads in part as follows:

“The Physical Training Department of Newark would, however, emphasize to the Legislature the critical necessity for physical education for all school children in the State.

“In order that the adults of the nation shall be prepared to stand the rigors of war, it is necessary that in youth they shall be well disciplined, well “set up,” trained in muscular co-ordination, hardened against fatigue and taught the necessity of self-sacrifice to team play.

“The department wishes to urge upon the Legislature that it

Digitized by LjOOQle
49

is impossible to carry into effect these attributes of vigorous manhood and womanhood unless a larger amount of time is assigned the subject than at present allotted in the usual high and elementary school curricula. It is the solemn judgment of the teachers having years of experience in this subject that a minimum of 120 minutes a week, or three forty-minute periods for high schools and four thirty-minute periods for elementary schools are necessary if other than superficial results are to be obtained.”—“The Sunday CaU” Newark, N. J. Febr. 11, 1917.

THE LIFE EXTENSION INSTITUTE, INC. NEW YORK.

Designed as a self-supporting public service institution to disseminate knowledge of the science of disease prevention and especially to stimulate public interest in individual hygiene.

What it is—What it Does—The idea of establishing the Institute originated with Mr. Harold A. Ley, of Springfield, Mass., who was later joined by Professor Irving Fisher of Yale University. Though their efforts former President William H. Taft, Gen. Wm.

C.	Gorgas and many other prominent men in the professional and business world were enlisted in the cause. These men, who include nearly one hundred members of the Hygiene Reference Board, to which scientific announcements relating to health are referred, receive no financial return. They donate their services to the Institute as a contribution to human welfare.

The intentions of the organizers may be summarized as follows:

1.	To establish and maintain a central institute of national scope devoted to the science of disease prevention supported by a large board of recognized authorities in the various fields of health and life conservation.

2.	To thus provide a responsible and' authoritative source from which the public and the medical profession may draw knowledge and inspiration in the great war of civilization against needless sickness and premature death.

3.	To give especial attention to the teaching of the rules of personal hygiene or healthful living to the end that not only the ravages of communicable disease may be stayed, but that the increasing waste of vitality and human life from the chronic diseases may be checked.

4.	To direct its efforts not only to prevention of disease, but to its early discovery. For this purpose to urge and apply periodic health examinations to the end that health and life may be conserved, and that the habit of having health examinations may be encouraged and eventually become a common practice among our people.

5.	To include in its field personal, household, industrial and community hygiene; to make heailth or sanitary surveys of home, industrial plants and communities.

6.	To give all consistent support and encouragement to the public health service, local, state and national.

Digitized by kjOOQle
50

7.	To urge prudent and effective health educational methods in schools and other organizations and to stimulate individual and community interest in public health activities.

8.	To engage trained physicians throughout the country, and to establish laboratories for the purpose of carrying on physical examinations and research work.

With this broad educational program the Institute undertakes to reach the public through literature, lectures, etc., and through its health, educational and inspection service for insurance companies for their policyholders, employers for their employees, and other organizations for their members, and individuals who apply directly.

BOOK REVIEW.

“American Public Health Protection” by Henry B. Hemenway, M. D. 283 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by the Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indianapolis. Price $1.25 net.

Teachers, especially teachers of physical education will be interested in this work which places so much emphasis upon inspection and prevention. Dr. Hemenway in his book shows that efficient living depends on the health of the individual, and the individual’s health depends largely upon that of the community. Here is set forth in compact form the history of the development of care of public health in this country, of the growth of knowledge, of the battle with indifference, graft, and blindness. Then the work of national health agencies, and especially that of the medical department of the Army and the Bureau of Animal Industry, is discussed. Dr Hemenway comments on the changed social and economic conditions and the advancement of science in their bearing on sanitation. The medical inspection of schools, the organization of health departments, the preparation of health officers, are other phases of the subject which are handled in detail and with unfailing interest.

The book will be a valuable addition to any teacher’s library. “Community Center Activities” by Clarence Arthur Perry. 127 pages, 5 by 7 inches. Published by the Department of Recreation of the Russell Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd St., New York City.

The purpose of this little booklet is to suggest activities for after school occasions, and to indicate sources of information about them. The book does not furnish technical information, but it does tell where to look for it.

“Calisthenic Nomenclature” by J. H. McCurdy, M. D. 63 pages 6 by 9 inches, profusely illustrated. Published by the author, Springfield, Mass. Price $1.25.

The book gives the complete terminology for free exercises, wands and dumbbells as used in the Young Men’s Christian Associations. The illustrations being placed directly opposite the exercises help to explain them. A reprint should include Mr. Rath’s books on terminology.

Digitized by kjOOQle