MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.	JUNE,	1917	No.	260

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Turner Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O	■■■■	ii"	————      ............. miiQ

ORIGINAL ARTIOLES AND REPRINTS [

O	'	'	I'"—mi-	—..n—Mi—m, I...in..  "ilQ

THE CORRELATION OF PREPARATORY SCHOOL AND COLLEGE PHYSICAL EDUCATION.*

CARL L. SCHRADER, Harvard University.

To address a paper pertaining to college physical education to this section is like carrying owls to Athens, for, intent as we all are on this, our life’s work, and bent on shaping it to the greatest possible good, we naturally are possessed of one general ideal goal. At no time has the attention of the world been so keenly focussed on physical efficiency as it is to-day. Without belittling what science is contributing to the defense or offense of the now warring countries, or what science has, and is likely to contribute to any armed conflict toward which we ourselves seem to be drifting, there remains as paramount here as there the enormous physical task of man himself. The mobilization of a nation’s forces in the end

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, April 1917, Pittsburg, Pa.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
150

narrows itself down to what forces the individual can mobilize. Numerical strength is by no means synonymous with vital power. Can those forces which are lacking and which are of greatest significance be rapidly mustered for service? That is, as rapidly as the mere technique of soldiering may be acquired, and as possibly the necessary equipment may be obtained? If not; is the possession of these forces, in so far as they are not naturally inherent, dependent upon a preparation, education covering merely a long space of time, or are they such as to necessitate, that they be given opportunity to awaken and develop during a period of life, when they are easiest and most naturally acquired so as to become a part of self?

These forces which man must be able to mobilize in time of strain and stress, in order to be able to offer more to his country than merely a shell, are not summed up entirely in physical attributes such as skill, strength, endurance etc., though valuable, or perhaps better, essential as they are, they must be coupled with a trained sense of subordination and a voluntary discipline, in order to be most effective, whether, in stress or in normal conditions of life. All of these attributes whether physical or moral are not only best, but I venture to say, are only acquirable in youth, that is in so far as we mean them to exist as real, as part of self, as an ever available asset, manifesting themselves voluntarily and instinctively at the proper occasion throughout life under all sorts of conditions.

It is an illogical, or shall we not call it a well-nigh impossible task that we are battling with, when we strive to begin to train men of college age in matters which should have become well established habits by that time. It is true it is a condition which is forced upon us; but is it not equally true that it is a condition which we can not even hope to conquer in our respective institutions, that is, the colleges, directly, but one which we should help to eradicate in those institutions from which we draw our clientele. Varied as are the attempts toward compulsory physical education in our colleges, and I use the term attempt advisedly, the results are positive only in rare instances, and then mainly in the fact that the prescribed college ruling has been observed and obeyed. Whether the program for the compulsory work laid out is composed of formal gymnastics or formal athletics or whether it consists entirely of intramural sports, as long as it remains a departmental requirement, the student acquiesces reluctantly, which attitude he may or may not show openly.

For some reason or other the college man’s point of view has been entirely ignored in the introduction of compulsory physical education. The young man of college age has an hereditary right to consideration, a right which has gradually evolved and which nature means him to manifest and which he feels in every fibre ready to want to manifest itself, namely that of personal freedom. The freshman age is the romantic age, it is the age when he feels that the universe would go off its hinge were it not for him; when he knows more than his elders. He feels sufficiently matured to have
151

his opinion solicited, particularly in matters concerning himself. He selects his own clothes, decides what to eat and drink, determines which pleasures he shall frequent and which not, and likewise does he want to determine which sports he wishes to pursue, provided of course he has access to a repertoire from which to choose. He is, as it were, a free lance, and his seniors are, on the whole, indulgent with him, overlooking many evasions from the proper path, also his participation in wild escapades. It is a critical period in his life. This freedom in which he finds himself suddenly launched may be likened unto the ocean. He may sink at once, or he may float for a while and then sink.

The great majority, however, will call upon their acquired habits and will-power and strike out, parting the waves of temptation, which make their onslaught. Occasionally a particularly unforeseen high breaker may give them a mouthful, so that they lose their stroke and flounder for a while, only to regain their equilibrium however, and thus prove to themselves and their elders, that they after all are capable of braving and surviving the storm.

His pre-college life either has or has not prepared him for this test. His environment in general and his home in particular, his teachers, his friends and play-mates, all have contributed either one way or the other. All the good habits which he brings to this state of freedom are by far more numerous than those which he may acquire while in college. • Good and lasting habits are invariably awakened and developed during a period of must, of compulsion, and since the word must or compulsion does not have that harsh meaning and sting to the boy, that it has to the young man, what is more logical than to aim and promote as good habits of whatever kind during this still dependent and subordinate age? It is not without significance that we speak of the higb school student, even in his last year as a high school boy, and call him a college man the first day he enters college, adding wisely the prefix “fresh”.

It is with this thought in mind that we should sympathize with the college man when his inner self rebels when he is compelled to attend classes in gymnastics and athletics or play games. The less a taste he has had of physical training in prep school, the more he rebels, a fact, while it convinces us that he needs it all the more, it is also one which should cause us not to overlook the psychological and moral significance of his attitude, namely, that of a perfectly natural and manly frame of mind. In a general, perhaps unconscious, way we recognize the man’s feeling, by shaping the required work as informal and as free from any apparent rigidity and discipline as possible. What else than recognition of this manly right shall we call our varied attempts of softening the requirements? Here by accepting any or many activities as equivalents, there by coming at certain periods doing at least something; or again by using an honor system whereby he will obligate himself to engage in some activity with some regularity. In brief we do not dare put on and carry through a true program of physical training which of necessity must embody military discipline, subordination and formality. The more we meet thus the college man’s demand
152

for consideration, the less are we really able to do for him. Unprepared as the average college man comes to us, we are all agreed, I am sure, that the few months in the freshman year which in most colleges constitute the period of requirement, nets precious little toward a man’s preparedness for emergency or toward an awakening of taste for voluntary pursuit of exercising in the future, especially if we make the above cited allowances of leniency. The college man is the victim of gross indifference which we must lay to the door of the public and secondary schools. He has a right to point his finger at . the school which permitted him to land in college without having compelled him to do the things which during his college life might prove a source of joy instead of a bore. Say what we may, the feeling of embarrassment which grows with age, prompts us all not to show what ^e can’t do or do not know, and the main reason for the college man’s unwillingness may well be accepted to be this particular one. The regrets of not having had an early start in gymnastics, athletics and games older college men have confided to us time and again, when they came to realize how much they had been deprived of.

There are a number of preparatory schools which are doing excellent work and which to search out, enumerate, and list, should be an important part of our work of the future. It is in the correlation with these preparatory and high schools that the college department of physical education will eventually come to its own. We have already examples of where students are exempt from compulsory class work, because of their coming from preparatory schools where the department of physical education ranks high. Dr. Meylan at Columbia has operated that plan to some extent for several years and with appreciable success. I see no serious reason why by earnest and sincere correlation with the high and preparatory schools, in due time our college departments should not make a change of front — compulsory work only for those who come from schools Which lack a representative department of physical education and also for those who are not recommended by such existing departments.

The difficulties which apparently are involved in such a change of front and which loom up large upon first thought, are nevertheless insignificant compared with the inevitable far-reaching result which must ensue. What in brief does it mean? Just this: the compulsory work in physical education is pushed back to where it belongs. We have waited long and in vain for the initiative to be taken in that quarter, so it can hardly be considered presumptuous or over-zealous on our part to now use pressure from above. The college will recognize or not recognize the work done in the high or preparatory school and accordingly exempt or compel the freshman in regard to the physical education in college. But will the colleges take this step? Why might they not? Most of the colleges have taken the much more precarious step, even if in name only, that of compulsory work for freshmen, or for freshmen and sophomores.

To the college administrative board this compulsory regime

Digitized by Tooele
153

is as delicate as it is to the head of the physical education department, especially when some particularly rebellious student forces the issue. Thus we may reasonably conceive of a very ready reception to the above proposal. Who shall be the arbiter and determine the status of preparatory school physical education departments? Does not our organization, the College Physical Directors’ Society, seem the logical body to carefully line up the institutions according to their worth in this particular line and light? How about the directors of physical education in these preparatory and high schools, — would they not object to such dictation? To the contrary, the intelligent and professionally trained men in these schools would co-operate most cheerfully, for they would recognize in such a move the greatest impetus for the work of their department they ever received. On the other hand, and equally significant, institutions which now merely are representative in physical education because of a foot-ball team or a base-ball team, and who give the other boys the great privilege of a nice dumb-bell or wand drill, just as one would throw a meatless bone to a dog, would have to arouse themselves, because such a college ruling would make these schools back numbers in a field which they are all prone to advertise most extensively. Does this mean that a fellow who made a team is to be exempt from the required work in college? Not if he has not done all of the other required work.

This is not a chimera, — it is real, it is within our- reach and the time for the initial move ripe. It is a correlation and co-operation which is pregnant with possibilities for good. High schools and preparatory schools are known to change their academic work in order to meet a change in college requirements. No time could be more propitious than the present to cause the schools by this method of exemption to make the standard of their physical education compatible with that laid down by the college physical directors. The significance of this broadening of purpose no one could fail to realize to be of benefit to the non-college man as well as to the college man.

There are two schools in particular which we may hold in mind, boys from which we would willingly exempt from our now obligatory class work. Lawrenceville and Andover in personnel and equipment as well as in method of procedure set a standard which colleges might accept unreservedly as sufficient to warrant their accepting their boys’ preparation as adequate for exemption from any further compulsory work in college. In these schools the boys are not merely given an opportunity to partake of the many varied forms of activities as is the case in ever so many schools which offer facilities only and where the call “everybody out” for this or that sport, is soon followed by the weeding out process and the boy is practically given to understand that he is a dub and not wanted. Here the boy is instructed in the course of his school career in the technique of all phases of physical education as well as in good sportsmanship and matters of general personal hygiene. He must learn to climb, vault, tumble, fence,

Digitized by kjOOQle
154

wrestle, box, jump, swim, dive, etc., etc. In brief he has had to do everything without being forbidden to do more of those activities which he loved most. A school like this, while it naturally does not turn out varsity timber primarily, it certainly does not breed dubs. In many schools foot-ball, base-ball and track are the only choice and in those events the instruction frequently faulty. To broaden the field of interest by a wide scope of actually required work in the preparatory schools should be one of the results of such correlation of college and preparatory school physical education. Here the class work may go on with the essential precision and formality, the director’s foresight, planning, and supervision, the instructor’s personality, his force in commanding, his tactful insistance upon discipline as well as his ability to demonstrate are bound to create an atmosphere of cheerful willingness, which will make possible that preparedness which we must have in mind when we speak of mobilization. Such personnel of necessity must have command of an adequate equipment, which does away with the waste of time which so frequently is the cause for lack in discipline in gymnastic and athletic work.

In Lawrenceville, for example, the equipment is that of six each. A class having gone through its tactical exercises and floor work, is divided into squads. Six squads will work on some piece of apparatus, and six will have some form of athletics; both sections change at half time, thus making a well-rounded lesson. In addition all the special events such as boxing, wrestling, fencing, swimming, and the various games, unhappily called minor sports, are fostered on a like scale.

But how shall we picture the future department of physical education in college? With the gradual decrease of compulsory work a corresponding growth of optional work, less class instruction, more administrative work in organizing, accommodating, and superivisng the various activities. A student thus entering college from one of the accepted schools might, upon registration, be asked to indicate in what particular forms of sport he is most interested, with the view of being invited to join in, when it came to organizing that particular sport. It would establish immediately a contact between the newcomer and the department. A direct appeal to the individual is likely to carry more weight than a general call through the college paper of ‘ all out”. It certainly is not unreasonable to indulge ip the conviction that with more than double the number of men entering college having actually learned to do things, and having cultivated an appetite for sport that the voluntary pursuit along all varieties of sport will experience a decided increase in populaiity. It would seem that intramural and class sport would be at their height, whereas at present the latter in particular are in most cases a farce remaining on the athletic program merely as a tradition, not as a factor in athletics.

One of the special topics of our meeting is that of standardization. Would it not be a more far-reaching measure if we, instead of fixing a college standard to be attained during college, would formulate a standard which would meet the generally accepted

Digitized by
155

purpose of physical education and which might easily be attained with the completion of high, normal, or preparatory school life, and also the probable future continuation school? Such standardization would be perfectly feasible and dignified for the conditions as they exist at present in the colleges. There is nothing undignified about it, for the college to carry on the work which would have been done in the lower schools, for that is also done in other subjects. It would be a difficult but pleasant, and to say the least, epoch-making task, for a committee to work out, this standardization a’ong these lines.

Whether the measure to be employed shall be that of actual performance of definite activities, or whether it shall be considered sufficient that the individual has during his school life partaken of all the required forms of exercise, is an open question. It is conceivable that individuals in spite of regular efforts during their school life cannot perform definitely required test exercises, that is, if these exercises are at all of a difficult and representative character. Such being the case, it is doubtful whether one or two more years would net better results than did the preceeding four or five. On the other hand, if the required test should be too lenient it is more than likely that a great many could pass it before having done very much consistent work. So, at first thought at least, it would seem that a time and variety requirement forced upon the lower schools would give the best scheme of standardization. Nowhere along the line is there an accounting for physical efficiency. Here it seems is an opportunity for us to force a taking of stock and by so doing, place the responsibility where it belongs.

To recapitulate then, the thoughts borne in mind in such a change of front: an investigation of all high and preparatory schools as to requirement, equipment and personnel. Under the head of requirement, the length and frequency of instruction periods and the existing standards or class aims. Under equipment, the indoor and outdoor equipment; under personnel, number of teachers, specific qualifications and preparations. Following this the adoption of broad standards by the College Physcial Directors’ Society and the establishing of a list of schools whose work now corresponds to this accepted standard. The exemption of graduates from these listed schools from the required work in college. To cause our colleges to include in their catalog a paragraph announcing the acceptance of the standards as formulated by our Society as a basis for exemption from required work in physical education. Matters of vital importance need drastic treatment and the question of universal physical education is an important matter. So, with the nation as a whole in a receptive mood, why not drive our message with all the force we can muster, and thus serve our country now and forever after?

Digitized by uooQle
156

PRE-MILITARY TRAINING* in the

INDIANAPOLIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS

To the Honorable Board of School Commissioners;

Indianapolis, Indiana.

Dear Madam and Gentlemen:

The necessity of developing an efficient army is now fully recognized by the people of this country and has resulted in a demand for the introduction of pre-military training in all our schools but particularly in our high schools.

Reports from all parts of the country show that a large per cent of the applicants for enlistment in the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps are being rejected because of physical deficiencies. Correctly interpreted it means that our recruiting officers are finding a great many young men who are considered “physically unfit” to defend the Stars and Stripes.

This deplorable condition cannot be materially improved unless the necessity of regular and systematic exercise is inculcated in our grade and high school pupils.

Military drill, which is but a very small part of military training, alone does and not cannot create the physical efficiency necessary to withstand the rigors of real warfare. Military training embodies such activities as digging trenches, building camps, making roads, carrying heavy accoutrements on long marches, etc. etc. Real military training cannot be introduced into the curriculum of our public schools because our boys are physically too young and immature to withstand such strenuous activities.

The rapid increase in height and weight during the period of -early adolescence (13 to 17 years of age) demands that systematic and well directed exercises be practiced. It is during this, the high school age, that so many boys develop heart disease because of the strenuous games and athletics in which they indulge. This is the time in a boy’s life when he needs to develop his entire body, when educational gymnastics are of the greatest help to him.

The high schools can do much to prepare the youth of our country for future military service by giving the boys a thorough course in physical training modelled somewhat after the system in’ vogue at the United States Military Academy at West Point. The health training at this school consists, as Cap’t. Herman Koehler says in his splendid book “Physical Training in the Service” of

Setting-up exercises (similar to our calisthenics);

Marching and Running;

Dumbbell, Club, and Rifle Drills (Wand exercises);

Climbing;

Jumping;

Apparatus Work;

* This plan was adopted by the School Commissioners April 24th and goes into effect in September.

Digitized by C^ooQle
157

Gymnastics and Athletic Contests;

Swimming;

Boxing and Wrestling.

Thus our h gh school boys should be given a thorough course, covering four years, in the PRE-MILITARY TRAINING, and thereby reduce the large number of rejections previously referred to.

This pre-military training could be made to merit the credit authorized by the Chamberlain Bill which provides that satisfactory training prior to entrance to the course in Universal Mi'i-tary Training may be accepted and credit given to shorten the time of compulsory service.

The Massachusetts State Board of Military Preparedness, consisting of Army Officers and men who sought to find the best means of preparedness came to the conclusion and so reported “That military drill in the public schools will not meet the requirements of preparedness but that more time and better facilities should be provided for thorough instruction in physical education in all grade and high schools.

At a meeting last Friday with Lieut. J. G. Ord of the United States Army the question of what the schools could do in the way of real preparedness was thoroughly discussed. The following plan was presented and met with his hearty approval. Lieut. Ord expressed the belief that such a plan, if followed, would entitle our boys to a generous credit under the provisions of the Chamberlain Universal Military Training Bill. The lieutenant emphasized the great need of better all-round physical development of our young men, and said the high schools of the country could do much toward preparedness by making physical training compulsory and insisting that everyone take an active part in the work.

In order to develop and increase the physical efficiency of our boys and girls, so they may the better be prepared for future military service, I respectfully recommend:

1.	That physical training be taken from the list of optional

studies in the high schools and that it henceforth be a required subject for all students during their stay in the high school.

2.	That all pupils of the high schools be required to devote at

least two 45 minute periods per week to physical training in their respective schools and that the members of any one class be students of equal grade (or same year) in the high school.

(This is necessary to make instruction in physical training progressive.)

3.	That the length of time for daily physical training in the

grade schools be extended as follows:

Grades 1-2-3-4 from 15 to 20 minutes.

Grades 5-6-7-8 from 15 to 30 minutes.

4.	That every lesson in physical training in the grade schools

consist of

(a)	Marching exercises. Same to conform to such parts of the United States Manual of Infantry as are reasonably applicable.

Digitized by v^ooQle
158

(b)	Gymnastic drills for postural, hygienic and disciplinary effects.

(c)	Outdoor games and athletics when possible.

5.	That in the high schools, marching and gymnastic drills as

above alternate with exercises on gymnastic apparatus, athletics and games and that “setting-up” exercises with the rifle be substituted for the wand exercise in the 3rd and 4th years of high school physical training.

6.	That the physical director of each high school be in charge

of ALL physical activities of the students and that he may accept the help of other faculty members who desire to serve as “special coach” for games or athletics.

MILITARY DRILL:—

Grade Schools: 7th and 8th grade boys shall drill one hour each week after dismissal of school. The drill master to be a male teacher in the public schools of Indianapolis.

High Schools: The boys of each high school are to be divided into four divisions; viz:—

1st year students.

2nd year students.

3rd year students.

4th year students.

Time of drill:— Each division shall report for military training immediately after close of the regular school program at least once a week on a day assigned by the principal of the school.

Drill to consist of:—

1st year: Military tactics without small arms; hygiene;

first aid; hiking; summer camping.

2nd year: Military tactics with small arms; hygiene;

first aid; hiking; summer camping.

3rd year: Same as second year and add bayonette exercises.

4th year: Same as third year and add rifle shooting. (This program may, with the approval of the principal of the school, be changed to meet the requirements of the Chamberlain Bill for shortening the time of compulsory training or service.)

Uniforms:— To be as simple as possible. Divisions to be distinguished by color of stripe on sleeve and not by color and cut of uniform (cloth).

Organization:— The “after-school” military training shall be in charge of a regular U. S. Army officer when such officer can be procured and under the general supervision of the principal of the high school.

The teacher of physical training in each high school shall be the director of pre-military training.

Captains shall be chosen (appointed) from 4th year students. Lieutenants may be chosen (appointed) from 3rd and 4th year students.

Digitized by v^ooQle
LOS ANGELES STATE NORMAL SCHOOL 159	LIBRARY

Sergeants may be chosen (appointed) from 2nd, 3rd, and 4th year students.

Corporals may be chosen (appointed) from any division. Appointment and promotion of student-officers shall be based upon merit in academic as well as in physical and military efficiency.

Respectfully,

Dr. W. A. Ocker.

Director of Physical Education and School Hygiene.

April 19, 1917.

THE VALUE OF A SWIMMING POOL FOR GYMNASTIC

SOCIETIES.*

CARL ZIEGLER, M. D. Cincinnati, Ohio.

When the chairman of -the section assigned this topic he undoubtedly had in mind primarily the turner organization — the Tumvereine, presuming that most of those attending this meeting would be representatives of these organizations. I shall therefore first of all attempt to answer the question implied by the title as related to them.

The real value of a pool to any organization lies primarily in the fact that it attracts members, it advertises the organization and brings to it a clientele that would not otherwise be reached. It may be made an asset or a liability according to the manner in which it is conducted, whether it is reserved for the use of the membership exclusively, or thrown open at certain times to the public.

In the former case an increased membership fee must be charged, but, for all that, members are drawn to the organization because of the pool privileges. In the other case the increased membership is more difficult to trace, but the direct income from the patrons is quite tangible, as I hope to show later on.

The mere fact that an organization runs a swimming pool is of itself sufficient to give to the same an added prestige which will attract persons who do not use the pool — yea, may not be able to swim a stroke. Furthermore it places the organization on an even, higher plane than most of the Turnvereine are. In addition to gymnastics, the pupils attending the gymnasium may be taught to swim, to say nothing of the physical benefits derived from a hot bath especially one followed by a plunge.

I cannot do better than to give you here the history of the pool in the Turnverein of which I am a member, the North Cincinnati Turnverein, N. C. T. V.

For years a swimming pool had been a fond dream, but where to place it in the building which the verein used was the nightmare. Let me say right here that it is almost impossible to place a swimming pool in an old building; it is seldom satisfactory. That

* Read at the meeting of the American Physical Education Association, N. A. Gymnastic Union Section, Pittsburgh, Pa., April 1917.

Digitized by LjOOGle
160

was the first conclusion reached by the Board of Managers of the N C. T. V. Finally someone hit upon the idea of building the swimming pool along side of the old building and connecting the two. Accordingly the adjoin'ng property with a lot 25x80 feet was purchased, the building razed and a new one erected for the pool. Owing to the size of the lot, the pool is not so large as would be desirable but since a larger lot could not be purchased at any price, we were obliged to make the best of it.

The pool is 18x60 feet, average depth 5 feet, sloping from 3 to 7 feet. On either side is a 3 foot passage and at each end a space of approximately 200 square feet with stairways leading to the upper tier of dressing rooms. At the deep end there is also the usual spring board. The office and the suit and towel rooms are in the old building connected by several doors, both on the lower and upper floor. The pool is lighted principally by a skylight. The roof is also arranged for a sun bath, where a large number of members expose themselves to the invigorating rays of old sol until they have the appearance of an aboriginal Indian. The project was. financed separately by the “Swimming Pool Committee,” and all accounts are kept separately from the other accounts of the society. It is therefore possible for me to give you, through the courtesy of the Business Manager of the N. C. T. V., A. D. Meyer, an accurate statement of the cost of maintenance, income and profit for the time the pool has been in operation. His letter follows r

“Cincinnati, Ohio, Feb. 20th, 1917.

Dr. Carl Ziegler,

Dear Sir:

I herewith enclose swimming pool report covering cost of building, equipment, receipts and expenses, for the year ending September 1916.

The following report covers cost of lot and building.

Lot 25 ft. by 80...................................... $3250.00

Excavating and Stone Work.............................. 1524.00

Brick work............................................. 1742.00

Iron work............................................... 452.00

Carpenter work........................................  2425.00

Concrete work........................................   2238.00

Plumbing work........................................ 3778.00

Roofing etc............................................. 500.00

Tiling...............................................   2280.00

Painting ............................................ 423.00

Plastering............................................... 90.00

Electric Lighting.................................... 202.00*

Incidentals including furniture, hair dryer, etc..... 500.00

Total..........................................$19404.00

Digitized by LjOOQie
161

The following covers receipts and expenses of pool only.

Receipts.

Season Cards .......................

Lesson Cards .......................

Individual Lessons..................

Trunks Sold ........................

Admissions..........................

$755.50

193.50

200.50 .40

3,326.00

Total

$4,475.90

Disbursements.

Salaries ....

Miscellaneous

Laundry .....

Water .......

Heating......

$1,322.00

146.38

104.61

533.24

637.33

Total................................................ $2,743.56

By Profit ..........................................   1,732.34

$4,475.90

In addition to the above, we paid for various repairs etc. $550.43

Interest	420.00 On loan of $7,000.00 at 6 per cent.

$970.43

Net Profit $761.91 for year ending September 1916.

On an investment of $19,404.00 the net earnings are about 4 per cent.

The number of people entering the pool is 18,370.

Females	13,410. or 73	per cent.

Males	4,960. or 27	per cent.

Grand Total	18,370.

Yours respectfully,

A. D. Meyer.

You have here, then, a concrete statement of the cost of erection as well as of the maintenance of the pool for the fiscal year ending as above. From this, cost in any other city can be easily estimated. Of course if the pool is part of a new building, the cost should not be so high. In one of our schools, two pools 20x40 feet were added after the contract was let at an increased cost of $5,000.

Of course, this statement does not show the indirect gain to the Verein through added membership, nor the increased attendance in the classes, but my personal observation leads me to assume that in both cases this gain is quite considerable.

Now let us look into some of the reasons why our Tumvereine should add swimming pools to the otherwise well equipped gymnasia.

Digitized by Google
162

A careful survey will show that nearly all organizations that are endeavoring to uplift mankind, that attempt to improve humanity physically and morally through the establishment of Gymnasiums, nearly always add a swimming pool. Foremost in this respect are the Y. M. C. A. and the Athletic Clubs, with the Y. W. C. A.’s Social Settlements, Public Bath Associations and Churches being built with swimming pools. Indeed in some cities pools are given preference over gymnasia. For this reason, it is a matter of self preservation for the Tumvereine to follow suit if they wish to continue as progressive organizations for the furtherance of physical well being. But what is it that makes a swimming pool not only desirable but almost invaluable?

In our large cities, except those on the Ocean or the Great Lakes, swimming in the open is almost impossible. Even where we have bodies of water, otherwise suitable, they are so polluted by sewage and factory waste that they are anything but inviting, except to the small boy whose esthetic sense, as well as his sense of danger is still undeveloped.

Furthermore, many of the rivers have such a strong current that swimming in them, even for the expert, is exceedingly dangerous. And even in those waters where swimming and bathing is possible it is difficult to teach swimming because of the waves. For teaching purposes the water should be quiet. As a result, comparatively few males learn to swim and only a very small number of females, and of these only a small percent ever get beyond the “three stroke stage.” This is deplorable. It is my belief that every one should acquire the ability to swim as well as to walk or run. There has recently come to me an unsigned argument in favor of swimming pools for the schools of Cleveland, which I have reasons to believe was written by Dr. Peterson. I quote in part. The writer asks: “What is the value of swimming?” and answers as follows:

1.	SAVING OF LIFE

a.	One’s own life. There are more fatalities from water sports than from any other. Most of them are due to non-swimmers “getting in” beyond their depth. A city with much water front ought to give special attention to swimming.

b.	Lives of others. Swimmers were the means of saving many lives in such disasters as those of the Eastland, Slocum, and others on the water.

2.	EXERCISE.

a.	Nearly all experts in Physical Training agree that swimming is the very best form of exercise because of the fact that there is little liability to strain and that the entire body is involved.

b.	It is one of the very best forms of exercise for the development of organic power (heart and lung power) the lack of which we are now seeing so plainly in the shortening of life after 40 years.

c.	It is a form of exercise which may be indulged in throughout

life.

Digitized by CjOOQle
163

3.	EDUCATIONAL.

a.	The self control, courage, presence of mind and assurance established by learning to swim are considered of great educational value.

b.	When life saving is added as is usually the case there is very large educational return.

4.	HYGIENIC.

a.	Swimming is one of the most powerful stimulants to cleanliness and in Cleveland, pools in certain quarters have been given credit for very largely “cleaning up” the district. (Goodrich House - Alta House - Woodland and 93rd Center, etc.)

b.	Swimming has a definite tonic effect on skin and nerves, which is recommended by all physicians.

5.	RECREATIONAL.

a.	Swimming has a fundamental appeal and is a form of sport which if once learned functions throughout life.

b.	It takes people out of doors in summer.

c.	It has been determined that recovery from fatigue seems to be more rapid from this form of exercise, in proportion to the amount of energy expended, than from any other sport.

d.	A city with a water front has a definite responsibility with reference to the widest use of this great recreational facility. Those values of swimming make it a most desirable thing, and one of the demands of three national movements namely,

a.	Movement to promote “SAFETY FIRST”

b.	Movement to promote physical activity on the part of growing children.

c.	Movement to furnish healthful recreation.

The construction and location of the swimming pool is a matter of vast importance. In a pamphlet by Dr. William Paul Gerhart, C. E., published by “The American City” from which I shall quote at length, the writer says: “A swimming pool should be located in a well-lighted and well-ventilated lofty hall. The importance of admitting sunlight and fresh air to a swimming hall, at times crowded with bathers, is often undervalued. I quite agree with sanitary experts who favor putting the pool in a one-storied structure covered with a glass roof, and arranging the roof so it can be opened up in summer to admit the sunlight and to aid in the ventilation of the place.”

The larger a pool is made, the more costly becomes the filling with fresh water, or the process of purifying the pool water, and the heating of the water to a proper temperature, usually 70 degrees or 72 degrees F. Hence it is desirable to limit the dimensions of the pool.

The cost of heating the water can in some cases be reduced by obtaining waste steam from a nearby steam power plant, or from a private or municipal electric light plant.

A swimming pool should be constructed as a perfectly watertight basin of stone, brickwork, or reinforced concrete masonry. Waterproofing of the bottom and sides is essential. The floor

Digitized by U^ooQLe
164

and the walls of the pool should be finished in non-absorbent and washable materials, preferably marble slabs or glazed tiles. In all comers a special treatment is required to have them well rounded as this facilitates cleaning operations.

A scum gutter at the normal water level of the pool, and running along at least three sides of the pool, is an essential feature. By its means, many of the lighter floating impurities, due to perspiration and the exudation of the sweat glands of the surface skin, or other foreign substances, like hair, dirt, and dust, and lint from bathing suits, can be at once removed from the surface of the pool water.

We come now to the important question as to how frequently or completely the water of a pool should be changed, both for sanitary and esthetic reasons.

This appears to me to be dependant obviously upon four factors:

(1)	Upon the size and capacity of the pool.

With the same average number of bathers per hour a small pool becomes more quickly contaminated than a large one.

(2)	Upon the maximum daily number of bathers.

At those times when there is a maximum attendance a pool, whether its water is admitted fresh or refiltered, must be emptied more often than at times of normal attendance.

(3)	Upon the character of the bathers.

It seems to me that the water of a pool in a club house requires changing less often than the water of a Young Men’s Christian Association pool, and this again less often than that of a pool in a municipal or other public bath.

(4)	Upon the season of the year.

In winter time a swimming bath pool does not require emptying as often as in summer; where once a week in winter suffices, it should be twice a week in summer.

The ideal, but practically nearly always unattainable standard, would be the “emptying, cleaning, scouring and refilling of the pool once in twenty-four hours.’’ This is done in the N. C. T. V. pool during the summer. In winter the pool is emptied twice each week.

The most important sanitary feature of a swimming bath— to my way of thinking—is not the pool itself, but the 'preliminary cleansing baths. Bathers must soap, scrub, wash and rinse thoroughly before entering the pool.

In order to attain thorough cleanliness, bathers should be afforded privacy during ablution, for they should perform it before putting on the bathing suit (women) or'the bathing tights (men). Some of the cleaning compartments, should, therefore, be provided with curtains. A thorough ablution should be encouraged by furnishing to the bathers free soap and scrubbing brushes. If I had my way about it, I would provide not the ordinary bath soap, but a small cake of germ-destroying, disinfectant or medical soap.

Large, easily-read signs should be conspicuously posted di-

Digitized by UjOOQle
165

recting the bathers to use toilet fixtures located in the immediate vicinity of the cleansing baths.

For women bathers, thoroughly sterilized bathing suits should be furnished. They should preferably be of an undyed material, as the dye contributes to the discoloration of the pool water. Male bathers should be permitted to use very small triangular tights or loin cloths, but the practice should be encouraged to enter the pool without bathing garments.

PURIFICATION OF THE WATER.

Of as great if not even greater importance than the proper construction and care of the pool, is the purification of the water. There are many methods available but all have their drawbacks. Refiltration plants are expensive and results doubtful. Gerhart says, “I cannot bring myself to look favorably upon refiltration of pool water.” Personally, I share this view entirely. I cannot imagine that water used for months at a time by hundreds or even thousands of bathers can be kept free from pollution. To me frequent change of water, even at a somewhat higher cost of operation, seems the only safe and sure way of keeping the pool clean and wholesome. If in addition we add an easily applied disinfectant, we will have a pool that is comparatively free from contagious germs. The best and most easily applied disinfectant is probably calcium hypochlorite. Gerhart says: “The use of hypochlorite of calcium has a marked effect in restoring the pool water to purity.” Manheimer in a paper published in the American Physical Education Review for January 1917, summarizes as follows: “The relative efficiency of chemicals for water disinfection may be expressed as follows:

(a)	Chlorine gas: efficiency high, cost very low, easily handled.

(b)	Calcium hypochlorite: high efficiency, low cost, not much care necessary in handling.

(c)	Lectrodes: cost ten times as much as hypochlorite, high efficiency, very easily handled.

(d)	Copper sulphate: cost, high, efficiency low; stains tiles, causes reduction in transparency of water, easily handled.”

The fact that Chloride of Lime can be added without costly apparatus, in fact without any apparatus at all is very much in its favor. While some of the chemicals do not cost much in themselves, the apparatus necessary to properly introduce them into the water is quite expensive. The Y. M. C. A. in Cincinnati is erecting a new building. The disinfecting is to be by ultra violet rays. 1 am informed the cost of the apparatus alone is over $2000.

In conclusion, then, I will say that a swimming pool is a very desirable adjunct to the gymnasium of any Gymnastic Society. It affords a means of bodily exercise that is superior to all others. It promotes healthful exercise and has none of the inherent dangers of the average river or pond. When properly built and controlled there is very little if any danger of contagion; and finally, it affords an opportunity for development of character, self control, courage, presence of mind and above all, the ability to save life in emergencies.

Digitized by

Google
166

FREE EXERCISES FOR MEN’S CLASSES.

32nd Bundesturnfest.

Arranged by GEORGE SEIKEL, Newark. N. J. Translated by CARL HAROLD

The exercises are composed of three groups, each group consisting of four exercises. For the sharp accentuation of each individual movement, the 4-4 time has been selected. The exercises are executed left and right, and then repeated, but are only described to one (left) side.

Between each two groups the eight measures of the introduction are played.

Music: Under the Flag of Victory, by Franz von Blon, Century Music Publishing Co., N. Y.

The eight measures of the introduction will be indicated by the raising of a flag by the leader. Upon the lowering of the flag, the exercises will begin. The eight measures before the trio should be omitted. Each part of the music is repeated once, so that a group ends with the close of every fourth part. The fifth part of the music should be omitted.

FIRST GROUP.

First Exercise.

Place left foot backward (on toes), and-swing arms fore-upward Fig. 1 ........................................ 1—4

Step left forward (raising right heel) and swing arms downward

and sideward, (palms down.) Fig. 2.................. 5—8

Swing arms side-downward and forward..................... 9

Place left foot backward (on toes) and place hands in front of

shoulders (palms downward) Fig. 3.......... ........10-12

Digitized by v^i ooQle
167

Swing left leg backward, and straighten arms sideward........13

Close left, and lower arms...................................14-16

Second Exercise.

Place left foot forward (on toes), and swing arms side-upward

Fig. 4 ................................................. 1—4

Digitized by

/ Google
168

Place left foot backward (whole foot on floor); bend right knee and 3-4 double arm circle inward to a sideward position

of the arms Fig 5.................................... 5—8

Swing arms side-downward and fore-upward................. 9

Place left foot forward (on toes), bend arms, and place hands in

rear of head (middle fingers touching) Fig. 6........10-12

Swing left leg forward, and straighten arms sideward.....13

Close left and lower arms ...............................14-16

Third Exercise.

1-8 turn to the left, step left sideward, (raising right heel), and and swing the left arm obliquely fore-upward, and the right

obliquely back-downward (opposite) Fig. 7............ 1—4

1-8 turn left, place left foot backward (whole foot on floor), tend right knee (lowering right heel), and swing the arms to the opposite oblique position Fig. 8.................... 5—8

»	1-4	turn	right, step left sideward (raising right heel), and swing

the arms to strike from head (the hands are clinched to a

fist, the fists touching) Fig. 9......................  9-12

Swing left leg sideward and strike arms sideward (hands

opened) ..............................................13

Close left, and lower arms................................14-16

Fourth Exercise.

Bend knees deep, and swing arms forward Fig. 10........... 1—4

Straighten knees, stride left sideward (to straddle stand), and swing the arms through the upward to the oblique side-downward position (palms up) Fig. 11................. 5—8

Digitized by	le
169

1-4 turn to the left. Bend left knee and swing arms to the following bent arm position: left arm is above head, and right is in front of shoulder, forearm horizontal, hands closed to a fist Fig. 12...........................................        9-12

Digitized by v^.ooQle
170

1-4 turn to the right, straighten knees with swing left leg ste-

ward and strike arms sideward (hands opened)..........13

Close left, and lower the arms............................14-16

SECOND GROUP.

First Exercise.

Lunge left forward, swing arms forward, and bend arms to thrust (elbows down, fist next to the shoulders, palms

directed toward the body.) Fig. 13...................... 1—4

Straighten left knee and thrust arms upward.................. 5

1-4 turn right, and lower arms sideward Fig. 14.............. 6—8

3-4 arm circle outward to the upward position................ 9

1-4 turn left, bend upper trunk backward (bending in the chest), and lower the arms sideward (hands opened,

palms upward) Fig. 15..................................10-12

Straighten the trunk, and bend arms to thrust...............13

Close left and thrust arms downward, turning palms forward

Fig. 16 ...............................................14-16

Second Exercise.

Lunge left sideward, swing arms sideward and bend to thrust

Fig. 17.......................:........................ 1—4

1-4 turn right, straighten left knee and thrust arms upward. 5

Bend right knee, lower trunk forward and swing arms backward

(the arms are parallel to the trunk) Fig. 18........... 6—8

Digitized by CaOOQle
171

Straighten knee, raise trunk and swing arms upward, (hands opened).................................................. 9

Digitized by v^.ooQle
172

1-4 turn left, bend left knee and bend trunk left sideward.

Fig. 19 .............................................10-12

Straighten knee and trunk, and bend arms to thrust.......13

Close left, and thrust arms downward (palms forward).....14-16

Third Exercise.

Lunge left sideward, swing arms side upward and bend arms to strike, (left hand above head, right in front of shoulder, ■ hand closed to a fist). Fig. 20...................... 1—4

Straighten left knee and strike sideward................... 5

Bend right knee and bend trunk right sideward, left hand rests on right knee, right hand on right side of right foot. (Turn the head to the left). Fig. 21............................ 6—8

Straighten knee and trunk and one quarter turn to the right and raise arms forward........................       9

Swing right arm upward and left arm downward and bend head

backward. Fig. 22.......................... ..........10-12

1-4 turn to left, bend left knee and swing arms to strike as in position 1-4...........................................13

Close left and swing arms side downward...................14-16

Fourth Exercise.

Lunge left forward, swing arms fore-upward and bend arms,

above shoulders, elbows directed forward. Fig. 23.... 1—4
173

Straighten left knee, swing arms fore-downward and back upward to strike position from head, arms slightly bent

Fig. 24 .....................................      ...5—8

Large lunge left forward, lower trunk forward, strike side downward to a momentary downward position of the arms and

Digitized by v^.ooQle
174

immediately Fig. 25.................................. 9

Swing arms sideward, hands opened and straighten trunk

Fig. 26 ..............................................10-12

Straighten knee, raise trunk and swing arms downward and

fore-upward to a bent position above shoulders.......13

Close left and swing arms downward ........................14-16

Digitized by Google
175

THIRD GROUP First Exercise

(Discus)

1-4 turn left and step left forward (straddle) swing arms side

upward, (palms together). Fig. 27......................... 1—4

Place left foot backward on toes, bend knees, (left knee rests against the right knee) and lower trunk forward, swing arms fore-downward, left hand rests on right knee, right arm backward. Fig. 28..................................................   5—8

Lunge left forward and swing right arm down and obliquely upward, left obliquely down backward. Fig. 29....................  9-12

1-4 turn right on right foot, straighten left knee and swing left arm upward, right arm down and upward to a sideward

position...................................................13

Close left and lower arms .........................      .....14-16>

Second Exercise

(Shot Put)

Lunge left sideward and bend trunk forward, arms forward down, (palms turned upward, hands closed near the left

foot. Fig. 30 .......................................... 1—4

Straighten trunk, change knee bending, and bend trunk right sideward, bend right arm, hand over right shoulder, and

Digitized by LjOOQle
176

swing left arm obliquely left side upward, (lay out for shot

put) and turn head to left. Fig. 31____________________ 5—8

1-4 turn left and lunge right forward, thrust right arm obliquely fore-upward and swing left arms obliquely back-downward

Fig. 32 ........ ...................................... 9-12

1-4 turn right on left foot and step right sideward, swing arms

down and sideward ............. .......................13

Close left and lower arms. .................................14-16

TOOLS AS WELL AS GUNS

Vocational Education as the Equivalent of Military Training.

ARTHUR D. DEAN, Chief of the Division of Vocational Schools, New York State Education Department.

There is deep educational significance, especially for the future of vocational education, in the revised Welsh-Slater bill recently signed by the Governor of New York and now law in that state, and in the annual appropriation bill that has already passed both branches of the legislature.

It will be remembered that the Welsh-Slater bill as passed last year created a Military Training Commission and compelled all boys between sixteen and nineteen years of age, except those at work, to take such military training as the commission might prescribe. It affected only about 22,000 boys of the specified ages, since it was practically limited to boys at school. The re-

Digitized by VjOOQle
177

vised law strikes out the exemption. It therefore extends compulsory military training to all boys sixteen, seventeen or eighteen years old. The number of these in the state is estimated at about 220,000. Thus the new law multiplies by ten the number who' will receive such training. In taking this action the legislature seems to have responded to the very strong feeling, not only in New York, but elsewhere, that school boys should not be selected as the only ones to receive military training.

The revised law goes much farther than this, however. In the first place, it creates three significant bureaus. The names of these and the amounts allotted to each in the annual appropriation bill, in round numbers, are as follows: Bureau of Physical Training, $60,000; Bureau of Technical Military Training, $150,000; Bureau of Vocational Training, $90,000. The first bureau is to-have the supervision of the compulsory physical training in the schools for all male and female pupils above the age of eight, during periods which shall average at least twenty minutes in each school day. The second bureau is to be charged with the specific military part of the program for all boys above the age of sixteen years and not over the age of nineteen years for periods aggregating not more than three hours in each week between September first of each year and the fifteenth day of June next ensuing. The third bureau will interpret and administer the following sentence in the revised law:

“Such requirement as to military training, herein prescribed,, may in the discretion of the commission, be met in part by such vocational training or vocational experience as will, in the opinion of the commission, specifically prepare boys of the ages named for-service useful to the state, in the maintenance of defense, in the promotion of public safety, in the conservation and development of the state’s resources, or in the construction and maintenance of public improvements.”

This provision is a very forward and interesting step. It is likely to have a far-reaching effect on the number and character of vocational schools in New York state, and on the kind of work for which boys fit themselves. In commenting on the revised law, John H. Finley, state commissioner of education and a member of the Military Training Commission, said: “For the post of chief of the Bureau of Vocational Training we must get the very best man we can—it’s a $5,000 place, but a $25,000 job. I think it will offer the right man one of the largest conceivable opportunities , for a piece of truly constructive work for the state.”

It is evident that this bureau must sift out such vocational, opportunities as fit boys for service “directly useful to the state.” It must make recommendations to the commission that will guide it in interpreting those activities in which boys are engaged that may be directly useful in the maintenance of defense, in the promotion of public safety, in the conservation and development of the state’s resources or in the construction and maintenance of public improvements. It offers opportunities for a very constructive plan of effort. It anticipates in a scheme of military preparedness.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
178

a line of action that draws its cue from the exempting provisions that have been recently a part of the plan of conscription service of England. It is drawn from the experience of France which has had to come to the point of recognizing that men must be taken from the front for service behind the lines. It is based upon the procedure of Germany, who found it necessary in the midst of war to organize her entire “man power.”

Effect on Vocational Education

Commissioner Finley said further:

“Obviously the program puts the maintenance of defense as the first opportunity, but it recognizes the factors which make sudden and effective mobilization for that purpose possible, and, beyond that, it foresightedly sees that the plan has in it elements which will make it of value in other than times of war or peril of -war. It is a program whose realization should be immensely -valuable in the development of material resources and even more valuable in identifying as patriotic service all such activities as this program includes, and in cultivating civic and patriotic spirit through that very service, and in training for it.”

No one knows how far its effect upon the vocational education system of New York will reach. It may modify the present system or it may attempt to fit in with the present system, or the present system may be made to fit in with the “military equivalent” idea of the commission. Vocational training, from the standpoint of contributing to a military equivalent, and a military equivalent, from the standpoint of vocational preparation, are not incompatible. No one knows; but I personally should say that the proposal would do a great deal toward promoting the development of day part-time and continuation schools and evening trade schools. The boys who are at work will obviously enroll in evening vocational schools in order to meet in a large measure that training that will specifically prepare them for service directly useful to the state, and in this way will be excused from the major part of the required military service. It may be confidently expected that the establishment of part-time schools (on perhaps, the Fitchburg and Cincinnati plans) will be greatly stimulated.

It is not likely that boys so enrolled will be completely excused from any military training. Personally it would seem to me that they should be brought together once in a while to receive some direct lesson which will make it clear to them that they are, through this indirect preparation for military service, really serving directly the state, for otherwise these boys would gain the idea that they were simply learning trades for their own ends, and this is not the fact. They are learning these trades and are excused in part from attendance upon military training because the trade which they are learning is of service to the state in time of war.

The plan will have some tendency to develop day vocational instruction for those boys who are already in school and are subject -to military training. For here will be an opportunity for a boy

Digitized by v^ooQle
179

to “kill two birds with one stone.” He may learn a trade which will fit him for .profitable employment and he may meet, in part at least, the military training requirement. Of course, there will be school boys who are not in attendance upon vocational school who will expect to be excused from military drill on the basis that they are taking a few periods of a week in a manual training shop making tabourets, coat-hangers and sleeve-boards. It is to be hoped that the military commission will accept the definition of vocational training as laid down in the Smith-Hughes bill and in the laws or practice of such states, for example, as New York, Indiana and Massachusetts.

Do Bell-hops Serve the State?

One of the most far-reaching results will be to show boys, parents and the public that a good many of the occupations in which boys are engaged are not in themselves directly useful to the state, either in the maintenance of defense or promotion of public service, in the conservation of the state’s resources or in the construction and maintenance of public improvements. For the “experience” which these boys acquire through work (for the law implies that the occupation of the boy may be a military equivalent (in unskilled occupations is not within the field of military preparedness. On the other hand, any of the skilled industries in which boys are engaged do serve the interests of the state. It is clear that industries dealing with metals, machinery and conveyances (for example, manufacturing implements and tools', sheet-iron work, forging, structural iron work, rolling-mill work, firearms, railway equipment, engines and boilers, electrical apparatus, boats and boat-building and agricultural machinery) are in the class which is directly useful in the maintenance of defense. It is equally clear that boys who are delivering messages, carrying bundles, driving grocery wagons, picking fruit in the canning sections, working in cotton mills or mines, and so on, would not be considered as performing service which brought “experience” that would specifically prepare for any state service.

Of course, there are occupations which stand between these two extremes, and the question of whether or not they contribute to state service under one of the four heads is for the commission to decide. But what an eye-opener it will be to young people and to employers to learn that a state commission with full power has decided that many occupations open to children are not recognized as coming under “experience” contributory to the four heads; that what these children do does not promote public safety or conserve state resources or contribute to the maintenance of public improvements or are of little, if any, service directly useful in the maintenance of defense.

Some deadly parallels are bound to be drawn. The employed boy who is learning the trade of machinist has his “experience” recognized, while his pal who is the bell-hop must attend military drills or enroll in a vocational school. The young agriculturist

Digitized by t^ooQle
180

of the country vocational school who has his home projects in farm crops may play ball at a time when his schoolmate of classical inclinations shoulders his gun for the weekly drill. Thus do the ploughshare and the sword each serve the state and this is as it should be.	—Survey.

MISCELLANEOUS PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES AND THEIR USEFULNESS DURING SCHOOL AGE.*

CARL H. BURKHARDT, Buffalo, N. Y., Director Dep’t. of Gymnastics.

By using the word “miscellaneous,” one generally understands nothing more or less 1<han a mixture of various diverse things. In almost every financial statement you- will notice the last item reads,—“miscellaneous.”	The merchant, book-writer, manu-

facturer, in fact in every business enterprise and private home as well, we deal with and come across things that we cannot properly classify and so we simply label them—“miscellaneous.” Under this heading, then, we place all “odds and ends.” And it often happens in looking over our regular stock or material that we cannot find what we want and so as a last resort, we look under the item marked “miscellaneous,” and there to our surprise we find many different things, some of great value. Is it possible that we should have physical activities that would come under that head? Yes, and I shall enumerate a few such miscellaneous activities.

Walking, tramping or hiking, camping, swimming, running, canoeing, yachting, skating, sledding, skiing, bicycling, horsebackriding, lawn tennis, baseball, cricket, soccer football, ice and field hockey, la crosse, golf, archery, polo, etc. These activities are in reality genuine jewels, but unfortunately, they cannot be taught between four walls, because they require much space and time.

It is these groups of natural exercises that have furnished the basis for other forms of physical exercise. Not a few of these activities are as old as the hills. Some are a more recent product. Herodotus tells us that the sons of the Persians, from their fifth year to their twentieth, were carefully taught three things only— to ride, to draw the bow, and to speak the truth.

Swimming, diving, boating, hunting, fishing and many other forms of athletic exercises were predominant in the education of free-born youths among the Spartans, Romans and ancient Germans.

Some of the miscellaneous physical activities that I have mentioned are even more ancient than the Persian, Greek, Roman and German races. Tramping, hiking, camping, swimming, boating, skating, sledding, horseback-riding, archery, etc., are natural

* Read at the convention of the American Phhysical Education Association Pittsburgh, Pa. April 1917.

Digitized by VjOOQle
181

physical activities that were once upon a time the vocation and avocation among savage races.

It is safe to say that the elements that make up our present forms of exercises, are derived from such primitive activities as chasing and fleeing, hiding and finding, striking and throwing, dodging and catching. At the present time these natural physical activities are still in use, but so modified as to conform with the ethics of society.

Ability of man to profit by the experience of others, as well as by his own, accounts for the progress of civilization. The simple life with its natural activities has disappeared. Our modem way of living and the way we get our living is becoming more and more complex. Every phase of occupation has and continues to undergo tremendous changes. The intellectual and physical curricula in schools also are continually changing.

Let us for a moment get a vision of an up-to-date gymnasium, the kind we have in many schools, and the kind the physical educator likes to have approved by the school authorities. There we find a great variety of devices and we call them gymnastic apparatus. We find climbing apparatus such as poles, ropes, ladders of various shapes and designs. We have vaulting apparatus such as the horse, buck, vaulting box, etc. We have swinging apparatus such as traveling rings, flying rings, giant stride, see-saw, etc. We have apparatus on which we swing and vault, such as the horizontal bar, parallel bar, Swedish boom.

Then we find balance-boards, jumping standard and boards, stallbars, mattresses, dumb-bell, wands, Indian clubs, grace hoops, long and short jumping and skipping ropes and reeds, shots and weights, bean-bags, and a large assortment of balls and other implements for games, etc.

Besides all these we have a large variety of mechanical devices such as the different pulley weight machine for chest, back, loin, wrist, finger, neck, leg, head, abdomen; wrestling and running machines.

All of these devices are used in physical education, and all but the horse, ropes, poles and ladders are inventions that have been introduced with the last 150 years.

History reveals to us that the horse has been used by the Romans. Roman soldiers were trained to mount, and dismount on a wooden horse. The first horse for gymnastic purposes was used in 1575. Francois Rabelais of France writes a whole chapter on the use of carved horses patterned after the Trojan horse. Parallel and horizontal bars, buck, rings, etc., are inventions of Friederich Ludwig Jahn of Germany (1810).

Now for a moment let us compare the physical activities which I have labeled “miscellaneous,” these natural outdoor exercises as walking, tramping, camping, swimming, running, boating, skating, sledding, skiing, horseback-riding, and the various outdoor games with the indoor activities that are offered to the student in a gymnasium lesson.

One offers natural exercises; the other, derived or related

Digitized by L^ooQle
182

exercises. One takes us out of doors where we come under the bracing influence of fresh air, which keeps the brain clear and active and furnishes an abundance of vitality and “snap.” In other words to become robust, hale and hearty, we must live part of the time in a natural way.

Now the other takes us indoors, where at best we breathe in vitiated air. Quality, as well as quantity, is lacking, consequently we cannot expect the same results. Most of the activities that we perform outdoors are natural, simple, voluntary, automatic, and without constraint, while the indoor activities are more complicated, artificial, and constrained.

Now I do not wish to criticize or give the impression that the gymnasium and its equipment is all wrong. Far from it. The gymnasium and its equipment has its place. Thousands and thousands of students have been able to correct their physical defects through the indoor gymnastic exercises. The proper use of the various gymnastic apparatus in the gymnasium very often has been the only means to teach the boy and girl the judicious use of their powers, the only means to increase their energy, courage, and resoluteness, and the only means to exercise cautiousness and presence of mind.

Many other blessings too numerous to mention have come through the indoor activities. The introduction of the gymnastic apparatus has simply been brought on through necessity. The people huddled together in large cities and industrial communities, working 10 to 12 hours and more, certainly have no time to enjoy the physical benefits that come from participation in the natural activities. The “natural” way is the primitive way: tramping, hiking, camping, swimming, climbing, running, etc., are forms of vigorous bodily activity. The body was intended to carry on a large amount of physical work, to be constantly exerting intense muscular work.

We do not live that way now. The conditions of our industrial civilization have put an end to it. Machinery does most of our heavy work for us. We live altogether too much by our brains. Is it any wonder that the human race becomes short-lived? This can be avoided. Ruskin has said, “If you want knowledge, you must toil for it; if food, you must toil for it.” He also might have added, “if you want strong muscle, endurance, energy, courage, self-control, and will power, you must toil for it.” For as he says, “Toil is the law.”

It is for that and no other reason that the pioneers of physical education introduced these gymnastic apparatus; to bring before the people in a convenient form such physical activities as would resemble somewhat the forms offered in the natural outdoor activities. There is no doubt that to a certain extent, this has been accomplished.

The fact that there is something lacking in our physical education program brings me to this point. To illustrate: The pupil is being educated as long as the parent can afford it. Upon leaving school the education the pupil has received are his tools with which

Digitized by U^ooQle
183

to go to work. Likewise, this student during his school work has-received a physical education, but here is the difference—upon leaving school, nine out of ten quit exercising; they are through when they ought to continue some form of physical activity all' through their life.

As I stated before, physical efficiency and vitality, health and keeping in condition can only be obtained by the practice of some-form of physical activity. For that reason I have chosen this topic, that I might make a plea to all who are engaged in the teaching profession to use their influence that pupils before leaving school would cultivate a natural activity that would take them much out of doors. If this physical activity becomes a hobby, that person has solved the problem of how to live, and it will be the means of bringing about the extension of human life. At the same time it is making for a healthier, happier and more competent Americanism.

We must remember that we are not living for to-day, but also for the future. We are fast entering upon a new era. Society we are told, has endorsed the eight hour principle. If to earn a living can be accomplished in a shorter working day, the people will have “leisure hours.” These leisure hours, if not made proper use of can become either a blessing or a curse to the individual.

Permit me to quote to you a portion of the speech regarding the eight hour day delivered by President Wilson on Wednesday evening, November 1st, at the Broadway Auditorium in Buffalo,.

N.	Y. He says: “One of the things that interests me about the eight hour day is not merely that it is justice to the men who work,, but that it is health and development to the men who work. I am told by those who have studied the statistics of vitality in this country that while the average length of life has under recent advancement of medical science, been slowly increasing, the average length of life among those who work with their hands has not been increasing. That is, has not only not increased, but that it has shown a tendency to decrease. Therefore, we are face to face with this question: How are we going to increase the vitality? I mean the physical vitality of the working man of the United States. I say, by following the laws of health. The men who do not believe in this, do not know the fundamental principles of efficiency in their own business. They do not know the fundamental principles of efficiency in the human frame; they do not know what makes-the lungs work; they do not know what makes the liver work; they only seem to know what makes the spleen work. I take it that we are under just as distinct obligation to see that our people are all well, vital, vigorous and happy,

“We do not want the physical vigor of the people to degenerate;, we want the finest clear light to be in the eyes of every body.”

These are worthy words from the lips of our president, and now can you see the handwriting on the wall? Time will be available in and out of school, to be devoted, for the physical uplift of the race. Surely the eight hour day will become universal.

The time for us educators is at hand to impart to the student-

Digitized by UjOOQle
184

'before he leaves grade or high school, college or university, a desire for an avocation. A calling aside, something which calls one from a regular business or vocation. Our American people are fond of healthful outdoor exercise, but the number so inclined is yet too small to have an appreciable effect upon the race. The matured and middle-aged man and woman, if not in the habit of taking outdoor exercise, will not take kindly to your urging them. Therefore, let us expend our energy upon the young. Let us interest them in as many of the miscellaneous physical activities as is possible.

I know that we cannot teach walking, tramping, camping, swimming, running, canoeing, yachting, skating, sledding, skiing, horseback-riding, lawn tennis, golf, archery, ice and field hockey, baseball, cricket, la crosse, soccer, etc., in our schools and gymnasiums.

But, to illustrate: every teacher could start a walking club. ; Saturday afternoon walks, conducted under the auspices of the Board of Education of Philadelphia have been successfully carried on for over twelve years. In seasonable weather during vacation time or on holidays, longer hikes could be undertaken.

Permit me to relate pleasant experiences of my own schooldays in the southern part of Germany, about 28 years ago. A class,

. sometimes the whole school (referring to upper grades), with knapsack on our backs and in charge of our teacher, quite frequently undertook a one day hike, summer and winter. Two and three day hikes for boys only were quite common occurrences. Two and three week vacation hikes were annual affairs. Expensive, no, because our lodging cost us nothing. Certain school houses in the city or town were equipped with cots, or bags filled with straw, by the school authorities or by some Wohlfahrtsverein (Welfare Association). Previous arrangements for our coming was made with the head schoolmaster, so as not to conflict with other hiking parties.

What did we do? Sang our school songs while marching, played games and swam in the river, visited historic places, received instruction in botany, observed methods in use in agriculture and industries, slept like a log and ate correspondingly; in general we had a rattling good time, so good that we are in the habit of doing it to-day whenever opportunity permits.

Hiking is one of the miscellaneous activities. Time does not permit me to describe in detail the many natural activities that are possible.

In conclusion I would suggest that teachers of physical training and all other educators consider earnestly ways and means to bring about a general participation in these natural activities. Some of the activities mentioned may not be practical in your section, but surely others can be substituted. In large cities where clubs or associations exist that promote activities of the type indicated, it would be well to get in touch with its officers and arrange for a visit for your pupils, that they may see for themselves a natural activity, or else invite the officers to your schools in order to talk to them.

There is no doubt that emphasis should be placed on more

Digitized by i^ooQLe
185

open air activities. Some one has said, “He who Breathes best, lives best.” If this be the case, open air activities are beneficial gifts of nature and we as educators ought not withhold these blessings from our students nor begrudge the time, but say with the poet Emerson,

“I do not count the hours I spend In wandering by the sea;

The forest is ipy loyal friend,,

Like God it useth me.

Or on the mountain-crest sublime.. Or down the oaken glade.

0,	what have I to do with- Time?.' For this the day was made.”

THE WELL BORN

It	is as much the duty of educators to assure through educational'

procedures that individuals shall be well born as that they shall be well reared.

The Committee of the National Council of Education appointed by President Aley in 1916 to study methods of promoting the ideal of racial well-being is receiving many interesting studies-in response to its invitation to the first group of twelve states.* The invitation for 1917-1918 follows.

The committee has been given a fund to be used to help place popular ideals of racial well-being above commercial ideals and above individualism. It offers two recognitions of merit in each of four sections, totaling twelve states, to graduating classes of' 1918 in state normal institutions, and in departments (or courses) of education (including psychology), of home economics, and of biology, in colleges (including agricultural) and universities: (Group A) $100 to classes graduating in 1918 that have had a two-year normal course based on high-school graduation; (Group B) $150 to classes graduating in 1918 that have had a four-year normal course based on high school graduation; and to classes graduating in 1918 from colleges and universities with courses four years in length, that have had at least two years in education (including psychology), or in home economics, or in biology (including zoology, etc.). These honorariums will be awarded for the best co-operative studies by classes of the proposition:	It	is	as much the duty

of educators to assure through educational procedures that individuals shall be well born as that they shall be well reared.

* See “The Next Generation”, The N. E. A. Bulletin, April, 1916; also a report of progress under “Discussion” by Putnam, The Journal of the NationaL Education Association, November, 1916, and volume of Proceedings, 1916.

Digitized by LjOOQle
186

Suggestions to Two-Year-Normal Classes.—What educational :and social facts bear on the statement? That individuals may be well bom, how can school affect physical condition of pupil, habits, .intelligence, life-work, ideal of responsibility for inheritance passed on to the next generation? How can this ideal be impressed wisely in nature-studies, garden work, personal hygiene, school housekeeping, recreations, civics, history?

Suggestions to more advanced classes.—What is the testimony of facts (and statistics) of history, criminals, defectives, morbidity, mortality, birth rates, poverty, alcoholism, conservation and waste? How can the idea in the proposition be developed in primary, grammar, high, special, vocational schools, in continuation and extension instruction for adolescents and adults, so as to result in lessened rates of morbidity, of early mortality, of illegitimacy, of infanticide, and of life failures, as disclosed by the federal census?

General suggestions.—It is desired that all classes understand the elementary form of Mendel’s theory of inheritance of unit • characters with special reference to mental defectives. It is specially asked that each class submit a piece of original experimentation or investigation bearing on the proposition, e. g., work with children in practice or other schools; study of a related social detail in village, county, ward, or city; critical analysis of curriculums, etc. A study of a single family, especially one showing a well-marked trait, is a valuable educational exercise. Standard outlines for such can be had by writing to the chairman. An outline for “study of the self” which includes the above family outline can also be had. The outline for a proposed research may be sent to the chairman who will secure the advice of an expert on the Advisory Committee of Experts for the purpose of making it as useful as possible. It is recommended that sub-topics be assigned individuals or groups to work up, and that the long vacation be utilized. The final study must be composite, representing the class. A dissenting minority may present its reasons separately, not exceeding one thousand words.

1917-1918 Competition.—The invitations are extended through Adelaide Steele Baylor, State Department of Public Instruction, Indianapolis, to Indiana, Illinois, Iowa; through Edward Conradi, State College for Women, Tallahassee, Fla., to Georgia, Alabama, Florida, through William E. Kellicott, Goucher College, Baltimore, to Maryland, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and the District of Columbia; through William B. Mooney, State Teachers College, Greeley, to Colorado, Utah, Wyoming.* Enquiries may be sent to these consultants for the sections. Outlines for proposed researches may be sent to Helen C. Putnam, M. D., Rhode Island Ave., Providence, R. I.

Requirements.—Notice of intention to make this study should be sent to section consultant not later than May 1, 1917; length of manuscripts from two-year normals 4000 to 6000 words, from all

* The Colorado section was published in the list of 1916; but unfortunately the invitations were not sent out.

Digitized by Google
187

others 5000 to 8000 Words, tables not included; concise summary not exceeding 300 words; six typed copies; each copy strictly anonymous, but having in upper left corner of first page a pen name, of the group to which it belongs, and number of students cooperating, e. g., “Progress”, Group A, 21 co-operating. Each package is to hold a sealed envelope bearing the pen name and containing the address of the person to whom the honorarium may be sent. Manuscripts are to be with clerk of committee, Ida P. Greenman, Room 342, Grosvenor Building, Providence, R. L, not later than April 1, 1918.

Successful studies.—Awards and honorable mentions will be announced before commencement in 1918. The committee reserves the right to give none when no study from a section is found of sufficient merit. Successful studies become the property of the committee and may be published. One copy of each of the others will be retained by the committee, the remaining five copies being returned to the sender when a request is accompanied by the necessary postage within three months after awards are announced.

HELEN C. PUTNAM, Providence, R. I. Chairman.

ADELAIDE STEELE BAYLOR, Indianapolis, Ind.

MARY C. C. BRADFORD, Denver, Colo.

FLETCHER B. DRESSLAR, Nashville, Tenn.

CARROLL G. PEARSE, Milwaukee, Wis.

| PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

O	.-I I —...I— I —	....—  — -I III	O

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

Reading at Meals.—This is a thing that we are all, more or less, prone to indulge in when we happen to find ourselves restricted to our own society at breakfast, luncheon, or dinner, but it is none the less an exceedingly bad habit, and deleterious in the extreme. The habit of reading at meals is to be condemned, and more particularly when it has grown to one of actual study, and when the reader endeavours to gain knowledge and to save time at his meals. The solitary reader, if he reads, should read only what is light and amusing. The common practice of having the morning paper at our breakfast table is not especially injurious, as it furnishes items for conversation and does not particularly exercise the brain, but if it should do so our advice is to at once discontinue it. Digestion is always best served when the mind is free from care and when the physical processes of our frames are left to discharge their work free from nervous trammels. It is on the ground of the elevation of spirits produced by cheerful association with otheis that pleasant company at meals has always formed a condition of social enjoyment. The stimulus to nervous activity which is thus given acts beneficially on the digestive powers, just as the man who is harassed, worried, and excited will not be likely to digest or eat a satisfactory meal.—“ Health”, London.

Digitized by v^OOQle
188

Effect of the “Movies” on Eye Muscles.—When looking at ar motion picture the pupil is contracted to a somewhat smaller opening than when viewing a still picture having the same illumination, and when the flicker in the picture is pronounced, the pupil of the eye can be seen to tremble slightly as if attempting to follow each fluctuation of light. This may lead to overstimulation and permanent injury. One investigator in writing on this particular phase, concludes by stating that this constant contraction and dilation must gradually strengthen the muscles of the eye and so eventually develop them to the point where strain would not be caused. From this opinion, however, leading ophthalmologists differ, and believe that the fatigue caused by over stimulation due to flicker frequently passes beyond physiologic limits and must eventually produce deterioration.— Gordon L. Berry, Public Health, November, 1916.

On the “Physiology of Sleep” H. Litwer writes the Nederlandsch Tijdschrift voor Geneeskunde, Amsterdam and gives the arguments for and against the five principal theories as to the causation of sleep, saying of the vasomotor theory that Spehl denounced it on account of the hyperemia in the brain which accompanies sleep under the influence of chloral, and Mosso found the arterial pressure in the brain high during sleep and lower during waking hours. Richet reported that he sometimes found congestion in the brain and sometimes anemia in the brain during sleep, while there can be anemia of the brain without sleep and congestion without sleep. Hence, sleep is not altogether a matter of the circulation in the brain. The inhibition theory explains both hypnosis and ordinary sleep as a psychologic process. It is started by fatigue directly, and, indirectly by the idea of sleep, by sedative drugs, by electricity, and by extremes of temperature (hibernation). If the psychologic process started by the idea of sleep were all that is necessary, then it might be possible to will not to sleep. The osmotic theory is based on Devaux’ assumption of a connection between fatigue, the necessity for sleep, and retention of interstitial water throughout the body, especially in the brain. Another theory assumes that the neurons retract and thus communication between them is interrupted, but Litwer remarks that it is not proved as yet that they ever communicate directly. His comment on the various theories is that they are all too exclusive; probably there are various factors at work in the production of sleep. Some are more powerful in certain persons and others in others. Sleep at night is probably caused by fatigue and the idea of sleep at night inbred through countless generations. Bouchard’s statements in regard to the presence of narcotic substances in the urine are invalidated by the fact that the fluids he used in his experiments had an osmotic tension from two to seven times higher than the body fluids. Litwer repeated his experiments, using isotonic fluids, and was unable to detect any narcotic substances under the conditions of the tests.—Abstraction taken from “The Journ. A. M. A.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
189

A Difficult Problem in Public Health Work.—School medical inspection has two definite aims: first, the early recognition and exclusion from school of children suffering from acute communicable disease, as a prime factor in the control of local epidemics; second, the recognition of physical and mental defects and abnormalities among the pupils, followed by the institution of remedial measures.

It must be acknowledged that city school children are vastly better off in this respect than those who attend rural schools.	Medi-

cal inspection in the large cities has reached a high degree of proficiency, whereas in rural communities it is largely a perfunctory procedure, frequently conducted by physicians without the knowledge and experience which the work requires.

Nevertheless, even with the forces at hand, a much greater proficiency may be attained by impressing upon every community the extreme importance of this work to the present and future welfare of the children; by hearty co-operation between local health and school officials; by systematic instruction of school teachers and pupils in the elements of hygiene and recognition of disease; by the- appointment in each school district of that physician who by knowledge and experience is best equipped for the work, for which he should receive suitable compensation. He should also, if necessary, be encouraged and given an opportunity to acquire such knowledge as he may lack in the recognition of infectious diseases and abnormalities of the throat, nose, eyes, ears and internal organs.— Health News, N.

WAR AND HEALTH

The enthusiasm for useful service of some sort, which has been awakened among all ages and classes of our population, and in all walks of life, is not to be without advantages in the domain of both personal and public hygiene. War, with its indeterminable emergencies, its unusual vicissitudes, and its specialized demands in the most diverse directions, has often forced attention to innumerable problems that pertain to health. The elimination of the ravages of disease among active troops has redounded to the credit of modern sanitation and prophylaxis. Military hygiene has set as its goal the attainment and conservation of health in the great body of fighting forces. There is much to be accomplished in the direction of eradicating unnecessary physical inferiority or deterioration associated with disease in all armies and navies. For some of the difficulties that present themselves an effective immediate solution is not in sight. In other cases, notably such as are represented by the incidence of typhoid fever and other infections among troops, the lessons of science are being applied with success. In any event, the world war has pointed to many defects which need remedies. It is a wholesome task to apply the contributions of the past when the opportunity arises; but there should be no hesitancy on the part of science to admit its shortcomings at all times and to feel them as a stimulus to further

Digitized by
190

endeavor. This deserves to be emphasized, because in some quarters the admission of the need of investigation is looked on as an indication of the poverty of science and its indifference to practical applications. The conservation of health and the development of physical fitness are a soldier's first duty. Marksmanship, military tactics, drill and co-operation avail comparatively little when energy, strength and perfection of bodily training are neglected or lacking. This has been demonstrated again and again among “unseasoned" troops. Hence it is that so much attention is properly being concentrated on the establishment of health and vigor among groups of men in training everywhere. Athletic exercises compete with gun drills for recognition in the routine of a future soldier. The unexpected adjunct to this is the wide-spread movement to apply the same principle of health conservation among those who cannot be expected to join the active fighting units. In many cities and towns the “home guards," composed of men beyond the usual military age, are already engaging in suitable physical exercises with the express purpose of rendering themselves more capable of the service which a sound body can best contribute. If the maintenance of vigor is a desideratum among the middle aged sedentary type of our citizens at all times, it becomes a positive duty in a crisis in which the highest co-operation of each individual is likely to be enlisted. Only a few months ago it might have been unusual to see any considerable number of business men of an age beyond 50 engaged actively in the pursuit of health as a patriotic duty. Today groups of such persons may be seen in more than one city cheerfully joining in a morning tramp to promote vigor, or responding to some special prescription of systematic exercise dictated by a medical examination under semiofficial auspices. Boy scouts and other young persons are similarly inspired. The war has brought an unprecedented desire on the part of many to attain mens sana in corpore sano. The obedience to a patriotic impulse is almost certain to bring unexpected hygenic rewards. . Current Comment-''The Journal Am. Med. Assn.,” April 21, 1917.

State Commission’s Physical Training Program.—The

military commission appointed by the New York legislature for physical training in the public schools, composed of Major-Gen. John F. O’Ryan; State Commissioner of Education John H. Finley and Dr. George H. Fisher, secretary of the physical department of the Y. M. C. A. International Committee, has reported a constructive program of health education. A trained man as supervisor of physical training in every town of 5,000 or more, and in every union free school district, with supervised recreation, and the encouragement of health habits are some of the features of the plan. A syllabus on physical training has been prepared and sent to school superintendents and teachers throughout the state. It provides for daily medical inspections by the teachers for the most elementary classes, and sixty minutes a week gymnastic drill for more advanced classes. The physical work for lower
191

classes is in the form of a two-minute setting up drill at the beginning of each class period. The recreational requirements are-four hours a week, one under the supervision of school officials and the other three by equivalents in home or community activities.

Food Requirements and Food Consumption.—The discrepancies which are so frequently to be observed between food requirement and food consumption may be explained as due in part to present lack of adjustment to recent and enormous changes in environment and human activities and in the nature of foods. It seems quite possible that adaptation of diet to the activities of the organism, and other important hygienic measures, may come about, not simply through the slowly accomplished downfall of degenerate classes and nations, which history has so often shown us—for neither the rich fruits of shrewd business capacity nor the activities of the altruistic can ultimately shelter physical degeneration—but through the further discovery of the principles of scientific management of the human organism, and through the apprehension of these by the enlightened classes and the consequent practice of them by the world's population.—Minna C. Denton, Scientific Monthly, December, 1916.

The Significance of Variability in Growth During School Years.—The hygiene of school life has begun to receive consideration from both educators and physicians. Increasing sums are being spent on the problems of the health of school children; and greater and better facilities for health conservation work are being demanded every year. Sound teeth, perfect vision, correction of physical deformities, adequate nutrition, improved resistance to infection and greater freedom from disease are desiderata which every fair-minded citizen must join in obtaining as a matter of ultimate public advantage.

Education is a preparation for life, and should not neglect any desirable feature of development, whether physical, moral or intellectual. A present difficulty in this work is the lack of suitable criteria of the efficiency of the methods employed. Certain improvements can be directly ascertained by medical inspection; others are as yet vouched for only by a sort of personal estimate. Growth is the most conspicuous manifestation of the period of school life. It seems likely, therefore, that whatever will contribute to the more accurate analysis or measurement of growth in its varied manifestations will contribute to the formation of the much desired impersonal judgments as to the status of our schoolchildren at any age or stage of development.

Hygienically suitable or unsuitable environments doubtless leave some mark, temporary or permanent as the case may be, on the record of growth. But growth cannot be measured or evaluated with absolute mathematical precision because of the factor of variability. T. Brailsford Robertson of the University of California has clearly indicated the significance of this. In any fortuit-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
192

•ously selected group of animals or human beings, he says, the in-•dividuals comprising the group will be found to vary in greater or lesser degree from the type or average which the group collectively represents. When a large proportion of the individuals comprising the group differ from the average to a considerable degree, we say that the group or type is highly variable; when the converse holds good, that is, when few of the individuals comprising the group depart widely from the average, we consider the group or ■type to be but slightly variable. It is evident that if a measure of variability can be conveniently obtained, it represents a factor •or group of factors which may conceivably be affected by environmental or physiologic conditions in a distinctive manner. In comparative studies of growth under varying environmental or dietetic ^conditions, a knowledge of the variability of the organisms studied is essential in order that we may determine the deviations from the average which may be regarded as normal, and those which on the contrary must be regarded as abnormal and attributable to the experimental conditions under which we have placed the individuals which display them.

If, then, we desire to obtain a reliable criterion of abnormality, we shall do well to select for our purpose the measurement which is normally found to be least variable, since relatively small deviations from the normal are in that case fraught with significance which does not attach to similar deviations from the normal displayed by a more variable characteristic. Robertson has lately made extensive studies of the physical dimensions and welfare of large numbers of school children of the various schools in the city and environs of Oakland, Calif. Here he has found that the rate of growth in weight of school children of both sexes increases from the seventh to the fifteenth year, and variability in weight undergoes a parallel increase during this period. There is a decided tendency for maxima of variability to • coincide with maxima of yearly increment in weight. The stature of school children during this period increases at an almost uniform rate, and the variability of stature is correspondingly uniform. The variability of stature is much less than the variability of weight, from which we may infer that as a criterion of abnormality the measure of stature is more reliable than that of weight, while as a sensitive indicator of the effects of environmental, physiologic or dietetic fluctuations, provided statistical methods of investigation are employed, the measure of weight is to be preferred to that of stature. Robertson has found that increasing unfavorability of environment results in a parallel increase of deficiency in weight and stature. It is a strikingly significant fact, also, that as the favorability of the environment decreases, the proportion of medical care extended to the - children, as indicated by the percentage of removed adenoids, also decreases; while the degree of medical neglect, as indicated by the percentage of unremoved infected adenoids, undergoes a parallel Increase.

Such studies exemplify the kind of careful statistical analysis to which some of the problems of the hygiene of school years must be subjected presently.—Journal Am. Med. Assn., Mar. 31,1917.

Digitized by kjOOQle
193

The Nation’s big need is physical training, says Major-General' Leonard Wood, U. S. A.

Military training is founded on physical training. Without sound bodies on which to build military training, the latter is difficult,, and the results fall far short of giving us a good soldier.

One of the most important duties that the citizen—boy,	, man

or woman—can now perform is that of keeping himself or herself physically fit. It means everything to the race and to the nation.

If Young America—and Middle-Aged America, too, for that matter—will set itself the task of taking daily, regular, systematic physical exercise, our citizenship will not only help to make itself ready for that military training which is essential if the nation is to live, but every individual who takes upon himself the duty" of keeping physically fit will individually benefit enormously.

Any good system of physical exercise may be adopted. It is unnecessary even to have a gymnasium fitted up with expensive appliances—although gymnasium exercise is valuable, too.

The setting-up exercises used by the United States army are a good basis for every citizen—young and old—to follow.

Besides the exercises that any person can perform each morning or evening in his or her own room, walking, running, jumping,, rowing, swimming, and outdoor sports are available to everyone.

If the people of the nation will take upon themselves this part of the “	preparedness” program, the purely military part can be taught

just that much sooner.

With sound physique to build upon, the making of a soldier,, or the making of an efficient helper in the other branches of national service which are just as essential to the national defense as actual fighting, is made simpler.

Those interested in organization for boys will be pleased to* note the launching on a laige scale of a new national organization— the Pioneers of America. It is designed to include boys of the-ages of nine to twelve, or the “pre-scout” age. Judge Ben B. Lindsay is Honorary President, and Frederick M. Davenport, Hon* Oscar S. Straus, and M. Woolsey-Stryker are Honorary Vice-Presidents. The program was given a thorough trial in a large number of troops, amid varying conditions and environments, before, as a result of experience, the present form was determined upon. Active assistance is being rendered by such leaders in boys’ work as Miss Jessie Bancroft, Prof. Daniel Chase, Dr. C. Ward Crampton, Dr. Luther H. Gulick, Prof. Herman J. Norton, Mr. Richard Welling, Dr. Frank H. Wood, and Dr. Thomas D. Wood. It has been adopted quite extensively, particularly by New York State School systems in connection with their physical training law.

Digitized by v^ooQle
194

The aim of the Pioneers is to merge all existing local clubs into a national organization whose program represents the best expert thought available. A major part of the activity consists of supervised recreation, and other forms of physical training that are of interest to physical directors. A system of advancement in rank has been devised to stirtiulate the boy to qualities of strength, cleanness, truth and unselfishness. This focuses the physical work upon the development of character.

The motto is “Never Turn Back!” The oath, arranged by Miss Bancroft, is “On my honor, as a Pioneer, I will do my best to be clean in speech, in play, and in life, and to be true to others.” The characteristic of the suit is a dark green jersey. The appeal to the boy is through play, leadership, and desire for manliness. It is interesting to note that women as well as men may be leaders, •or “Pathfinders”. At the age of twelve the boy is expected to join the Boy Scouts, or some other good organization for older boys. Any who desire handbooks, etc., should address: National Headquarters, Pioneers of America, Hamilton College, Clinton, N Y.

CONFERENCE OF WOMEN’S ATHLEtlC ASSOCIATIONS

By BLANCHE M. TRILLING, University of Wisconsin, Madison

Twenty colleges and universities were represented at the Conference of Women's Athletic Associations held at the University on March 9 and 10. The following institutions sent official delegates: Chicago, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Colorado, Washington, Nebraska, Ohio, Wisconsin, DePauw, Northwestern Washingtoh University of St. Louis, Beloit, Milwaukee-Downer, Rockford, Lawrence, Grinnell, Ames, and Sweet Briar. In addition to a scheduled program featuring a supper, a basketball game, a swimming meet, a luncheon, and a banquet, and the eustomary reports and discussions, addresses were given on “Athletics and University Ideals," by Dean L. K. Mathews, “Association Ideals," by Blanche M. Trilling, director of women's gymnasium, and “Organization of Physical Education for Women,99 by C. W. Hetherington, professor of Physical Education.

The delegates voted to form a national association which would meet annually, and to invite the Eastern colleges to join. The 1918 conference will be held at the University of Chicago. The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved:	That	the Women's Athletic Associations in universities

and colleges have a close relationship with the departments of physical education for women.

Resolved:	That	this body go on record as opposing intercollegiate

, athletic competition for women in so fhr as it involves the necessity of a team going from one college to another, but that the keeping of records of events be maintained by the conference secretary for competitive comparison between colleges.

Resolved: That the Women’s Athletic Associations in colleges and .universities adopt Spaulding’s rules as the official rules in all games.

Digitized by

Google
195

Resolved:	That this body go on record as in favor of keeping up

scholastic standards by discouraging the playing of any girl on a class team unless she has a satisfactory scholastic standing.

Resolved:	That this body recommend that sportsmanship be seri-

ously considered in choosing a girl for a team.

The splendid organization of the conference and the excellent way in which it was managed reflected credit on the Wisconsin Association, whose members had it in charge and with whom the idea originated.

THE VALUE OF THE SOCIAL CENTER.

Two or three years ago I became interested in the social center development in Barnes County, North Dakota, and talked with a number of people who had helped to initiate the movement. They told me that at the time they organized their farmers’ clubs and social meetings that more than one half of all the land in that district was for sale, but that at present there was no land for sale. The farmers had made friends, had become attached to the locality and did not wish to leave. The social organization had nearly doubled the value of the property.

Henry S. Curtis.

JAHN PHYSICAL TRAINING CLUB, CHICAGO.

The club closed its year’s work with a general meeting on Saturday, May 12. The following is a summary of the reports of the committees and officers and of the transactions of the meeting. From President Groener’s report it may be learned that the club is in excellent financial standing, that it has a membership of 55, and that the members never shirk when extra sacrifice and hard work is asked of them. It also showed that the elaborate preparations Colleague Hocke had made at the beginning of the year for an interesting as well as beneficial program could not be carried out. With the introduction of military training in our high schools we abandoned our regular work and engaged in military drill under the directions of Lieutenant Frink and a number of sergeants.

We also learned that the lectures on “Immunity and its Relation to Physical Education”, and “Physiology of Exercise” had been well received and enjoyed by the members. Colleague Groener admonished the M. D’s. among our members to keep agoing and deliver a lecture a month.

The following officers were elected for the coming year: Emil Groenei, re-elected as President. Colleague Emil Rothe was elected Vice-President. That E. C. Delaporte was re-elected as Secretary, goes without saying. ' Colleague R. J. Burke assured us upon his re-election that he would try hard to continue to hold on to as much of our money as possible. The writer was re-elected as reporter. *

We are going to have our annual banquet in spite of every-t

Digitized by Dogle
196

thing. Colleagues Cobelli, Rothe and Weegewere instructed to make preparation for same for the 9th of June. We shall on this occasion celebrate Colleague R. J. Burger’s 25th anniversary as Teacher of Physical Education. Any colleague who happens to be in Chicago on the 9th should be suie to drop in to congratulate Bob. He is one of that rapidly decreasing number who still retain ideals and habor sympathetic feelings for humanity.

Our last transaction was an instruction to the secretary to send a letter of thanks to the Chicago Tumgemeinde for placing the gymnasium and meeting room at our disposal. There still is found Tumerspirit in our ranks, not all has ossified into business propositions. Our compliments to the Tumgemeinde.

C. F. Weege.

NOTICE TO TEACHERS AND STUDENTS.

All teachers and students who are leaving their schools for a change of location at this time should notify Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota, where their September copies are to be sent. No duplicate copies can be furnished in case no notice is received at the office of publication when a subscriber changes his or her address, nor is it sufficient to leave forwarding address with the postmaster as magazines cannot be forwarded without postage. The office of publication must be notified direct by the subscriber. Use the inclosed remittance slip carefully filled out and there will be no chance for error. Do not give us your summer address as we have no use for it, no magazines being issued during July or August. Give your September address only, and if your subscription date on name label does not show “17” or more, it is time to renew now while the price is only $1.00. Remember, Sept. 1st, it will positively advance to $1.50 and all renewals at $1.00 per year must be in before Sept. 1, 1917. • Send in your renewal and change of address at same time. Do it now.

SPECIAL NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.

There are no July or August issues of Mind and Body published so the next copy you receive will be September, which will be mailed Sept. 15, 1917.

NEW HAVEN SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS

Summer Session July 30—Sept. 1st FOR MEN AND WOMEN UNDERGRADUATE COURSE — Corres- ADVANCED COURSES FOR GRADU-

ponding to those of the regular junior year. ATES.—Medical and orthopedic gymnastics Certificate admitting to senior class of N. (practical work in our own free clinic) hy-H. N. S. G. may he earned by several sum- giene and sanitation, advanced gymnastics, mere’ work. February high school gradu- dancing and coaching. Our own outdoor ates by taking summer school work will be fields, beach, boats, etc.

able to enter junior class of N. H. N. S. G. „	_

immediately after graduation. Grade Faculty same as in winter session. Write teachers will find these courses useful.	for prospectus.

Digitized by kjOOQle