MIND AND BODY

JUNE, 1907.

Vol. 14.

No 160

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Bos on Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

W\f. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

ON LONG DISTANCE SWIMMING.

By DR. H. TOEPPEN, St. Louis.

There can hardly be any doubt that swimming is one of the finest and should be one of the foremost forms of physical exercise for both sexes and nearly all ages. If I were asked to name one form of exercise by which alone the body might be developed to perfection and kept in a desirable condition, I should only consider two, swimming and wrestling, without, however, recommending such a limitation to anybody. I consider a combination of light gymnastics (apparatus work very limited), running, walking and jumping, swimming, boxing and wrestling, skating and ball games a desirable combination, which allows of modification to suit all ages, sizes, sexes, climates, seasons, accidental circumstances, etc

The many objections to swimming as a form of exercise and as a -port—such as, “it is too dangerous/’ “it makes you weak,” “it makes you thin,” “it makes you very apt to get sick,” etc.—might be analyzed and taken under the magnifying glass at some other occasion. This tim I shall limit myself to a few remarks on long distance swimming, this sport beginning to gain some prominence on this side of the Atlantic of late after having been neglected so far for various reasons. The object of these remarks is not to discourage, but to guide and to advise moderation.

Now, first, what is long distance swimming? It is well known that the very beginner in the art is completely pumped out after covering a distance of about five yards, and that it takes quite a while before he can go 25 yards. Many a man, who is considered a good swimmer, has never covered more than one eighth of a mile in still water without resting, and I think the number of those who have covered a mile or more in still water more than ten times during their “swimming life” is small indeed. I think anything beyond a quarter of a mile in still water and one mile in' running water may be considered a “long distance” for an ordinary healthy and moderately developed swimmer. I consider one mile in still water all that a swimmer of this class should try to accomplish, and I think it takes the physique of a “champion” to cover P>000

Digitized by G.oogle
-114-

meters (about 3% miles) in not running water, moderately agitated by the wind, and with a maximum limit of time, as required for the championship of the Baltic Sea (the salinity of which is very slight), a title held by Emil Rausch for the last few years. All those who saw the Olympic swimming races at the St. Louis Fair of 1904 will remember him well.

The muscular work to be done in swimming, say one mile in still water, (which might be considered equivalent to about five miles down the Mississippi River near St. Louis at an average current velocity) is very considerable, and is usually underrated by those who write on swimming as an exercise. It is true that the greater part of our weight is, so to sav, annihilated by the displaced water, but we have to overcome resistance, and have to make the movements with energy and regularity in order to make headway. After swimming a mile in still water, not in a race, but at a fair rate of speed, a man feels much more tired than after running a mile at moderate speed, say in (BA minutes: I think in this sense swimming a mile in still water is about equivalent to running five miles in 35 or 40 minutes, a feat which any healthy man can accomplish with a little practice; and I think that swimming five miles in still water i- fully equivalent to running a “Marathon” distance.

The greatest difficulty that most swimmers have when they try to swimni any distance beyond a little sprint is the breathing. There can be no endurance and no satisfactory result in long distance swimming without regularity and ease of breathing. For swimming a short distance at great speed mouth-breathing might be indispensable. For longer distances nose-breathing should be insisted upon just as strictly as for long distance running. If a runner intends to run five miles and has to begin mouth-breathing after the first mile or earlier, he is sure to do himself harm sooner or later. The danger is similar with the swimmer, although somewhat slighter, as the air he breathes is nearly free of dust and less charged with disease carrying germs. This, however, may be more than counterbalanced by the impurities of the water which have a never ending chance to infect the swimmer if the practice of filling the mouth with water and blowing it out again L indulged in. The rule of the swimmer should be: one stroke, one breath; expire with the effort of the stroke, inspire when your muscles are most relaxed, i. e. when the arms and legs are flexed and near the trunk. Disturbed harmony of stroke and respiration means beginning of exhaustion and requires relative rest unless it be in a race and not too far from the finish, or unless you do not care to harm yourself. It takes a good capacity of the lungs and a strong heart action to keep up a good, long, powerful stroke and effective rhythm for a length of time. Small lungs and an indifferent heart are incompatible with long distance swimming, unless a man is a natural floater—a thing that is actually found once in a while. It is evident that the respiratory movements of a swimmer are more laborious than those of a runner in proportion to the work done on account of the w’ater pressure w hich must be overcome at each inspiration. Breathing in water (for a man of ordinary size) in the most frequent positions of swimming is about the

Digitized by e.ooQie
-115-

sume as breathing in tlie air with a weight of 18 pounds on the chest. These facts about breathing during swimming prove that long distance swimming is a good test for the efficiency of a man's respiratory apparatus, and on the other hand make it clear that there is hardly any other form of exercise which is so well adapted-—if used judiciously—to strengthen weak lungs and to develop a weak and shallow thorax as is swimming: begin with 10 yards and gradually work up to half a mile in the first season: begin with one-eighth of a mile and gradually work up to a mile in the second season: one stroke: one breath; stop or slacken at the first symptoms of distress: return to it summer after summer, and so make the benefit permanent.

It is now left to speak of the relations of temperature between swimmer and water, and this is by fa** and without any doubt the most important point, especially if the swimming of extreme distances is considered, as in certain attempts that attract national or universal attention. As every one knows, animals living exclusively or preferably in water, such as fish and frogs, have so-called cold blood, which means that the temperature of their bodies adapts itself to the medium in which they live. The bodies of mammals, including man, have to maintain one definite temperature (or nearly so) as long as they live and are in good health. Mammals living in the water, such as the whale, the sea lion, etc., have a very thick and dense skin and a heavy layer af fat underneath it, the whole cover being poorly supplied with blood \essels and being indispensable for the maintaining of the normal blood temperature in dhe cold water of the ocean. We have to keep our body at 98 to 99 degrees F., and the main regulator for this purpose is our skin. We increase or diminish our clothing according to necessity, heat our houses, fan, wash, bathe and sponge, ingest cold or warm drinks, heavy or light food according to season and desire, and—most important of all— our automatically acting nervous system regulates the loss of heat by increasing or diminishing the blood supply of the skin and the underlying tissues. To this point we have to direct our attention. Take a plunge into water of, say, 40 degrees F. and get out after one-half minute. You will find that your skin is of a bright and glowing red color. Dive in again i.nd stay a while, moving about until you feel uneasy and shivering. On getting out this time you will probably look pale all over and bluish «round your eyes, lips, finger nails, toe nails, etc*. You will try tt> restore normal circulation by exercise, rubbing, clothing, a warm room and possibly a warm drink. Now, what takes place in these cases? The sudden application of cold to the whole surface of the body causes a prompt "reaction'’; blood is sent to the surface to counteract the influence which causes the impression of something inimical to the life of the organs. If the skin in this condition of extra supply of blood remains exposed to the action of the cold water for a certain length of time, the whole organism begins to feel a distinct and rapid loss of heat, and the blood vessels contract as promptly as they got dilated a while ago. The blood is sent to the deeper parts, the skin and underlying parts are rendered relatively bloodless, and tin* lns> of heat is gradually reduced to the possible minimum. As the temperature of our body is 98 to 99 degrees

Digitized by CaOOQle
—116—

F., and as nearly all swimming is done in water of temperatures between 00 and 80 degrees F., similar conditions apply to swimming in general, Ihe reactions only being slower on account of the lesser differences in Ihe temperature.

Let us see what happens to a man of ordinary constitution and in good health who goes in and swims a couple of miles or more in still water of about 65 degrees F. at an ordinary rate of speed. First he •dives in: the cold water stimulates his respiratory nerves and muscles powerfully, which, together with the increased pressure and the dis-lurbance of the circulation, causes him to take some deep inspirations after emerging from the wrater and may be accompanied by some vocal ■ejaculations. In a few seconds an agreeable sensation of w'armth permeates his body, due to the reaction mentioned above. This is gradually fcllow’ed by a pleasant feeling of well-being, by and by merging into that of an agreeable cooling off of the body, due to the loss of heat from the amply supplied vascular system of the skin and the tissues underneath it. After another wffiile the body notices that the loss of heat threatens its caloric equilibrium, the blood vessels near the surface get an <-rder from the central station to contract, which they promptly obey, (he contraction gradually extending to a greater depth as the heat abstracting influence from the outside lasts. The gradually increasing •effects of this process are manifold: the peripheral nerves lose part of their sensitiveness, so that a gradually increasing numbness is felt; this is followed by a gradually increasing sensation of stiffening; the superficial muscles soon get an insufficient supply of blood, consequently an insufficient supply of power-furnishing material, suffering besides of incomplete removal of the poisonous products of their w”ork, such as carbon ^dioxide and the different acid products of muscular action. The result is spasmodic contractions, commonly called cramps. They usually begin in the muscles which are most superficial and farthest from the '“furnace’'’:	in the muscles of the calves. Those of the thighs

and abdomen may soon follow”, the latter especially in breast stroke swimming, being subject to a steady tension. Other muscles may become affected, so that the swimmer may ultimately be incapacitated. The spreading of cramps is greatly favored wffien the swimmer gets scared by the first symptoms, fright lowering the blood pressure and thus further diminishing the arterial blood supply and throwing blood into the large deep veins of the trunk. The blood that i< gradually receding from the surface is naturally thrown on the inner organs and may lead to inconveniences on the part of these, the organ most affected being the heart, which in addition to the wTork required for the locomotion and the carrying on of the ordinary functions of life has to overcome the greatly increased peripheral resistance, which may lead to noticeable palpitation and in extreme cases to failure. The lungs will suffer in sympathy with the heart and in proportion to the overtaxation of this organ. Every drop of blood in the body has to he driven through the lungs about twice in every minute for the purpose of oxidation, and this process is rendered extremely difficult when the peripheral ■circulation is embarrassed, the heart laboring and the chest under extra

Digitized by C^ooQle
-117-

pressure. A bloody froth may excude into the air vesicles and be expectorated. In extreme cases the deficiently oxygenated blood may be unable to supply proper nourishment to the brain—which is itself suffering under congestion—, and may thus induce fainting spells, which may end fatally if no help is near.

It is not to be forgotten that one part of the body during the whole process is in a condition different from that of all others, viz. the head, ihe greater part of it being outside of the water, perhaps with an exemption of an occasional dip and the periods of swimming on the back^ when the smaller part of it is outside. Anyhow; it is evident and beyond doubt that the head will have to stand by far the largest amount of congestion in proportion to its size. A glance at the face and especially at the eyes of a swimmer leaving the water after a long swim will make this* • lear to everybody. The blood will rush to the part that is least attacked by the external enemy, in this case the heat abstracting fluid outside. The^ consequences of this become very soon apparent and constitute one of I be greatest dangers of extreme long distance swimming. After swimming a mile or so (sooner or later, according to the temperature of the water, age and constitution of the swimmer, etc.,) the eyesight begins to become dim, a halo is seen around lights, the objects begin to appear pink or reddish, and ultimately the eyesight may temporality fail altogether. At the same time the ears begin to revolt: hammering, buzzing, roaring may be perceived and may gradually get lost in an attack of fainting if the symptoms remain unheeded. The whole mental activity of the swimmer suffers in proportion, and those going on in spite of fair warning may be ultimately dragged out in an attack of temporary insanity. If no permanent damage has been inflicted (such as haemorrhage in the deep parts of the eyes, or in the brain, or in the lungs) recovery may hike place comparatively promptly after the unhappy individual is given back to his natural element and properly taken care of.

The numerous attempts to cioss the English Channel that have been made and that are repeated nearly every year have furnished many an example in this line. Captain Webb still remains the only one who was* sucessful in his attempt.

A man can get his body used to a great many things, but his ability to get used to the swimming of great distances is limited by the temperature of the medium in which he has to do it. By no amount of training can he get beyond a certain limit. It would take millions of years to develop man back (if this expression is allowed) into the stage of a fish or of a frog.

A few years ago an Eastern athlete (whose name I have forgotten) proposed to swim from Boston to New York, swimming ten hours a day. 'fhe distance is about 350 miles, measuring around Cape Cod, and not quite 300 miles, allowing a short trip on land over the isthmus between Cape Cod Bay and Buzzard Bay. If swimming more than a mile cr two, no living man go faster than two miles an hour, excluding currents, tides, waves and winds for the sake af simplicity. This would make twenty miles a day or at least fifteen days of swimming, or 150 hours of swimming within a period of 300 hours. The temperature of tiie surface

Digitized by CjOOQLe
—118-

water of the ocean in that region and in August may be put down as 65 degrees F. These being the conditions, it may safely be claimed that no living man is able to accomplish the feat. Accordingly only a report about the first day of that attempt appeared in the papers. After that everything was quiet.

f think one of the greatest athletes of our age. especially as far as endurance is concerned, is Fridtjof Xansen, the well-known Arctic explorer, llis feats of endurance on his trip through Greenland and on his sleigh and kayak trip toward the North pole with Johansen are unparalleled. A few days before the favorable termination of the latter (by reaching a temporary settlement on Cape Flora, Franz Josef's Land) his double kayak broke loose from its light moorings at the edge of the ice and was driven a good distance away before the possibly fatal accident was noticed. Xansen no sooner saw what had happened than he removed part of his heavy polar clothing and dived into the icy flood. He had to swim until he was scarcely able to move his stiffening limbs for another stroke before he reached the kavaks.which were driven away from him by a lively breeze. He pulled himself aboard with the last effort of his powerful body under control of an invincible soul. It took him a good long while to paddle back to the ice, the piercing polar wind blowing through his wet woolen underwear and chilling the marrow in his bones. And there was no steam chamber or warm room or hot punch or heated blanket ready to warm biin up afterward; simply a few dry pieces oi clothing, a sleeping-bag and a sail as an extra cover. Still he caught neither a cold, nor pneumonia, nor anything else.

The reader is mistaken if he thinks it is the object of these lines to discourage long distance swimming. I only intended to give those who never tried to thiik the question out for themselves an outline of the facts and deductions that have some bearing to it, and to enable some to understand their own observations and to form rules for their own future attempts and desires.

NOTICE! Following the custom of other educational journals “MIND AND BODY” will, in the future, not be published during July and August. The number of pages per issue will be increased from thirty-two to forty, thus more than offsetting the number lost by two present issues. Subscribers who have paid for the twelve issues of the current year will receive this number. Thereafter a year’s subscription will be for ten issues.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-119-

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CHICAGO SCHOOL OF EDUCATION.

dtvtori} ant>	of	Uje	of	UBfeucattotf.

The School of Education of the University of Chicago was formed hy the consolidation with the University, 1) of the Chicago Institute, founded hy Mrs. Emmons Blaine and presided over hy the late Colonel Francis W. Parker. Jt included a Kindergarten Department, an Elementary School, a High School, and a Teacher's Training College. 2) The laboratory School of the Department of Education in the University, the founder and director of which was Prof. John Dewey, late Head of the Department of Education. 3) The South Side Academy, the Dean of which was Associate Prof. Win. B. Owen, of the University. 4) The Chicago Manual Training School, whose head for many years has been Dr. Henry Bel field. The latter two institutions now represent what is known as the University High School.

There is, therefore, gathered in one group of buildings a eomplete school system—Kindergarten, Elementary, High School and College grades, with opportunities for training teachers under the most favorable t ducational surroundings, and with all the privileges of a great University. The fundamental element in the significance of this School of Education is the desire and resolute purpose to promote the cause of education. not only here, hut everywhere, through inspiring teachers with more vital and adequate coitceptions of the nature of their work, and through furnishing them with the intellectual equipments necessary to make them effective and apt in carrying out such broadened and deep ideals.

The buildings of the School of Education are situated on Sea mm on Court, the main building facing the Midway Plaisance. This building has a frontage of 350 feet and a depth through its two wings of 162 feet. It is four stories high, with passenger and freight elevators, giving easy access to the upper floors.

On the first floor are the administrative offices of the College and Elementary Schools, the Kindergarten and the following four divisions (f the Elementary School; the Department of Mathematics and Physics of the College and High School, and a number of study and class rooms. On the second floor is the Library with some 15,000 volumes, a reading room, a seminar room; the departments of Geography, History and Oral Leading; a gymnasium, with offices and examination rooms for the primary divisions: class and study rooms for the upper divisions of the Elementary School. There is also a complete theatre with stage, footlights, drop curtain, etc., where many plays in English, French and German are given during the year hy the children of the Elementary School. Immediately above the Library on the third floor is the Museum, which is one of the special features of the school; the laboratories of Psychology, Nature Study, Home Economics, and Chemistry;class and study room of the Elementary School. On the fourth floor are the depart-

Digitized by CjOOQle
ments of Music, Elementary Woodworking, Drawing and Painting, the Art Studios, Clay-Modeling and Pottery, Sewing and Textiles, equipped with looms and dye shops. Photography and a Print Shop. A special feature of the fourth floor is the Luncheon room, equipped to serve one thousand persons.

On the deck of the central tower of the building, which also furnishes the space for the meteorological instruments, a camera obscura has been constructed, by means of which a large picture of any section of the surrounding landscape can be projected into a dark room immediately below.

In the basement of the building are the kiln-room and the casting-room.

The buildings are equipped with a complete telephone system with an automatic switch board.

The Manual Training Building of the School of Education is immediately in the rear of the court of the main buildings, and is completely adapted to its purpose. Its dimensions are 350 by 65 feet. The two ends are each three stories in height, and the shops between are one story high and are lighted by a saw-tooth roof. The drawing rooms are well lighted and furnished with the latest appliances, including facilities for blue-printing. The wood-shops have a complete outfit of benches, carpenters' and turners' tools, lathes, planer, band and circular saw, and complete facilities for cabinet-making. The forge-shop is furnished with down-draft forges, pressure blower and exhaust fan, a complete outfit of 6mithing tools, gas furnace and tempering and brazing, and also drill and emery wheels. The foundry is equipped with a cupola, facilities for floor and bench work, two brass furnaces, core oven with revolving iron shelves and a large assortment of patterns and flasks. The machine shop is equipped with eighteen lathes from twelve to twenty inches swing, planer, shaper, two universal milling machines, two drill presses, sensitive drill, water tool grinder, universal grinder, and a large assortment of small tools. All machinery in the building is driven by electric motors.

The gymnasium, occupying the center of the court, consists of two rooms, each 36 by 60 feet in size, flanked on either side and at one end of the building with offices, dressing, locker, toilet, and shower rooms. The south gymnasium is equipped with all the apparatus of a modern gymnasium: the other, the north gymnasium, is provided with a number of “developing appliances" and apparatus designed for the use of girls. Four periods per week are prescribed for each student, three attendance records in the technical department of the High School being the minimum. Five experienced specialists, competent to advise and instruct in all phases of the work outlined in the general plan, comprise the staff of the physical training department.

An athletic field and playground, 300 by 400 feet, adjoining the quadrangle of the buildings, is in course of construction.

Tt is proposed that a magnificent physical training building with gymnasiums and courts for all the departments, private exercising rooms

Digitized by UooQle
-121-

and swimming pools for both sexes, lecture and trophy rooms, be erected, fronting this field. The plans were designed last year. Its cost ia estimated at $350,000.

Three classes of Curricula have been arranged in the College of Ed-cation:

I.	THE TWO YEARS’ COURSES.

(a)	General Course A. For elementary school teachers: two years, based upon graduation from a high school having a four years’ course and recognized by the University.

(b)	Kindergarten Course, for the training of persons who desire to teach in the kindergarten. This differs but slightly from the general course. It has the same admission requirements and extends over the same amount of time.

(c)	Home Economics. Two years, based upon the same admission requirements as above.

II.	THE FOUR YEARS’ COURSES.

(a)	General Course B. For persons intending to teach in almost any

division of school work, but especially as secondary school teachers, critic teachers, departmental supervisors in elementary and normal schools, etc.:	Four	years,	based	upon	graduation from a high school having a

four years’ course and recognized by the University.

(b)	Courses for students preparing to teach particular subjects in secondary and normal schools; four years, leading to the degree Ed. B. and based upon the general admission requirements for the degrees A.B.,

S.B., and Ph.B.

III.	COURSES IN ARTS AND TECHNOLOGY.

Two Years, based in general upon the same admission requirements as for General Course A, and intended for those who wish to become teachers of special subjects in elementary schools; also for those who wish to become supervisors and special or departmental teachers in normal schools, mechanical and agricultural colleges, high schools, and large city school systems.

The courses have their own specific requirements. They include music, applied design, plastic art, textiles, manual training, speech and dramatic art in addition to other departments.

The Faculty of the School of Education represents University departmental associate and assistant professors, teachers and instructors, numbering some 125 persons. Among these are the members of the old Cook County Normal Faculty, over which Colonel Parker so long pre sided.

The work of the several divisions of the school is regularly presented and discussed, and in a measure determined by the respective Faculty divisions, Elementary, High, Technological, College and Departmental, the combined sections meeting weekly for the General Faculty Conferences, in which, during the current year so far the work of most departments has been reviewed, the Heads pi Departments furnishing the required syllabi. To these conferences, devoted to pedagogical investiga-

Digitized by ejOOQie
-122-

tions, are referred all problems arising in the work of the several departments. Every theory or supposed truth discovered in practice or study is brought forward, failures and successes reviewed.

The school represents in its Elementary Department some 400 pupils, in its High School between 600 and 700. The College during the past year had an enrollment of 680 students. This includes the Summer Quarter enrollment. The first two divisions are limited to the numbers given.

The general scheme of Physical Training in the University School of Education—physical education, training, gymnastics, .athletics and sports—conforms to the needs, individual and collective, of the pupils and student bodies composing the various divisions. The many phases of the practical work, considering its scope and application, demand the most careful consideration of both system and method—the initiative of the respective teachers largely determining the character of the work that will guide the student teacher of the College and lastingly impress him with the most efficient procedures. Close and honest study in the lines of progress guarantees him liberty of action—preparation being the watchword.

The studies of needs and work adaptation in the Elementary Department, the exactions of the High School work, as the problems of the College students are discussed in weekly conferences of the physical training department, the corrective work, open to all departments, during the past year (restricted at present) having offered many incentives in the line of special study under special direction.

The general purpose of the work may be said to lie in its influence upon conduct, and in its effect upon the health and efficiency of the student. From this viewpoint the school in all its divisions may be likened unto a vast laboratory, in which the teachers are the advisors, and the college students, the prospective teachers, in the light of their future vocations, the beneficiaries. The regular teachers of the so-called •practice-department’ are regarded as the principal factors in further determining the work in the correlation of the studies, involving all school work. This results, whenever properly attempted, in the most interesting school studies and experiments, and serves greatly to enhance the interest in physical training.

Owing to the extraordinary schedules, and especially to the departmental preparation of special teachers in the various subjects— necessitating a division of available time among the respective departments—the general preparation of the regular students has suffered somewhat, the important work of the gymnastic practice teacfctmg having been denied them on account of the time exigencies of the general program. The resultants under the prevailing system have been that the import of the wrork is somewhat superficially realized, the students merely seeking to comply with the stipulated University ‘requirements/ demanding of them two quarters of physical training per year—the special student teachers requiring but one quarter. Thi6 is further mani-

Digitized by Google
—123—

fest in the student demands for the greatest freedom—implying anything and everything but the work constituting their future needs.

It has been sought to overcome this criticism by drafting the services of the departmental teachers for the work in which they were best qualified and by further supplying a number of ‘required’ courses on topics of general interest. It cannot be maintained, however, that this procedure, much as It is needed, will cover the deficiency in the program with reference to practice teaching.

Physical training begins with the opening of the school-year in October and with the Elementary and High School continues until the middle of the Spring Quarter. The first terms of both the fall and spring quarters are devoted to outdoor work. The college work in phys-ical training begins with the second term of the fall quarter and ends with the first term of the spring quarter. The first term of the fall quarter is devoted to general hygiene. Simultaneously, and continued throughout the quarter, a course in child hygiene is offered, principally for the students of the Kindergarten department. The last term of the spring quarter is also devoted to special hygiene and (current year) to an analysis of athletic movement forms.

A special course in ‘Rhythm’ and Games, during the second term of the fall quarter, also a special course in dancing during the winter quarter, is offered for the Kindergarten students.

The regular first year students receive a course in practical gymnastics throughout the latter half of the fall quarter, illustrative of the fundamental procedures, analysis, technique and order of gymnastic movement forms. This course is extended throughout the winter quarter to include apparatus gymnastics, games and plays, and gymnastic dancing; also throughout the first term of the spring quarter to include a study of the aims embodied in the general scheme of physical training in the School of Education.

The regular second year students survey the subject-matter of	v

gymnastics, its classification and adaptation according to values and effects,	and	study the problems of system and

method during the fall and winter quarters.	They continue

with the interpretation of individual needs and qualifications during the remainder of the year on the basis of studies followed during the fall and spring quarters of the previous year. The functions of organized gymnastics in the school and its relation to athletics are discussed in connection with the work of the school and in its bearing on the year’s results.

The theoretical work alternates throughout all the courses with the practical work, one-half time being devoted to each.

The summer quarter offers three courses, viz:	a)	general	and	ap-

plied gymnastics; b) pedagogics of gymnastic instruction; c) organ'za-tion of gymnastics.

The work in general is discussed throughout the year in the various divisions of mothers’ and parents’ committee meetings and in the monthly meetings of the Parents’ Association. Occasionally a gymnastic section will invite its friends, or parents, to attend a regular class hour—

Digitized by CjOOQle
—124—

promiscuous visits not being encouraged during the regular practice hours.

There are no exhibitions nor entertainments, unless the competitive inter-class games of the Elementary and High Schools and the dancing eoirees and folk-dances may be sc styled. On these occasions, or in consequence of them, discussions of the work have led to some interesting suggestions. One such suggestion has left its stamp on all the work. It centered in and about the question, put by the late Dean Jackman, of individual work as compared to class work, on the claim that the former, if it could be made possible, would result in greater profit to the students.

Acting upon this suggestion the various classes, representing some sixty periods per week, were drilled for two weeks at the beginning of the year in the order and technique of a series of 8—12 simple exercises, designed to affect the whole body.

The following rules were then adopted:

Immediately upon entering a gymnasium from the dressing rooms, pupils and students will devote ten minutes to the execution of the prescribed exercises, independently of any one else. There must be no conflict in positions and no intercourse between students so engaged. These exercises are to be followed by a climbing exercise and by some running or jumping. No other apparatus shall be used until the prescribed exorcises shall have been executed. Classes will align fifteen minutes after beginning of periods for such other work as may have been scheduled as class-work.

Failure to execute the free standing exercises with fullest volition, accurately and in the prescribed order, will lesult in the immediate alignment of the entire class for the same exercise, regardless of individual progress. No one will join in a class alignment for apparatus or other work, who has not first completed the prescribed exercises. The instructors will assist those who have fully mastered the exercises to the liext step in development of type of exercise, thus marking effort and ability to proceed.

This method of conducting the work has been adopted in all the classes of all the departments and is now in its second year. It has proved highly satisfactory and profitabe to all concerned. The gymnasium can be frequently found filled with students working independently of each other, all eager and anxious for the class work always entered upon with a disposition born of work well done. Teachers, as students, under the ruling do • their best. Seldom is a lesson marred by the necessity of forcing a whole class to bring its influence to bear on some ‘unfortunate/

The most efficient, during the first spring term, are elected captains of teams of six, and are given full control of the outdoor work frequently conducted with a large number of teams without conflict or disorder— the only ‘order* consisting of a wall notice, indicating the exercises which the respective teams are to engage in during the period.

The present season of the year—spring— is devoted principally to athletics, apparatus work for the time being discarded.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—125—

Owing to the location of the buildings on the Midway (the connect-ting link between Washington and Jackson Parks) the finest opportunities are offered on the vast stretches of lawns, roadways and fields for every, form of outdoor activity, the immediate neighborhood with its three gymnasiums and playgrounds rivalling in popularity the spacious Marshall Field of the University and its magnificent Gymnasium.

The Physical Training Staff of the School of Education consists of Prof. C. J. Kroh, Head of Department, Theory and Practice in the College of Education*; Dr. Angus M. Frew, Medical Examiner and Director of Athletics; Dr. Alice Pitkin Nesbit, Lecturer on Child Hygiene (College) and Medical Examiner and Director of Girls’ Physical Training and Athletics**; Miss Mary Ida Mann, Director of Elementary Department, Teacher of General Hygiene (College), Rhythm and Games, Kindergarten Department; Miss Mary Wood, Gymnastic Instructor. It is intended to engage in addition the services of a Play-Master for outdoor work for the qoming year.

The instruction in gymnastic, character and folk-dancing, as the classes in social dancing, are conducted by Miss Hinman and a corps of assistants. These teachers, although asigned to the different departments, participate in the work of all departments.

The medical examiners furnish at the close of the school year a full and complete report of each individual child in the school, stating the principal observations with reference to health, growth and general physical condition. These reports are made to the Deans for teacher’s, references.

The health and the vigor of our public school children is all-important. Physical exercises in the gymnasium and out in the open air, in concerted work, and in individual and corrective movements should be the basis of the refreshment of the school.

A strong, supple body, in which all the organs perform their functions; a body, that feeds the brain with blood for the highest thought v and complete action; a body under the domination of the will and readily lesponsive to it; a body that wards off disease, or conquers it, and makes the highest and most prolonged self-activity possible—such a body is the 6ure foundation of all that is good and right.

Sports and games bring children close together in wholesome rivalry and hearty sympathy. Educative play banishes class distinctions and the individual stands out for what he really is worth.

All exercises of the school should be made essentially conducive to health and personal vigor. Special attention should be given to dull and backward children. Dullness and backwardness are usually associated with some physical weakness.

Physical training, gymnastics, manual training, music and art, are the natural means by which mental defects may often be effaced.

Francis Wavland Parker.

* Resigned to accept Presidency of the Normal College of Physical Training in Indianapolis.

Resigned to live abroad.

Digitized by c^ooQie
—126—

PHYSICAL TRAINING—A QUESTION OF JUDICIOUS

SUPPORT.

A DISCUSSION OF PHYSICAL TRAINING IN ITS LARGER ASPECTS, AS AFFECTING SCHOOL YOUTH.

By C\RL J. KROH.

Modern physical training as an operative and effective factor in education is unthinkable without the setting of an enlightened background. Its pedagogical-aesthetical and anatomical-physiological aspects involve more than mere disciplinary values and health-promoting influences—they represent the highest that is conceivable in art, and what has been achieved in the science of the modern doctrine of the human body as well.

So regarded, physical training depends for its best unfolding and maintenance on the attitude of the school, and on the exponents of its ideals. The school is the generative power and principal factor in tine advancement of the universal interests to be subserved. Inquiry, therefore, reflecting the true function of physical training in a scheme of education, is necessarily of paramount importance in outlining a policy calculated to obviate unnecessary and unprofitable experimentation.

In the past, as in the present, inquiries into the merits of the multiform instructional procedures evolved and extant have been influenced by the character of the conceptions held with regard to it. Preconceptions, without the data of comprehensive experiences, have, in instances without number, been the rule in it3 organization. Declarations of mere intentional purport have availed naught, the most liberal provisions not unfrequently proving antidotal.

Uncritical conclusions have resulted in an overemphasis of extremes —huge effort on the one hand, and on the other the prominence accorded the ameliorative or remedial features of gymnastic treatment.

Wherever physical training was suffered to exist without the enthusiasm born of intelligent methods, and minus the cooperating factors of judicious support, its design became manifest in some tumbleform of gymnastics or in an emphasis of certain work-phases, curtailing the general and adequate concept of its import. Intelligently, directed and supported, it became an evergrowing source of interest by virtue of its manifold aims and resources.

Conservatism and enthusiasm have until within recent times characterized the two phases of its development.

The status of physical training in some of the leading institutions of the country, not at all final, is the outcome of much thoughtful inquiry and consistent experiment. Psycho-physical in its modern aspect, its inherent quickening influences have become active and virile only since its advocates and expositors have persisted in reconciling the claims advanced in its behalf with those of the other interests included in educational pursuits. It was from this view-point that its demonstrable claims and relations advanced and became an integral part of educational work.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-127-

The question of a rationale of methods in physical training, as applied to the secondary school, was recently discussed by a small coterie of experts in educational work. The general argumentative trend of the following summary presents the attitude taken.

In an analysis of the present status of physical training, it was asserted that the popular concept with regard to it was directed principally toward the athletic features of physical activities. The public, #8 a rule, was influenced by what was presented in the burden of literature bearing on huge athletics, principally through the daily press. Systematic organization of reportorial staffs in the interests of universities, colleges, schools, and athletic clubs, devoted to field and track events, and to innumerable competitive sports, furnished the papers with the material at once welcome and necessary to sustain the large so-called sporting interests involved. The views concerning a rationale of physical education expressed in the public press were rare indeed in a comparison with this propaganda.

It was conceded that, however the aptitudes and predilections of normally constituted youth were directed and utilized for educational ends, the use and wont of the physical powers, per se, in the untrammeled exploitation and freedom of natural activities remained a matter of impulse and necessity, as dictinct from the conventional routine of home and school occupations as is school formalism from the freedom of the playground. Instinctive desire prompted this use and wont, and the motive, if one could speak of a motive, was discerned in the cultivation of the sense of pleasurable experiences. Motive might represent a growing realization of what seemed practicable, advantageous, or helpful in the ordinary course of life-routine. The instinctive impulse, on the other hand, represented the alternative for the formalism of the school sustaining the natural gift of cheerfulness and mirth. Both served the gradual preparation of the young aspirant for the larger responsibilities of a maturer life, and their encouragement was absolutely desirable—the question of direction of activities in the most profitable ways and in concord with prudence constituting the problem of the school. Therefore the most profitable school curriculum was the one based on a recognition of the facts evinced in the daily life of school youth.

The charm of robust activity, characteristic of the display of skill and sagacity, witnessed in the individual and concerted action of field athletics during the recurring seasons of each year, had exerted a tremendous influence on the rank and file of our school youth. Outdoor recreation had received a mighty impulse. This was as it should be. Not only, however, were the seasonal in- and outdoor sports and games more popular than ever before, but a glance beyond the school gymnasium disclosed our young ^people disporting themselves in many interesting ways. Even our ten- and twelve-year-olds hurdle-jumped and danced to the shot-put in the most approved style. Our grammar-school boys and those beyond emulated the methods and practices of the seasoned athlete of the organized training quarters in the forms typical of the most successful record-breakers. The principles underlying proficiency were largely

Digitized by CjOOQle
left to solution in interesting illustrations on the comer lot,, back yard, and open-air playground. This was not a6 it should be.

The popular idea of our physical renaissance had become as distinct in its outward form from what it presented a decade or so ago as the- onetime calisthenic drill, so variously provided for in innumerable manuals, appeared in a contrast with the huge athletics of today. Mere pleasurable activity for the sake of health and ample recreation had been augmented in a remarkable way by the enthusiasm for contests and competitions, the legitimacy of which was unquestioned in the acclaim of the interested multitudes.

The recognition of this very large factor in the life of our school youth had, with all educators who have thought of the matter, become imperative. Wherever, therefore, it assumed the proportions characteristic of organized competitions, we met with a pronounced demand for the better organization of physical training.

It was only reasonable under the conditions to assume that the opinions of a large and interested body of teachers must ultimately crystallize toward some definite and practical plan regarding such organization, since it was evident from past experiences that an effective 01-ganization of physical training without this general co-operation m fall short of its import.

These and other demands, wherever thoughtful inquiry had p.e-vailed, indicated, if anything at all, that students should undergo a preparation for whatever specialization in athletics they might wish to engage in, and that there should be the fullest recognition of the regularly constituted authorities of physical training in determining the order of procedures for such training.

It was recognized that certain knowledge affecting the welfare of youth, which should be common possession, was not sufficiently emphasized in the school curriculum. There was felt to be much erring in matters pertaining to wholesome education. The mere stimulus of competition was deplorable, because pernicious. From the standpoint of the teacher, in was not enough to encourage the youth to exercise, and it was hazardous to encourage him to excel in athletics. With the superior boy such encouragement might, or it might not, lead to a proper regard for self. Many factors were constantly at play in strenuous, rather than in pleasurable, activities. The elements of time and energy in action were not merely estimated, but also generally considered—and unhappily for many boys—on the do-or-die side. It was not always a considerate estimate in the sense of prudence that characterized the sports of youth. Behind this demand for an appreciation of, and necessity for, the care of the body should stand the teacher. An intimate acquaintance with the structure of the human organism and its wonderful mechanism begets the appreciative faculty. This knowledge alone instils motives of the right sort into the aspiring student, and begets with the pedagogue concern for those he loves or should love well enough to guide aright in this very important and practical matter of the care of the body and its functions.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-129-

All educative pursuits involved certain fundamental considerations —the initial premise, the purpose and procedure, or, the principles, aims or problems, and methods. Principles as aims must always be based on pedagogy and aesthetics, the appreciation of the beautiful in nature and art. The emphasis of the aims under discussion is found principally in anatomical, physiological, and hygienic considerations.

To attain the “best estate,” the inherent forces of the organism demand the cultivation of a robust physique through appropriate activities —healthy, strong, alert and enduring, beautiful in bearing and carriage — governed by a determining faculty, subserving these qualities. The question of conduct, of ethics in general, is an aim of education. That this executive faculty, the will, may become effective, in as far as the physical being can be considered, is the special aim of physical culture, hnplving physical education, training, gymnastics, and athletics, in the order of their importance. It must be regarded as nothing less than a perversion of aims to characterize physical training in its demonstrable .-cope and effects solely as a physical development, or as a purely hygienic procedure in the interest of health exclusively, or as a recreation, or as athletics pure and simple. Health should always be the incidental outcome. Athletics should be governed in accord with the principle which demands the pre-requisite, not of special but of prolonged all-sided preparation, entailing a due regard for the factors of skill, strength and endurance, based on a carefully nurtured vitality.

The larger aspect of the question, as it affects school youth, must deal with the psvcho-physical phases of a large and interesting subject, based on the data furnished in the investigations available in the related sciences. Indeed, mere physical training does not include the whole scope of work in question. It is the emphasis of a preparation that will enable youth to live the most useful life, wdiich is needed in our day. The hygiene of living involves so much that a school course which does not impart a knowdedge of some of the fundamental law's involving nervous activities, often jeopardized in athletics, cannot be regarded as fulfilling its purpose.

Can this be denied in the face of what wTe see and hear in the contrasts of pure athletic competition—the uncouth and rude behavior, the slang witticisms as they re-echo, not only from our park commons, but also from our school halls? Are these accompaniments in concord w’ith the dignity of the school? Should not these clamorous outbursts make way for a richer enjoyment, the result of a rational procedure more in line w'ith the aims of educative pursuits? Form of character is ahvays the result of preceding causes. The concept of a strong character must be ideally, if not the immediate, the remote outcome of such training. If we can fill our athletic fields with the school youth at hand, through proper methods, should not the results outweigh by far the results now' advocated through our competitive methods?

—Oldest turnkrschaft. The “Hamburger Turnerschaft of 1810” celebrated its 90th anniversary on September 2nd.

Digitized by C^ooQle
SCHOOL HYGIENE ASSOCIATION of AMERICA.

A Report by REBECCA STONEROAD, Washington. D. C.

The first annual congress of the School Hygiene Association of America was held in Washington, D. C., May 6th and 7th, in the parlor of the Shoreham Hotel. Dr. Arthur Cabot of Boston presided, with Dr. Luther Gulick as secretary. Three sessions were held and four papers presented.

The audience was small, hut composed of men prominent as educators, physical trainig directors and physicians.

Dr. Ward Crampton, Asst. Director of Physical Training of New York City Public Schools, talked upon the subject of the “Physiological Age and its Influence on School Progress/’ The speaker had classified hoys entering the Commercial High School of New York into thre^ groups, namely, the prepubescent, pubescent and postpubescent, and brought out the close relation between scholarship and these physiological ages. Out of 38 prepubescent boys who entered the school three years ago 36 have dropped out. The other two may or may not graduate, but in his own experience the speaker had no record of a prepubescent pupil who had ever graduated. His conclusion was that our high school education is not fitted for this group of prepubescent boys and is adapted only to the postpubescent. He considered all the customary age groups and classifications of these years as fallacious, misleading and not particularly useful, and that henceforth we need to regard the physiological age as of prime importance. A growth age passed on actual age at these periods, he said, was ridiculous.

Dr. Meylan in the discussion stated that he had made a study of the appearance of wisdom teeth in relation to weight, height and scholarship and had come to the same conclusion as had Dr. Crampton, which is, that there is a close and definite correlation-between the physiological age, or state of development, and the weight, stature and degree of mental development. He found that those who get wfisdom teeth late in life are retarded in their mental development.

Dr. Lovett of Boston said that as an orthopedic surgeon he had found the chronological age classification unsatisfactory and was glad to knowr of this newr basis, one depending upon the stage of development.

The evening session was devoted to the subject of medical inspection of schools. Dr. Cronin, Chief Medical Inspector, Board of Health, New York City, gave a paper upon “Medical Examination in New York City Public Schools” which was illustrated by photographs taken before and after treatment. The common defects found were refractive errors of the eyes, inability to breathe properly on account of enlarged tonsils or adenoid growths, also nutritional disorders. All children reported as backward by the various teachers were examined and out of these 95 per cent, w'ere found to have physical defects. In penal and other institutions of a similar character practically all were found.defective.

Hon. George Martin, Secretary, Mass. State Board of Education,
-131-

being absent, his paper upon the “Medical Inspection of Schools in Massachusetts” was read hv another.

Dr. Lovett of Boston spoke upon “The Requirements of Proper School Furniture” and stated that of the 130 models of school furniture in use, these have have not been found satisfactory in practical results as seen in the schools. 05 per cent, of the school ehildlren in America are sitting in seats which form a part of the desk behind, 30 per cent, have separate chairs and desks, and ony a small percent have a carefully planned chair and desk, such as is found in Boston and parts of New England. 90 per cent, of all adjustable furniture is adjustable for height alone. The steady increase in spinal curvature from the low grades upward, advancing from 8 per cent, in the lower to 30 per cent, in the higher grades, is suggestive that there is some unfavorable influence at work> not necessarily the school furniture, but this is simply one of the many things we have to look after.

The spinal column of man was originally intended to have a horizontal support as found in the lower animals. Now the long axis must be held in a vertical position not adapted to carrying weight. The problem is to keep the spinal column free from distortion of structure in this position for which it was not constructed. He considered the prevention of fatigue as an important factor in preventing spinal curvature and advised frequent change of position and program. Short gymnastic periods are specially necessary, he said, and if it comes to a matter of choice, he would rather have exercise than good furniture.

After giving the well-known requirements of a desk and chair fitted to the child, the speaker talked specially of a desired improvement in the chair back. He referred to the usual school chair back as the kitchen chair type, which places the support of the back too high and induces a forward curve of the spine. It was thought that a chair back similar to that sold as a typewriter chair which supports the small of the back and which back support can be adjusted to the individual, would be desirable. The typewriter chair is used in the best establishments on account of the greatly diminished fatigue, resulting in the individual economy.

A school chair of such a plan, supporting the small of the back, this support being adjustable, is being made in Boston and gives better satisfaction than the old furniture, since it is more physiological. 22,000 of these chairs with desks adjustable in height, called the Boston School Desk and Chair, are found in the new schools. The backs fit three-fourths of the children. They can be furnished by the American School Furniture Company* but they cost more to make than the usual school furniture.

Discussion followed and was participated in by Dr. McKenzie, Dr. Burnham, Dr. Gulick and Dr. Brown.

Dr. McKenzie referred to the expense of adjustable furniture and also to the difficulty in adjustment. Dr. Elmer Brown, I\ S. Commissioner of Education, gave a hopeful view of the situation, comparing the present furniture with that of forty years ago, also American with

Digitized by CaOOQle
—132—

Eurpean furniture. He said that Americans are more responsive to the demand for improved furniture.

Dr. Gulick advocated, first, a few minutes of exercise between lessons, these exercises specially tending to strengthen the muscles of the hack; second, the training of teachers to be critical of bad positions on the part of the children and to correct these habitually assumed; third, the enforcement of gymnastic measures by which the spine is kept mobile; fourth, a modern curriculum which engages the body more and more and the doing away with the conventional notion that children must sit still in school, which is bad for both circulation and respiration.

At the business meeting it was decided to change the name of the association to the “American School Hygiene Association.”

An election of officers was held which resulted as follows:	Presi-

dent* l)r. Henry P. Walcott, Cambridge, Mass.; Vice-President, Dr. Arthur T. Cabot, Boston, Mass., and Secretary-Treasurer, Dr. Thomas A. Storey, New York City.

At the final meeting the following resolutions were passed:

First: Be it resolved, that in every city and town adequate provision should be made, both for sanitary inspection of schools and medical inspection, the latter to include not only inspection for contagious diseases, but also for eves, ears, teeth, throat and nose, and of general physical condition.

Second:	Be	it resolved, that all schools, having courses for the

training of teachers, should give instruction in personal and school hygiene, and the principles and practice of physical training, and that each of these subjects should he given as much time as the major subjects in the course.

Third:	Be	it resolved, that examinations for licenses to teach

should include questions upon these subjects and should be given equal weight with the answers to questions upon any other subjects.

The following persons were elected members of the Council:	For

one year, Theodore Roosevelt, Flmer E. Brown, Ph.D.; John A. Bergstrom, Ph.D.; Dr. John J. Cronin* Dr. Abraham Jacobi, William H. Maxwell, Dr. John H. Musser and Dr. Henry P. Walcott. For two two years. Dr. Charles Harrington, Calvin N. Kendall, George H. Martin, Dr. W. H. Burnham, Dr. J. H. M< Curdy, Earnest Carroll Moore, Edward L. Stevens and Edward D. Thorndike, Ph.D. For three years* Champe

S.	Andrews, Nicholas Murray Butler, Dr. A. T. Cabot, Dr. Luther H. Gulick, Clark W. Hetherington, Ph.D.; Dr. George L. Meylan, Dr. Thomas A. Storey and Dr. William H. Welch.

In connection with the program was printed a list of ninety-one well-known educators and others, who, it was stated, had been elected founders and signified their acceptance.—R. S.

—Gymnastic apparatus in the yards of tenement houses In Dresden and Vienna the owners of large tenement houses have been induced to place gymnastic apparatus in the yards for the use of the children of every house. The movement, which was started by the Society for Public Hygiene, is gaining in popularity in other cities.
-133-

/y\lND AND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

MY

Sobacription Price, 91.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

MilwaukM, Wlaconrtn.

W Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis

—MUCH ATTENTION has lately been given to the proper organization of juvenile play, and a national society has been organized to study the question thoroughly and take it in hand practically. The Civic League of Massachusetts has now come forward with a new idea on trie subject, an idea that has been favorably received in educational, philanthropic and social reform quarters of that state. It has found embodiment in a bill that is now before the legislature.

The bill provides for the placing of all playgrounds under the supervision of the school departments, the theory being that play is an^essen-tial and integral part of the education of the child and should be brought into harmony with the regular school work, each complementing the other.

At a hearing before the legislature teachers strongly advocated the bill. They declared that one can learn more about a child in half an hour playing games with him than during weeks of study, and, in general, that the relations between teachers and children will become closer and more fruitful morally when they meet regularly on the playground as well as in the classroom. The modern idea of education is that it is necesary to get at the whole child and leave no vital parts of him or her outside of its influence.

Many playgrounds have been established in Massachusetts, especially in Boston, at great cost, but it appears that they are rendered useless through lack of proper supervision and co-operation. The passage of the bill will insure the making of another interesting educational experiment in progressive and intellectually fertile Massachusetts.

This continued agitation has had the effect that legislators are beginning to discuss the feasibility of playgrounds in cities and towns. But the cry is, “we have no money to undertake such a movement and to carry it through successfully.” True, it does take money to establish, equip and maintain playgrounds. But the great mass of people have not, as yet, come to understand that the time to spend money is in the formative years of a child. . It is poor economy and worse pedagogy to deny to children what they need for physical and mental growth, and later to be forced to spend money ’or reformatories, hospitals, police and prisons. As we view it, it is not the spending of more money, but it is ;l.e spending of money at a time when it will do most good. At no time can attention be called more appropriately to the old saying “that pre-

Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St.f Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google
-134-

vention is better than cure” than in this whole discussion as to the cost of supervised playgrounds.

—IN THE LAST NUMBER of “Physical Training” we find the following article which will he of interest to our readers. We wish to call particular attention to the so-called “Extension Work” as a means of interesting parts of the community in physical training, which otherwise would never he reached.

”The past year has marked the greatest growth of any year in the history of the physical department of the Young Men’s Christian Association. The number of men participating in the physical training privileges was 153,473, an increase of more than 20,000 over last year During the past decade the membership in the gymnasium classes increased 100.000, an average of 10,000 a year. During this period of ten years the number of physical directors, who gave all their time to the work, increased from 240 to 384, an increase of 144, and the number of gvmnasiums from 512 to 568, a larger proportionate growth of physical directors than gymnasiums, which marks a growth in the efficiency of supervision.

These physical directors were assisted in the conduct of the physical work by 5,498 volunteer leaders, whose cooperation made possible the management of so many individuals.

The physical work, however, is not limited to the membership, but great advances have been made in relating the work to the communiU. For this extension work 271 leaders were furnished during the year, an increase of a hundred, who directed physical training work in churches settlements, boys’ clubs, deparment stores and public playgrounds, and thus provided physical recreation for thousands of persons of all classic, rich and poor, learned and illiterate, good and bad, of whom we have no statistical record. In a number of instances the associations have been the initiators of public playgroud and public bath movements. In severe! cities the physical directors have cooperated with the municipality in pro viding public recration for the masses. This is the larger and more profound work of the association.”

—REFERRING to the article on the Marathon Race in our May issue we want to call attention to the pictures and descriptions in the present issue of the winner of the race. Longboat, and of that other American winner of highest honors, Gould.

—WITH PROFESSOR FISHER showing that athletes who lire on a low proteid or on a flesh-abstaining diet have greater endurance than the “beef-eaters," and T)r. Anderson in his article on the “Longevity of Man,” proving that the popular idea “that eollege men who participate in the most strenuous sports are apt to die young" is erroneous, many of our accepted theories get quite a jolt.

—WE WISH to add our congratulations to the many sent to Dr. Dudley A. Sargent upon the completion of the twentyfifth year of his normal school. A quarter of a century's work devoted to the advancement of our profession is surely a record to be proud of. And nothing

Digitized by C^ooQle


speaks so convincingly of the unanimity of this conviction among the leaders and graduates of the different schools of physical training than the universal congratulations that were showered upon the honored leader in our cause.

—A SPECIAL CIRCULAR has been issued by Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York City, which contains the announcement of the Department of Physical Education and an address by Dr. Abraham Jacobi, entitled “The Prevention of Tuberculosis in School Children/’ This circular will be sent gratis on application to the Secretary of the Teachers' College.

SUMMER SCHOOLS FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION TEACHERS.

During the last month we have received the following announcements of Summer Schools:

LJ \RVARD UNIVERSITY, Cambridge, Mass., under the direction of Dr. D. A. Sargent.

YALE UNIVERSITY, New Haven, Conn., Dr. W. G. Anderson.

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY, New York, Dr. Luther II. Gulick. CHAUTAUQUA SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, Chautauqua, N. Y., Dr. J. W. Seaver.

YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION, Silver Bay at Lake George, N. Y., Dr. Geo. W. Fisher.

MONTEAGLE ASSEMBLY, Monteagle, Tenn., Clara G. Baer. NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, Chautauqua, N. J., W. A. Steelier, Secretary.

Surely, here is quite an array of good schools for our readers to select from. Physical, training is becoming increasingly scientific, and the teacher wrho expects to stay in the front ranks, or to come to the front, must at times make use of these agencies for special study. At no time during recent years has more clear and earnest thinking been done by the leaders in our profession so as to lie able to present the best methods and newest researches to students. Teachers who do not find time, or have not the money to spend in their own mental growth are usually the ones wrho are wondering why other people seem to be going from one success to another. It pays to be progressive and learn from others.

A PLAYGROUND NECESSITY.

Every successful teacher knows the value of good, live games. We want to call your attention to one of the best bonks on games, a book that will tell you all about games for little people as well as for older girls and boys. It is a playground necessity.

“200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games.” By Maria Grey. Price 70 cts. postpaid. Freidenkenker Publishing Co., Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-136-

THE STATE REFORMATORY AT ELMIRA, N. Y.

This institution has been doing such interesting work along original lines that we wish to call attention to the following extracts from the report of its Board of Managers. It will be remembered that it was here that, years ago. Dr. Wey conducted his experiments, showing that physical training (plain regulated gymnastics) had such a beneficial influence upon the mental condition of the inmates who took this work. There are so many good thoughts in this report that we feel certain that our readers will be glad to read the following, because as teachers (or parents) we are vitally interested in the methods of discipline, the building up of damaged characters as pursued by this large institution. We are equally certain that the solving of some of those “boy problems” will be made easier to some perturbed teacher or parent after reading of the successes of an institution handling thousands of such problems.

DISCIPLINE.

Webster defines discipline as:	“Education,	instruction,	cultivation

and improvement; comprehending instruction in arts, sciences, correct sentiments, morals and manners and due subordination to authority.”

He gives, as a secondary meaning: “chastisement; punishment intended to correct crimes and errors/'

When we use the word in connection with work of this institution, we usually have in mind the former significence.

From time to time, in the institution^ history, there have been changes in the character of the discipline and it may be appropriate for us to state specifically what reliance we place on “chastisement and punishment intended to correct crimes and errors” and to describe in detail the system now prevailing and the way it works. .

If the eleven hundred and seventy-seven new men we have received during the fiscal year had lived in the early days of our country and had committed the same crimes, they probably would not have been imprisoned. Instead of that some of them would have been hung, some would have had their ears cut off, others would have been branded with a red hot iron and the rest would have been consigned to the whipping post and the stocks which then adorned nearly every village green.

The fundamental principle of all such punishment was the infliction of physical pain. -

Later statutes were enacted with graded crimes according to their supposed enormity and for such kinds not made punishable with death, prescribed a certain definite period of imprisonment.

That the building of prisons did not at once do away with the use of various forms of torture as punitive measures is suggested bv the fact that as late as 1889, the legislature of New York deemed it necessary to sav “the punishments commonly known as the shower bath, crucifix and yoke and buck are hereby abolished in all the state prisons and penitentiaries of the state.

Though prisons, with or without the “yoke or buck,” were rec-

Digitized by C^ooQle
—137—

ognized as much more satisfactory than what had preceded them, it was felt that they still left much to be desired, from an economic standpoint, in that a large proportion of their graduates burdened the public by continuing to be criminals.

The Elmira Reformatory was started as an experiment to ascertain whether this defect in the^ system could be corrected. It differs from a prison in that the latter was originally intended to be a Penal institiu-tion, literally meaning a place where pain is inflicted, a place where the criminal is made to suffer a specific amount for a specific crime. Prevention of future crime may incidentally result, but that is of secondary importance. In the reformatory, on the other hand, prevention has always been the prime object and punishment the incident.

At first the reformatory was to all intents and purposes a place of punishment plus large opportunities for physical, mental and moral improvement. The idea that it was necessary to apply physical force to a prisoner and make him suffer did not easily die, and long after the idea of punishing him for the crime of which he had been convicted was given up, it was considered necessary to flog him or put him in irons for an institutional offense and it was not fully realized that most, if not all, the arguments against the whipping post and the stocks, outside the reformatory, apply with equal force against corresponding things within.

In the course of years, however, a gradual evolution has taken place and the word “punishment" has almost entirely dropped from the vocabulary of reformatory officials and the idea of it has largely faded from their minds.

The problem they have had to solve here was substantially this— there are committed to their care at one time upwards of fourteen hundred young men between the ages of sixteen and thirty, half of whom are the incorrigible graduates of other institutions. All of them have committed serious crimes. Many of them are the “hoodlum” product of great cities whose entire lives have been spent in defiance of law and order. As a class they are, in the very nature of things, the most troublesome persons that can be selected from the eight millions of population in the state of New York and they are at the most reckless period of their lives.

Some of them are sure to so seriously misbehave themselves as to interfere with the work of the whole population. They must be subdued. How can it be done?

Corporal punishment in various forms was defended on the ground that an institution could not be run without it. It was practiced here for many years and the faithfulness with which it was administered was supposed to be in part responsible for the great success of the reformatory work. Though the quality of prisoners has not improved—they come here just as desperate and depraved as ever—it has lately been discovered, by actual experiment, that even better work can be done with them without such punishment.

There has not been a case of flogging for over six years or of putting
-138-

in irons, in the way of punishment, for nearly three years, and during the past year there has been no form of corporal punishment whatever. It has simply gone quietly out of use, no apparent necessity for it having trisen.

We believe that the product of the present system is superior to the product of the old in about the same proportion that a horse trained by a Rarey is better than one “broken” by a co\*boy.

What actually happens is this—the sullen, rebellious prisoner, looking for trouble, who enters the institution, finds himself in a quiet, busy and well ordered community, every member of which seems to be behaving himself. One of his first experiences is introduction into the military organization where he gets physical exercise of a kind and quantity to dispose of all his superfluous energy, and, as a rule, speedily comes to realize that he is a very small part of a veyy large machine, and that it requires a bold man, when a thousand others are inarching a certain way, to attempt to go in a different direction. This gets him into a proper frame of mind for undertaking his other work, and in most cases, after a few attempts at independence, he submits to going along with the current, and there is no trouble whatever with him from a disciplinary point of view.

In the last year only about 22 per cent, were subjects in any way for disciplinary measures.

As we have explained in previous reports, the population is divided into three grades. A newcomer enters the second grade, from which by good reports he may advance to the first and by bad records fall back to the third. His record is made up of three kinds of monthly markings, viz: “Trade,” “School of Letters” and “Demeanor”. The last mentioned covers his every action not included in the other two.

In trade and school great care is taken not to give him tasks beyond his physical and mental capacity and equal care to make tasks such as to call forth the best work that is in him.

Failure to attain a certain per cent, in trade and school and demeanor makes a month imperfect and only perfect months count for advancement.

Six perfect months in the second grade entitle him to advancement to the first grade and six perfect months in the first grade make him eligible to be considered for parole.

Two imperfect months in succession make him liable to reduction to the grade below* and one serious demeanor offense may cause reduction even from the first to the third grade. After reduction the climb upwards begins over again.

Disciplinary questions, in the sense we are now* discussing discipline, arise in connection with the demeanor record.

Each citizen officer in the place carries printed slips.

If he observes any misconduct or if a report of misconduct, which he believes w ell founded, is made to him by an inmate officer, he checks the offense on the proper slip and adds an explanation below. A duplicate is
139-

given to the offender and the original is sent to the disciplinary officer as a “First Class Report” or “Second Class Report” as the case may be.

If the report is first class, the accused is at once arrested and taken to the guard house where he remains pending the investigation and disposition of the disciplinary officer. This may be only a few hours, it is never more than a few days.

Second class reports are investigated without a preliminary arrest. A regular trial is given on all first class reports. The statement of the accused is taken down in writing as is also the testimony against him and any that is available in his favor. Then the disciplinary officer disposes of the matter by discharging the prisoner or imposing a fine. A single first class report sustained by the disciplinary officer or four second class reports make a month imperfect.

An appeal lies to the superintendent and from him to the Board of Managers.

The superintendent decides whether the offense is serious enough to cause an immediate reduction in grade. Nothing is done arbitrarily or hastily.

Neither time nor trouble is spared to make these investigations thorough and impartial. The accused has as nearly an absolutely “square deal” as the wisdom of the officials involved enables them to bring about, and if the result is that he spends a month or more extra time in the institution his fellows know it is just, even if he does not admit it himself.

Many of these reports would seem rather trivial to anyone outside the institution. Nothing of the kind is of slight importance there, for in the little world in which these persons live, the rules of the institution take the place of the supreme law of the land. By teaching them to obey these rules, without question, implicitly and habitually, without regard to whether they deem them important or unimportant, reasonable or unreasonable, they are trained to obey the laws of the state when they get outside.

The number of first class reports only averaged seven a day in an average population of fourteen hundred and fifty-three. This means that only one-half of one per cent, of the population did anything serious enough to send them to the guard house. Hardly enough to be appreciated in the general life of the place.

Those in the first and second grades are indiscriminately engaged in the military trades school, school of letters and the other activities of the institution. The third grade, however, is confined in a wing shut off by itself. When a prisoner drops into the third grade he disappears entirely from the sight of the general population, and thus ceases to exert a contaminating influence by his example. His cell is not inferior to the one he occupied before. His food, served in his cell, is the same as that supplied to the second grade. He has no society, however, but that of his own kind and nothing to do but scrub the floor, darn socks and repair, clothes. There is an abundanece of this occupation. Thirty days of perfect behavior secures his release and restoration to the bottom of the second grade. Thirty days is enough for the most of them and they

Digitized by
emerge much subdued in spirit with a new appreciation of the enjoyment to be derived from participation in the general work of the institution.

Reductions to the third grade averaged less than one day and over 90 per cent, of those reduced got out again in the minimum time.

The quarantining of the third grade, instituted on the advent of the present superintendent, has exerted a more beneficial influence on the moral health of the institution than any other innovation of recent years.

There is still a lower depth to which a prisoner can go. The most serious class of offenses, like assaults or attempts to escape, or misbehavior in the third grade, are dealt with in a summary manner by solitary confinement in the ‘•seclusion” cells.

Out of twent-five hundred and ninety different prisoners, who were in the reformatory during the year, only forty found out where the seclusion cells were. Of these only one went there more than once. Seventeen of the forty had committed assaults and five had attempted to escape. The others were committed for minor offenses. Two remained less than one day, eight for one day and five for two days. Only one remained over twelve days.

These cells were not dark in the ordinary prison sense and their occupants were not put in irons.

With an average of nearly 78 per cent, perfect in demeanor, with first class reports averaging only seven a day, third grade reductions less than one a day and commitments to seclusion less than one a week and with the immediate removal of all serious offenders from the general population, the reformatory as a whole has been so quiet and orderly that the punitive kind of discipline was so nearly out of sight and out of mind that both officers and prisoners have been free to devote almost exclusive attention to the other kind of discipline—“instruction in arts, sciences, correct sentiments, morals and manners and due subordination to authority,” with resultant “education, cultivation and improvement” of a most gratifying character.

The underlying principle of this system is very simple. Neither men nor lower animals can live together in large numbers unless, for the good of the whole, certain restraints are put on the individual. This is the law of the pack and of the herd and of the the civilized community. If any particular individual is unsocial in his practices and will not submit to these laws, the pack or the herd or the community must, in self-defense, exclude him. A community of men cannot live together unless each individual respects the person and property of the others. Those sent to Elmira have not done so—they have stolen or committed assaults, so they are excluded from their fellows for an indefinite period till they can learn to live as others do. Reformatory officials are employed to teach them this.

The reformatory community is a smaller one than the world outside and has its own code of laws much simpler than the penal code, but the underlying principle is still the same.

The prisoner on his introduction is made to understand why he has

Digitized by CjOOQle
—141—

to be there and that the only way he can return to free life is by showing such ability to live orderly, peaceably and honestly under institutional restraints, as to render it probable that he will hereafter live orderly, peaceably and honestly, without them, and that, if he fails to submit to the laws that govern the general reformatory population, by an application of the same principle that brought him there, he will be segregated still further, with the possibility, as a final result, of having to live entirely alone.

His subsequent instruction and training has this one end in view— to teach him how to live with other men.

This, in brief, is the present disciplinary system. We believe it a good one like all systems only successful when wisely administered. Good men can do better work with a poor system than inferior men with a good system. This is peculiarly so in a reformatory where personal influence counts so much.

If we were asked to mention the three things that we deem most essential in the management of a reformatory to which men come under an indeterminate sentence, we would put it something like this:

(a)	Proper grading; keeping those of a kind together and carrying the principle of segregation to its logical conclusion.

(b)	Keeping the fact of the existence and the treatment of institutional offenses out of the minds of those not guilty of them. The great trouble with the ordinary criminal is that he is more readily influenced by the suggestion of bad conduct than by that of good conduct.

(c)	Having fair minded and even tempered officers who themselves live the kind of clean and self-controlled lives that is desired that the prisoner should attain to.

TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE SARGENT NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Amid much good cheer and enthusiasm the Sargent Normal School for Physical Education at Cambridge, Mass., celebrated during the days of May 30th, 31st and June 1st the completion of 25 years of successful existence, steady expansion and ever growing activity for the cause of Physical Education.

The graduates had come in large numbers from all parts of the country to do honor to their alma-mater and the founder of the school, Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent.

The program of the celebration was as follows:

Thursday, May 30th: Opening at the School, 9 a. m.; Regular School Session, 9 to 11 a. m.; Reception to Graduates and Delegates from Other Schools, 2 to 4 p. m.; Exhibition of Swimming, 4 p. m.; Demonstration of School and College Gymnastics; Practice Classes of Children Directed by Seniors; Special Class of Harvard Students ; Harvard Gymnastic Team, Hemenway Gymnasium, 7:30 p. m.

Friday, May 31st: Field Day Exercises. Norton’s Field, 10 a. m ; Normal School Gymnastic Exhibition. Hemenway Gymnasium, 6 p. m.

Saturday, June 1st: Graduating Exercises, Saunders Theater, 9:30 a. m.; Address by Prof. Josiah Royce, Harvard University, “Some Ethical Aspects of Physical Education;” “Brief Review of Physical Education in America, Dr. D. A. Sargent; Alumni Banquet, Hotel Brunswick, Boston, 7 p. m.

Digitized by Google
The demonstration of Thursday evening was chiefly intended to show how well the graduating young women and men had mastered the art of teaching.

Practice classes of both sexes from the earliest school to the high school age were led through free exercises, apparatus work and games, best suited to the various ages. All the exercises and drills executed by these classes were arranged by the respective leaders and gave proof of the latter’s easy mastery of proper progression and logical arrangement of the exercise material.

The Harvard Gymnastic Team and a special class of Harvard students gave a splendid demonstration of highly advanced apparatus work and tumbling, while a bar-vaulting competition and a beautiful aesthetic dance by the seniors of the Normal School with song accompaniment by the school’s glee club lent further variety and interest to the program.

The field day exercises on Friday forenoon consisted of 50 yard Dash, Throwing Baseball, Cross-Ball, Putting the Shot, Throwing Hurl Ball, Running High Jump, Hurl Ball Game and Relay Race, and demonstrated that young women may and do practice many of the athletic forms of their brothers with perfect propriety and great gain of health, strength and recreation.

In contrast to the demonstration of the evening before, when the seniors were showing their ability as teachers, the normal classes on Friday under their instructors gave an illustration of gymnastic proficiency in an elaborate program of wide diversity. One of the numbers, the mass apparatus work, brought out the full strength of the school, some 125 in number. Many of the girls, the seniors of course predominating, proved themselves clever gymnasts.

The graduating exercises at Saunder’s Theater were owing to the presence of so many of the alumni,the festive quarter centennial atmosphere and the presentation of valuable gifts, more than usually impressive. Professor Royce’s masterful address on “Some Ethical Aspects of Physical Education” was of an inspiring and elevating character, and Dr. Sargent’s “Brief Review of Physical Education in America” was also heard and received with great satisfaction, as were the numbers contributed by the Sargent Glee Club.

The good will and loving attachment toward the school found appropriate expression in a gift by the graduating class of a valuable addition to the school library and especially so in the presentation of a bronze medallion bust of Dr. Sargent by Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick in behalf of the alumni of the school. The bust is the artistis work of Dr. Robert Tait McKenzie of the University of Pennsylvania. After this pleasant incident and a short reply by Dr. Sargent the latter announced that in commemoration of the anniversary honorary diplomas of the school had been awarded to the following persons in recognition of their valuable sendee to the cause of physical education in America:

Luther Halsey Gulick, M. D.	Robert Tait McKenzie, A. M., M. D.

Frank Nathaniel Whittier, A. M., M. D. Hartvig Nissen.

Geo. Louis Meylan, B. S.. A. M., M. D. Francis Dohs.

Christian Bberhard.	William A. Stecher.
-143-

Carl Ludwig Schrader.

Pierson S. Page, M. D.

George Wells Fitz, M. D.

Edward Burton DeGroot.

Fred Eugene Leonard, A. M.t M. D.

Janies Huff McCurdy, M. D.

James Gray Lathrop.

Thomas Denison Wood, A. B., A. M., M.D. Mary Rees Mulliner, M. D.

Melvin Ballou Gilbert.

The awarding of the diplomas to the 28 graduates completed the morning’s memorable exercises.

The alumni banquet in the evening at the Hotel Brunswick was in every way joyous and highly successful. Dr. Gulick made a capital toastmaster, eloquent, witty and ever ready to draw out the best that the large numbers of speakers could contribute. Dr. Sargent was, of course, the central figure of the occasion and the recipient of felicitations from all sides.

A number of congratulatory telegrams were received and read, among them one from the Executive Boar of the North American Gym-emoug them one from the Executive Board of the North American Gymnastic Union and another from the Society of Teachers of the N.A.G.U.

This anniversary celebration, which awoke many gladsome reminiscences and during which it was so plainly demonstrated that ours is a profession of great benefit to humanity and of infinitely sanguine promises for the future, will long be pleasantly remembered by all who participated in it.—E.

INDOOR MEETS

AT THE TEACHERS’ COLLEGE AND AT THE YEATMAN HIGH

SCHOOL, ST. LOUIS.

The Athletic Association of the Teachers’ College held its Second Annual Indoor Meet Wednesday, May 8th. 25 per cent, of the members enrolled took part in the contests. The program was as follows:

Part I.

1.	Spring Song. Mandolin Club.

2.	Standing Broad Jump.

3.	Standing High Jump.

4.	Running Broad Jump.

5.	Solo: Four Leaf Clover. Mi68 Walters.

6.	Running High Jump.

7.	Pole Climbing.

8.	Solo: Wishes. Miss Scholz.

Part II.

9.	Hop, Skip and Jump.

10.	35 Yard Dash.

11.	Senior—Junior Relay Race.

The program opened with a short address by the principal of the college. Dr. J. W. Withers. He spoke of the time when the womanly ideal suggested a weak , rather lifeless, individual in strong contrast with the alert, competent looking young woman found today in the gymna-

Digitized by CaOOQle
sium. He made a strong point of the fact that in his observations of the students in training he noticed that those who had entered into the physical work with spirit, doing it in good form, were the very ones who were doing that kind of work in the other departments.

At the close of the afternoon it was remarked that those making the records were students in particularly good standing in all their classes.

RECORD OF EVENTS.

Standing Broad Jump. 6 ft. 5 in. Miss Yockey. (Last year 5 ft. 11 in.) Standing High Jump. 39 in. Miss Yockey. (Last year 34 in.)

Running Broad Jump. 9 ft. 11^> in. Miss Somerlad. (Last year 8 ft. 9 in.)

Running High Jump. 451/2 in. Miss Torbert. (Last year 40 in.)

Pole Climbing, 12 ft. 5 seconds. Miss Mann. (Last year same.)

Hop, Skip and Jump. 23 ft. 2 in. Miss Many. * (Last year 24 ft.)

35 Yard Dash. 5 seconds. Miss Yokey and Miss McKay, tied.

Relay Race, 245 yards. Seven Seniors ran in 58 seconds.

Referee:	Miss	Mary	A.	Smith,	Director of Physical Training for

Girls, Yeatman High School.

Judges: Miss Virginia Winn, Ex-President, T. C. Athletic Ass’n., Miss Kuemmel.

The Girls of the Yeatman High School, St. Louis, held their Second Annual Athletic Meet on Thursday afternoon, May 2nd. The events and records were as follows:

I.	Standing Broad Jump. R. Mallon, 6 ft. 7 in. (Last year’s record 6 ft. 1 in.)

II.	Running Broad Jump. M. Maunder, 11 ft. 6V& in. (Last year’s record 9 ft. 11V& in.)

III.	Standing High Jump. M. Koons, 41 in. (Last year’s record

.35 in.)

IV.	Running High Jump. E. Giessow, 49Vfc in. (Last year’s record

47 in.)

V.	Hop, Skip and Jump. N. Hardin, 24 ft. 2% in. (Last year’s record 26 ft. 7 in.)

IV.	Pole Climbing. R. Gunlach, 14 ft. in 6% seconds. (Last year’s records 14 ft. in 5% seconds.)

VII. Shot Put. E. Giesson, 23 ft. 1114 in. (No record last year.) VIII. Relay Race between second and third year girls. Won by third year.

Referee: W. N. Fulley, Yeatman High School.

Judges: Miss Bethe and Miss Many, Students in Teachers’ College, St. Louis.

RANDOM THOUGHTS.

Some of our best thoughts come to us when we are at peace with ourselves. They, ofttimes, linger with us beyond the hours of waking, throughout the stillness of our slumbers.
-145-

We 'sleep it over—whatever it may have may been that has for the time stirred us.

Sometimes these processes hear fruition, they are nursed into realizations.

More frequently, however, the latent powers within us, so suggestive at times, are left without expression. We do not really live in the iealities of our momentary flights.

‘The poets alone express the things we fail to recall.’

TOM LONGBOAT, THE INDIAN, AND JAY GOULD, THE MILLIONAIRE.

Jay Gould and Tom Longboat, the athlete of education, the athlete of nature.

The one is a product of wealth, of brainy endeavor and of careful training. The other is the running machine of the Onondagas, the slim legged Indian who carried off the Marathon race in Boston in April and smashed all world records for 25 miles, in spite of sleet and cold and crowded course without visible strain.

The one is heir to millions, a man of culture, of education, of high intelligence. The other is an Indian from toe-nail to top-knot, poor,

i-rterate, of an intelligence so low that he is treated by his trainers as nothing more than a running-machine. Yet these two opposite typos have something in common—they are each at the top of their class in the world of sport, they each have grit and staying power and fight instinct.

When Gould battled for the amateur court tennis championship of the world in England last month, he put into practice the lessons of years vi careful training at the hands of experts. He employed all the generalship that a naturally bright mind, aided by skilful teaching in the game, could summon up. Little more than a boy, for Jay Gould is only 18 years old, he shows in his game the restless energy that his grandfather siiowecl in another field of endeavor. He shows the same generalship, albeit a more sportsman-like generalship, and the same tenacity and unswerving purpose.

“Gould is a .bit of sheer whalebone.” said Eustace "Miles, the great English amateur. “I can testify that it is simply awful to play against him, he is so restless.

“Yet nobody could wish a more courteous opponent. His chief strength lies in his service and also in his skill of hitting the ball into the winning gallery. His other strokes are very sure. Playing against him is like playing against a relentless machine.”

This bit of sheer whalebone is the son of George Gould, financier and railway magnate, who inherited the greater part of famous Jay Gould's hoard. He is about 5 ft. 10 in. in height, a clean cut, manly chap; of lithe and active figure, and polo and many other >ports have contributed to make him the athlete he is. It goes without saying that his multi-millionaire father is an anient backer of all his athletic activities.

Digitized by VjOOQLe
-146-

JAY GOULD.	TOM	LONGBOAT

Jay Gould learned the game of court tennis and was trained in its niceties in the tennis court that forms the most important part of the magnificent gymnasium at Georgian Court, Lakewood, X. J., his father s country home. With every facility that wealth could procure, it is small wonder that he soon became piofieient. lint when he evinced a desire to heroine better than a good average amateur, his father was delighted and fell in with the idea heart and soul.

Instructors were engaged for the hoy, some of the best in the world,

by Google
-147-

and large sums were spent in young Jay's tennis edneat ion. One of the 'instructors who had a hand in moulding Jay Gould's tennis form received

0.000 a year. When he goes abroad to play. Gould engages a gymnasium in France for his training—expense no obstacle.

Yet wealth, and facilities that wealth can bring, would have been useless, had not the material of which champion* are made been there. Gould possessed all the requirements of mind and body and spirit necessary to make a champion of him: it needed only skilful handling end careful practice to develop these qualities.

One of the best known of English critics says of Jay Gould:

“I believe Mr. Gould to be the most remarkable amateur tennis player since Alfred Lyttleton came to Lords, a few years after leaving Cambridge, and beat J. H. Heatheote. For so young a player, Mr. Gould is almost unique. His great reach, his quick eye, and his keen realization of the value of playing for a winning opening make a profound impression.'’

And what about the Indian, him they call a running-machine? That's what he is, nothing more. Tom Longboat can run 25 miles faster ihan any man living, but he cannot converse intelligently in English, he could not write a letter, he is a man of as primitive ideas as any of the red-skinned braves whose blood courses through his veins.

He is a physical phenomenon, this Indian. He does not know how to run—that is to say, he has no ‘‘form" or finish, he knows none of the arts by which trained runners save themselves and gain speed. Yet he chopped off practically five minutes from the world's record for 25 miles and finished with a broad smile and many bows toward the crowds of fair spectators who applauded. That was through sheer inability to feel farigue.

Those who witnessed the start of the great race on April 19 were amazed to see how Longboat began his long journey. He ran flat-footed. He twisted his body. He carried his arms like a sprinter going for a hundred-yard record.

So it went for eight miles, and the Indian was well in the lead. Then those who followed him in motor cars and on bicycles saw a change take place. The Indian appeared to he awakening to an enjoyment of the nm. He got off his heels and came up on his toes, running lightly. Yet he stayed with the rank and file for nearly 16 miles. Then he turned to his manager, who was beside him in a car.

“How far?” he grunted.

“About 10 miles more. Hit 'er up and shake 'em,” said the manager.

So Tom left the crowd. Such running had never been seen before. The last mile of 25 miles, some of it uphill, was done in 4 m. 46 sec.y not so far off the world’s record for the flat mile.

“You beat the record five minutes,'’ the Indian was told afterward in the hotel.

He shrugged his shoulders indifferently. Then he was told the time he made.

“Fast?” he queried in guttural tones.

“Very fast. Were you running hard, Tom?”

Digitized by CjOOQle
-Hs-

Longboat humped his schoulders and shook his head.

“No. Too many teams,” he said laconically.

He is never allowed to run without a manager being near in some sort of vehicle. For, the story goes, that in one race in which he engaged, and in which he ran alone, Longboat’s manager, summoned hurriedly, found the runner engaged in conversation with some lady spectators. The Indian had to make up over a mile to win, but he did it in one of his marvelous bursts of speed.

There are not a few who claim that Longboat does not particularly realize what distance he is running, and that it is all the same to him whether he runs 10 miles or 50 miles. Lean, rather awkward, with only average development of leg muscles and of chest, there is nothing about Longboat’s physique to suggest the phenomenon. Probably his strength lies in his respiratory organs, for he has never yet been known to tire and always finished almost as strong as when he began the run.

“Give Longboat a clear course for 25 miles, good weather conditions and something to spur him to his utmost, and what could he do the distance in?” his manager was asked.

The latter shook his head. It would be impossible to say. But he would make all existing records look “sick,” and would probably establish figures that would never be beaten.

In all the races in which he has engaged, Longboat has never been “extended.” He will insist on turning his head from side to side and watching things along the course with the liveliest personal interest. If a !adv waves at him, he understands, grins and waves a hand in acknowledgment. It is estimated that he usually loses several minutes by taking notice of things beside the route in his long races.

The Canadian people are raising a fund to educate Longboat in acknowlegment of his Marathon win. It may be that in educating him, they will spoil the running-machine.

“Longboat is more like a machine than a man,” said a sportsman who has watched him in many races. “It is a good deal like winding up a clock. You tell Longboat to run a certain distance in a certain time, and to keep just so far ahead of the others, and he will do it to the leiter.”

But how would this type of athlete compare in a trial with the Gould Cvpe, the athlete who combines physical fitness with mental alertness, who is the highest type of athlete?

In a trial of sheer endurance the Indian type would win. Not because of greater pluck,-but because he possesses something of the capacity to withstand fatigue shown bv the lower animals. If such a man were educated, if his mind were brought up to the standard wrhere the nerves would have full play in the competition with others, where he would think and worry as he ran along, it is probable that his endurance would be seriously impaired.

There is much the Indian could be taught in the way of running h) as to save himself—for instance, he chops his stride badly. But even that might change Longboat's whole capacity. He is a marvelous run-

Digitized by C.ooQle
-14'.)

i ing-machine as he is now, and any attempt to improve or alter his own natural methods might only result in spoiling the machine.

In any trial of skill or speed requiring alertness, brain work, the sudden application of all the athlete's powers, the Gould type of man would le vastly superior to the Longboat athlete. Nervous energy would be drawn upon, the quick response of body to the will of the mind would land the higher type of man a victor. But in any event where stolid patience, and ability to stand gruelling punishment without appearing to feel it were required, the Longboat type of athlete would be found invincible.

Gould lives amid the surroundings which only great wealth can procure. Longboat pounds nails with a hammer in a box factory in Toronto, Can. He knows enough not to hit his thumb.

Gould has acquired the persistence his grad father had to such a marked extent. Longboat has the endurance which his copper-skinned forefathers possessed. Each is a striking example of the transmission of characteristics. Each is about as near perfection in his own branch as luimanity can approach.—Boston Herald.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

fContinuedO

R CLASS DRILL, class work on the apparatus and close with the game “Rider (Mount) Ball.” As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

After taking wands, line up and face front. Count off to fours. Fours Vi wheel r., open order to the 1. by marching forw. to two steps distance.

WAND DRILL.

1.	a) Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1 ! Toe-touch sidew. 1. and move wand sidew. 1.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r- 5, 8! b) Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. 1.—*1 ! Cross-toe-touch backw. 1. and move wand sidew. r. to high diagonal pos—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.,—5, 8!

2.	a) Stride pos. forw. 1. and place wand on shoulders—1! Raise heels and stretch arms upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5,8! b) Stride pos. backw. 1. and place wand on shoulders—1! Kneel on 1. knee and stretch arms forw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

3.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise wand overh.—1! Bend trunk forw. and lower ^and behind shoulders—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

4.	a) Lunge forw. 1. and raise wand upw. 1., r. hand in front of 1. shoulder—1! Change knee-bending (extend 1. and bend r. knee), move wand downw. and backw. on r. side, circle upw. to, then lower 1. hand under r. shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4!

b) Lunge sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. r. to high diagonal pos. (1. arm upw., r. arm sidew.)—11 Change knee-bending, move wand sidew. upw. obi. to 1., downw., then overh. and lower

Digitized by VaOOQle
-150-

obl. behind shoulders (1. arm sidew. downw. obi. and r. hand over r. shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

In place rest ! Pos.—stand !

5.	Jump to cross stride pos. (1. foot forw., r. backw.), and raise wand forw.—1! Bend trunk backw., move wand in front of shoulders, bend 1. forearm over r.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—5,8!

6.	Raise 1. leg backw. and wand overh.—1! Lower wand forw. and step over with 1. leg—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

7.	Bend trunk sidew. 1. and raise wand upw. r., 1. hand in front of r. shoulder— 1! Pos.—2! Same opposite—3! Pos.—4!

8.	a) Stationary run with raising lower legs backw. alt. 24 to 32

counts.

b) As a, but with extended legs forw., and hold the wand in various positions 6 to 8 counts each (or with as many steps).

9. Raise wand overh.—1 ! Lower behind hips—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat 8 times.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale deeplv and raise wand slowly overh. in four counts; exhale slowly and lower wand forw. to starting pos. in four counts. Repeat 6 or 8 times.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry !

Close ranks and return in reverse order to front formation ; face toward leader; march forw. and deposit wands.

APPARATUS WORK.

Flying Rings (height of chest).

Three or four pairs.

Class formation.—Form three or four files of six to eight or ten members, each at a fair distance from and facing the rings in fiank order.

Marching order.—Members leave head of files to approach the apparatus and return on 1. or r. side of the resp. files and form in the rear of the same. All move forw. one step with each succession.

In front side stand, grasp both rings.—

1.	Jump forw. to front hang stand, bend both arms, extend 1. arm forw., bend 1. arm, extend r. arm forw., bend r. arm, extend arms, jump backw. to starting pos. Repeat once.

2.	Jump sidew. 1. to side hang stand, bend arms and immediately extend 1. arm sidew. (r. arm supporting the weight on the ring), bend 1. arm, then extend both arms, i. e. the trunk lowers to hang stand, the arms naturally extending, jump to starting pos. Repeat on r. side. Repeat 1. and r.

3.	Jump to back hang stand, bend arms and extend them sidew., bend arms and lower to hang stand, jump to starting pos.

4.	Lower backw. to hang stand and circle trunk r. four or five times. Same opposite.

Rings height of the head.—

5.	Jump to bent arm hang, extend 1. arm upw., bend 1. arm, down. Repeat r. Repeat 1. and r.

G. Vi turn backw. and flex thighs over trunk, lower 1. leg on 1. wrist and r. leg forw. to knee hang, release grasp of 1. hand, simulta-
—151—

neously lower both legs and regrasp the ring to bent arm hang, down. Repeat r.

7.	As ex. 6, bat instead of resting in the knee hang pos., cut 1. leg under 1. hand, etc.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Pull the rings up and out of the way. Place two horses for side jump at the head of the class.

Side Horse (two, height of chest).

Companion exercises. The members exercising on the neck place r. hand on 1. pommel and 1. hand on the neck, those on the croup place 1. hand on r. pommel and r. hand on croup. The legs on the side toward partner to be termed “inner”, the others “outer”.

Approach in the same manner as for the exercises on the rings, but retreat on the outside of the double files, etc.

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump with Vi turn outw. to cross-seat on inner thighs, circle inner leg over the end (neck, croup) to cross riding (straddle) seat; straddle dismount forw.

2.	Jump with Vi turn invv. to cross seat on outer thigh (partners face each other), circle outer leg over the saddle to cross riding seat, straddle dismouut backw.

3.	Jump with V2 turn invv., the outer hand to be placed on the pommel, the other hand on the neck or croup resp. to back side rest, those on the neck V2 circle backw. with r. leg and those on the croup V2 circle backw. with 1. leg to side riding rest on front thigh, dismount sidew. with Vi turn to front cross stand.

4.	Grasp and mount similar as in ex. 3, but screw mount backw. (% turn) to straddle, facing outw., hands on pommels and front scissors, straddle dismount backw.

5.	Jump to front rest, V2 circle ,toward outside and forw. with the inner leg to side riding rest, then dismount sidew. with Vi turn inw. to front cross stand, rear vault to farther side.

6.	Flank vault forw.

7.	Front vault forw.

8.	An exercise free for all, one at a time on either horse.

NOTE.—After all have had a trial at an exercise the members are to change places in order to execute each exercise on the opposite side, too, then return to former place in the files.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for -‘Rider (Mount) Ball.” After conclusion of the game reform the class in simple flank order. All raise r. lower leg backw., place 1. hand on front neighbor’s 1. shoulder and grasp his r. ankle with the r. hand. All hop forw. on 1. leg, say, about 16 hops. Change to opposite pos. and continue hopping until the line breaks, then dismiss.

For some time the writer of the practical work intended to explain the reason for not adding one or the other variety of jumping more frequent than has occurred thus far. The reason for not doing so was that every physical director ought to know the true value of jumping and could add it without assigning that variety of the work more often to the lessons above referred to. On the other hand, he believed that it would be more agreeable to the majority to get hold of as much apparatus work as possible, because that is not so easily obtained.—R. N.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-152-

—/I noted physiologist recently said: “Tim school is a public institution. The extent or breadth of its function is not to be restricted by the adoption of so-called ‘norms/ nor by theoretical dickerings of little or no import—it is a matter of public opinion, related to and expressive of the age affected.”

Xo one scanning the horizon can maintain that the schools are giving the care and attention to the physical welfare of their wards, so essential to the best citizenship. Still, the laws of right living, the care of health, the habituation to energy promoting and conserving practices as obtained through regulated body culture, have never before been so generally discussed as in our day.

THE GEISEL EXERCISER.

Entirely new, simple construction, durable and finished in full nickel. Adopted to home or gymnasium. Used by classes of the Springfield and Springdale, Mass., Turnvereins. Send for tree illustrated booklet.

THEODOR R. GEISEL,	SPRINGFIELD,	MASS.



POST GRADUATE COURSE

= - - - -	for	-

TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING

Chautauqua, N. Y,, July 8-20.

The NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION announces a post-graduate course open to all teachers of physical training. The practical work will consist of elementary and advanced Gilbert Dancing, of Foil Fencing and of Gymnastic Games. The lectures will be on subjects intimately related to physical training. Tuition fee:	For members of

the Union $10.00, for non-members $20.00.

A circular, containing additional information, will be mailed by add reusing

WILLIAM A. STECHER, Secretary 1*20 Pomona Street,

GERMANTOWN, PH1LA., PA.

Digitized by C.ooQle