MIND AND BODY

DECEMBER, 1907.

Yol. 14.

No 164

Eoitomal Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY,'Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD. Boo*on Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pg.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STF.CHER, tao Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All bust new letters and payments to the Freidenkcr Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wts

WHAT IS A CHILD?

By G STANLEY HALL, President of Clark University.

What is a child? Dozens of new journals and societies in many lands and tongues, scores of professorships, and thousands af learned articles are now trying to answer this question. Not only science, but parenthood, education, and philanthropy eagerly await every result. Wedlock, birth rate, infant disease, and mortality, milk supply, homes, schools, playgrounds, child labor, juvenile court, adolescence, sex development, age of consent, and many other new centers of interest are bound up with the new paedology, or child study. What then, in plain untechnical language, is the child in the light of all these erudite investigations?

First, the child is neither a depraved candidate for Hell conceived in sin as the Calviuists taught, nor, on the other hand, is he a little divinity “trailing clouds of glory” direct from Heaven, all pure and good at first, as Wordsworth and Rousseau taught. Again, children are not so desirable as to be welcomed in unlimited numbers regardless of their ancestry, like the spawn of the Jukes, the tribe of Ishmael, the Kerangels, and other degenerate, pauper, criminal, or semi-idiotic stirps. Nor, on the other hand, are they to be artificially prevented nor neglected by mothers who prefer society to the nursery and cultivate practical sterility.

For one thing, a child is the key to the entire history of life on this globe. I protest against the gross and oft quoted extravaganza of the poet who said that if he knew the flower in the crannied wall completely, he would know’ all about God and man. But it is true that if we knew the child and the meaning of all that its developmental stages can teach u§, we should know’ pretty much the whole cosmos.

Do you ask why or how? I reply because from the time before birth w’hen the child is a single cell, up to the full maturity of the man and woman, almost the entire history of life on earth has been repeated in you and me and everyone. The child comes very near being a plant, then an ascula, then a fish, then a quadruped, then an ape, running through these and the many intermediate stages of man’s evolution. The

Digitized by CjOOQle
-274-

earliest of these stages are passed most rapidly; so that we live through thousands of years of race history' in a day, for the stages are telescoped together, some of the longest of them flashing only for a moment in a single act of expression. This is what we mean when we call the child the microcosm, or a little cosmos. At one stage, the Jjuman embryo has pretty well developed gill slits, and then is repeating the aquatic stage of their development. Then its entire body is covered with hair and a tail is grown, and this is the ape stage.

Thus, the infant even before birth is a palimpsest written over and over with superposed records of its past, or better, it is a big bunch of keys large and small to unlock the past when we know how to fit each and turn it in its appropriate lock. Some of the keys, however, are rusted and misshapen and have to be restored, and and some of the locks rusty, and others not yet found; but everything exists, and very much is being done to restore, decipher, and fit everything to its place.

Thus the child is geologic ages older than man. Adult traits of body and soul are novelties later added, new and often less substantial stories built upon ancient foundations. Hence, the child is not so much the father of the man, but his very remote primitive ancestors.	Thus the	human infant is a very antique specimen of

human nature, a relic or momento of a past vastly older than recorded history. Under the guidance of Mother Nature, he is climbing daily, at first with almost breakneck speed, up the uncounted rungs of the evolutionary ladder, the bottom of which rests deep in the primeval sea and its top reaches up to the superman that is to be; for to the optimist man to-dav is, in Huxley’s graphic phrase, but the tadpole of a future archangel. Thus, the man of science looks with new awe and reverence upon this candidate for humanity as a venerable relic of a dim antiquity.

If we have the seeing eye, we may observe the first cry differentiate until we can distinguish different notes for fear, anger, hunger, and fatigue. Then comes the original creation of words as the instinct from which all language arose begins to act. Then this mother tongue of the race is rudely displaced by the language of the parents and the environment. So too, from quadrupedal locomotion, the child goes through all the stages of getting erect, using the hands as an organ of prehension as our ancestors in the trees did. Its plays and games repeat many an ancient industry and form of worship. Everything goes to its mouth, and it later experiments with everything to determine what is edible and non-edible; and so exploits its world, does or tries to do a little of everything that all the creatures in its line of descent did, leads its own life, follows its own instincts regardless of grown-ups, save so far as they are stronger and must be yielded to, and only late begins to show interest in adult modes of life.

But let us be practical. What do all these studies teach us? I answer first, They teach that it is the duty of every healthful man and woman with no special impediment to marry and bear children betimes. It is the duty we owe to the world and socitey which is yet more im-
perative for all of the fit than to pay taxes, vote or fight for our country if it is in danger. This duty is now immensely reinforced by the decline of nativity in almost every civilized land where statistics are kept. This has led to* drastic propositions, such as the taxation of bachelors, the endowment of marriage. I am not yet ready to advocate any of these schemes; hut some of them may yet prevail. Certain it is that the chief duty of man is to transmit the sacred torch of heredity undimmed to future generations.

We must recognize again that nothing is quite -so worthy of love, reverence, and service as the bodies and souls of children who will people the earth when we are gone. Thus, we must first of all get out of Nature’s way and not interfere with but follow her teachings. We must not, i. e., try to keep children so incessantly happy that they cannot cry. Occasional crying is the only vigorous form of exercise for the child who cannot yet walk. It irrigates the whole body with blood, stretches the arteries, veins, and capillaries, expands the lungs, develops the voice, helps digestion, and polarizes the soul between pleasure and pain, its sovereign masters. Studies of the infant voice, of nutrition, circulation, etc., all show that crying has its own physiology, psychology, and hygiene.

Again, the infant must creep. Nearly half of them in this country do not so naturally. Too much and too early uprightness brings various abnormalities described at length in text books. But more than this, creeping brings out the chest, throws back the shoulders, strengthens the mucsles in the back of the neck and down the spine which support the head, brings out the bony places, develops arms, shoulders, hips, etc. Probably creeping is to-day far more in need of being prolonged than abridged. Its attitudes and movements have benn found useful in the physical culture of adults. It favors normal blood supply and the full brain, tends to prevent bow leggedness and abdominal weakness, and should be taught to infants who do not learn it but hitch and roll instead.

So too,, actual nursing at the mother’s breast is now known to be needful, even as an exercise of the lips, throat, palate, tongue, and forces which suffer and are undeveloped by the easy methods of the bottle. Yet more important is the difference between cow's milk and the proprietary foods on the one hand, and the human mother's milk, which is very different in composition from all others and contains everything which soul and body need for the first months of life. Appalling but conclusive statistics in many lands show that the infant mortality which is increasing everywhere is from three to five times as great among babies under one year of age nourished on cow’s milk and artificial food or deluged with starchy artifacts than among those breast fed. Not only this, but the latter are healthier at every stage of life, even when measured for the army. They live longer, and every three months of natural feeding adds to everyone of these advantages.

In France, the minimal stature of soldiers has lately been reduced so that a witty writer represents “La Grande Nation'’ as saying: “Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not; for of such is the army of France.” One of the causes assigned is the decline of the habit

Digitized by C^ooQle
-276-

of nursing, which is the first stage of sterility and once lost by a mother is rarely regained by her descendants.

Thus and in many other ways the world is coming to think far more deeply and to speak more plainly than ever before upon this profoundest of all problems which affect the future of the human race. We may, therefore, already provisionally answer the question with which we set out—What is a child?—by saying that it is the consummate flower of the cosmic process. The roots of its being strike down into the very beginnings of life. The child is also fullest of all the promise and potency of the future.

The quality of the child is the best test of fatherhood and motherhood; for those are the best men and women who can produce and bring to fullest maturity of body and soul the most and best children. It is weakness to evade and folly to dispute this conclusion. In it is embodied the highest, richest, wisest, philosophy of life. To secure this end is the ultimate test by which to measure the worth of religion, the state, the family, education, science, and all social and political institutions; for all are good or bad according as they help on or divert from this supreme end of man.

In fine, a child is not a man or woman of reduced dimensions of body and soul, but a different being, as a grub differs from a butterfly or an egg from a bird. If we realized this and all it implies, it would involve a great revolution in our notions of children and in the way we treat them in both home and school. Their prime need is to develop to the uttermost each of the stages through which they pass; not to omit them, but to live them out. We must realize that they are at first far less human than animal, that their ways are not our ways, and that they need to do no end of things that would be silly and a great many that would be positively wicked for adults to do.

To-day children need retarding in their development far more than they need acceleration. Precocity is the great danger now. Our children tend to rush ahead up the phylum and become adult and even senescent before they should. The best way to broaden and strengthen is to retard. —to delay, to allow children to linger in their paradise and get the full benefit of all the rich and manifold stages that heredity offers. Indeed, this is the new ideal of a liberal humanistic culture. We have limited these hitherto to the broadening that comes by literature and history of recent and chiefly western nations. This does expand the soul; but it is far from realizing the old ideal of regarding nothing human alien from ourselvevs. Historic Europe is only a small fraction of humanity, and the range of history is very limited. The truly cultured soul is one which in its various stages has seen or experienced all that the human race has seen and experienced in its long pilgrimage upward.—“Sunday Magazine.”

Bristol, Tenn., Nov. 8, 1907. Please send me all back numbers of this year’s Magazine. Thanking vou in advance I remain verv respectfully

BESSE ALCOHN. 530 Anderson St.
-277 •

EXERCISES ON PARALLEL BARS

Of District No. 7 for the International Turnfest, to he held at Frankfort on the Main, 1908.

----*—

Composed by V. HANXLEDEN, 1. District Turn wart.

Translated by CARL O. HIERHOLZER, Philadelphia.

Translator’s Note.—The nomenclature used in describing these exercises is that used in Puritz’s Code Book. All exercises begin from the cross stand with three paces running start and a jump to the cross rest in the middle of the bars.

The exercises are arranged in three grades of difficulty under the headings: Elementary, Intermediate and Advanced Grades, respectively. There are five separate exercises in each grade, the descriptive matter under each Homan numeral consisting of one exercise. The sub-numbers under the numerals are intended by the author to aid in the interpretation of the exercises, but they may also be used as words of command when the exercises are performed simultaneously on a number of apparatus by a group of men.

The plan usually followed at a Gymnastic Festival is to have about twenty pieces of apparatus placed in a row. The gymnasts are divided into three groups representing the three grades of difficulty. At a signal, one man steps forward for each piece of apparatus, and then the first exercise of the group is performed by command. The first performers dismount and remain standing until the command is given for the second men to start, when they return to their places, and so on until all men have performed.

ELEMENTARY GRADE.

I.

1.	Swing forward to an outer cross seat in front of the left hand.

2.	Circle the left leg right and turn the body y2 turn to the cross riding seat on the right bar behind the right hand. (The left bar in No. 1 becomes the right bar in No. 2.)

3.	Swing in and rear vault left.

II.

1.	Swing forward and backward to a shoulder stand on the right shoulder/

2.	Return to the cross rest and swing forward, place right leg in front of the left hand.

3.	Circle the left leg forward with *4 turn right of the body to a side straddle seat on both bars.

4.	Dismount forward to a side stand rearway s by swinging the right leg over both bars.

TIT.

1.	Swing forward and fall to the half turnover, the upper arms on the bars, kip to a cross straddle seat in front of the hands.

Digitized by
-278-

2.	Swing in and backward in the bent arm rest to the front leaning

rest.

3.	Swing forward, during the backward swing circle the left leg over the right bar, and a front vault right.

IV.

1.	The same as III, 1, but to the outer cross seat in front of the right hand.

2.	Circle the right leg forward between the bars to a cross straddle seat in front of the hands.

3.	Swing in and backward and scissors with y2 turn left to a cross straddle seat in front of the hands.

4.	Grasp the bars in front of the thighs, swing in and front vault over the right bar with y4 turn left to a side stand at the end of the bars.

V.

1.	The same as III, 1, to the cross rest, roll forward to the cross straddle seat in front of the hands.

2.	Grasp the bars in front of the thighs, swing in and forward, swing backward and then straddle vault forward over both bars.

INTERMEDIATE GRADE.

I.

1.	Swing forward and backward, circle the right leg left over the right bar to the cross straddle seat in front of the hands.

2.	Swung the left leg in between the bars and grasp the left bar with the right hand and make y> turn left and rear swing to an outer cross seat in front of the right hand.

3.	Rear dismount left over both bars.

II.

1.	Swing forward and bacw'ard to the upper arm stand.

2.	Return to the cross rest and swing forward and circle the left leg right around the right bar, swing forward and rear swing left with *4 turn right to a side leaning rest frontways.

3.	Flank dismount right over hoth bars.

m.

1.	Swing forward and fall to y% turnover, kip to a riding seat in front of the right hand.

2.	Swing in, backward and forward, circle the left leg over the left bar, swing forward to a cross leaning rest rearways.

3.	Swing in and backward in the bent arm rest and front vault right.

IV.

1.	The same as III to cross rest and swing backward with y2 turn right to an outer cross scat in front of the left hand.

2.	Swing in and backward and squat with the right foot behind the right hand.

Digitized by C^ooQle
CO

3.	High back swing with the left leg and scissors backward with x/i turn right to a cross straddle seat in front of the hands.

- 4. Grasp the bars in front of the thighs, swing in, forward and backward, and handspring forward with bent arms.

V.

1.	Swing forward and backward, lower to an upper arm rest, kip to a cross straddle seat in front of the hands.

2.	Grasp the bars in front of the thighs, roll forward to a riding seat in front of the right hand.

3.	Swing in, backward and forward, swung backward in the bent arm rest and straddle vault forward over both bars.

ADVANCED GRADE.

I.

1.	Swing forward, circle the right leg left over the left bar and immediately circle the left leg right over the left bar to a riding seat in front of the left hand.

2.	Swing in and up to a momentary hand stand, lower and swing forward to a straddle seat in front of the hands.

3.	Swung the right leg between the bars and grasp the right bar with the left hand, rear scissors dismount left with x/> turn right.

II.

1.	Swing forward and backward to a hand stand.

2.	Lower to a cross rest, swing forward and backward and rear swing left over both bars to a side leaning rest rearways.

3.	Flank dismount left backward.

III.

1.	Swing forward and backward, lower to the upper arm hang, kip to the cross rest and swung backward to a hand stand.

2.	Lower to the cross rest, roll backward to the upper arm hang.

3.	Swung forward, kip to cross rest, swung forward in the bent arm rest and rear vault right with turn left.

IV.

1.	Swing forward and backward, drop kip to the cross rest, roll forward, back uprise to a squat stand of the right foot behind the right hand. . High back swing wutli the left leg to a hand stand.

. Rear vault right with a half turn right.

V.

1.	Swung forward and backward, drop kip to a cross rest, swing fonvard and backward to a hand stand.

2.	Lower to a cross rest and roll backward to an upper arm hang, kip to a cross rest, roll forward to an outer cross seat in front of the right hand.

3.	Grasp the bars in front of the thighs (near the ends), swung in and forward, swung backward in the bent arm rest to a hand stand, straddle off over both bars.
-280-

COMPANION FREE WORK AS GROUPINGS BY THREES AND SIXES.

FOR JUNIORS OR MEN.

Can be executed with music in % time, holding each position four counts. Prepared by A. E. KINDERVATER, St. Louis, Mo. IUustrateted by Oscar Rutber, Indianapolis, Ind

A. THE FORMATION.

The pupils stand according to height and form a column composed of front lines of sixes, or of two ranks of threes. The front lines are divided into first and second; the shortest pupils stand in front.

R ENTRY, RE-FORMATION AND DISTANCE.

The column marches forward to the place of exercise, the lines keeping a distance of four steps from each other. On arrival at the place of the exercises all seeoud lines march out left obliquely forward into line with the first.

The ranks of line one face right, those of line two left, march forward, separating into columns of threes at a distance of four steps from each other and face to the front. The files being numbered one, two, three.

/ Z 3~	/	Z	3

/ Z

/ * 3

C. PART ONE.

First Grouping.

a) Files one and three lower side-outward on one hand and knee Files two stand erect with arms sideward, all grasping hands.

(Fig. 1 A.) .............................................   I—*

Digitized by

Google
-281-

1)) All return to the starting position............................. 5—S

c)	Files two lower forward on hands and knees. Files one and three take the lunging position on the hack of two with the inner feet, grasping and raising the inner hands upward and the outer arms sideward. (Fig. 1. B.).............................. 9—12

Digitized by C^ooQle
—282—

d) All return to the starting position......................... 13—16

e) Repeat a, b, c ,d .......................................... 17—32

Second Grouping.

a) Files one and three lunge side-outward, bending the trunk in the same direction, bending the inner arms overhead and raising the outer arms sideward obliquely downward. Files two lunge left forward and raise the arms sideward. (Fig. 2 A) .. 1—4

b)	All return to the starting position ........................... 5—8

e) Files one and three bent-kneestep side-outward, grasp and raise the inner hands upward and the outer arms sideward. Files two hop backward and into the front leaning rest—hands on the thighs of one and three. (Fig. 2 R) ........................ 9—12

d)	All return to the starting position ....................... 13—16

e) Repeat a, b, e, d (Files two lunge right).................. 17—32

Third Grouping.

a) Files one and three face outward, lunging forward with the outer leg, bending the outer arm overh. and raising the inner arm obliquely backward. Files two lower to a full kneebend, the arms sideward touching the hips of one and three. Fig. 3 A) 1—4 b) All return to the starting position ......................... 5—8

Digitized by
-283-

c) Files one and three bent-kneestep side-outward, the inner hands grasping files two at the belt, raising the outer arms sideward. Files two sidestride-stand on the thighs of one and three, arms raised to circle upward. (Fig. 3 B)..................... 9—12

Digitized by LjOOQle

■■
d) All return to the starting position ..................13—16

e) Repeat a, b, c, d............................................ 17—32

Fourth Grouping, a) Files one and three lower side-outward to the leaning rest, the inner hands connected with two. Files two stand erect, holding one and three in position (Fan)—(Fig. 4 A).................. 1—4

Digitized by

Google
—28u—

b) All return to the starting position .......................... 5—8

c)	Files one and three bent-kneestep side-outward. Files two face

left about and place hands on thighs of one and three and hop up to a hand balance (one and three holding two by the shoulders and legs). (See Fig. 4 B)................................ 9—12

d) All return to the starting position ....................... 13—16

e) Repeat a, b, e, d.......................................... 17—32

RANDOM THOUGHTS.

There is every reason for encouragement in the retrospect. When we reflect that but a few decades have passed since school gymnastics were first introduced in the public schools, we have every reason to feel encouraged over the results. To overcome the objections, prejudices and obstacles incidental to any new development, to develop the necessary teaching forces, and to await the experiences insuring an adequate adaptation of instructional material, to convert the authorities and to secure the minimum of time for practice, equipment, and means—all this has required time. Indeed, much has been done, and the outlook for the immediate future is most promising. The preliminary efforts have prevailed, the germ has taken root, the fruit is maturing, the seeding continues, and promises of a magnificat!t development are everywhere evident..

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 280 -

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort NVayne, lnd., Public Schools.

f Continued. >

A CLASS DRILL, squad work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Dodge Ball.” As a preliminary a short run, during which lime raise lower legs backw.; knees forw.; extended legs forw., each exercise continued about sixteen counts with a short interval of ordinary running between each exercise.

Gymnastic tactics.

Each member take one pair of Indian clubs, then form a front rank and count off to fours. R. face. Form fours 1. obi. and open order to the left to two steps distance as here shown.

NOTE.—If the taller members lead the class then turn about face so that the Shorter members stand in front during the club drill. • * *. . * * »

INDIAN CLUB DRILL.	T	T

Clubs to starting position—raise!

1.	Raise heels and •% double arm circle inw. (outw. pos. of the arms on a level with the shoulders)—1! Bend knees (full squat, balance well on the balls of the feet) and dip the clubs on the forearms)—*2! Straighten knees and % double arm circle outw. (to pos. overh.)—3! Lower heels and bend arms to starting position—I!

2.	% double arm circle outw. (to arms bent and crossed on a level with the shoulders)—1! Lunge forw. 1. and dip clubs on resp. forearms —2! Close 1. foot to r. and % double arm circle inw. (to pos. overh.) —3! Bend arms to starting pos.—I! Same r.—5, 8!

3. % double arm circle 1. (to pos. sidew. r.)—1! Lunge sidew. 1. and dip clubs on forearms—2! Close 1. foot to r. and % double arm circle r. (to pos. overh.)—3! Bend arms to starting pos.—1! Same r.—5, 8!

4.	Bend trunk forw. and again straighten with 4/4 double arm circle forw. (passing the same on the 1. side, then overh. to starting pos.)— 1, 2! Same by circling on the r. side—3, 4!

In place rest. Or some variety of tactics. Pos.—stand!

Clubs to starting pos.—raise!

5.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and % double arm circle outw. (see ex. 2, pos. 1) —1! Bend 1. knee and 4/4 double horizontal hand circle outw. (and move arms outw.)—2! Straighten 1. knee and 34 double arm circle outw. (to pos. overh.)—3! Starting pos.—I! Same r.—5, 8!

G.	Stride pos. backw. 1. and % double arm circle inw. (see ex. 1, pos. 1) —1! Bend 1. knee and 4/4 double horizontal hand circle inw. (and move arms inw. on a level with the shoulders)—2! Straighten 1. knee and % double arm circle inw. (to pos. overh.)—3! Starting pos.—1! Same r.—5. 8!

7.	Bend trunk sidew. 1.. double arm circle 1., the 1. arm to bend on ihe back and the r. to continue overh.—1! Return in reverse order—2! Same r.—3. 4!

Digitized by

Google
-287-

8.	Toe-touch sidew. 1. and % double arm circle 1.—1! Lunge sidew. 1. and 4/4 double horizontal hand circle to the 1. (and move arms to the

1.)—2! Return to toe-touch 1. and % douple arm circle 1. (to pos. overh.)—3! Starting pos.—i! Same r—5, 8!

9.	Lunge backw. and double arm circle forw. to backw. downw. obi.— 1! Bend trunk backw. and swing arms forw*. upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

Clubs lower.

Close ranks in reverse order to that ol opening, however, by % turn r. and march forw. Or if the class has been turned about only V8 turn 1. is necessary. After the formation in flank order 1. about face, march forw., deposit the clubs and form squads Tor apparatus work. After being assigned, march to the respective apparatus.

First Division: High horizontal	bar.

Second	“	Long buck.

Third	14	Low parallel bars.

Fourth	“	Climbing poles.

Change places.—Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—-High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to straight arm side hang, hands in ordinary grasp and—

1.	Saving and at the end of the first backw. swing pull up to upper arm arm re$t, intermediate swing and pull up to straight arm front rest at the end of the backw. swing; underswing and down.

2.	Swing, raise feet to bar, kip (upstart) to front rest; front hip circle forw.; drop backw\, underswing, swing backw. and again forw. with feet raised to bar, kip to front rest; rear vault r.

3. Swing and pull up to free front rest at the end of the first backw. swing, front hip circle backw. and lower to straight arm hang, swing forw., raise both feet to bar, kip (upstart) to front rest and high front vault 1. (r.)

4.	Swing, raise feet to bar, kip (upstart) to front rest; front hip circle backw. and lower to straight arm hang; swing forw. and turn 1. (r.), releasing grasp of both hands simultaneously and regrasping bar on the. farther side, swing forw., raise feet to bar. kip to free front rest, free front hip circle backw. and down to front side stand.

Reversed grasp—

f>. Swing and pull up to front rest at the end of the first backw. swing: turn over forw. to straight arm hang and again pull up to froitt rest, but simultaneous with front rest change hands to ordinary grasp; drop kip to free front rest and squat vault forw. and down.

Ordinary grasp—

6,	Free front hip circle backw. to free front rest, underswing and pull up to free front rest, drop kip, front hip circle forw. and swing up to hand balance; hold the time of about four counts, then spuat vault dismount forw. or turn over forw. to back side stand.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Change place witli the second division an the long buck.
-288-

1.

2.

3.

4.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5. 0.

7.

8. 9.

10.

1.

2.

3.

First Divison.—Long Buck (height of shoulders.)

A run of sufficient length precedes all exercises.

Straddle vault forw.

Straddle vault backw.

Squat rest on buck, stand erect; dismount forw. with raising arms forw. overh. and 4/4 turn 1. (r.) to back cross stand.

Squat vault forw.

Head balance; lower backw. slowly to front rest; straddle dismount forw.

Head balance; turn over forw. to back cross stand.

Roll over forw. to back cross stand.

Hand balance; after the time of about four counts turn over foiw. to back cross stand.

Straddle vault forw. over one of the members firmly seated upon the buck. Repeat once.

An exercise free for all.

Second Division.—Long Buck (height of shoulders).

A run of sufficient length precedes all exercises.

Straddle vault forw.

Straddle vault sidew. r. (r. leg in front and 1. leg backw.).

Straddle vault backw. (\U turn 1. or r.).

Squat rest on buck; stand erect; dismount forw. with raising arms forw. overh. and % turn 1. (r.) to front cross stand.

Squat vault forw.

Sheep vault forw.

Flank vault forw. 1 (r.).

Front vault 1. (r.).

Straddle vault forw. (the buck to be raised gradually higher after every trial of the squad).

An exercise free for all.

NOTE — Execute the exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the first division on the high horizontal bar.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to straight arm side hang, hands in ordinary grasp, and—

Swing, raise both feet to bar; kip (upstart) to front rest; underswing and down.

Front hip circle backw. to front rest; drop kip (upstart) to free front rest and flank vault forw. 1.

Front hip circle backw. and lower to straight arm hang; swing forw. and \o turn 1. (release grasp of r. hand and regrasp the bar in ordinary on the farther side with the turn); swing forw., raise feet to bar. kip (upstart) to front rest and front vault r.

Swing, raise feet to bar; kip (upstart) to free front rest; free front hip circle back and lower to straight arm hang, swing forw. and half giant swing to front Test; underswing and down.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-289-

5.	Combined grasp (1. reverse, r. ordinary), swing and at end of (or rather with) the backw. swing release grasp of the r. hand, turn r. and regrasp the bar after the turn and simultaneously raise feet to bar, kip to front rest (free if possible), free front hip circle backw. and down to front side stand.

6.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Repeat all exercises that are not executed in good form.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the low parallel bars and the fourth on the climbing poles.

Low Parallel Bars.

Inside side stand, hands in ordinary grasp on the front (farther) bar, jump up and—

1.	Circle 1. leg 1. (backw.) to front leaning rest on the rear bar; circle r leg r. (backw.) to meet the 1.; dismerunt backw.

2.	Circle r. leg 1. (cut backw. under 1. leg) to front leaning rest on the

rear bar; circle 1. leg r. (cut backw. under r. leg and close to the r.; dismount backw.

3.	Raise both legs sidewr. 1., circle 1. leg backw. and r. leg forw. to side riding rest on both bars; change grasp of r. hend to reverse and screw dismount forw. with % turn r. to cross stand.

4.	Flank vault swing backw. 1. to front leaning rest; place r. foot on farther bar (knee extended); dismount forw.

5.	As ex. 4, but flank vault dismount forw. r. over both bars.

6.	Squat rest on rear bar; stand erect and immediately dismount over ^farther bar to back side stand.

7.	An exercise free for all.

%

NOTE.—Execute the exersises I. and r. whenever possible.

Climbing Poles (two).

Grasp poles in outside in all exercises, jump up to—

1.	Bent arm hang and lower legs raised backw.; down. Repeat twice.

2.	As ex. 1, but knees raised forw.

3.	As ex. 1, but spread legs wide (1. forw. and r. backw.). Same opp.

4.	As ex. 4, but spread legs wide sidw.

5.	As ex. 2; % turn over backw. and extend legs downw.; return in reverse order. Repeat once.

6.	Climbing pos. of the legs on 1. pole, but hands grasp on both poles; then climb to upper end, moving the hands alternately; descend in same manner.

7.	As ex. 6, but move both hands simultaneously.

8.	Climb up and down without the aid of the legs, moving the hands alternately.

9.	As ex. 8, moving both hands simultaneously.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and divide the class for the game “Dodge Ball/* After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued )

Digitized by CaOOQle
-2‘jo-

TRIANGLE BALL.

By ELSA POHL, Girls’ Physical Director, Wm. McKinley High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Triangle Ball is a game of low organization and can be used to advantage as a preparation for basket ball and other highly organized plays. It is well adapted to pupils of high school age.

The class is divided into two teams with from 7 to 10 players on a team (more, if desired). If the size of the gymnasium permits, two or more separate fields may be marked out, thus allowing a greater number of pupils to play. The time for play is divided into 15 minute halves with 5 minutes intermission, according to the age and endurance of the pupils.

The formation of the class into teams develops sacrifice of self to team. In place of brilliant individual play we have all working together for the interest of the whole. Accuracy of motion, quick reaction and dicsrimination are also developed.

The game is supervised by an umpire, who may be either a teacher or one of the members of the class (if there is an odd number), and stands in the umpire’s box.

The Field of Play, preferably rectangular, is divided into two equal parts by a line drawn parallel to the ends, called centre line. In each field thus formed are drawn three circles, so arranged as to form a triangle whose base lies parallel to the centre line.

The Umpire shall supervise the game. His duty shall be to start the game, keep score and decide fouls.

The Players.—The class is divided into two equal teams, A and B. Three players are chosen from team A to stand in the three circles of one field and are called basemen. The remaining players on their team

DESCRIPTION OF THE GAME.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-291-

scatter over the opposite field for the purpose of guarding the opposing basemen, They are called fielders. Team B is placed correspondingly.

Apparatns.—One basket ball.

The game is started by the umpire, throwing the hall up between two opposing fielders, who step to the centre of the centre line for that purpose. The ball is now “in play” and all fielders may move about freely, subject to the following rules:

Rule I.—No player shall walk or run with the ball.

Rule IT.—Basemen shall have one foot within the circle.

Rule III.—A fielder shall not cross the centre line or step into any circle.

Rule IV.—Fouls shall be called by the umpire for breaking any one of the above rules.

Rule V.— A point shall be scored when the ball is passed without interruption between the basemen on the same team, describing a friangle in its flight and being received by the baseman commencing the triangle. Any baseman may start the triangle.

Rule VI.—When a point has been scored, the basemen of the scoring team change places, moving one circle to the left. This allows them to play from all parts of the field.

GYMNASTICS IN A MODERN FACTORY.

Perhaps the greatest manucturers of antiseptic and aseptic surgical dressings, sutures, plasters, etc., is the firm so well known under the name of Johnson and Johnson in* New Brunswick, N. J. In its large factory every means is employed to guard its employes from injury. Great care is also taken to have the workrooms hygienicallv up to date. In the cotton mill special blowers are used to remove dust and dirt so as to prevent disease and to insure healthy workers. This preventive policy is strengthened bv gymnastics for all employes, male as well as female. A. well equipped and well kept gymnasium and bowling alleys cater to the needs of those desiring these forms of physical training. Quite recently the women operatives have formed an extensive organization known as the Laurel Club. This organization is both educational and social. For its exclusive use rooms have been assigned and fitted i p. The rooms are furnished with piano, gymnastic apparatus and other paraphernalia:	Classes	are	carried	on	under	competent teachers in gym-

nastics, basket ball, hygiene, nursing, etc. Lecture courses are provided during the winter months.

For the operatives of foreign birth there are classes in English, etc.

This club holds its social evenings, where dancing and other amusements are indulged in.

In this work for the welfare of the operatives, both educational and social, the management acts from business and philanthropic motives, recognizing that the surest way to success is through the efforts of healthy, happy and contented workers.—F. Kr.

Digitized by Google
X K	,,	- Published Monthly-

Map ftND B0DY * FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO. SibMriptlon Price, ft.00 per Year.	ICil-wa-nTree. Wleconrin.

«T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, iso Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—LIKE OTHER CITIES INDIANAPOLIS also, by circum-stances, has been forced to find where it stood in the question of un-supervised athletics. The rivalry brought on, mainly by football, among the boys of the two high schools of this city caused the school board of Indianapolis to appoint a committee of its own members to study the situation and to report upon measures to be taken to rectify the evils. As the report, which was accepted, shows such a distinct advance over the usual type of school board investigations in questions of this character we reprint it in full.

“To the Honorable Board of School Commissioners:

Your committee to whom was referred the question of athletics between the two high schools and also between our high schools and those outside the city, respectfully begs to present the following report:

It seems to us that-no one would question the value of well-regulated physical training and it also seems that no thoughtful person fails to see the evils inherent in the prevailing type of school athletics.

The effects of the present system may be roughly classified under three heads:

(a)	From the pedagogical point of view.

(b)	From the physical side.

(c)	From the ethical standpoint.

Tinder (a) may be presented:

1.	The value of athletics as at present in vogue is disproportionate to th e cost in time of players and of teachers who supeivise them.

2.	The burden of managing the finances of the game is too great.

3.	There is too much tension developed among pupils in general before a decisive game, which results in inefficiency in studies.

Under (b) the physical side, may be included:

1.	Too few of the boys are activily engaged in athletics. General interest is centered in developing a team which will win.

2.	Those boys who do take an active part in athletics are the ones who least need physical training.

3.	At present there is danger of serious injury to players, particularly in football, through the efforts of a rival team to cripple a good player in order to weaken his team that they may win.

4.	High school boys will not train properly and are frequently injured permanently by overstrain,

Digitized by 0,ooQle
—293-

5.	When trained at his best the hov of high school age is too immature physically for some of the games as played at present.

Under (c)—From the ethical standpoint:

1.	Athletics should develop games, not contests.

2.	'At present teams compete with other teams over whose physical and ethical status we have no control.

3.	Games as now played tend to create had feeling between schools. Sport for sport’s sake is replaced bv the spirit of contest, and where large numbers are concerned the mob spirit may arise.

4.	There is at present a tendency to estimate the quality of a school by athletic contests won.

5.	The character of the following of a portion of athletic contests is of so low a type that it tends to demoralize the game. While this sort of following is small in numbers its influence is unduly great and is practically outside the control of school authorities.

6.	The public generally looks upon a winning team as a successful team: hence, the coach is tempted to introduce questionable practices to develop a team wdiich will win at any cost.

7.	The hero worship accorded the prominent athlete by pupils, presand public tends to give an altogether false notion of his own real importance.

.8. The earnings of the games constitute a temptation toward commercialism in sport.

In view of.these facts, your committee therefore recommends that after December 1 of the present year no more competitive games be played under the auspices of the shools between pupils of the two high schools.

Your committee also consider- it inadvisable that games be played between pupils of high schools outside of the city.

The committee believes that it is advisable that pupils take part in the state athletic meet.

While your committee is opposed to contests between different schools, it is just as strongly in favor of all well-regulated classes or teams within each individual school. Boys in large cities need special outlets for their surplus physical energy; this fact school authorities should recognize. There is nowadays very little home labor. If neither the home nor the school provides physical recreation boys are likely to And in the streets the physical activity denied them at home or in school This inevitably leads to questionable practices and uncertain morals.

Athletics within each school should be encouraged. The situation really demands, when we can afford it, that there should be a man in each high school whose whole time should be devoted to the physical welfare of the boys of the school. He should be something more than a teacher of gymnastics; he should be in sympathy with boys and be able to bring out the best in them; he should supervise their gymnastic training and conduct their sports in the athletic field.

Experience has shown that games within a school will increase active participation from 500 per cent to 1,000 per cent. By proper classifica-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-294-

tion, on the basis of age, size and experience, every boy can be brought into active participation in healthy games in which the spirit is one of emulation instead of strife.

In the mean time each school should endeavor to meet the situation by its teachers giving such time out of school as they are able to spare for such purposes.

The public generally must come to a realization of the fact that the city conditions have brought upon us new problems peculiar to this condition, which demands effective physical training not only of a few but of all pupils/'

While agreeing with most of the propositions, we think that the committee has not been specific enough. Many of the arguments presented are valid only against the game of football, and more particularly against this game as it is played here in America. It might be worth while investigating if a modified form of football may not give to the boys the good features without the detrimentad ones. The fact that a game or sport is splendid for collegians is no sign that it is also a good game for high school boys. With boys of this age the question as to how it will afTect their physique is of equal importance with how it will affect their morals. As a rule high school boys are not able to withstand the evil effects of a prolonged strain which Rugby football and several forms of long distance running put upon them. These forms of physical exertion affect them as overtraining does a young horse. By being overtrained while still immature both may prove to be marvels for a short period, but they are ruined for later efficient work. There are so many physical activities in which young growing boys may take part with only beneficial results, that all the efforts made by sane educators and school-board officials must be applauded. And it is for this reason that we fear the Indianapolis authorities have gone farther than necessary. An elimination of football as it is now played, and a few of the long distance races would have sufficed. After boys have reached the high school age and have acquired skill, a reasonable number of opportunities to measure their strength and skill with boys of another school can do no harm. If conducted under proper supervision they may be of direct benefit. The Indianapolis committee, in fact, seems to have recognized this, for they allow the boys to compete against other boys in the the “State Meet." If competitive sports as such are a bad thing we do not see why this exception is made, for as far as the moral effects are concerned it surely can not make any difference if the competitors are of the same city or “outsiders/' We are inclined to the belief that if the Indianapolis sports have led to inefficiency in studies the source of the trouble may be found in the fact that they either were of the wrong kind, that they occurred too often or that they were not supervised. Intolerable conditions do not arise immediately, generally they are of slow growth. It is, therefore, perfectly natural that the boys resent any interfence with customs that appeal to them. If the authorities listen to them “the schools will go to perdition/’ 'We need only recall the dire predictions made when

Digitized by CjOOQle
-295-

Oolumbia University abolished inter-collegiate football. Why, according to some undergraduates, President Butler might as well have looked for something else to do and turned the university into a monastery. From aTl accounts, however, Columbia still seems to be in existence. By pursuing a definitely outlined course of gymnastics, supplemented by sports and games of all kinds, Columbia is doing more for the physical welfare of her students than many of the colleges exploited daily in the sporting pages of sensational dailies. Wise regulation, not suppression, is what is needed

—IN THE* FOLLOWING EDITORIAL the Chicago Tribune forcibly calls attention to the criminal recklessness with which even the unprepared college youth of our country engages in football play:

“The college football team at Lima, 0., has disbanded. It was necessary to give their fellowr students good and sutticieut reasons for this action; consequently the eleven exhibited, in justification, the following articles in consequence:	Four	broken legs, twelve broken fingers, six

broken noses, and eight dislocated bones. The evidence was accepted as conclusive and the eleven w’ere honorably discharged from further active service this season.

While this is not to be accepted as a triumphant arraignment of the iniquity of football, it is a proper argument against opposing strong and well seasoned and disciplined players writh young men or boys vastly inferior in strength and condition. As well put a family cat against a mountain lion in a small pit especially prepared for the occasion. Foot-hall is not a pastime for parlor knights, and it is not a game into which any youth may gayl.v thrust himself regardless of the physical strength of his opponent and his own lack of condition. And, considering the frequent absence of preparation, the foolish alignment of opposing teams, and the defiance of all the laws of safety, the wronder is not that so many players are killed or crippled but that the casualties are so few7.

In short, a large proportion of the serious accidents of football is attributable to the carelessness with which boys and young men engage in the game, and the recklessness with which they take on antagonists overwhelmingly superior to ihem in every respect save courage. Some will think it glorious that the noble team of Lima battled until the entire eleven were hopelessly crippled.In ordinary wrar a general would be court-martialed. and shot for such unnecessary criminal encounters. What football seems to need is a little more sanity on the part of those who play it, and of the school authorities wTho allow it.”

—DR, WILLIAM G. ANDERSON sends us the following communication as an answer to the statements made by Dr. Gould in ‘‘American Medicine'’:

Yale University, New’ Haven, Conn., Oct. 24, 1907.

To the Editor of “Mind and Body.”

Dear Sir:	I have read the editorial comment wrhich lately ap-

peared in “American Medicine” relative to my paper on “Some Observations On Mortality Among Yale Athletes.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
-296-

It is evident that the editorial writer of “American Medicine” is not familiar either with the conditions at Yale or with the content of my paper. I made a study of the mortuary data collected by the Secretary of the University, my object being to ascertain Whether the “Y” man in the four major sports was shorter or longer lived than the non-athlete.

The opinion prevails that the athlete dies before his less active classmate, that the predisposing cause is heart disease, and that the large insurance companies look upon these athletes as unsafe risks.

The data which covered fifty years, were also examined by actuaries of insurance companies who pronounced the athlete safer risks than the non-athletes. See the article by John M. Gaines, Yale *96, and Arthur Hunter, Secretary of the American Actuarial Society of New York, 346 Broadway, entitled “Mortality among Athletes and Other Graduates of Yale.”

I personally made further comparisons to determine expected deaths, and paraded the Yale data with those of the Specialized Mortality Investigation of the Actuarial Society of America (Abridged Edition, average tables 69 and 70, page ITS). See also comparisons of insurance years 1 to 30, page 474.

Still another comparison of the Yale data has been made with the American Table which has been the standard in law and practice for years (Reference, Mr. Rufus Weeks, Actuary of the New York Life Insurance Co., 346 Broadway). The figures supplied by the Actuarial Society were based upon observations furnished by thirty-four of the largest insurance companies of America. In my paper, presented to the Society of Collegiate Directors, I also referred to Farr’s Healthy English Male Table.

I also made comparisons between the members of the Scientific School and the Academic Department; the number of students in both sections from 1851 to 1905; the percentage of athletes in each class in both departments; the Academic and Scientific men living and dead by classes; athletes who died in college or four years after; dead athletes, cause of death, age, class and event.

After an examination of all material collected I presented these among other conclusions:

“The Yale Athlete did not die young nor was heart disease a leading cause of death.”

“Lung trouble was the cause of the greatest number of deaths, but the percentage of men dying from these causes was not greater than the expected deaths among non-athletes from similar causes.” “A comparison of the causes of death among the athletes and the MUTUAL’S insured below 45 years does not develop any irregularities in the distribution of deaths. Hunter.”

“The proportion of deaths among the athletes from tuberculosis was 22 per cent.; among the MUTUAI/S insured below 45 years was 45 per cent.”

“Neither the paper of Gaines and Hunter nor my own show that
-297-

the athletes were long lived because they were athletes, but because, perhaps, they were selected men from applicants who were above the average, their longevity may have been due to training or it may not. To get a better test we should secure records of men of equal physical ability who did not take part in athletics, but this is impossible.”

“Had these selected men been injured while in athletics we might have proven something against it, but it does not follow that competitive sports wrere the cause of longevity, they may have actually harmed the men.”

The conclusions showed that he was not short lived, but I did not state that he owed his longevity to athletics.

J did not select for “unnatural strains a few’ of the best for the delectation of a horde of pimple-faced, hollow’ chested boys whose ideal of physical training is to smoke cigarettes, drink beer, give the college yell and “root” for the beef of the college.”

If the editorial writer of ‘‘American Medicine” had been familiar with the conditions at Yale he w’ould not have overlooked the several hundred men who try for the Varsity, college, and scrub football elevens, baseball nines and crews; the large number of under-graduates wTho try for the cross-country teams, the track and field squads; the applicants for membership in class or colleg basket ball, golf, tennis, bowling, swimming, fencing, wrestling, boxing, shooting, “soccer” football and the Gymnastic teams.

He might like to know’ also that a large number of students use teams and who exercise for their own personal benefit without stimu-teams and who exercise for their own personal benefit without stimulation of that sort (i. e. athletic stimulus.)

The articles in “American Medicine” give the layman the impression that at Yale only the select few are trained physically. In addition to w’hat has been written I quote -a paragraph from my last year's report to the President of the University:

‘‘Every locker, nearly 1,000, rented and a demand for 100 more.”

“53,339 towels laundered. (A gain of over 2,000 over the previous year.”)

This does not include the ‘Team towels’.

“2,714 bath tickets and 7,5G0 bowling tickets sold.”

Season sw’imming tickets and billets for fencing, boxing, wrestling,, etc., might also be included.

The editorial w’riter of “American Medicine" may be further relieved to knowr that every Academic Freshman must be examined and take exercise, and that this year there is a required course of lectures on personal hygiene and health topics given to the Academic first year men by experts from different departments in the University.

I have taken space to tell these things because it may greatly

Digitized by CjOOQle
-298-

reduce the number of unfortunate men classified as “a horde of pimply-faced, hollow chested, cigarette smoking, beer drinking, etc.,” who seem to be neglected.

Finally, had the writer in “American Medicine” asked me for a definite statement before he penned his editorial he could have had it,	W.	G. ANDERSON.

—A CORRESPONDENT for the New York Tribune tells the following story of how rhythmical exercises are employed by a teacher of the Conservatory of Music of Geneva, Switzerland, as a foundation for music.

“A new method of teaching music, originated by Professor E.Jacques Dalcroze, of the Conservatory of Geneva, is attracting much attention in Europe, and from all sides—from Belgium, Germany, Austria, Italy, Russia, Holland, even from Egypt—musicians are going to Geneva, to be initiated into its mysteries. M. Dalcrcze has just been demonstrating this method at the Conservatory of Paris, and ‘‘La Vie Illustr6e” remarks that it is like the egg of Columbus—so simple that one wonders why no one ever thought of it before.

“Music is a fortress which we have been trying to storm on all sides at once,” said M. Dalcroze in his Paris lectures. “Thus we have scattered our forces, and the piano has become an instrument of torture. What we have demanded of the poor little ones who were taught to be budding Liszts and Mozarts has been, in fact, that they should master rhythm, sound and technique at the same time. Struggling with this triple difficulty, the children soon come to consider the music lesson the most wearisome of their tasks. Result:	No	progress, or very little, is

made, the parents scold and the children weep.

Thq method of M. Dalcroze is simply to attack the fortress on one side at a time. An appreciation of musical sound can not be acquired, he says, without cultivating at the same time the consciousness of rhythm. The idea of rhythm, oji the contrary, can be obtained without the intervention of sound. On this principle is founded the course of rhythmical gymnastics at the Conservatory of Geneva.

As the feeling of rhythm is one experienced by the whole body, M. Dalcroze, in his rhythmical gymnastics, brings into action the whole body. At first he teaches his pupils not a note of music, so far as sound is concerned, but they learn with mathematical accuracy the rhythm that these notes represent.

The first elementary exercises are given merely to rouse the rhythmical consciousness. After that some astonishing things happen. The pupils of M. Dalcroze reach a point where, with harmonious freedom and certainty of movement, they can simultaneously beat a two-time measure with the head, three-time with the left hand, four-time with the right and five-time with the feet. They can also with their hands beat an accelerando movement while executing a rallentando with the feet. This double movement of acceleration and retardation is the most difficult of muscular exercises, but it finally becomes automatic.
-299-

“Rhythm,” said M. Dalcroze, “ought to be so completely incorporated in the being that it is followed automatically, even when it is unexpected. In my system, as soon as the movement becomes automatic, I join to it a contracting movement, and the mind has nothing more to occupy itself with than before.”

With the muscular training M. Dalcroze combines respiratory exercises, regulated according to the play of muscular system. Thus, *he pupils become masters of their respiration.

These exercises are of the most attractive nature, and the pupil masters them, it is said, without difficulty. Afterward the consciousness of sound is easily acquired, for the attention of the pupil is concentrated upon the subject without being embarrassed by the study of rhythm, and sound naturally combines itself with rhythm.

“By this system not only the ear, but the whole body, becomes musical,” said M. Dalcroze. “Musical education, as it is understood today, never addresses itself to all the musical elements in us. That is why we find every day singers who have voice and rhythm, but no ear, or voice and ear with no rhythm, and pianists who have neither ear nor rhythm. This is why so many vocalists sing out of time and tune, why so many directors of orchestras cannot follow a singer or an instrumentalist, and why so many pianists cannot play anything by ear. In order to be a complete musician the ear should be in touch with the brain and the brain with the body. The entire body should vibrate to rhythmical sound.

—WITH THIS ISSUE a new department in “Mind and Body” makes its appearance under the direction of Mr. Emanuel Hang of New York. The department will bring to the attention of our readers such athletic news as is of interest to the teaching world in general. In the next number Mr. Haug will present the best records in all the standard athletic events as allowed by the Amateur Athletic Union. In the course of the year articles will appear on methods of training pursued h\ specialists. In short, athletics will be treated as that part of physical endeavor which offers to persons generally endowed by nature, and specially trained for their specialty, a chance to measure themselves with competitors likewise trained. By this announcement our readers will see that this new department will present what all teachers of physical training ouerht to know, i. e., records that have been made, and the methods of training or the special bodily fitness that led to such extraordinary performances. The side lights cast upon customs and tendencies, by a teacher of such wide experience as Mr. lfaug. should tend to make this department of especial interest to our readers.

—WE HAVE BEEN REQUESTED to call the attention of manufacturers of playground apparatus to the fact that bids will be opened next month (January) for the coming summer's equipment of school playgrounds in Philadelphia. Mr. Andrew J. Hammond, Superintendent of Supplies, City Hall, Philadelphia, will send specifications to all asking for same.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—300— ‘

COMING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS BEFORE. In this issue Mr. Hierholzer presents to our readers the exercises to be shown on parallel bars by the seventh district of the German Turners at the great gathering in Frankfurt next year. To students of physical training reeking for methods that really reach the masses, this festival will be of the utmost interest. The performance of hundreds of groups of exercises in all fields of gymnastic work by hundreds of men, and later, the mass ■calisthenics performed simultaneously by perhaps from 8—10,000 men, are such wonderful exhibitions of rational gymnastic work, that if it were possible to have all college presidents, superintendents of schools and high school principals in the United States present at one of these great festivals that they might see the young tradesman, the university student, the young artisan in line and exercising with men gray with age, and then, at the close of the mass work, might feel in their bodies the thrill of emotion aroused by such performances, then the ease of ath-lethics gone mad would speedily be settled.

—ALFRED MAUL, the honorary president of the “Deutsche Turnersehaft,” died on October 12th. Maul was easily the foremost teacher of physical education in Germany, if not in the world. Bom in 1828 he died nearly eighty years of age. The son of a father who as early as 1819 had helped organise a turnverein, Maul grew up in the air of freedom which pervaded the gymnastic societies of Jahms time. About 1850 Maul was assistant to Spiess, the founder of modern school gymnastics. The reactionary times following the German 1848 struggle for political freedom were not propitious, however, for a teacher of such democratic ideas as MauFs, and so he accepted a position as teacher in Basel, Switzerland. Here he was incessantly active in school gymnastics as well as in developing physical training for adults. In the course of time a more liberal policy gained the upper hand in Germany, and, when, in 1869, the Grand Duchy of Baden organized its State Normal School for Gymnastics, Alfred Maul was asked to become its director. Since that time he has been a tower of strength not only in Baden, but in all Germany, leading and supporting all movements looking to ihe establishment of regular systematic physical training in all the schools of the country. A wonderful speaker and n prolific writer he was always to be found in the front rank of those advocating rational body culture. It was at the Dresden National Festival in 1885 that we first met Maul, and on his invitation later visited him at Karlsruhe to see the State Normal School. When explaining to him the difficulties wc were encountering .here in America in finding suitable terms to describe a gymnastic movement in English, he called attention to his own efforts and those of his colleagues, especially Wassmansdorff, in gradually getting a German nomenclature that stood the test of common sense, and that did no violence to evorday German as it is spoken. We may add that it was this definiteness and clearness which years ago led to the adoption of MauFs “Turnsehule fuer Knaben und Maedehen" as the main text book at the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union.

Digitized by CjOOQle

J
—301—

—WE HAD HOPED to be able to tell our readers something about the decision reached by Swarthmore College as to the acceptance of the bequest left by Miss Jeanes. The trustees have, however, not held a meeting/ and so the question of accepting the two millions and discontinuing intercollegiate athletics is still undecided.

—THOSE OF OUR READERS contemplating going to Europe next summer should be certain to write to Mr. Peter Scherer, P»ox 2 18, Indianapolis, Inch, the National Secretary of the North American Gymnastic Union, so as to get the benefit of reduced ocean rates.

—IN HIS CHARACTERISTIC MANNER Dr. J. N. Thirty in the “Indianapolis News” expresses his convictions as to the efficiency of pure air at all times and under all conditions. The article is so strong, so full of common sense, and may do so much good at this time of the year that we are glad to be able to present it to our readers.

“This is the time of the year when ‘‘sore throat” is most prevalent In the summer, when we live almost all the time out of doors and the windows are constantly open, sore throat, coughs and colds and pneumonia are rare. There are fewer consumption deaths also in the summer months. All of these diseases are borne to us in the air we breathe. Indeed, we are taking the seeds into our air passages almost constantly, but in the summer time these seeds do not grow and produce sore throats, coughs, colds, etc., to near the same extent they do in winter. Why is this? Careful study and research returns us an answer. It is not the reduced temperature (cold) which causes the mischief, but the breathing of less pnre air. In the summer time, living out of doors, our windows open wide, we get an abundance of fresh pure air. This keeps our blood thoroughly oxydized, and when our blood is full of oxygen the germs which cause colds cannot grow in us. It is now known that the successful way to treat sore throat, coughs, colds, catarrh, pneumonia and consumption is to stay out of doors all day and sleep out of doors all night. If you will visit the great John Hopkins hospital or any modern hospital you will find them provided with terraces, open porches or flat roofs, conveniently arranged so that the beds holding patients may be rolled onto them, thus placing the sick in a position to enjoy the curative effects of pure, outdoor air.

When consumptives first arrive at the present day hospitals for the cure of the disease and are told they must sleep out of doors and stay out all day, they usually shudder and protest they will catch cold and the harsh air and cold will “kill them.” The doctor only smiles, for he has heard this ignorance a thousand times. He knows they acquire their disease in the house and they never would have had it, had they staved more out of doors and slept in well ventilated bed rooms.

We all understand that if we do not have food we will grow weaker and weaker, will suffer terribly and die. It will take ten, twenty, perhaps thirty or forty days for death to be caused by food starvation, but it takes from one to three years to die of air starvation. We are horrified at

Digitized by C^ooQle
—302—

stories of food starvation, but are perfectly indifferent to the fact that almost ten thousand people die annually in Indiana from air starvation. This is because it takes so long to die and because the physical and especially the mental sufferings are not so extreme. The pale, coughing, languid children so frequently seen in our schools are generally suffering from gradual air starvation. They do not have enough at school and at home they sleep in tight, unventilated bed rooms. In this way hundreds of children are killed annually and by air starvation hundreds of adults kill themselves.

Coughs, colds and all diseases of the breathing organs are induced by breathing foul air. The microbes causing coughs, colds, pneumonia, grippe and consumption are probably breathed every day by every person, hut only those who have reduced their vitality bv too much breathing of foul air, are injured. Just keep your blood fully'oxygenated by breathing pure air and you will not be bothered with colds or other troubles of the breathing organs.

The foolish, old, unfounded notion that night air is unhealthful no longer prevails. At night there is nothing else but “night air.” Do without it five minutes and we die. Let the air into bed rooms all night; air them all day and see then how much better your health is.

Air is what the blood, the tissues and the mucous surfaces must have. Deny it to them and you will suffer from colds.”

REMOVAL OF TATTOO MARKS AND GUNPOWDER

STAINS.

Dr. 0. H. Ohmann-Dumesnil, of St. Louis, in a very interesting communication published in the “New York Medical Journal,” states that he had succeeded in removing these otherwise indelible marks by tattooing the design over again with a bundle of six or ten fine cambric needles, tightly wound with silk thread, dipped in a glycerine solution of Papoid. This is repeated over the entire stain. In fact, it is tattooing with a glycerine solution of Papoid. The rationale of the method he believes to be about as follows: The digestive principle of the Papoid is disseminated about the deposit of pigment, thus liberating it. A portion is absorbed in a finelv divided state by the lymphatics; an other part probably finds its way into the upper layers of the epidermis and thence to the surface. In this manner we obtain a disappearance of the pigment.

Dr. W. M. Nelson, of Syracuse, N. Y., adopted the method of Ohman Dumesnil, of St. Louis, in the case of a young man whose face was discolored by particles of gunpowder. It was the most marked case of facial staining he had ever seen. He curetted all the part that permitted of his doing so, and squeezed out as much of the carbon in suspension as possible by means of Piffard’s Comedone Extractor. The next day he commenced tattooing with glycerine and Papoid and completed the process two days later. The Papoid produced no irritation. The result was entirely satisfactory.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-303-

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS.

Commenting on the statistics published by the department of hygiene and physical education at Amherst College, now under the direction of Dr. Paul C. Phillips, the ‘‘Medical and Surgical Journal“ says that the prepared figures show beyond doubt that the boy who goes to colleg today is taller and heavier and the girl taller, heavier and of greater chest girth than the boy and girl of the same age from 40 to 50 years ago.

Mr. J. H. Vines had in 1899 found the same facts to be true in England, the boys in Marlborough and Rugby schools, ranging from 12 to 18 years of age, being both taller and heavier at the same age than their fathers had been a quarter of a century before.

Of the girls examined at Smith College in 1900-03, those at 17 showed a superiority of a half-inch in height, three pounds in weight and two-thirds of an inch in chest girth over those at the same age 1883-88. At 18 years the superiority amounted to three-fifths of an inch in height, nearly three pounds in weight and a half inch in chest girth. These were in general corroborated by figures from Wellesley, Oberlin, Chicago and Mt. Holyoke colleges.

The Amherst College figures are from thousands of students and very reliable. They show the average heights and weights of students 17 to 20 years of age to be as follows in three different periods:

HEIGHT AMHERST COLLEGE STUDENTS

WEIGHT AMHERST COLLEGE STUDENTS.

<	Inchet —— ,

1880-84	1884-84	1900-03

17	years............... 66.8	68.0	68 2

18	.................... 67.0	68.1	68.4

19	.................... 67.1	68.2	67.7

20	...................  67.5	68 3	68.3

.--------Pounds------—s

17	years......... 128.7	130.8	129.9

18	.............. 131.1	133.6	134.5

19	.............. 133.1	136.4	135.6

20	.............. 135.0	138.0	138.2

The statistics for 1900-03 would probably show the superiority more clearly were they as numerous as those for the preceding periods. The measurements of freshmen for the years since 1903 show the class averages even higher in height, weight and strength than they were in the years 1900-03, although the average age is somewhat less.

There is evidence to show also that health, in our colleges at least, is improving. The president of one of our New England colleges, a man of unquestioned good judgment, in his report to the trustees in 1854 stated:	‘‘The	waning	of	the physical energies in the midway of the col-

lege course is almost the rule rather than the exception among us, and cases of complete breaking down are painfully numerous/' Such statements sound strange in our ears today. The health of students is generally better at graduation than on entering college, and the same might probably be said of our high schools.

Dr. Charles W. Dulles, lecturer on the History of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, continuing his 25-vear fight against accepted notions of hydrophobia as a disease and its treatment as given to

Digitized by c^ooQie
—304—

the world by Pasteur, charges that Pasteur Institutes traffic in needles* fears on the part of the public for commercial gain.

Doctor Dulles, in a letter to the “Philadelphia Ledger,” calls attention to the news item from New York stating that Isaiah Lee, impounder of dogs in Yonkers, had at last succumbed to hydrophobia after having escaped the disease in 250 cases in which he had been bitten.

Doctor Dulles has made special inquiry along this line. Only one other such case has ever come to his attention, and he proved to his satisfaction that the real cause of death had been delirium tremens. He argues that the absence of what is called hydrophobia in many countries in men who are constantly in contact with dogs of all kinds and conditions and frequently the victims of bites helps to prove his contention that the bite of a dog, rabid or sound, and the subsequent development of the conditions called hydrophobia are concomitants and not in the relationship of cause and effect.

Doctor Dulles’s letter follows:

“In the daily papers of October 10 there was published an item emanating from New York, where it is a source of revenue to keep the mind of the community upon the horrors of hydrophobia, and contemporaneous with an abstract of an article full of erroneous statements attributed to the head of the Pasteur Institute of that town a story that a dog catcher, after being bitten in the course of his career by more than 250 dogs, was dying of hydrophobia at St. John’s Hospital, Yonkers.

“This interesting narrative, if true, would have furnished me with the second case only in this country of death charged to so-called hydrophobia that I have found in 25 years of any dog catcher, keeper of a public pound or manager or worker in a public or private kennel—that is in the class of persons most bitten by sick, vicious and so-called mad dogs— so I followed my custom, and wrote at once to the chief resident physician of the St. John’s Hospital for the facts of the case. His reply is conclusive:

“ ‘Mr. Isaiah Lee did not have hydrophobia. The diagnosis wa« cerebro-spinal meningitis. Newspaper account was incorrect. He died this afternoon.’

There seems to be a singular coincidence in the two newspaper publications named above, the one false from the scientific standpoint, the other false from every standpoint. Such coincidences are not rare where Pasteur Institutes flourish. They began in Paris when Pasteur was telling the newspapers that except in his laboratory no one could be properly treated for dog bites. They seem to be part of “the method.” Happily we have no such institute in Philadelphia, and it is to be hoped from the experience of other cities that we may never have one. Their effect is aptly illustrated by the following quotation from “Science'’ October 4, 1907:

“ ‘A Pasteur Institute was opened at the University of Minnesota in August. Seventeen persons have received treatment for threatened

rabies.’

Digitized by CaOOQle
-305 —

“To use a street expression, ‘That is going some!” It beats all the records for Minnesota, and shows what can be done with diligent application to business. Fortunately it does not follow that Minnesota will always have a contingent of about a hundred persons per annum more than all the United States have furnished before the Pasteur era, who without might die of so-called hydrophobia. My investigations indicate that after the novelty of the craze wears off it takes a good deal of stirring up of the community in the newspapers to bring any such large grists to the Pasteur mills. So there is still hope.”

When asked to amplify his charges against Pasteur establishments. Doctor Dulles	declared that while lie	had ample	testimony to

that effect he woifld refrain from making it public.

When asked for a definite explanation of his attitude toward so-called hydrophobia, the Doctor said:

“I hold the	conviction	to which observation and	a	laborious study of	this subject have led	me—namely,	that	hydrophobia is not a	specific, inoculable disease, and that the	dread

of swallowing	and other phenomena which are	known

as hydrophobia do	not indicate	a specific morbid process, but	are mere

symptoms of a variety of disturbances of the animal economy, some of these being of an organic, others of a purely functional character.

“I do not deny that there is a set of symptoms which for want of a better name may without great impropriety be called ‘hydrophobia ’ What I deny is that these symptoms depend upon a specific virus derived from a rabid animal. It is undeniable that the symptoms of hydrophobia may follow the bite of a dog suffering with what is called rabies, but so they may, in	most typical forms, the bite	of one that is	simply	angry,

or not angry at	all, and quite healthy, or of	a man who is	simply	angry,

or they may arise in the progress of a variety of diseases or spontaneously as the result of fear.

“In all these cases the phenomena and the issue are exactly the same. There can, therefore, be nothing specific of a so-called mad dog, unless the word ‘specific’ be given a new meaning to suit this particular case.” The discussion that has waged around points raised by Doctor Dulles has been largely academic. He has a following in the medical profession and a larger one among the veterinarians. Many who share in part his attitude toward Pasteur believe that the treatment serves a psychic purpose, even if Doctor Dulles is right in his theory that a great deal of so-called hydrophobia is the work of the imagination of the victim.

One of the best carriers of pathogenic (disease producing) germs is dust. Therefore we strive to keep our gymnasium as free from it as possible and advocate exercising in the open as much as possible. In the schoolroom exercises like running and hopping are discarded on account of the dust stirred up from between the flooring. Streets are sprinkled (alas insufficiently) to prevent dust clouds produced by rapid transit cars and automobiles. But we do not think of many other ways

Digitized by C^ooQle
-3og -

of preventing disease produeing germs in onr homes, such as the brushing of the footwear and clothes in the living rooms, the dusting of furniture, by merely removing the dust from one place to give it a chance to settle in another. The “New York Medical Journal” recently called attention to the ladies’ hats as a common carrier of dust thus: “The milliner's feather duster dusts the air. The woman who wears it hears about with her a drag net operating at a height of a little more than five feet above the pavement, a very promising altitude at winch to gather in microbes. The feathers are so many tentacles for use in the chase. When she gesticulates with her head she distributes her “catch” upon the just and the unjust impartially, in church, ip the theater, and elsewTiere. On her return to the home she is very apt to wave the plumage over her sleeping child, only to wonder, a few days later, from whom little Johnnie got the scarlet fever.”

A NEW METHOD OF ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION.

At the Seventh International Physiological Congress Prof. E. A. Schaefer, of Edinburgh, demonstrated a new' method of performing artificial respiration in man, which appears to be better than the older methods that are ordinarily practiced. In this procedure, which is especially valuable in the resuscitation of the apparently drowmed, the person, on removal from the water, is instantly laid prone on the ground, the head being allowed to fall downward and somewhat sideways, with the tongue naturally protruding partly from the mouth. No manipulation of the tongue is necessary. The operator kneels by the side of or across the hips of the patient, places his hands flat upon the back over the lowest ribs, and with the weight of his body presses firmly and gradually so as to expel the contents of the lungs. On his relaxing the pressure, wdiieh he does by swinging his body slowly up without removing the hands, the chest of the patient resumes its former dimensions and fresh air is thereby drawn into the lungs. These movements of pressure and release are repeated about every five seconds, not oftener. The amount of air which in this way can be expelled by pressure from the chest and reintroduced by the elasticity of its parietes is never less than 500 c. c. and may attain 1000 c. c. or more with each respiration. Bv repeating the movements 12 times a minute an air exchange of from 6,000 to 12,000 c. c. can readily be effected, which is more than enough to constitute efficient respiration. This Professor Schaefer demonstrated on the passive living subject by the use of a face mask and spirometer.

Comparative measurements on normal passive subjects have demonstrated that for periods of time beyond one or two miuntcs the method of Professor Schaefer gives more air exchange than any other, although when single measurements are taken some of the older procedures seem to be the more efficacious. It should be kept in mind, how’ever, that in practicing artificial respiration it is necessary to keep up the procedure for more than a minute or two, and that the most efficient method is the one that gives the best results for long periods of time. The application

Digitized by CjOOQle
—307—

of pressure by this method is less fatiguing than by any of the others; such as the Silvester, the Pacini, and the Marshall Hall. With the methods just mentioned it has been found impossible to keep up artificial respiration in a normal but passive subject for any length of time on account of the discomfort and the relative inefficiency of the air exchange. Bv the new method artificial respiration has been maintained the operator and without any demand for natural respiration on the part of the subject.

The method has already been tested with success in cases of drowning, and those who saw the demonstration made by Professor Schaefer on the passive living subject were impressed with its simplicity and its efficiency. It should be preferred to all other methods in attempting the resuscitation of drowned persons, and should be given a prominent place in courses of ambulance and first aid instruction.—(From editorial in New York and Philadelphia Medical Journal, October 19, 1907.)

EXERCISES OF THE LUMBAR REGION.

Dr. Desfosses of Paris in the “Paris Medical Press” gives nineteen illustrations of various exercises and their action on the different muscles. He emphasizes the importance of utilizing the weight of different parts of the body as a means of heightening the resistance and thus making greater demands on the muscles without the necessity for weights and appliances.

PLAYGROUNDS IN THE PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS.

Dr. Faville, in the “Chicago Medical Recorder,” states that to the child the playground must be made attractive, wholesome and so unrestricted as to give to every child a proprietary interest. On the other hand, by every conceivable means the elders must be made to realize the privilege and beneficienc of the playground, and brought into actual cooperation in magnifying the interests of children as a principle of their up-bringing. To bring the uninlightened parent to value the playground as he values the schoolroom is a colossal undertaking, but unless this can be accomplished the work will fall short of the legitimate possibilities.

A CURE FOR THE BLUES,

Everybody has the blues. Some are born with them, some acquire them, and others have them thrust upon them. Some have them part of the time, some half of the time and some all the time.

Blues, like everything else, have their causes, prominent among which are ill health, vanity, fear, trouble—real or imaginary.

We know that physical states affect the mind, and that mental states affect the physical organs.

It was Warren Hastings who, in the midst of bitterly trying circumstances impressed all observers as a man possessing a “mind calm amid

Digitized by C^ooQle
-308 -

difficulties.” Let him tell the secret of his admirable self-possession, since we in private life need to know all possible magic having the power to calm our rebellious spirits.

“When I reflect,” he said, ‘‘upon my present circumstances—when I listen to the railings of my accusers, and when my spirit rises up against them, I call to my mind the story of an Indian king whose temper never knew a medium, and who in prosperity was hurried into extravagance by his joy, while in adversity grief overwhelmed him with' dispondency.

“Having suffered many inconveniences through his weakness he gave notice that on his forthcoming birthday, the most acceptable present any of his courtiers could make would be a sentence short enough to be engraved on a ring, and suggesting a remedy for the grievance of which he complained.

“Many phrases were accordingly proposed, but not one that was satisfactory until his daughter came forward and offered him an emerald on which were engraved two Arabic words the literal translation of which was: ‘This, too, will pass.’

“The king embraced his child, and declared that she was wiser than all his wise men.

“How,” continued Hastings, “when I appear at the bar and hear the violent invectives of my enemies I arm myself- with patience. I reflect upon the mutability of human life and say to myself, ‘This, too, will pass5. ”

All of the fits of blues that we have ever had have passed away; and all that we are likely to have will pass away if we will keep on hustling, keep on trying to do something for somebody else, and repeat to ourselves mentally or orally, “This, too, will pass.”

PHILADELPHIA PLAYGROUND STATISTICS.

During the months of July and August the Board of Public Education of Philadelphia conducted fifty-nine playgrounds under the direction of the Department of Physical Education. Fifty-six playgrounds were in school yards and three were in open fields. 130 teachers, mostly women, were employed during July, and 97 during August. In addition to these the janitors of the 56 schools were also employed during both months. This large teaching corps was under the direction of one supervisor, Miss Elizabeth O’Neill, and two assistants, Miss Mary J. Price and Miss Mary Broadbelt. A total of 797,545 visits was recorded during the 49 days the grounds were open, the highest attendance being 39,393 in a playground with a free swimming bath attached. The smallest attendance for the season in a ground was 4,443. The playgrounds were open seven hours per day and six days per week, those with a large attendance having several teachers. The total cost for salaries and play-materials was $30,560.50. The average attendance per day in all grounds was 16,276 children. The cost per child for the season of 49 days was $1.88. The cost per child per day of 7 hours was 3 8/10 cents.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—309—

THE CLOTHES BRUSH.

The brushing of dusty clothes in the living rooms of the household is opposed to cleanly sentiment, apart altogether from the evil to health. The imagination does not require to be stretched very far to realize that the clothes brush might be easily responsible for the dissemination of disease. Dust is rarely, if ever, free from micro-organisms and amongst them pathogenic entities have been recognized. Dust is, in fact, an enemy of the human race, a vehicle of disease, and should everywhere and on every occasion, however trifling, be prevented as far as means can be employed to that end. The clothes brush is a vigorous dust-producing agent. Clothes, of course, must be brushed just as carpets must be beaten, but both processes create a nuisance which is different not in kind, but only in degree. Just, therefore, as there are grounds reserved for the beating of carpets remote from human habitation, so also ought there to be in a household conducted on hygienic lines a special room relegated to the brushing of clothes. Sanitary reformers would, no doubt, suggest that provision might also be made for trapping the dust by soome such simple measure as suspending a damp sheet across the room. The daily clothes have a large capacity and a singular affinity for dust which may contain the seeds of a common cold or sore throat or even a blood poisoning and tetanus. The brushing of clothes is, in fact, a clumsy and an unsanitary procedure, which might with advantage be superseded by some more effectual and less offensive method. The use of some kind of vacuum brush for the purpose would, sanitarily speaking, be ideal. —“Red Cross Notes.”

ATHLETICS AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

Compiled by EMANUEL HAUG.

—Cross country runs are becoming more popular day by day. The New York High Schools are putting out excellent teams due to the untiring efforts of such well-known men as Bonhag, Kelly, Daly and Nobis. These men give up their time from business for the sake of helping athletics and certainly deserve the thanks of the athletic world. The annual Cross Country Championship for the High Schools of New York will be held December 7th over a three mile course and from present outlooks at least one hundred boys will be out.

The active members of the Turner societies of Boston and vicinity have made arrangements for a cross country run on Thanksgiving day under the direction of Mr. Louis Schmidt. This endeavor of many Turner societies all over the country to interest their actives in outdoor activities is one of the most encouraging signs of the new course pur* nied by many of the teachers.

* * *

—Soccer football seems to have taken a strong foothold in the

Digitized by c^ooQle
—Slo-

Eastern States. The Public Schools Athletic League of New York has arranged tournaments for both high and elementary schools. One high school in Brooklyn has not less than 54 teams, each team being picked from one class. They haye a regular schedule and play as many as three games on an afternoon after school.

* * *

—At the present rate of condemnation, Rugby Football will soon be abolished in all preparatory schools. Although the game under the new rules is more open and consists of more running, the accidents occuring are due to too strong tackling and downing. After a player is downed to make sure that he will not wiggle away from his adversary the rest of the opposing team deem it their duty to pile on. A few more days and there will be a tabulation something like this:	No.	killed—. Broken

collar bones—. Broken arms—. Wrenched knee—. Broken ribs— Broken legs—. Sprained ankles—. Water on the knee—. Broken noses—. etc., etc.

Tt has been claimed in New York that football was indirectly the cause of the latest financial panic. A well-known financier and at the same time a sport of the old school has figured out that at least $2,000.-000 were tied up by bets placed on the Princeton-Indian and Harvard-Indian games. If not entirely true, still there is no doubt that football had something to do with the crisis, judging from the many sore heads seen about town.

* * *

—The latest stars which have loomed brilliantly on the athletic horizon during the last year are Fred. Bellars, Matt McGrath, of the New York A. C.; Billy Keating and Richard Cloughan of the Irish-American A. C., and L. B. Dorland of the Pastime A. C.

Dollar's prominence is most wonderful. Unknown to the athletic world less than a year ago he suddenly leaped into prominence at the 13th Regiment Armory, Brooklyn, by defeating well known champions by as large a margin as his handicap. After the games he was taken in charge by the Newr York A. C., and to-day he is considered in a class by himself. On Election Day in a four mile run at Celtic Park he beat out Daly, the Olympic Champion, and Bonhag, holder of many records, by 25 to 75 yards respectively.

McGrath undoubtedly is a wonderful athlete. He now holds the world’s record with the 16 pound hammer, raising the record from 16-4 feet 4 inches, held by John Flanagan, to 173 feet 9 inches.

Keating and Coughlan have on several occasions made the 100 yardg in less than 10 seconds.

Dorland, only a fewT years out of high school, where he wras noted for his peculiar method of running, is to-day considered one of the best men at 300 yards. He has seldom lost a race at this distance, and time and again has beaten the best men in the Metropolitan District.

* * *
-311-

—Under the management of Peter Overfield, once the all-American renter of the University of Pennsylvania football team, a basket ball team from Alaska will soon tour the United States. Business men of Alaska have already subscribed $10,000 toward' the undertaking. Manager Overfield claims that his aggreagation of players is the strongest he has ever seen. The two most popular players on the team are Barry Keown, Captain of the Arctic Brotherhood Team and also captain of this picked team, who was captain of the Knickerbocker Athletic Club Team of New York from 1893 to 1900, and Dan S. Alford, formerly captain of the University of Kansas for several seasons.

BOOK REVIEW.

—"GRADED APPARATUS WORK/’ By S. P. Middleton, Director of Physical Training, Homestead, Pa. This L a progressive series of exercises on the high and low horizontal bars, the parallel bars, the rings, the side and long horse, the buck and in tumbling (mat work). The selected exercises are af a medium grade of difficulty, and are printed on 75 cards, each card having the exercises that are to be performed by a squad during an evening. By means of these cards the teacher can intelligently direct the work of his leaders, instead of allowing them to show the exercises they happen to know or skip in a haphazard way from one group of exercises to another. The price of the cards is $1.00. For the benefit of such that need them Mr. Middleton has also published four drills, namely, a Free Hand, Indian Club, Dumbbell and a Wand Drill, at the price of 10 cents each, postpaid.

—“THE FACTORS OF SAFETY IN ANIMAL STRUCTURE AND ANIMAL ECONOMY,” is the title of a lecture by Dr. S J. Meltzer, which is printed in “Science," March 29, 1907. In the last number we brought a short review of this admirable study in the article which we reprinted from “American Medicine.” Since that time a personal study of the original has disclosed so many valuable points that we want to call the attention of all students of physical training to this lecture so that they may read it. The main argument is against the position taken by Professor Chittenden and his co-laborers as a result of their experiments in the use of a low proteid diet. Meltzer produces a vast array of examples to show that nature does not operate along the lines of "greatest accomplishments with a minimum supply of material and energy.” As a deduction from the example produced Meltzer finds that the tissues and organs of the living organism are abundantly provided

with factors of safety.....that the structural provisions of the living

organism are not built on the principle of economy. On the contrary, the superabundance of tissue and mechanisms indicate clearly that safety, not economy, is the goal of animal organization. Meltzer also, as a concluding remark, says that it seems to him that the factors of safety have an important place in the process of natural selection. Those sepecies which are

Digitized by C^ooQle
-312-

provided with an abundance of useful structure and energy, and are best prepared to meet many emergencies are best fitted to survive in the struggle for existence.

Published by the MacMillan Company. Price, post paid, 25 cents.

—‘‘LOOKING FORWARD.” A Treatise on the Status of Woman, and on the Origin and Growth of the Family and the State, by Philip Rappaport. Published by Charles H. Kerr, Chicago.

By means of many examples Rappaport shows that all our present institutions, as well as those of the past, are the results of economic conditions. That like everything else on earth these conditions are always changing and improving. That consequently when our present economic conditions change and disappear our present social institutions also will be changed. Calling attention to the narrow views formerly held by the science of social-economy which made it a dismal science, unable to kindle a ray of hope or warm a soul, the author shows that this newer conception brings to us hope and an assurance of improvement. What matters it, says he, whether the social edifice of the future will correspond exactly with the ideal created by reasoning intellect and lofty imagination? There is hope, there is expectation, there is life, there is enthusiasm; there is struggle and there is the certainty of a better future.

To any one interested in social advancement, and which teacher i3 not? this book can be warmly recommended. Price, $1.00.

These books may be ordered from “Mind and Body,” Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

3-uet	©ttt!

Successful Drills and Marches

.BY...

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUNDOREN,

Graduate of the

Burnham Normal School of Physical Training, Milwaukee, Wis. Formerly Physical Director of the Kansas State Agricultural College,

And for six years

Physical Director of the Burlington, la.. Young Women’s Christian Association

PRICE. 50 CENTS.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by CjOOQle