MIND AND BODY

Vol. 17

JUNE, 1910.

No 190

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mas6.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STF.CHER, *]2 W. Johhson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

The phenomenon of heredity and the results of environment are so closely interwoven that it is difficult to declare where one begins and the other ceases. Heredity is defined as the transmission from the parent to the offspring of general and acquired traits and qualities; or, the tendency which exists in every animal or plant in all essential characteristics to resemble its parent and thus to be of the same species. Heredity is, therefore, intrinsic.

Environment is whatever encompasses or surrounds; external circumstances and conditions and, therefore, extrinsic. Environment tends to shape the mental and physical characteristics and these, in turn, may be and often are transmitted to the offspring, thus assuming the nature of heredity traits. Compensation, in this connection, may be termed the sum of benefits arising from an adaptation to environment.

General traits are those that come from remote ancestry as well as from other causative factors such as environment, inter-marriage, anatomical and physiological abnormal traits of the progenitors. In fact, man is the product of the eons of past ages. Whatever of good or .bad, refinement or viciousness that exists in the individual existed in his ancestors. Man, in other words, is the composite of all that has gone before him. His environment may determine his traits or characteristics and these be accentuated or subdued in his progeny, but he will bear in his mental and physical make-up the unmistakable impress of the evolution through and to all past living creatures, including simian, reptilian and piscian. The defective represents interrupted progress in the evolution of man as we find him today at his best; while natural selection and the survival of the fittest have made it possible for progress. It took many generations to accomplish the conditions as we find them today and then only through the natural destruction of the defective or unfit. Climate, the elements, the ability to procure sustenance, and to maintain oneself amidst his natural enemies, sociological and other factors in his environment had to be met and adjusted to his benefit. Only the strong survived and through transmission of their characteristics to the offspring, through heredity, could progress be made. The weak or defective

HEREDITY AND ENVIRONMENT.

By John W. Wainwright, M.D., New York.

Digitized by
-122

fell, became extinct, while such as were fitted to make their way through the multitude of obstacles, survived.

There are four general methods of inheritance of qualities or traits:

First: The qualities of the parents may blend in the offspring. This is-illustrated in stature and in skin color; the progeny of the white father and the black mother being neither white nor black but what is termed mulatto.

Second: The quality may be inherited from one parent wholly. This has been termed alterative heritage and is illustrated in the color of eye and hair, the offspring having the color, both of eye and hair, or of either eye or hair, of one parent.

Third:	In	one part of the body the quality may be exactly like that

of one parent; in another part exactly that of the other parent. This is known as particulate inheritance and is markedly noticeable in animals such as the horse, dog and other mammals. In the horse one parent may be black, the other white and the issue gray, or dappled, or one bay and the other white and the offspring the so-called ‘tcalico,, or white and red spotted.

Fourth: Reversion. This is inheritance from a remote ancestor or, perhaps, more truly speaking, the absence of typical immediate inheritance. Reversion is illustrated in the mixing of two races of varying characteristics, the offspring having traits and characteristics resembling neither parent, but like the ancestral. Numerous illustrations familiar to the physician might be cited to illustrate reversion, mental and physical characteristics being especially in evidence.

Fifth: We may have qualities strongly marked in both parents transmitted in a very marked degree to the offspring. This is known as the law of cumulative or convergent inheritance.

Sixth: Inherited qualities will appear in the offspring at the same age as when they Manifested themselves in the parent—law of homochronous heredity—or if intensified by cumulative heredity they may appear at a younger age*

Seventh: Morbid or abnormal conditions or diseases which are hereditarily transmitted may produce in the offspring similar conditions—similar morbid heredity, or dissimilar conditions having nevertheless a strong affinity to the parental condition—heredity by transformation.

It has been shown that not only when the cell has divided twice, but four times, and even sixteen times, the separate cells if dissociated from the group can pursue a separate existence and become well developed organisms of the parent type, thus showing the persistence of heredity.

As elsewhere indicated, man’s mental and physical organization has been developed through untold generations and is the resultant of hereditary culture and physical development transmitted by all of his ancestors. Every cell in man’s body is so differentiated from others that each performs a special function and life work with the same precision and response to hereditary tendency as does the individual. These cells act in response-to stimulation from the nerve centers. So long as these nerve centers are normal, the action of the cells will be normal, but if the nerve centers are modified or rendered abnormal through disease or otherwise, there will result hereditary abnormal tendencies and the offspring will partake of the abnormalities.

General heredity is characterized by repetitions of the physical, mental and moral peculiarities of the ancestors; for instance, children will sometimes so closely resemble one or other of their parents as to be at once recognized

Digitized by C^ooQle
—123—

through the strong resemblance. In certain families special tendencies such as complexion, stature and weight become habitual and as they appear at certain times in life conclusions may be forecast. Again, certain families tend to long life, to twins, to certain habits, religions, business or professional tendencies, to music, the stage, to genius or mediocrity and to moral or criminal tendencies. These latter psychological traits—normal or abnormal—are more unerring in their appearance than the physical, and are forcibly illustrated in families of soldiers, advocates, musicians, statesmen, financiers and business men of history. The Jew has ever been shrewd in trade, the Indian in cunning.

Prenatal influences, or direct causes for individual variations, are the a priori factors which exert the elective influences in transmitting hereditary traits or characteristics invariably determining the offsprings individuality, or in other words, hereditary characteristics tend to be transmitted; acquired v characteristics or traits to modify these same traits. Prenatal influences tend to further modify and make permanent these characteristics in the offspring. If the prenatal influences are indifferent or not strongly marked, they interfere less with the transmission of general hereditary tendencies. If, on the other hand* these same influences are strongly marked, the tendency is to accentuate characteristics of the ancestors. Prenatal influences are unquestionably very important factors in individual, characteristics, and this influence is very largely dependent upon the physical and mental conditions of the father and mother at the period of conception; especially is this true of the mother’s physical, mental and moral condition at this period, and upon her environment during the early months of pregnancy, the constructive functions of the cells responding to maternal influences in these early months. We thus see the necessity for mental balance, agreeable surroundings and physical health of the mother. Too much stress cannot be laid upon these conditions at such times.

When a child is conceived during the period of inebriation of father or mother there must be a tendency to alcoholic indulgence in the offspring. If there is a lack of affection; if either parent is, at the,time, mentally occupied in planning the execution of a crime; if during the stress of poverty, hunger or other depressing conditions of mind, the child is likely, at least, to be influenced and show like or similar tendencies.

On the other hand like tends to produce like; hatred, hatred; violence, violence; dishonesty, dishonesty; love, love; strength, strength mental and physical. Environment plays a very important role in the individual tendencies, indeed it is a question whether environment does not more materially influence the characteristics or traits of the individual than does heredity. Heredity traits can be influenced through environment, or so modified as to be unrecognizable.

Occasionally a child is born and grows to manhood amidst the most vicious environments, but inheriting a character so strong, so inherently good, that he rises above his environment and develops into a most useful and exemplary citizen. A child may thus become unlike the parent by training or through environment.

Ordinarily, however, the child of the slums, reared amidst squalor, with vicious associates and surroundings may be expected to develop traits similar to those of his companions whom he naturally seeks to emulate. A stunted

Digitized by L.ooQle
-124-

body and mind will develop a diseased body and mind. Until sociological conditions can be made to approach the ideal we must not expect to find always the ideal citizen nor should the unfortunate be always condemned, but rather their environment should be improved. Disease and crime can be largely controlled through well directed and earnestly applied means, and thus through environment, will unfavorable heredity be so modified as to lose much of its curse. Then and then only will humanity receive the compensation which is its due.

Opinions have changed within recent years as to the hereditary transmission of disease. But a few years since the opinion prevailed that most diseases were hereditary, notably tuberculosis. Authorities have since denied the communicability of tuberculosis. Today we know that this disease is contagious, and that while it is not directly transmitted, a predisposition to acquire it is inherited, and that the descendants of tuberculous parents or ancestors are more prone to contract the disease than those whose ancestors were free from it. There is an immunity, however, to disease in the children of those who have been thus affected, else, how account for some members of a family being free from a disease strongly marked in the parents, such, for instance, as tuberculosis, insanity, chorea.

Social environment is responsible not alone for physical deterioration in the individual but for dormant mental characteristics such as vices, crimes, neuroses, insanities, idiocies, and the various fads and love of mysticism. But as elsewhere stated man is not simply the creature of his environment, but the product of bygone ages. He may be influenced by his environment which may determine one or numerous dormant characteristics, but nevertheless he is the sum of his ancestors. With the impress of civilization there follows greater mental and physical exhaustion and this in time is followed by hysteria, melancholy, neurasthenia, the use of stimulants and a desire for excitement. These, accentuated, presage crime, insanity, the loss of will power or lack of ability to concentrate one’s thoughts, and these in turn are transmitted to the offspring, and thus we account for the fact established by statistics that 50 per cent of all criminals are bom criminals.

It is said that one in every 300 in England, and one in 500 in the United States becomes insane. Heredity and the strain of environment are responsible for this state of affairs. An unstable nervous condition resulting from sociological factors will develop into alcoholism, speculation, fast living, to be followed in the succeeding generation by various psychoses, such as neurasthenia, hysteria with an occasional degenerate or genius; and this again by more pronounced degeneracy, epilepsy and brain deterioration and again by idiocy, feeble mindedness and finally the cycle is made complete by sterility and annihilation, and thus spontaneous cure. Thus nature comes to* the rescue and wipes from the face of the earth the undesirable and allows the world to progress.

This picture is not overdrawn, but does not always follow in the sequence detailed, for certain traits may be obliterated and spontaneous cure follow, and this is effected through the laws of heredity and environment; but these same traits may also lie dormant to become again in evidence in future generations.

Precocious children may show an aptitude or even a genius for certain callings not observed in the parent, but the tendency can be traced7 to some

Digitized by CjOOQle
-125-

past generation or it be shown that the parent has those qualities or traits undeveloped.

Moral diseases, like physical diseases, are contagious, epidemic and hereditary. The sons of vicious and corrupt men reproduce the very nature of their parents.

If the offspring come from ancestors well endowed mentally and well formed physically, he will possess these characteristics of organization and be equipped for the combat of life and prepared to pursue his way by his own virtues and energies. On the other hand, if he spring from a stock already marked with the stigmata of hereditary blemish, he comes into life with a badly balanced organization and inherited defects latent and ready to develop when some cause, accidental or otherwise, arises to start them into activity.

If the immediate ancestry be defective or' the maternal environment during fetal life be poor, the atavistic tendency to a remote type will develop at the expense of advance unless parried by the favorable influences of changed or improved environment. Upon the mother depends to a great extent the preservation of the type and of accidental variations introduced by the male.

Immediate heredity, may be malign or otherwise as environment shall determine. As above stated, the mother is the great factor in heredity, as a healthy mother may offset the paternal defects of a generation. Maternal environment involves the question of maternal impressions. Profound shock, destitution, want of food, etc., act upon the mother and may deleteri-ously influence the fetus, for not only does poverty produce anemia and malnutrition of the fetus, but profound shock disturbs the bodily metabolism. A more delicate molecular transmission during maturation of the ovum, during its fertilization, or during the embryonic stages of the more complex and, therefore, more readily disturbed and distorted human germ, will account for the disastrous effect of insanity or other mental and physical disturbances in the offspring. Epileptic children may result from the effect paternal inebriety has upon maternal health and environment.

Herbert Spencer has shown that with the increase in growth and specialization there follows a decrease in the explosive manifestations in early biologic history, in the function of reproduction which is common to all cells. With advance in evolution, the functions of cells become specialized and the extent of reproductive power is decreased. This specialization, Spencer designates individuation. In degeneracy the organism returns to the lower type and consequently tends to a reversion of individuation. From this cause results the plural and frequently repeated kinhs in the degenerate. The occurrence of large families, therefore, is not an expression of advance but of degeneracy.

The absence of deep emotional feeling enables the defective or certain individuals or organisms to weather the storms of stress, and thus they pass through life like a cork through the disturbed waters, while those of the higher type, having a lack of brute force are crowded into those pursuits where there is less storm and where the finer senses receive the least amount of friction and shock.—Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.

ISP ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.
-126-

THE EVOLUTIONS OF ATHLETIC EVILS.

Third Paper by Wilbur P. Bowen, Professor of Physical Education,

State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Michigan.

The growth of student athletics has been very rapid for twenty years. From small beginnings in a few'eastern universities the movement has not only grown to enormous proportions where it started, but it has spread to nearly all the colleges and high schools in the country. This rapid growth has brought about some serious athletic problems that have compelled the attention of teachers, and for several years past the educational press has brought out many able discussions of these problems. As a result of the chance afforded to study the growth and development of various phases of athletic life and custom, and the illumination given in these discussions, we can now see clearly some things that were formerly rather hazy and of doubtful significance.

One notable change within the last few years has been the gradual falling away of active opposition to athletics as a part of education. It is practically admitted by everybody nowadays that the athl.etic games and sports have come to stay, and that there is a good reason for their staying. The general public is just beginning to recognize for the first time that the occupations of everyday life in the future, and especially with the more intelligent classes, will not afford enough bodily exercise and training to maintain the physique of the race. Leading educators are seeing for the first time that something like athletic training is necessary to the highest mental development. Physicians are urging as never before the universal practice of bodily exercises as one great means of health, instead of relying solely on the taking of medicine. So strong has this sentiment become in all directions that there no longer exists any practical opposition to the general advisability of athletic sports.

Albng with the growing recognition of the hygienic and educational value of athletic practice has come t;he realization that high school and college sports, as now carried on, do not even remotely approach the accomplishment of what they can do along these lines. They are apparently conducted for the benefit of the few who least need such training, rather than for the good of the mass of students; their main purpose seems to be spectacular, rather than hygienic. and educational; they frequently lead to various forms of dishonesty and brutality, and to all degrees of excess. How can we account for such an amazing inconsistency? What motive can there be strong enough to induce a college or a high school, purporting to stand for all that is highest and best in Christian civilization, to secretly hire trained athletes to play on its teams? What advantage can there be in such an institution’s making a false showing in athletics? Why should our educational institutions, the county over, sacrifice the best interests of 90 per cent of their students in order to promote a series of shows given by their few best athletes?

A brief study of the evolution of American college athletics and athletic customs clears the mystery and shows exactly how such misuse of athletics has arisen. A century ago, when the foundations of our educational system were being laid, American life called for no special means to secure bodily training. Fully 95 per cent of the population lived in the country. Pioneer life in the midst of a new country had developed a hardy

Digitized by CjOOQle
-127-

race. In the past of the race the work necessary to secure the necessities of life had always provided all the bodily development that was necessary. No one in those days ever dreamed of the complete revolution that the invention of machinery has since wrought in the occupations and life habits of the American people. .Those who attended the colleges and academies of those days went there, in most instances, from the active outdoor life of the farm, and looked forward to a life of considerable bodily activity afterwards. The educational system was moulded to meet the needs of these people as they saw them. In a sparsely settled country, with very limited opportunities for reading and for social intercourse, and with a democratic form of government, education was planned to give students a liberal culture, a more scholarly and polite use of the mother tongue, and the opportunity to acquire useful knowledge, especially along lines pertaining to industry and politics. When, as time went on, college men began to take up athletic sports, no one thought of them as having any serious importance, either educationally or otherwise. Since they were considered simply as forms of amusement which certain persons chose to follow, it was naturally expected that those who took part in them should pay whatever it cost to carry them on. Even after they assumed great proportions, and after it began to be seen that they had great educational value, still the college authorities everywhere adhered to the tradition that the colleges were intended to provide intellectual culture only, and considered it entirely outside the province of a school or college to provide the funds to carry on athletic work.

As the attention given to athletics increased, the need of money to provide the maintenance of the sports increased along with it. The students interested in the sports, failing to secure from the funds of the institution any allowance for their maintenance, saw that the existence of any such training depended upon their putting on the market a kind and quality of sport that would pay. Working along this line they soon found that financial support depended upon their putting out a winning team. They found that the average individual likes to be on the winning side of everything, and that while people have a moderate desire to see games and contests, they have an immensely greater interest in the team or the man who can beat all competitors. They found that the average community will give liberal support to a team that can win all its games, but that it will not give*much financial or moral support to a team that loses.

As soon as the promoters of athletics clearly grasped this principle, they at once set about making athletics pay. The old idea of athletics for health and for discipline was discarded; that of athletics for revenue took its place. What had been sport now became business; what had been friendly competition became war. “The team” existed but for one purpose: to defeat and humiliate the teams of rival institutions; only in that way could it swell the gate receipts. The mass of students, lacking unusual physical ability; merited consideration only in so far as they would aid in the enterprise by paying the admission fee and “rooting” for the team. With a zeal and shrewdness seldom surpassed in the world of finance, many a genius of the college world has invented schemes that have been used in every college and high school. Professional coaches have been employed; famous athletes from the alumni have been brought back to help the coach whip the team into fighting trim; students, coaches, and alumni have been set at the work of inducing promising athletes to come to the institution; athletes have been

Digitized by CaOOQie
-128-

enticed and even hired to leave rival institutions and play against their old associates; newspapers have been induced to give large space and attention to the games and to individual players of certain institutions; players have been given extra inducements in the form of expensive uniforms and equipment for the sport, free board at the “training table,” long and frequent railroad trips, and an amount of hero worship seldom equalled in the days of chivalry.

The system has worked wrell for what it was intended. The success of athletics as a commercial venture has been phenomenal, even in this commercial age. Single games sometimes bring in gate receipts amounting to more than a thousand dollars apiece for all the men on both of the competing teams. Several of the largest student associations spend more than $100,000 annually for the expenses of teams. Several have an equipment, paid for by earnings and by gifts of loyal alumni, approaching half a million dollars. The athletics of smaller institutions have also met with prosperity on a smaller scale.

The financial success of student athletics has given them a standing and prestige with the general public that they could not have gained in the same time in any other way. Business men appreciate financial success, and are apt to measure success in dollars and cents. As a consequence, many who looked upon athletics a few years ago as a piece of student foolishness are now enthusiastic supporters of the games. College men, formerly held in little esteem in the commercial world, won the respect of the public when they demonstrated that they were able to make money. Coming to have an interest in athletics in this way, the general public naturally thinks of the matter as a financial proposition and accepts the commercial idea of athletics as the correct one.

A great many people, both students and citizens, viewing the matter from this standpoint, have little patience with the disposition of faculty committees to frame rules of eligibility and to discourage the custom of offering inducements to good athletes. What harm is there, they ask, in hiring good men, if by so doing you can pay them and realize a profit? That is good business. If a college may hire a good teacher in all propriety, why not a good athlete? No one ever demands that a doctor be an amateur, then why a ball player? Why should a college faculty discriminate against its own teams by requiring all the players to keep up in their studies to the same standard as those students who have no athletic work to do? What sense is there in hampering a system that works so well by a lot of rules and restrictions that have nothing to do with the case ?

As long as the commercial basis of the present system is accepted as the correct one by the college authorities, there is no answer to these questions. The trouble with student athletics is not on the surface, but in the principles on which the system is founded. Athletics promoted, as most student athletics are today, chiefly in the interest of their earning capacity, are essentially professional. What matters it whether the proceeds go to benefit the system as a whole or the players individually? The distinction is a mere matter of words. The whole train of athletic evils against which the faculty committees and the intercollegiate boards have been battling are the natural and inevitable results of the false principles on which the system rests. As long as we expect the athletics to support themselves, we must expect the managers to play to draw a crowd; since this depends on winning,

Digitized by CaOOQle
-129-

winning will be considered the thing of supreme importance; as long as athletics are carried on between teams and before crowds who look at it from this standpoint, the temptations to dishonesty, brutality, and excess will be too great for many to withstand. As long as the purpose of athletics is commercial, the spirit will not rise above the spirit of the stock exchange, no matter what rules the faculty committee try to enforce. Efforts to reform have met with only partial and temporary success, because they have been mainly attempts to remove certain evils while retaining the system and the spirit from which they inevitably spring.

In the great schools for boys in England and in a few schools and colleges in this country the institution has furnished room and equipment for athletic sports, and has provided for the organization and practice of such sports irrespective of physical ability. In these institutions the percentage of students engaging in some form of bodily training is two or three times as great as in those that are most famous for their athletics, the sports are more uniformly beneficial to the participants, and the evils are much less evident. In a few institutions the fund is raised by a subscription or voluntary assessment paid by the members of the school, no admission fees being charged at the games. This is a great improvement over the usual system, as shown by the greater numbers benefited and the general spirit of the student body. The students of such institutions have a healthy interest in taking part in real sport, rather than in taking it all by proxy, and they are more apt to be loyal to the team at all times, whether it wins or not. The man in a paid seat in the bleacher is not the best exponent of college spirit; he has paid for the satisfaction of seeing his side win, and he wants his money’s worth; he is gleeful and noisy as long as his team is ahead and gaining, but subsides into sullen and silent gloom when it is losing. This is a cheap brand of loyalty, but it is the kind that has been developed by the system.

The school and college authorities who wish athletic reform can get it at any time when they are ready to provide the funds; then they can dictate the method of expenditure and the system will be free from the commercial spirit and the moral and educational evils that go along with it. Some fear that to divorce commercialism from sport will take away all vim, but the instinctive desire to excel, possessed by every normal individual, is a sufficient incentive to make everyone anxious to win. This is natural and right, and gives to all plays and games the zest that makes them so great a force in education; the influence is bad when the desire tQ win is exaggerated out of all reason by making financial support and the existence of the sports depend upon winning.

It is not surprising that coaches, students, and citizens should see in athletics a commercial instead of an educational problem; they are not students of education, and they have been driven to their point of view by the failure of faculties, principals, and governing boards to provide the funds for this branch of education as they provide for all others. It is surprising • that the leaders of education in America, those who dictate or advise the apportionment of funds among all branches of education, should have for two decades failed to grasp the educational value of this work and have left it to go off on a tangent; it is still more surprising that the teachers, the great band of wide-awake and progressive people who handle the educational destinies of the nation, should have but yesterday passed by the golden oppor-

Digitized by CjQogle
-130-

tun ity of a lifetime and permitted the playground associations, made up chiefly of outsiders, to inaugurate the greatest educational movement of modern times. There is hope that in a time not too far in the future the high schools, colleges, and universities will learn from observation of the playgrounds what games and sports are for. Of all things, let us hope that the playgrounds will not be commercialized.

THE EVOLUTION OF THE LATEST SWIMMING STROKES.

L. B. Handley.

Writers on swimming topics are almost unanimous in looking upon the crawl stroke as a typical one, whose characteristics are so distinctive as to class it by itself. This is an error. The crawl has outgrown its individuality and branched out into so many varieties, each by itself a type, that the name serves to designate a group of greatly differing types and should be taken as generic.

It has pleased Australians to call us pilferous because we gave the variety of crawl developed in this country the name of American, and one can hardly blame them, when the light they regard us in is taken into consideration. We were trailing tailenders until quite recently, and they could hardly be expected to believe that a poor tribe of benighted swimmers from Uncle Sam’s domain should do anything so presumptuous as to evolve a stroke of their own.

As a matter of fact, there is as much difference between the American and Australian types of crawl as there is between the side stroke and the trudgeon. There never was any attempt at pilfering. On the con-trarv, we labeled the antipodean crawl “Australian” the minute we saw it, and it was only when it became necessary to distinguish between it and our own creation that the qualifying term “American” suggested itself and was chosen.

Now even the names “Australian” and “American” are growing to be confusing, and it would be a .sensible thing to follow the example set in* the christening of the trudgeon and call the different varieties of crawl the “Cavill,” “Kitching,” “Daniels,” “Handy,” etc., after the men who invented them or made them famous.

A glance over the situation will show the necessity of this revised nomenclature.

The original crawl was a creation of Dick Cavill of Sydney, New South Wales, eight or nine years ago. The young Australian became convinced that the leg-thrash used by the natives of Colombo would give more speed than the scissor kick then in use. After experimenting a bit with it he adopted it, combining it with the trudgeon arm motion.

The thrash in question is produced through an alternate raising of the lower legs to a kneeling position, followed by a sudden straightening of them that whacks them down hard on the surface of the water. In seeking to make the stroke rhythmic Cavill found that the action was well balanced when he timed the catch of the right arm with the slap of the left le£ and vice versa. As this necessitated swimming flat on the face he breathed only every three or four strokes that the position might be disturbed as little as possible. It was hard on the wind because the speed of the stroke was terrific.

Digitized by Google
-131-

After Cavill had obtained his wonderful speed out of the new method every one copied it and no attempt was made to modify it. To this day its action is unchanged.

Here in America we had no means of studying his invention, because the descriptions we had of it were generally from uninitiated pens and impossible to understand. We were interested, though, and we tried to imitate it, and while we thought we were copying it we were unwittingly developing a type of our own that experts now claim is the best in existence. Having nobody to tell us that the action of arm and leg should be synchronous we just ran the thrash, as we understood it, into the trudg-eon arm motions, without giving a thought to time, and the stroke thus became one in which arms and legs worked absolutey independently of each other.

Of course the individual adjusted the speed of each to suit His personality, so that those with stronger legs than arms used a thrash proportionately faster than the one with stronger arms. This enabled all to use every ounce of power to best advantage. The Australian crawler is no better than the weakest part of his body.

From the American crawl came the legless stroke of which H. J. Handy of Chicago is the best exponent. Something told the westerner that the amount of power used in his kick was not warranted by the benefit derived from it, and he tried to cover the distance without it, letting his legs trail limply behind, without motion. Results justified the change. The improvement was marked and he has since made some remarkably good records with his legless crawl.

Another variety was developed by C. M. Daniels of New York. Daniels made splendid time with the American kind, both at home and in England, until he saw Cecil Healy, the Australian champion, swim. Then he decided that a combination embodying the best points of both American and Australian varieties would prove faster than either. So he took up the timed action of Cavill, making it slower and longer, and in order to keep the body moving between strokes introduced a fluttering of the feet (practically the American thrash) between the flaps of the legs.

After this it seemed as if the innovations were exhausted, but last spring a coterie of Victoria swimmers in Australia bethought themselves of trying to adapt the crawl to the stroke of the late Barney Kieran, the greatest distance swimmer the world has ever produced, and they brought out a stroke that might well be described as an amble.

Kieran maintained that proper oxigenation of the lungs was the secret of endurance, and that the oftener one breathed in swimming the better, He therefore swam the trudgeon with a heavy rolling motion that brought his mouth above water on both sides and enabled him to take two inhalations to every one of his opponents. To this he attributed his marvelous performances.

The Kieran crawlers believe that by catching with the right arm as the right leg kicks, and vice versa, the propelling movements are not interfered with, but one rolls sufficiently to breathe on both sides so that the stroke should prove an improvement of Barney’s. Up to now no phenomenon has appeared to illustrate the wonders of the discovery, but thi«
—132—

hardly means anything, because a man naturally fast is necessary besides the stroke. The theory is good, and we may soon be registering a new leap forward, but just now the Victorians are at the experimental stage. Still, it is another variety, and this makes fwe recognized types—the Australian, American, Daniels, Handy, and Victorian, each with distinct characteristics of its own.

“nave we reached the limit?” and “What type is the best?” are questions we are now asking ourselves without finding a proper answer. Theory would point to the American stroke as best, but theory counts for awfully little in swimming. Time only will give the true answer.

As to reaching the limit, an emphatic “no” may be said. Neither of the varieties represents the ideal stroke. One has but to drop into the New York Athletic club and watch Instructor Sundstrom perform his “swordfish” swim to realize that he has found a leg movement faster than any crawl kick in existence. So far men have tried vainly to imitate it, but the day will come wThen that movement will be combined with an appropriate arm action, and another step forward will be taken. And some other innovation will succeed that one, for we have much to learn yet about the application of the power at our disposal to natation.

The time may come when we will be able to vie with the finny tribe in tests of speed.

“OUTDOOR COMMON SENSE”.

There is so much good common sense in the following article from Outdoor Life that we have ventured to reprint it as a whole. The experienced camper will appreciate its criticisms on the common tendency of the novice to overload with extras.

OUTDOOR COMMON SENSE

There is probably no one subject in the world on which there is such a jumble of near-knowledge as there is about the wilderness and its ways. A lot of writers have gone to the wilds a few times and have then come back and broken into print with a lot of lurid pipe dreams about “the best outfit” or the “habits of this, that or the other wild creature,putting down all their near-knowledge as certain fact. A lot of manufacturers have had bad dreams also, and proceeded to put them into shape as fishing lures or parts of the outfit that everyone should take who leaves his own fireside for a few nights under the sky. Most of this stuff is as useless as a set of parlor furniture. Some of it is fairly good, for it spells comfort in camp, but it means expense and a burden to get it there.

It’s like taking along a big beef roast for camp use where a pound of bacon would be better from any point of view.

A man can buy enough different kinds of rods, guns, baits, beds, boots and clothes to fill a steamboat, and they run all the way from indispensable to utter uselessness and range in price from a cent to a thousand dollars.

When we get down to bedrock a trip into the wilderness means just this:	A	healthy	man to start with—grub, clothes, bed, cooking outfit

and guns and fishing tackle to fit the job. If the trio is to be a week or less the grub problem is best solved by the ration basis, which puts every

Digitized by CjOOQle
-133-

bit of grub into units of one meal each multiplied by the number of meals and number of persons to give total weight and bulk.

The ration can be well or badly managed, and the traditions of the wildernpss usually make it bad unless experience holds the tiller, in which case the ration will be a mixed diet built with the idea of care of health and stomach, strength-giving properties for hard work, nutriment for the body to take the place of the things used up by the body in performing the work in hand, and, last but not least, the elimination of weight.

The same ideas on a larger or bulk scale should govern the grub list on a longer trip.

Here is a ration that I have used on short trips of a week or less in the hardest kind of mountain climbing and trail work with a pack-sack to carry through the woods on foot—heart-breaking work, all of it, if you please—and yet this ration has stood the test of actual use for years and has proved its worth to my entire satisfaction and to the satisfaction of other practical men time and again. Here it is—all packed in a ^4-pound candy box—a full meal in each box and little or no cooking to do:	One

hardtack; two slices of bacon (cooked or raw, as you choose), two slices of dried beef, one tablespoonful of shelled nuts, one ditto seedless raisins, three dried prunes (raw), one square inch Swiss cheese, four pieces Swiss milk chocolate, four caramels, four macaroons, one tablespoonful of ground coffee, one tablespoonful sugar.

This ration contains, in its chemical value, evervthing needed by the body. Jt is a square meal that does not overload the stomach and make you slow or drowsy, and you work harder on it and longer than you can on the traditional “bacon and beans” that are supposed to form the mainstay of every camp outfit. I’ll have more to say about this ration in a future issue.

The bedding question resolves itself down to this:	Warmth, easy

transportation and ability to keep dry while used on the ground. Therefore waterproof quality without weight means that you take a piece of muslin (unbleached sheeting) such as the women use to make bed sheets out of. Have it as wide and twice as long as your bed; sew a piece of hard-twisted cotton chalk line clear around the edge of it inside a hem to keep it from tearing; then take linseed oil and rub into it until the pores of the cloth are full. Don’t paint it on with a brush; don’t dip it, or soak it, or anything else, except to rub the oil into the cloth between the palms of your hands, until the cloth won’t hold any more. Then stretch it up tightly in the shade and dry for ten days; then put it in the sun and dry for three days more, alternate sides up to the sun. Use ordinary boiled linseed oil and nothing else. This makes an absolutely wind-proof, water-proof sheet to lay on the ground to build your bed on, and gives enough length to pull up over the bed after it is made and you can sleep safely and in comfort through a gale of wind, a pouring rain or a snowstorm, and by pulling it up over your head you can dispense with a tent when you have to “go light.” You can use it for a tent or a fly or make a two-man tepee out of it. The bedding should be two pieces made as follows:	Waterproof	khaki,	blanket size, lined with a soft all-wool blan-

ket with carded wool between the two just as an ordinary cotton comfort

Digitized by CjOOQle
-134-

is made. That’s all there is to it and it is warm, dry, comfortable, healthy

and light-weight.	.	,	,	. ,

. Clothing is a matter	of	personal	taste, but it	should	be selected	with

with an idea of not binding the limbs, of keeping warm but not too warm, and—most important—keeping the wearer dry. A change o^f underclothing should never be	absent, clean and ready	to put	on in	case	of a

soaking rain, a fall in the	river or	killing travel that	brings	one	into

camp wet with perspiration. Dry underclothing then means good health and rest.

Wool—light, soft, loose-woven wool—is the best for all except the outside clothes, which must take the strain of contact with brush and dirt. For these Khaki is as good as the market affords.

Shoes jnust be strong, of the best wearing leather obtainable. Woolen socks are better for hard tramping than cotton, but they should be soft and loose-woven, as everything else of wool should be, and they should be washed daily in clear w’ater to keep them soft and clean, for without the softness and without having them clean they are worthless.

Personal outfit can be curtailed or added to as the person sees fit; generally it can be cut down to good advantage rather than added to.

For tramp trips the pack-sack of water-proof canvas, using two long 2-inch straps that run through loops and cross sawbuck fashion over the hack of the pack are the best for actual use, and you can make the best for actual use, and you can make the whole outfit yourself. The. whole outfit for packing should weigh not over 60 pounds and this will grill tho ordinary man on a ten-hour tramp. I have carried 95 pounds up the mountain trails, but I don’t unless I have to, for that is work that is heart-breaking.

Transportation has a lot to do with the whole outdoor question, for the man who travels in a	canoe or boat	can	take	easily	and com-

fortahlv four times the weight	and bulk	that the	pack	horse	is limited

to, and &e rack-horse can take	four times	the	load	of the man	who goes

afoot and carries his all in his	pack-sack;	so	there	can	be no	hard-and-

fast rule for the assembling of an outfit except this:	Don’t take a

pound of unnecessary weight not add a useless article to the outfit, and when an article proves useless abandon it then and there. Then you will learn swiftly what not to do.

The cooking outfit is a simole proposition that hardly needs comment.

The matter of guns and fishing tackle is altogether personal and no amount of argument for or against any particular gun or rod would convince the other fellow that it was the right thing, if he had set his heart on having something else; so advice on these subjects from anybody would not he worth the paper it was written on.

The “one best bet,” the one most valuable thing for the wilderness traveler, is an intimate knowledge of the wilderness itself—its ways and its resources and how. to make them useful as you find them. ^ This means a practical study of botany, especially, so that one may identify the plants along the way, and, having identified them, know whether they are good or not. whether eatable or otherwise, and the chemistry of them in actual use, which means to know what the effect will be if you eat them or use them in any way. Couple this with a knowledge of camp usage and

Digitized by t^ooQle
-135-

woodcraft and the outfit you carry means very little, for you can make the wilderness support you.

A good outdoor man could bet that you could set him down in the wilderness as naked as he was born and without a single thing to work with except what the wilderness affords, and that he could come back to civilization in ninety days fat, happy, healthy and well clothed—and he’d win.

El Comancho.

THE CITY AND FRESH AIR.

By R. Tait McKenzie, M D., University of Pennsylvania.

The best time to treat a case of tuberculosis is ten or fifteen years before it begins.

There must be two things for every case; (one), the seed of infection, and (two) the soil suitable for its growth and development. The way in which a consumptive patient becomes a center of infection has been spoken of by others; how, in the expectoration, there are millions of the bacilli which if not destroyed become dry and float about in the dust of the house and street like the pollen of some evil flower, to be breathed in, and deposited in the air passages of the nose, larynx and lungs and there to multiply and bring their disastrous harvest.

It has already been pointed out how important it is to destroy these seeds of infection coming from the patient, but no matter what precautions may be taken we are sure at some time to become the unwilling host of the tubercle bacillus. I wish to point the way in which the soil on which it falls may be fortified against its attack.

The widest road of infection is through the mouth, nose and lungs, and nature guards this road in two ways.

The air entering the nose is strained and the larger particles of dust which are apt to contain these germs are caught on the hairs at the entrance of the nostrils. The air is also warmed before it reaches the lungs, and such dust as remains after this straining is deposited on a mucous surface that has minute hairlike processes called cilia which look under the microscope like the pile on velvet. These in the healthy lung are in constant motion, directing the secretions and the particles of dust toward the outlet cf the larynx, thus preventing infection from getting a start. When the air is taken in without being strained or warmed, these small protectors may become chilled and paralyzed in their action and the infection may be too great to be overcome, or if the breathing be shallow and inefficient their action may be too feeble to remove the foreign matter.

There are two ways in which protection against infection can be given. First, by breathing through the nose. This insures the partial purification and warming of the air before it gets to the lungs. Second, by the practice of deep breathing. This need not take much time. A few minutes in the morning with the window open, filling the lungs to their utmost capacity, will expand the air-cells and set the cilia to work. This may be repeated during the day and at night, arid will have a most invigorating effect in itself, an effect which is increased if a sufficient amount of light exercise be

Digitized by CjOOQle
-1H6 -

taken to set the blood actively circulating and to make the system call for more air.

The combination of mouth breathing, insufficient breathing, foul and vitiated air, makes the ideal condition for the infection and growth of tuberculosis.

While this is important for the grown man and woman it is infinitely more important for the child who is getting the growth and strength that is to serve through the years of maturity; and it is during this period that every opportunity must be taken to give him a chance to grow up naturally.

The natural occupation of a child is play in the open air where he may run, jump, wade, roll on the grass and bask in the sun, but how few are there who can ever hope for such a chance.

Even the most favored of the city children attending our schools have from four to seven hours taken from their natural occupation of play, spent for the most part in sitting and engaged in such minute movements as writing, where the chest is cramped, the back is bent, and the nervous system overstrained.

A wise board of education, realizing this situation in Philadelphia, is now making every effort to improve the condition.

Gymnasia are being designed for each school, that children may have the exercise which is so necessary for their normal growth, and playgrounds are being provided, even on the roof where the land is not obtainable, that they may practice the sports and games by which their health and strength is secured. These efforts deserve and should have your support.

But what is to be said of those whose days must be spent in the overcrowded shop or factory and whose scant leisure time finds no better place than the street or theater. Their liability to disease is infinitely greater. While the death rate from tuberculosis is 15 per cent, or one in 7, in the prisons where life must be spent away from the sun, the mortality rises to 50 per cent.

Such children, in common with school children, must have some provision made to counteract these conditions which are unfortunately so far beyond our control.

If we are to preserve our vitality and virility as a nation we must raise the health standard of city dwellers. The way this can be done is by giving every child his undoubted right to free play in open air. We must have playgrounds.

A child will not travel more than half a mile to a playground, so that the use of Fairmount Park, of which we in Philadelphia are all so proud, is limited to an occasional excursion; but any lot of 100 feet square can be changed from a dumping place for refuse into a source of health by simple means that need not be out of the reach of any community.

A few simple swings and seesaws, a pile of sand, a shelter from the sun and rain and a wading pool, in charge of an attendant who will direct the children in their games, involves a small outlay.

These small playgrounds should be established on every vacant lot in the crowded parts of the city.

In addition to these, large playgrounds, such as Starr Garden, should be established with a running track for boys, a pavilion for games and dances, swings, apparatus for gymnastics and basket ball and other games, a wading

Digitized by Google
-137-

pond, and a swimming pool for the older children, with a gymnasium to be used at night or in inclement weather.

In addition to these, large playing fields like Belmont plateau should be obtained in the outskirts of the city for special occasions and for field meets.

Already an association has been formed for carrying out all these objects, and it is only by your enthusiastic support, both by your vote and by your influence, that it will be made possible to provide this most important means of preventing and stamping out the great plague against which we are all fighting.—From “The Fresh Air Magazine,” March, 1910.

Edward Payson Weston ended his ocean-to-ocean tramp at 3:10 o’clock May 2, 1910, at the New York City Hall. He was 12 days ahead of his schedule of 90 days for his transcontinental jaunt.

He was greeted at the City Hall by a crowd of 50,000 people, all anxious to see the veteran pedestrian and to greet him on his success. Mayor Gaynor, in receiving the letter addressed to him by Mayor George Alexander of Los Angeles, said in p^rt:

“My old friend, I am mighty proud of you for what you have done. You started on Feb. 1 at 4 o’clock from Santa Monica, and you get here at 3:10 this afternoon. Marvelous, simply marvelous. There has never been anything like that in the history of the world.

“Weston, you are a benefactor to the human race, for you have shown people what can be done by a man who lives simply and healthfully in the open air. You have caused people to go out into the open and taught them how to live. Now if they will only follow your example and precepts they ought to live to be a hundred years old instead of the proverbial threescore and ten.

“By your success in crossing the continent in seventy-eight days you have surpassed every feat of ancient or modern times and athletes except your own. That is a splendid record, perfectly splendid. And I have here, on behalf of the committee to welcome you, a purse which I am very glad indeed to give you.”

WASTE OF CHILDREN S LIFE.

American race waste—more serious than race suicide—is pointed out in Census Mortality Bulletin No. 104, in which it is estimated that annually in the United States from 100,000 to 200,000 babies under five years of age die from preventable causes. This great loss of life among the little ones at the period when they are most loving and most lovable could be prevented, is the opinion of Dr. Cressv L. Wilbur, Chief Statistician for Vital Statistics of the Census Bureau, who prepared the bulletin, on the basis of present-day knowledge of sanitary measures. For the accomplishment of effective preventive work in this direction, Dr. Wilbur holds that the prompt registration of all births and the more careful and precise statement of causes of death by physicians are essential.

In analyzing and comparing the totals obtained in the compilation of transcripts of death returns received for the year 1908 by the Census Bureau from the entire death-registration area of the United States, as

Digitized by CjOOQle
—X3«—

set forth in the bulletin, those for age periods show a somewhat increased per cent of deaths of infants under one year for 190$, although the ratios for each of the individual years from one to four are identical for

1907	and 1908. Of the total number of deaths, 691,574 returned for

1908	from the entire registration area, it is stated in the bulletin that nearly one-fifth were of infants under one year of age and over one-forth of children less than five years of age. It is declared that the brute force of the figures representing the actual deaths is more impressive, however, than any ratios or than the rates of infant mortality, even if the latter could be computed in the absence of proper registration of births. Here are the figures:

More than one-eighth of a million babies, under one year of age and fully 200,000 children, under five years of age, died among about one-half of the total population of the United States in the year mentioned. It is considered probable that fully 200,000 more died in those cities and states not included in the Census Bureau death-registration area. In this connection Dr. Wilbur quotes Professor Irving Fisher's conclusion that of all the diseases of infancy, having the median age one year, 47 per cent may be prevented; and that of the diseases of childhood having median age two to eight years, 67 per cent may be prevented.

“It does not seem unreasonable," Dr. Wilbur states, “when we consider the fact that there is apparently no reason why infants, if properly born, and this means simply the prevention of ante-natal disease and the improvement of the health and conditions of life of their parents, should die at all in early infancy or childhood, except from the comparatively small proportion of accidents that are strictly unavoidable."

The bulletin continues with a statement that the general death rate of a country is largely dependent upon its infant mortality, because the death rates of infants and young children are high and they affect a relatively numerous element of the population. Exact study of the incidence of disease upon infancy and childhood is most important, and it is imperatively necessary that there should be more effective registration of births throughout the United States for this purpose. The extremely important rate known as “infant mortality" is the ratio of deaths of infants under one year of age, net to population but to the number of children bora alive during the year. This most important ratio should be readily available for the comparative study of deaths of infants in all of our states and cities, but, the bulletin states, in the great majority of them, unfortunately, the registration of births is worthless, and ratios calculated upon the returns would be deceptive and unreliable.

“The possibility of great saving of human life during infancy and early childhood is emphasized by the estimates made by Professor Irving Fisher, on the basis of independent medical opinions, for his Report on National Vitality to the National Conservation Commission, as to the /ratio of preventability (postponability)’, that is, ratio of ‘preventable’ deaths from cause named to all deaths from cause named for certain diseases of early life.

“Out of every 100 deaths that occur from each disease in which the median age at death is under 5 years, there could be prevented the fol-

Digitized by ^ooQle
-139-

lowing numbers; Premature birth, 40; congenital debility, 40; venereal diseases, 70; diarrhoea and enteritis, the most important cause of infant mortality, 60; measles, 40; acute bronchitis, 30; bronchopneumonia, 50; whooping cough, 40; ‘croup* (which means diphtheria), 75; meningitis, 70; diseases of larynx other than laryngitis, 40; laryngitis, 40; diphtheria (under its proper appellation), 70; scarlet fever, 50.

“Other diseases especially fatal to infants and children would perhaps show equally great ratios of prevent ability; they do not appear in the above list because their median ages are above the limit chosen or because, as is the case with ‘convulsions/ they are grouped with other and incongruous causes.

“The possible saving of life for ‘general, ill-defined and unknown causes*, including ‘heart failure,* ‘dropsy,* and ’convulsions*, median age 35 years, is 30 per cent. The median age of ‘convulsions* alone is less than one year, and it is probable that at least the ratio, of preventability of diarrhoea and enteritis (60 per cent) would apply to it. The term is an indefinite one, being expressive merely of the symptoms attending the true cause of death; nevertheless no fewer than 6,450 deaths were compiled therefrom for 1908, although, in compilation, any other definite cause is preferred. The term is no longer employed by well-informed physicians in reporting causes of death, and it is possible, by inquiry made by the local registrar immediately after the receipt of this and other unsatisfactory statements, to practically eliminate them from the returns, as has lately been done for Chicago.

“In the light of the figures quoted above it would seem that practical sanitation has only made a beginning in the work of preventing the occurrence of infant and child mortality. The ground has only been scratched over. Deep stirring of the soil and thorough cultivation of all the means available, with our present scientific and medical knowledge, for the guarding of young human lives would produce startling, and from all past human experience almost unbelievable, results. Public health, a6 • a function of government, is itself only a creation of the middle part of the last century, dating from the utilization of the knowledge available as a result of the operation of the English laws for the registration of vital statistics (1837). Even in England, however, no systematic efforts have been made until very recent years to utilize to their utmost possibilities the facts already known. The infant mortality of England was higher for the years 1896 to 1900 than for the years 1861 to 1865, and no marked reduction in the early rates oocurs until the present decade.

“It is time that greater attention be given to the subject in the United States. The prompt registration of all births and the more careful and precise statement of causes of death by physicians are essential. Such terms as ‘convulsions/ ‘marasmus/ ‘debility/ and the like should no longer be tolerated when the true cause of death can be determined.**

NOTICE! Following the custom of other educational journals “MIND AND BODY” will not be published during July and August.
-140-

Mind AND BODY. ^

nuI»n< riplion Prlr#*, $1.00 per War.

,J Pvhhbhed Monthly av

PKKIDKNKKK IM'HLISHINc; C‘«»

TXrisc©aa.«laa..

tV Address all business letters to FRE1DENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o Herold Bldg., Milwaukee. •> Address all editorial correspondence to WM A. STECHKR, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Po<t Office as Second Class Matter

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—THREE COLLEGE ATHLETES have had an ideal shattered by reading a paragraph in a speech that Sir G. Trevelyan made in London before the Publishers' Circle at a recent dinner, says the New York Sun. These men, in addition to being athletes, are devoted to Thackeray and “The Virginians."

There is a reference in that book to the prowess of George Washington as an athlete, particularly as a broad jumper. This is to the effect that Washington was able to jump 22 feet, which, considering that it was away back in the Eighteenth century, was some leap. Although the best American record now is 24 feet 7*4 inches, it has not been standing so long, and in the early days of American athletics 22 feet was a remarkable performance in the broad jump.

These three used to pride themselves on knowing about that performance credited to Washington, and they pointed out how in 1876 and for three years following the American championship was won by leaps of less than 20 feet, and that from 1880 to 1885, inclusive, the champion did not do 22 feet, although close to it on several occasions.

So they used always to tell folks who asked about great broad jumpers that Washington held the American record from about 1752 to 1885. What shattered all this was the following from the Trevelyan speech:

“I was present at a dinner when Thackeray discoursed to a delighted audience of young people about “The Virginians," which he was then writing and which seemed to fill his mind to the exclusion of everything else. Among other matters he asked us, all around the table, what was the widest jump any of us had ever known, and when we agreed upon 21 feet he said: “Then I must make George Washington jump one foot more."

—THE FOURTH ANNUAL CONGRESS of the Playground Association of America will, as announced some time ago, be held this year in Rochester, N. Y., from Tuesday, June 7th, to Saturday, June 11th. The papers, discussions, exhibitions and demonstrations will be of such character to make it worth while for anyone interested in playground work to attend the congress. Programs with full information may be had by apolying to the headquarters of the Association, No. 1 Madison Square, New York City.

—ONE OF THE BEST PAMPHLETS advertising a summer course that we have ever seen is the little folder issued by Institute and Training‘School of the Y. M. C. A. of Chicago. The first page reads as follows:

Digitized by CjOOQle
-141 -

Asleep on His Job.—Rip Van Winkle slept for twenty years and . when he awoke, found his equipment fallen to pieces and utterly inadequate, his joints stiff and his mind incapable of appreciating the changes that had taken place in Society during his long sleep. Thereafter old “Rip” spent his time reminiscencing. There was nothing new, nothing constructive and no future in his conversation. He was a “back number.”

A long sleep is disastrous. In these days of rapid development and radical chanees a man becomes a “back number” in much less time than it took to put “Rip” on the shelf. Long sleeps are out of date in the world of activity and indulged in only by folks who wear woolen socks in July.

Beware Lest You Become Like Him.—Mr. Van Winkle's “frau” drove him to the woods. What will you do? Will you take to the woods on the mountains and drink with the old men of antiquity and then fall asleep as did Rip Van Winkle, or will you take to the Camp on the shores of Lake Geneva and drink from the fountains of modern knowledge?

A Real Feast.—“Rip” thought he was having a fine feast that afternoon on the mountain top with those funny old “back numbers.” There is a better feast in store for you at Lake Geneva. Here is the seven course Menu:

Then follows a description of the seven courses offered. The circular that may be an awakener to some of our readers closes as follows:

A Reminder.—Rip Van Winkle became a “back number” because he failed to heed exhortation and advice. He was satisfied with what he was and had and then fell asleep. It does not take work to become a Rip Van Winkle nor much traveling to find the glen in whose peaceful shadows one may be free from the call of service and the demand for preparation. All one needs to do is to sleep.

—THE EFFECT OF OPEN AIR WALKING on the health of children has been studied by the Berlin School of Physicians, and the investigation should prove of special interest to school authorities in every land. Dr. Raider, who has made the reports of this walk cure, states that fifty-six pupils were sent on walking trios in three groups, each under the leadership of a teacher. On an average the children walked from ten to fifteen miles a day. They were given coffee, milk and white bread for breakfast. During the day they got bread and butter. In the evening they were given a warm dinner. One series of well-nourished children did not change weight during the six days' tour. The results of the tour were strongly manifested some time after it was over. During the following three months fifty of the fifty-six children gained from three to twenty-two pounds in weight. From this it would appear the doctor says that the violent muscular exercise stimulated the organism to increased metabolism and more rapid growth. This being the case, what shall be said of the pre^e^t movement in rural districts of transporting by cars or stages those children living in country towns to schoelhouses centrally located together? The old-fashioned healthful walk to school even is taken away by the present concentration system. Throughout New England at least no pedestrianism is cultivated. Gymnastics, drills and such sports as are the fad of the day, must serve “to stimulate the organism to increased metabolism,” for country juveniles no longer walk, nor do city children who live in flats know how to run up and down stairs; they take the elevator.—Exchange.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—142—

OUR TRIBUT TO THE LATE MR. GILBERT.

Mr. Melvin Ballou Gilbert died on May the 11th at his beautiful country home in Wilmington, Mass., being only 63 years old. Our profession mourns in this loss a man who has given to it a most valuable and unique contribution. Mr. Gilbert's aesthetic atid classic dancing will live long after the present craze for folk dancing will have blown over.

He was bom in Portland, Me., where he also opened his first dancing school. In the summer of 1892 Mr. Dohs, then instructor in the Portland Turnverein, came to the Harvard summer school and taught some marching calisthenics, which he told Dr. Sargent he had learned from Mr. Gilbert in Portland. It was through him that Dr. Sargent and Mr. Gilbert first met. In this first meeting Dr. Sargent pointed out to him that the weakness of dancing from the physical educator's point of view was that it only involved the legs, leaving arms and trunk entirely out of consideration. It was upon this suggestion that Mr. Gilbert set to work and built his entire structure of dancing. In 1894 he became first associated with the Harvard summer school, from where his work soon spread all over the country. In the summer school exhibition that summer he gave two numbers, one he called “Aesthetic Calculations," the other was “Die Gavotte der Kaiserin." The fall following he became a member of the teaching staff in Dr. Sargent's school, \vhere he has taught up to the present. During the months of June and July he maintained a normal school which was very largely attended and from which a great number of graduates have come forth as enthusiastic exponents of his work. There is hardly a gymnasium where his work is not represented. What makes Mr. Gilbert's work so valuable a contribution is that constant stress is layed in all his dancing upon elegance of form, to perform every movement beautifully. Excellency marked all his work and so persistant was he in his demand for beauty, that all his deciples inherit this ambition for doing well. His dancing has really become a fine art which offers to woman an opportunity to excel in the same way that man excels in artistic performances upon apparatus. In April, 1904, during the New York convention of the Physical Educational Society, Mr. Gilbert gave a demonstration of his work with the seniors of the Sargent school, which was quite a revelation to many present. He also read a paper at this convention. Besides his connection with Harvard and the Sargent school he taught at the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics, and a number of fashionable societies in Boston.

Mr. Gilbert's fatal illness, which finally developed into bronchial pneumonia manifested itself about six weeks previous to his death, although he was confined to his bed only the last two weeks. His death came very suddenly after a decided change for the better. On Friday, the 13th, the 'funeral services were held and the friends present as well as the many beautiful flowers gave ample evidence of the esteem in which he was held by his friends. Mr. Gilbert will be remembered by his pupils as a most inspiring teacher, a teacher who in his personality represented what he taught. In the physical training profession his memory will live as an earnest co-worker for a cause, which in time is hoped to lead our people to a more idealistic way of living.	C.	L.	S.

Digitized by Google
-143-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

PLAYGROUND GAMES FOR YOUNG CHILDREN.

By William A. Stecher.

The old-fashioned Long Jumping Rope can be used in so many ways to interest and employ a large number of children that one wonders that it is not used more. Here are several ways of using it.

Form the children in a column of twos. If there are too many, form several columns, each with its own rope. Tie one end of the rope to a post, or let a child hold it. Swing the rope in a circle towards the class and at first let them run through at will. Later let them run through at every second swing. After that let them catch hands by twos and run through at every second swing.

After the running is accomplished fairly well, take up the jumping over the rope. The rope must be held so lightly that if any child in jumping touches it, the rope will fall. Insist that all jumping is done on the balls of the feet.

Lastly, take up the jumping “in the rope.” Let a child run in, jump twice, or three times, and then run out. Later have this done by twos.

The long rope may also be used for high jumping. Girls especially like to try the high jupip in this manner. The rope is first held at a height which everyone in the column can clear. It must be held so lightly that if anyone does not get over, the rope will drop. Then raise the rope about two inches for the next jump, and so on. At times introduce a quarter or half turn with every jump.

This same rope may be used in playing the game of “Hopping Circle.” Tie a bean bag to the end of the rope. Then form all players into a circle. The leader takes his place in the centre of the circle and swings the rope with the attached bag around in the circle close to the ground. As the bag approaches a child he hops up into the air allowing the bag to pass underneath his feet. Who is struck by the bag steps out, until later only the most expert players are left.

Ring Toss is a game of skill that appeals to many children of all ages. As it can be played in a verv small place and the necessary anparatus is inexpensive, it is an admirable game for a limited number of children. The apoaratus consists of four rubber rings five inches in diameter and one base. This base is of iron. cix inches in diameter, having in its center a

hub four inches high. J| The object of the game is to toss the

rings from a distance oi ajuut teft feet, toward the base. Who gets closest to the base counts one. Twenty-one points are a game.

If the base is set in the center of three or four concentric circles, drawn with chalk on the pavement, another feature of interest is added to the game.

The circles are about one foot apart. The player is credited with the number he throws. At least one-half of a ring must be within a circle to make it count. A “ringer” i. e., when the ring encircles the hub, counts twenty-five. Who first gets one hundred points wins the game.

This ring toss set may also be used like a regular game of Quoits,

Digitized by CjOOQle
—144—

as two bases come with every four rings. Do not buy cheap sets as they will not last. Rubber sets are best and ought to last for years. They cost $3.00 per set of four rings, two red and two black, and two bases. If you can not buy them of your local dealer send to Howard George, Frank-ford and Unity streets, Philadelphia, Pa.

Third Tag and Run. This is played with the players standing with the hands raised as for ‘‘Hand Tag,” one player standing in front to tag. The hands must be held forward to receive the tags, of which three are given to the same or different persons. As soon as the third ‘is given the one giving it turns and runs to a goal behind him (previously decided upon) while the one receiving the third tag pursues him. If caught before reaching the goal, the runner is out of the game.

This may also be played with sides, as follows:	Two	divisions	line

up, facing each other at a distance of about fifteen feet, the hands being held as before. The leader of one side advances to the other and gives three tags, then turns and runs to his own place on his side, pursued by the one receiving the third tag. If caught before reaching his own place, he takes a place on the side catching him, and that side sends someone out to tag. If not caught, the next in line becomes leader, and so on till someone is caught, when the other side continues. The side having the largest number of players at the close, wins the game.

Day and Night is a tag game of similar character but more highly organized. Separate the players into two ranks. These face each other, at one step distance. One party is named Day; the other Night. Take a coin or a flat piece of wood, designate one side as Day, the other as Night. Toss it up. Immediately after it has fallen call out the side on top. Should this be Day, this party runs to its goal (about 25 feet off), pur-' sued by Night. Who is tagged in this pursuit is a prisoner and out of the game. Continue until all of one side are caught.

An amusing variation of this game that greatly pleases younger boys is to allow the one- who made a prisoner to mount on his back and have the prisoner carry him back to the line.

Boys like games that give them a chance to “pummel” someone. The game of “Lame Goose” is of this character. It requires no apparatus and will be played in a corner of the playground for long times by boys eight to twelve years of age.

The one playing the goose takes his place at one corner of the yard,
-Uncalled “home,” a den of about five or six feet may be chalked off on the floor. .After three running steps he must hop on one foot and tag one of the other players who are running about. When one is tagged, and so becomes goose, he is chased by the other players, who strike him with knotted handkerchiefs, until he is “home.” Should the goose in his attempts to tag a player put both feet on the ground he also is chased home by the other players.

Break Through, also called “Bear in the Ring” is another game that appeals to boys and also to girls of eight to twelve years.

A number of players join hands and form a circle, the bear-pit. One of their number, previously selected as the bear, wanders about on the inside, attempting to get out by testing the bars. The bear may break through the bars by placing his weight on the grasped hands, or jump over or crawl under the same. If he breaks through and escapes, the keepers give chase, the one catching him in turn becoming bear.

Bogey Man or “Black Man” is a strenuous running game adapted for cold windy days. As much skill is needed to get through a great number of players the game also appeals to older boys.

A player, chosen as Bogey Man, stands at one end of the yard or play space, the other players stand at the opposite end. The Bogey Man calls, “Are you afraid of the Bogey Man?” The others answer, “No,” and run, trying to pa?s him and reach the opposite end of the yard. The Bogey Man tags one or two and they go with him to his side of the yard, and play as Bogey Men. The play is repeated until all the runners are caught by the Bogey Man and his helpers. The last one caught begins a new game.

Warm days often call for games that cause merriment and are not too strenuous. The Beetle is Out is a game of this character.

The players form a closed circle, shoulder to shoulder, facing inward and having their hands, with palms open, behind their backs. One of the puoils is outside the circle. He carries a handkerchief with a knot tied in cne end of it. He runs around the outside of the circle and puts the handkerchief into the hand of one of the players (if possible, without being noticed by the others). This one at once strikes his right-hand neighbor on the back with the knot, the neighbor seeking to avoid the blows by running around the circle until he regains his former place. The pursuer now starts around the circle placing the handkerchief (the beetle) into someone else’s hand, and the game continues as before.

Pussy wants a corner is another game of the same type not requiring great exertion.

Fach player chooses a place, a corner of a house, an apparatus, etc. All, with the exception of one, have places. These places being decided on, all go to the middle of a circle and at a signal run for these places. The one who fails to get a place begins the play. He goes from place to place and says, “Pussy wants a corner.” Meanwhile the players exchange places at will. The seeker for a place endeavors to secure one by outwitting some one who is exchanging places with another and by getting into the place first. The one thus deprived of a place becomes the next seeker. If a seeker, after repeated effort, fails to secure a place, he may call, “All change places,” and then all must exchange. In the confusion of this general exchange he tries to get a place.

Digitized by
--14rC>-

THE PATRIOTISM OF PLAY.

When the Iron Duke said that the victory at Waterloo was won on the cricket fields of England he gave forcible expression to the principle upon which is founded the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia.

The men and women who have given of their time and treasure to extend the playgrounds of this city are something more than philanthropists. They are patriots.

The happiness which the children will derive from increased facilities for play is the least of the association’s contributions to the community.

Happiness is the normal condition of childhood, and hardly anything short of present hunger or actual bodily pain can change it.

The child who has always found his fun among the garbage cans and ash barrels of a blind alley, or along the reeking gutter of a never-cleaned tenement street, doesn’t miss the wholesome games of a park playground. He doesn’t know any better.

The taste for craps and cocaine may be quite as easily formed as that for baseball and giant strides. The boy may learn that ducking the cop is quite as exciting as sliding into second.

But when he has learned these things, his possibility of usefulness to the state is converted into a menace. And when a considerable number of boys have acquired this knowledge and have come together to compare notes, woe betide the commonwealth.

The appeal that playgrounds make to the sentimental nature of men and women is strong. Pure love for children in the abstract is one of the most powerful incentives for eood works.

The good that comes to the child from wholesome activity in the open air is in itself strong enough to justify whatever expenditure may be made to promote city playgrounds.

But after all, the great claim for public consideration made by the playgrounds is not sentimental nor philanthropic. It is, 'in the community sense, selfish. It is dictated to a free state bv the law of self-preservation.

Whatever opposition or indifference exists to the public playground idea is based on ignorance. Because children in the open countrv or in small urban communities find opportunities for wholesome play there are , those cynics who sneer at the idea of regulated play for the children of a crowded city.

Nature has provided playgrounds for all the children in the world. The fields and the woods and the mountains and the brooks and the ponds and the beach, and the great ocean itself, supply all the opportunity for play that any child might ask.

But civilization robs the children of their birthright, herds them in noisome cities, crowds them into narrow streets and alleys and hires janissaries to war on them and to make them feel that the city and state are their natural enemies.

Then the community spends millions of dollars on courts and penitentiaries to take care of its machine-made criminals.

Simple justice should prompt the city to give to the boys and girls something as a recompense for God’s playgrounds of which we have robbed them. But if justice be not done, we can rest assured the wronged children will have their revenge.

Digitized by

Google
-147-

It is particularly urgent that in a free community the wholesome democracy of play should be encouraged to the fullest extent. In a despotism where soldiers are kept ever ready to suppress a rabble it is not so necessary. But as the boys and girls of our self-governing cities will be the men and women of tomorrow, their healthy growth of body and mind is the one absolute essential for the preservation of popular institutions.

The day will come when a city will as soon think of being without a fire department or schools as without playgrounds where its children can most easily and joyfully learn the great lesson of representative government—to abide by the rules of the game and to play fair.—Philadelphia North American.

PLAYGROUNDS.

E. B. De Groot, Director of Physical and Social Activities, South Park,

Chicago.

What is a playground? What should a playground be?

The answer to the first question is that a playground is a rallying place for boys or girls, or both. A playground cannot be reduced to less than this and still be a playground, except in the case of children too young to wander from their homes alone.

Every city, every suburban town and every country village has its rallying places for young people, supplied without conscious provision, and each has therefore a perfectly adequate playground system judged from the point of view of those who make use of these playgrounds.

These rallying places in the city are for the younger the street corners. occupied by saloons from which ooze drunken and profane men; the filthv alleys; the streets, in the midst of street car, horse and automobile traffic; the railroad yards and the river docks. ‘ For the older children, them are the penny arcade, the five cent theatre, the combined saloon and bowling alley, the amusement park and the combined saloon and dance hall.

Note the activities which spring from these rallying places. In the case of the younger children, there is the “jollying” of drunken people who come from the saloons; the flipping of street cars, trucks, and automobiles in the street; the chase and sights of the police oatrol wagon; the jeopardizing of limb and even life in the railroad yards and at riv^r docks; the teasmor of the recent arrival to our shores bv calling him a “Shannacher,” a “PolocV,” a “Dago,” a “Turk” (all nmfixed with eoually harsh and more profane adjectives) ; fist and stone fights between gangs, and a great list of mischievous acts which result in running a race with the “cop.”

The activities of the older boys which soring from their rallying places are, stealing “junk” which may be sold for money, and which in turn may be used to purchase tickets to shows where they get their “monev’s worth” in “spicy” sights and sayings. As they grow a little older, visits to the cheap and spicy theatre increase, visits to the combined bowling alley and saloons are added, and the culminating activity is the frequent visit to the combined saloon and dance hall.

The conclusion with reference to the city, is that the modern city, just as it exists, represents a marvelous playground system and one per-

Digitized by C^ooQle
-148-

fectly adequate from the point of view of those who make use of this system.

The question, however, is not whether the younger reople in the city are satisfied with the present system of playgrounds. The vital question is whether ive—parents, teachers and other citizens interested in the commonwealth—are satisfied.

At this point I might enter into a discussion of great length concerning the connection of the present playground system with juvenile delinquency, but is not the connection so perfectly obvious that “he who runs may read”? The situation in the suburban town and countrv village is less aporehemme, but still serious. But here, as in the city, the playground is the rallying place for boys and eirls. These rallying places are the railroad station, the drug store with its soda fountain and candy and cigarette cases, the post office, the camn in the woods or in the vard of some boy whose father do*s not complain about the shrubberv being destroyed. One might naturallv sunpo^e that the amnje school yard, in the suburban town would furnish a rallving olace for children cut of school hours, but such use of the school yard is discouraged by nearby neighbors, who moved to the suburban town for quiet.

The activities of these suburban rallying places are almost as numerous an^ little more constructive in their effects than the activities of the city rallying places. Children in the suburban town usually have more money to spend than children in the citv, and thev use this money to vie with each other in seeing w^o can drink the most- soda and eat the most candv. Thev pester the railmad station a^ent and worry the postmaster. After the camp in the woods is completed them is "^uch idleness on the part of the campers and “Satan makes mischief for idle hands” in camp as elsewhere.

The significant question then, both in the city and in the small town, is:	What should a playground be? The answer is that it should at once

be a rallying place and a place of outlet for all play instincts and tendencies into channels which react upon the players with constructive effect. The first essential is to recognize and make amole provision for the differences in the play instincts and tendencies among children.

TWe should be a rallvin^ place for the exclusive use of young boys and girls together up to, approximately, ten years of age. There should be a second rallying place for the exclusive use of girls more than ten years of age. There should be a third rallying place for boys more than ten years of age. These three separate and distinct rallying places might be within one large enclosure, or one rallying place might be used at different times by the three different groups; but I insist that this arrangement is fundamental in any adeouate plavground scheme. With the rallying places well defined and provided, the next step is to equip each c»f these places with precise reference to the play instincts and tendencies of each of the groups.

The modern plavground movement finds its bone of contention in the play leader. Business men, city councilmen and congressmen think it preposterous that any one should be employed to teach or supervise the play of children. They were not taught to play! Why should children in this day be taught to play games? In the recent debate in the United

Digitized by CaOOQle
-149-

States Congress concerning the appropriation for playgrounds in Washington, one congressman wished to know whether the bill presented was a game of “skin the cat”	or “skin the	treasury.” His suggestion was that

instead of a play leader	there should	be a policeman.

The modern playground, with its efficient play leader, is the best connecting link we have yet discovered between the old and new order of things in the march of	civilization.	The physical, social	and	moral development that came to	most mature men and women of	this	day when

they were boys and girls, will not come to this and the next, or perhaps any future generation of children, by the same or similar means.

Cooperation, obedience to authority, patience, persistency, respect for the rights of others and many other homely virtues were in the old order of things largely developed by work and pleasures shared with parents.

In the order of things which has come upon us so quickly and so completely, it seems impossible to travel any of the old paths of relationship between parents and children. I therefore repeat that the play leader is the connecting link in the situation. The efficient play leader devises uses of the playground that develop in the children those homely virtues common to the best periods and relationships in American community life. He should take the place of parents at the play time in guiding and directing the child of anv age into channels of action which help to make him a blessing to the family, a social asset to the state and a glory to the nation.

THE PLAYGROUND AND ITS NEED.

By CARL L. SCHRAOKR, Harvard University.

No social movement in the past years has received the general approval as has the playground movement. Wherever the question was left to the vote of the people, as was the case in Massachusetts, it was decided in the affirmative, which fact is sufficient to prove that the need for such an institution is being felt. So rapid has been the growth, that it can hardly be said that the movement was ever an experiment with us, for we profited so extensively by the experiments carried on for many years in Europe, particularly in Germany, where we find a history of playgrounds dating back thirty years or more.

A child is a child the world over and while nationality, tradition and natural environment may dictate certain specific play activities, the general truth has been established long since, that the period of play, that is to say, the period where play is taught, is a necessary requisite for the fullest development of the child. When a few years ago the National Playground Association was founded, none of its organizers dreamed that their efforts would bear such abundant and immediate fruit, for the growth in the number of cities and towns maintaining playgrounds has been beyond expectation. From the time of the first congress held in Chicago to the third held in Pittsburgh last summer the number of playgrounds maintained had almost trebled.

This growth has been made possible and was nourished by enormous sums of money. The cities seemed to vie with each other, one trying to outdo the other in its expenditure of money for the creation of playgrounds,

Digitized by CjOOQle
—150—

or better recreation centers. Every investment, whether made by an individual or a municipality, is expected to bear interest, if not in dollars and cents, then certainly in results attained in welfare. It is reasonable, then, to raise the question of interest in connection with this great investment. Is the money set aside for this movement spent wisely in most cases? Are we not taking growth for development? Are the playgrounds in reality the social centers for the ethical training of our youth, as theory claims tl^ey might be? These and many other questions are justifiable when measuring the result with the outlay of money. Newspaper reports which print in full an opinion which is pressed from a visiting committee from another city inspecting the playgrounds, an opinion which usually is pregnant with flattery, serves only to satisfy a local pride, but does not reflect the conditions as they really exist.

Rapid growth, and this must be attributed to this movement in our country, is to be discerned mainly in an increase of grounds in the total, and an increase of attendance per ground, a fact which may satisfy the layman and serve the statistician, but will fail to convince those who seek qualitative results rather than quantitative ones. A rapidly growing child usually shows marked deficient development, a fact which parents observe with grave anxiety. Here we have one of nature’s pranks, with which we may interfere but little, but our playground problem need not be handicapped thus. It would be gross pessimism to deny that much good has resulted from the playground, especially in the large cities where heretofore the play instinct was being stifled by conditions, which in the future planning of cities, is hoped to be avoided. The child life has been made more happy and has been prolonged; health has been greatly improved, and correct habits started, habits which through the child find introduction in the home. It goes without saying that the playground has come to us as a permanent institution, as permanent as the public school, and it remains but a question of the not remote future when this question of play will be taken under the wing of the public school system.

We, Americans, have the reputation of taking every new movement by storm, which is made possible by the generosity of philanthropically inclined citizens. The ease with which money is forthcoming in undertakings like the one in question, is often the source of envy on the part of foreign visitors. We have had with us since last spring a representative from Germany who came primarily as exchange professor, but who, besides, had the mission of studying all conditions pertaining to physical education, upon which question he is to report to his government. After an extensive tour last summer, during which he visited many playgrounds he expressed his amazement over the colossal sums of money lavished on playgrounds and on the other hand his disappointment over the disproportioned utilization of grounds and equipment. “Give us a portion of this great fortune and we will show you what is possible.” Knowing the painstaking thoroughness of the Germans we may consider him justified in his claim.

Now, what was the general impression he received? It was that which every earnest and knowing observer must get, who is not blinded by size and equipment of playground or by statistical figures, which, if accurate, merely express the presence of so many individuals; namely that great sums of money are invested in huge grounds and elaborate equipment, which the usually incompetent corps of instructors does not know how to utilize.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-151-

There are in a number of cities men at the head of the playground movement who are devoting all their energy and best efforts toward the best results of their respective systems. The excellent endeavor of these men can be understood only by those who know under what difficulties they labor; difficulties which the municipality forces upon them in the form of appointed instructors, recruited from the ranks of ward politicians or from among war veterans. At best the service of these appointed men is that of a watchman who may stop fights among boys or see to it that the apparatus is not misused. Furthermore, the teachers selected from among the school teachers are seldom capable to render that service, which is needed for the ultimate success of the playground. Here then is a gap which needs immediate and serious attention. The playground movement is experiencing exactly what the gymnasium movement has experienced, namely that in establishing a department of physical education the attention of the institution in most instances was centered upon building and equipment while the management of it remained an afterthought. The reverse order of procedure would be the wiser one indeed. Give a thoroughly trained director of gymnastics just the space, void of all equipment, and he will produce far better results, than a man in a completely equipped gymnasium, who may only be instructor by accident instead of training. An equipment can be acquired gradually, but the beginning of a work needs at once the very best teacher and leader which money can buy. So in playgrounds I would say: a field first, then a good instructor, and last the equipment. This need not be the order where money abounds, but where economy is essential, it should last be applied to the engaging of the teaching force. It was this condition, due to lack of playground teachers which prompted the national association to appoint a committee at its congress several years ago, to which was assigned the task of outlining a normal course in play, designed to offer a broad preparation for playground supervision and teaching. Of this outline, which was accepted in Pittsburg last summer and which has recently been published in book form, Dr. Gulick says, that it is the most important work yet accomplished by the association. This outline, threefold in its aim, was launched with the great hope, that educational institutions would avail themselves of the opportunity of aiding in the preparation of the needed force of instructors for playground work. The three courses, separately set forth and with detailed syllabi are, first:

COURSE I.

A NOMAL COURSE IN PLAY FOR PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORS.

Introduction. Syllabus One. Syllabus Two. Syllabus Three. Syllabus Four. Syllabus Five. Syllabus Six. Syllabus Seven.

CONTENTS.

The Nature and Function of Play.

Child Nature.

Hygiene and First Aid.

Social Conditions of the Neighborhood.

The Playground Movement.

The Practical Conduct of Playgrounds.

The Organization and Administration of Playgrounds.

Digitized by LiOOQle
-152-

COURSE II.

AN INSTITUTE OR TRAINING COURSE IN PLAY.

CONTENTS.

Introduction.

Syllabus One. Play and Childhood, Hygiene and First Aid, Social Conditions of the Neighborhood, and General Reading, ' Syllabus Two. The Practical Conduct of Playgrounds.

COURSE III.

A COURSE IN PLAY FOR GRADE TEACHERS.

CONTENTS.

Introduction.

Syllabus One.

I.	Play and Childhood.

II.	Hygiene and First Aid.

III.	Social Conditions of the Neighborhood.

IV.	General Reading.

Syllabus Two.

The Playground Movement.

Syllabus Three.

The Practical Conduct of Play.

Appendix.

I.	Games.

II.	Athletic Tests.	v

III.	Organized Field Days; Play Festivals.

IV.	Industrial Work.

V.	Nature Study.

VI.	General Recreation.

These courses were presented ior the first time in full at the Harvard summer school last summer by Dr. Henry S. Curtis, who was one of the chief contributors to this outline and a member of the committee. He has been lecturing in various parts of the country since then, pleading for the adoption of these courses. This, in time, will give us a more representative corps of teachers.

1 In comparing our playground problems and conditions with those of Germany we meet two decided differences, which seem to simplify the management of playgrounds in Germany as compared with us in this country. The first difference lies in this: the child upon entering school is taught games suitable for its age and stage of development. This method gees on through school life, each class having its own play curriculum, taught and supervised by the regular class teacher, during a long recess period. We have here at once a condition decidedly favorable to the success of the playground. All children attending the playground can play the many ring games and also those of low organization. It merely remains, therefore, a matter of organizing various groups for various games instead of teaching them,, as is necessary with us, where the children practically know no games. The teaching on the playground is difficult because we are not dealing with an organized class but rather with a heterogeneous crowd. The higher organized games or team games, not possible in most school yards are the only ones which are taught on the German playground. The other advantage which arises in favor of German playground conditions, and which accounts

Digitized by
-153-

for the much greater attendance found in statistics, is to be found in the second difference of method, namely that the attendance of playgrounds has been made obligatory in a great number of cities. The success of this movement promises soon to make this a general ruling in all the schools of Prussia. Is it unreasonable to foreshadow the adoption of these two elements for the success of our cause? It seems to me that both of these, what I like to call advantages, tend toward bringing the playground into the general scheme of education. Let us consider the first.

Is it impossible to bring into operation this play curriculum in our schools? I can hear the reader say: “another fad.” But we will let time decide that. The only difficulty I see, is the momentary inability of the teachers to instruct the pupils, which would necessitate the instruction of teachers first. This would be very feasible in cities where there are supervisors of physical education, who being prepared to arrange such a school curriculum could also meet the teachers for the necessary instruction. Other changes to make this possible are less complicated. A recess of from twenty to thirty minutes would have to be created to make a success of such a curriculum. Where the yard facilities are not such as to accommodate all the classes at one time, half of the number may be out, thus making two different periods. The disturbance created by those playing only annoy, at first, when the change from the old is still a novelty; but once the children know what is going on, their attention would be little distracted by the noise below. New school regulations in Berlin give a whole hour recess in the morning distributed as follows: 10 minutes after the first hour, 20 after the second, 10 after the third and again 20 after the fourth. If we are not willing to make this concession to the child, then we evidently are not yet convinced of the importance of play. The question of obligatory playground attendance for at least two afternoons, is one less likely to find adoption than the former. Still is such a demand really so remote ? The first thought which naturally suggests itself in opposition is: Can forced play be of any value; must not play be voluntary in its pursuit in order to bring results? Let us briefly state some of the results attributed to and peculiar to play: Courage, presence of mind, self confidence, self respect, loyalty, initiative, alertness, respect for authority and obedience to law and above all general efficiency. Be it understood here that these virtues are acquired in play by deeds and not by admonishing, consequently should not to be considered already accounted for in other school work.

“Es bildet ein Talent sich in der Stille,

Doch ein Character in dem Sturm der Welt.”

If, then, we are willing to grant this, and the general adoption of the playground seems to warrant this, it is but reasonable then to let such training be the privilege of all youth. There is just as little reason for not making play obligatory as there is great reason for obliging the child to the other compulsory forms of education.

If it had to become law to force parents to send their children to school, even though thousands already did so voluntarily, why then is it unreasonable to demand the same for the playground, where also thousands attend voluntarily, but still thousands are not being reached? Granted that those who are forced to go to play do not get as much out of it as do those who would go without being obliged to; have we not that same condition in the

Digitized by CaOOQle
-154-

school ? The ones who love to study and those who hate it? How many of those who feel forced to go to the playground will remain long on the list of children not enjoying play? It seems to me very few and these few, we will find to be the ones needing it most. During the school year we gain over many boys and girls who attended school reluctantly at first to the group of eager students, and in recent years we have made a special effort to aid the backward children. Where, then, is the ground for denying that compulsory playground attendance has a place in the general consideration of education? From the two obligatory play afternoons to optional attendance on the other days, is but a step. I feel safe in predicting that with a provision of this kind the present attendance would be doubled and the benefit per child greater. While the figures reported in the statistics of the various cities are large, they are in reality small, when we consider the total number of children in those cities. These two possible plans, for the promotion of the playground cause, I fear are at present far from realization, but it nevertheless behooves us to lend our effort in that direction. The normal courses outlined above can show the way. It is highly desirable that principals and superintendents of schools familiarize themselves with the suggestions offered therein. There is much need in the playground cause for well prepared, sympathetic men and women and the committee deserves appreciation of its work, an appreciation which will manifest itself best in a widespread application of their recommendations.

SARGENT NORMAL SCHOOL NOTES.

The commencement week of the school was made up as follows: senior class play, “The Rivals,” class dinner held in the Hotel van Dome, theatre matinee, senior promenade given by under classes, and the final commencement exercises. The program for the latter was as follows:

1.	Address—Dr. Sargent’s “Competition and Culture.”

2.	Song.....................................................Glee	Club

3.	Address—“Physical Training an Integral Part of Education”

....................Wm. Orr, Deputy Commissioner of Mass.

4.	Song.....................................................Glee	Club

5.	Presentation of Class Gift.

6.	Distribution of Diplomas.

7.	Song—Glee Club.

Forty were graduated.

Dr. Weylan, an honorary graduate of the school of Columbia university, recently visited the school and addressed the students.

In the final demonstration a competition of wall scaling took place in which the junior team won out in the remarkable time of forty-five and two-. fifth seconds. There were twelve on a team and the wall was 12 feet high, perpendicular and smooth. No artificial means were used.

During the last month all the students played tennis.

Dr. Sargent will have a paper at the N. E. A. convention to be held in Boston in July.

The year book, containing 65 pages, put in its appearance and gives a good resume of the year’s doings in school.

The class of 1910 goes on record as starting a quarterly, the first num-

Digitized by Google
-155—

ber of which has just come out. Its purpose is to keep in close touch with the alumni of the school.

The class gift to the school this year is a drinking bubble, a device which will do away with the old communion cup.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 1 8th St., New York.

—THE 14TH ANNUAL AMERICAN MARATHON, held under the auspices of the Boston Athletic Association on Tuesday, April 19, was the most successful run ever held by the Association. It is estimated that from 300,000 to 400,000 people viewed the race from the start in Ashland to the finish in front of the Club House. There were 196 entries in this race, and 171 starters, about 78 finishing. Distance, 25 miles.

It is a remarkable thing that with this enormous number of starters there was not a single accident of any kind. The following is the order of the prize winners:

1.	Fred L. Cameron, Amherst, N. S........................ 2

2.	Clarence H. De Mar, No. Dorchester A. A............... 2

3.	James J. Corkery, Canadian Irish-American A. C.......	2

4.	John R. Roe, West End Y. M. C. A., Toronto, Can. ..

5.	Michael J. Ryan, Irish-American A. C., New York.

6.	John J. Reynolds, New Jersey A. C., Jersey City, N. J.

7.	R. Eugene McCormick, Tecumseh A. C., Toronto, Can.

8.	Edwin H. White, Holy Cross Lyceum, Mariner Har-

bor, N. Y................................

physicians' report.

The usual examination of the runners was made at Ashland previous to the start. The weight before and after the race was taken, and of those finishing the weights before and after the race were obtained in 85 of the runners. In some instances the runner had food and drink previous to being weighed, so that in all cases the loss does not represent the full amount.

There were 85 runners weighed in at both points. Total difference in weight in these 85 runners, 562y2 pounds; average weight lost per runner, 64-7 pounds; largest amount lost by any one runner (weighing 138 pounds at start and 121 pounds at finish), 17 pounds; smallest (100 pounds to 99 pounds), 1 pound; weight lost by winner, 2]/2 pounds; weight lost by second prize winner, ll/2 pounds; weight lost by oldest runner (Peter Foley), 5}4 pounds; weight lost by youngest runner (Darius Allaise), 1 pound.

Blood was taken for examination before and after the race, but as yet the work is not complete. Certain observations were also made on the condition of the blood vessels before and after the race.

No contestant was prevented from starting in the race, and all that finished were in good condition. As far as can be learned there have been no serious results from this contest.

It was considered advisable not to let Peter Foley (who is 52 years old) start in the race, but a careful examination showed no reason to make this necessary, and the old gentleman’s condition at the end of the race was

H.	Time  M. S.	
. 2	28	52 2-5
. 2	29	52 3-5
. 2	34	25 4-5
2	38	6 2-5
. 2	38	42 1-5
. 2	40	3 1-5
. 2	40	25
. 2	40	50 2-5
Ashland		previous

Digitized by G,ooQle
— 15fi—

perfectly satisfactory. This is all the more remarkable as he has now completed five Marathons.

The youngest contestant, 18 years old, did not finish. So far as could be learned none of the contestants used alcoholic stimulants during the race. A few years ago it was not uncommon for them to do so, but in most instances the runner soon became unconscious, and could not continue. The desirability of abstaining from alcohol during the contest has now been sufficiently impressed upon the minds of the trainers, and it is gratifying to see the much better condition of the runners on an average than when alcohol was quite freely employed.

A most astonishing fact in regard to this run is that the winner this year, as in most previous years, averages less than six minutes a mile for the 25 miles. This is quite remarkable from the physical standpoint, as most mile runs on cinder tracks with spike shoes are won in about 4% minutes. The winner of this Marathon averaged slightly more than a minute per mile more for 25 consecutive miles up hill and down.

It is to be noted that the men who have won and been well up in the race in previous years did not make good showings.

NEW FOOTBALL RULES.

The Interscholastic Football Rules Committee, after having held three sessions of two days each already this year, met at the Hotel Cumberland Friday, May 13, and, in ten hours of stiff work, finished its labors for the year.

At 7 o'clock that evening Secretary Hall of the committee met the reporters and gave them the results of the final work of the fourteen rule-makers. It remains now only for a special committee—consisting* of Walter Camp of Yale, editor of the Official Rule Book, chairman; Percy D. Haughton, alternate for Crawford Blagden of Harvard, and Dr. Carl Williams, alternate for John C. Bell of the University of Pennsylvania— to codify the fourteen rules formally adopted at that session, and, under the power conferred, to provide adequate penalties. These fourteen rules were:

(1)	There shall be two halves of thirty minutes each, divided into four fifteen-minute periods.

(2)	There shall at all times be seven men of the attacking eleven on the line of scrimmage.

(3)	The distance to be gained in three tries shall be ten yards.

(4)	The player receiving the ball from the snapperback may cross the line of scrimmage anywhere, without going out five yards from the center.

(5)	The player carrying the ball shall not be pushed or pulled in any manner by members of his own side, and there shall be no use of hands in any way by members of the attacking eleven on team mates.

(6)	The onside kick shall travel at least twenty yards across the line of scrimmage before it may be recovered by members of the kicker’s side.

(7)	The forward pass may cross the line of scrimmage at any point, but the player making the pass must be at least five yards back of the scrimmage line when the pass is made. The player receiving the pass shall not be more than twenty yards in advance of the spot where the ball was put in play at the time the forward pass is recovered by him.

(8)	Only the men at the ends of the attacking line of scrimmage and

Digitized by CaOOQle
-157-

the four men in the back field at the time the ball was put in play shall be eligible to receive the forward pass. A back, in order to be eligible to receive the forward pass, must have been at least one yard back of the attacking scrimmage line when the ball was put in play.

(9)	A forward pass which crosses the line of scrimmage or a kick of any description must be made from a point at least five yards back of the scrimmage line.

(10)	a—A player on the offense who has crossed the line of scrimmage may not interfere with a defensive player on a kick until the ball shall have gone twenty yards, nor in a forward pass until it shall have been caught, except in an actual attempt to catch the pass.

b—On a running play players on the attack may continue, as in the past to interfere with players of the defense.

c—Players on the defense, except when behind their line of scrimmage, may play as heretofore.

d—Players on the defense behind their line of scrimmage may use their hands only upon their opponents’ bodies in order to get at the man with the ball, until the ball shall have advanced across a line five yards back of the scrimmage line.

e—When the ball has advanced across the said five-yard line players on the defense may play as heretofore.

f—Defensive players behind the line of scrimmage on a forward pass shall not in any way interfere with their opponents except in an actual attempt to catch the ball, nor shall such players, in case of a kick, in any way interfere with their opponents until the opponents have gone twenty yards beyond the line of scrimmage.

g—No player of the offense or defense while in the act of catching a forward pass shall be tackled, thrown, pushed, pulled, shouldered, or straight-armed until he shall have caught the ball arid taken more than one step in any direction. Provided that any such interference which is incidental to a bona fide attempt to catch or intercept the forward pass shall not come within this prohibition.

(11)	Any player with the ball crawling with the ball after the ball has been declared dead shall be penalized five yards.

(12)	A man who may be removed from the game for any cause except disqualification may return once to the game at the beginning of any subsequent quarter.

(13)	Players shall, at the moment of tackling, have at least one foot on the ground, under penalty of ten yards.

(14) On first and second downs in the case of an incompleted forward pass the ball shall be brought back to the spot where the pass was made, the play to count as a down and the point to be gained to remain the same. On the third down, in the case of an incompleted forward pass, the ball shall go to the opponents on the spot where the pass was made.

LOWELL ON FOOTBALL.

President Lowell of Harvard, in his attitude toward football as it is played, seems to be a shade or two more austere than he was not many months ago. From the abstract of his annual report it would appear that he is convinced that the belief all over the country that athletic achievement is more to be desired than intellectual attainment is not sincere; that when this

Digitized by CjOOQle
-158-

belief is sincere it is analogous to the savage’s idea that hunting is more honorable than husbandry; that the risks of football must be reduced, and that the system, unless it shall cease to be one for the training of “bands of gladiators,” unless it shall become “the culmination of a general sport pursued by large bodies of undergraduates,” cannot be a permanent institution.

If six or seven months can make President Lowell so much more rigorous in his attitude toward football, what will two or three years accomplish? Many were led to believe by his first official expressions on the subject that President Eliot’s attitude toward football would cease to be that of the head of the university, that it would be materially modified if not reversed. Now it would seem that President Lowell may in time—and not a very long time—become a second Eliot on this question. At any rate, there is not to be the break that s.ome persons contemplated. Football is going to be kept under the presidential eye—a kindly eye, no doubt, but one that will keep open and will see things in the whole composite clearly. President Lowell will ask that the situation with regard to football be improved, though he will doubtless be ready to help the game help itself.

The part of his statement to which football enthusiasts, particularly among the undergraduates, should give most attention is that in which he declares that the belief that athletic prowess is above intellectual attainment is not sincere. For if it is true that many students really do not believe what they seem to believe, and that they know that they do not believe it, President Lowell, in undertaking a reconstitution of realities, will find his work half done for him. He will find the reason of the students—as distinguished from the rah rah enthusiasm—already enlisted in his cause.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

—The seniors are visiting the gymnasiums of the high schools and observing the different methods of lighting, heating and ventilating, and of conducting classes, etc.

The field and track work taking place at the Turner Park is becoming more interesting as the students progress in the execution of it. They are looking forward with much interest to the “Athletic Meet” to take place in June.

The Board at its last meeting decided to hold the commencement exercises on June 16th instead of June 18th. Hazel C. Orr, Secretary.

SUMMER COURSE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

This year’s Summer Course of the North American Gymnastic Union will be the first to be conducted by the Normal College. It will be held at Madison, Wisconsin, during the summer session of the University of Wisconsin, and will last from July 1st to August 2d. The course will be divided into two terms of 14 session days each, the first term beginning July 1st and the second July 18th. The subjects taught in each term will be completed in the 14 session days; but the work of the second term has been so selected that it will be a continuation of the work of the first term.

The Administrative Board of the Normal College has decided on the following subjects:	I

Digitized by c.ooQle
-159-

Theory and Practice of German Educational Gymnastics.

Gymnastic and Team Games.

Classic, Character, Folk, and School Dancing.

Field and Track Work.

Anthropometry and Physical Diagnosis.

By dividing the course into two terms of 14 session days each, teachers who do not care to spend four to five weeks of their vacation at summer school work, will be enabled to take part of the work, while others with more time at their disposal can take the entire course.

Particular stress has been placed upon the practical side of the course. This will offer excellent opportunities for Public School teachers to familiarize themselves with work they are expected to teach; while many new ideas will be suggested to the regular teacher of physical training.

All of the work (excepting field and track work, the practical part of which will be given on the athletic field) will be given in the gymnasium building of the University of Wisconsin.

A more appropriate and ideally adapted location for summer work than Madison could scarcely be found. The summer session catalog of the University of Wisconsin contains the following about Madison and its environment :

“The beauty, healthfulness, and temperate climate of Madison, the capital of the State of Wisconsin, make it peculiarly attractive for study and recreation in the summer time.

“This city of 25,000 is famous throughout America for its unrivaled natural advantages. It is beautifully located upon a number of gradually sloping hills between Lakes Mendota, Monona, and Wingra. The city has a justly celebrated series of fine drives which lead through shaded dells and over beautiful wooded hills along the shores of the lakes. The lakes are admirably adapted for rowing, sailing, swimming and fishing, and are equipped with passenger steamers and rowboats.

“The meteorological records of the United States Weather Bureau show that the summer visitor is justified in expecting favorable temperatures. The average daily temperature ranges from 62 degrees to 80 degrees, Fahrenheit.

“The city is on the lines of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul, the Chicago and North-Western, and the Illinois Central Railways. The prevalence of two-cent fares in the Middle West brings the city very near to the great railway centers, the fare from Chicago, for example, being $2.60. Milwaukee (fare $1.64) is a convenient point of access and departure via the Great Lakes.

“There are many people in Madison engaged in furnishing rooms and board to students, and their numbers are increased in summer by the fraternities and sororities which open their commodious lodges to students. Room and board together cost from $4 up.”

Inasmuch as the Biennial Convention of the North American Gymnastic Union, to be held in St. Louis, closes on June 29, and as the summer course begins but two days later, it is expected that many of the graduates of the Normal School and College attending the convention will take advantage of this and also attend the summer course. This will be an excellent opportunity for the graduates of the school of the N. A. G. U. to meet once again and spend an enjoyable fortnight together.
-160-

BOOK REVIEW.

—The watchword of to-day is prevention- of disease. Physicians, sanitarians and hygienists have, during the last two decades, been striving to educate the public?'how to prevent getting ill. With this purpose in mind, John W. Ritchie, Professor of Biology, College of William and Mary, Virginia, recently issued a small volume “Primer of Sanitation ” published by the World Book Company, Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York. This book, written in a comprehensive manner, is a very good text-book for the upper grades of the public schools and preparatory colleges. Indeed, it would be a blessing to the community if it would find its way into every family, so that parents may aid teachers, boards of health and sanitarians generally, in the prevention and spread of contagious, infectious and other preventable diseases. The book contains 200 pages, one hundred and eleven illustrations; is bound in cloth and sells at 50 cents, bv mail 60 cents. It can be had from Mind & Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—Another book of the New-World Science Series written by the same author and published by the same company as the book mentioned above, is “Human Physiology, an Elementary Text-Book of Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene /' The purpose of this admirably written book is, as the author says in the preface, to “study the human body and how to keep it in health.,, Beginning with the minuute or histological structure of the human body, the cells, the author goes on with the anatomy of the various organs of the body and their normal function and concludes with the causes of diseases by germs and other injurious substances and habits and how to prevent disease by fighting and avoiding their causes. The book has 362 pages and 157 illustrations, some of which are in colors to facilitate comprehension. The list price of this book is 80 cents, or 96 cents by mail, and can be secured from Mind & Body, Herold Building, Wis. It is a very good book, especially for the 7th and 8th grades in our public schools, and others who have had but little opportunity to study these subjects extensively.

—“THE TEACHING OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL GYMNASTICS,, by W. P. Bowen, Professor of Education, Michigan State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Michigan. Published by F. A. Bassette Company, Springfield, Mass. 120 pages 6x9T4 inches. Price $1.10 postpaid. The volume is a theoretical and practical* course in commanding, demonstrating, and criticising gymnastic exercises, along with a brief study of the general principles of the leading systems of gymnastics. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee.________ ____

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. IL,

415 E. Michigan St., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

SUMMER SESSION.

The Summer Session of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union will be held at Madison, Wis., during the summer session of the University of Wisconsin. Courses offered in physical training for public school teachers; post graduate course for teachers of physical training.

Complete Course consists of two terms running from July 1st to August 2nd. FIRST TERM July L to July 16; SECOND TERM from July 18 to August 2.

Write for circular containing full particulars.