Vol. 6.

MAY, 1899.

No. 63

Editorial Committee: KARL KROH, WM.STECHER, sec’y. of the tech F. PFISTER, M. D., manm

Chicago, III.

COMMITTEE OF THE N. A. GYMNASTIC UNION, COR. 3RD A CHESTNUT 8T‘8, ST.LOUI8,MO.

editor, 760 thiro 8tm Milwaukee Wis.

INTRODUCTION*

THE time has passed when people believed that mortifying the body would purify the soul. We now recognize that the surest basis for a strong and healthy mind is a strong and healthy body, trained to the highest degree of efficiency in executing the decrees of the mind. A healthy and efficient body precludes indolence and usually ill temper, and drives its fortunate possessor to industry. Industry is nearly always on the side of right and progress.

At one time men believed that the sports and games of children were of evil origin, or at best were a waste of time which was to be permitted as long as the youthful muscles could not be otherwise put to use. The play-disposition, even in our own day, is often regarded reprovingly, especially when a luckless urchin attempts to indulge in it at school.

Yet men are gradually awakening to the fact that play has a much deeper and worthier significance. The games and plays of childhood are the school of the senses. Their complicated intricacies must be understood instantly and reduced to action as quickly, or all is lost ; the good-natured rivalry that makes each action, mental and physical, as nearly perfect as possible at that time paves the way for constantly increasing efficiency. The fair play required is an element not to be despised in the formation of a stable and sympathetic character.

As these facts come to be more generally recognized educators are bound to-take a larger interest in games for their pedagogical value.

* This introduction was written by Mr. W. C. Schaefer for his book on “Games,” which will shortly be published by the Freidenker Publishing Co.—Ed

Digitized by C.ooQLe
-50-

In some places, notably in Chicago, games are even now getting a firm hold in the primary school grades where they are most useful, since at an early age impressions upon the muscular and nervous organism are most readily made and are most permanent.

The literature of games is abundant in the German language, but very limited in English.

The aim of the compiler has been to supply a series of games simple enough to be readily understood, requiring so little apparatus as to be easily within the reach of anyone not having access to a gymnasium. These games will prove as serviceable to the country school-teacher and child as to any private tutor.

Some of these games are original, and for some the compiler must acknowledge indebtedness to teachers in the North American Gymnastic Union, to primary teachers in the Chicago schools, and to various German publications.

It is hoped that they may prove useful in the modem scheme of education that aims to improve mind and body through all the senses and organs.

(From “American Physical Education Review.”)

THE INFLUENCE OF SCHOOL LIFE ON CURVATURE

OF THE SPINE.*

By R. TAIT MCKENZIE, McGill University.

IN a series of examinations made last year in the Montreal High School of boys varying in age from 13 to 18, and averaging a little over 15 years, I was struck by the number that presented some marked irregularity of growth, and on tabulating them I find that 20 per cent, had a marked lowering of the right shoulder, 3 per cent, had the left low, scoliosis was found in 2 per cent., lordosis marked in 5 per cent., and round shoulders in 3 percent.; while the habitual standing position of 30 per cent, approached more or less closely to what Bernard Roth has aptly named the “gorilla type,” abdomen protruded, chest flat, and head shoved forward.

These defects are found not alone among school boys, for out of 204 college students of the athletic class examined at McGill, 29 showed these same defects, varying from slight unevenness of the shoulders to marked scoliosis.

In a much more extended series of cases than those I have been able to see, other observers have found similar results, and I may quote the name of Dr. Scudder of Boston, and Dr. Seaver of Yale, who found about 6 per cent, of Yale students presenting more or less lateral deviation of the spinal column.

Admitting the frequency of this fault among boys, and every observer knows that girls are much more peculiarly liable to spinal weakness and deviations during the critical age of school life, does it not seem worth while to attempt its prevention if the scientific hygienic regulation of the hours of school life can be used for that purpose ?

* Read before the Physical Education Section, N. E. A., Washington, July n, 1898.

Digitized by U,ooQle
-51-

Perhaps an inquiry into the condition of the spine during the years of childhood will show better than anything else the way in which ordinary scoliosis, or, as I prefer to call it, “fatigue scoliosis,” is brought about, and I may say in passing that the great bulk of cases are of that class, the other causes, such as rickets, paralysis, etc., being responsible for but very few scattered cases in comparison.

In infancy the spinal column is straight or bent in a slight curve forward from, hip to neck, the bones are not yet ossified and present a mass of pliable cartilaginous material with small deposits of bone. Between the vertebrae the discs are very soft and compressible, and the ligaments pliant and easily stretched.

Immediately on assuming the upright position, certain changes take place. A sharp, forward curve develops in the lower lumbar region continued up into the dorsum, so that the infantile curve is reversed, and the back is hollowed. Gradually a compensating curve in the dorsal region develops and increases till the well-marked backward curve of the back is the result, and by the time adult life is reached, a third develops in the cervical in the same direction as the lumbar.

It is while these curves are forming that the child’s school life is passed.

The formation of the first or lumbar curve is helped greatly by muscular action—the great mass of the erector spittae muscles pulling back on the vertebrae of the lower part of the dorsal region acts like a bow spring, while the powerful psoas muscles springing from the front and sides of the vertebrae, and going down to the thigh, further help in the formation of the forward curve by being on the stretch when the child is in a standing position. The other curves are undoubtedly compensatory in character. The muscles that act on the spinal column are most intricate and numerous, the superficial layers consisting of long strands passing, some to ribs, but mostly from spinous processes to transverse processes of the vertebrae. The deeper layers are shorter, and the deepest pass only from one bone to its next neighbor. Gray describes five distinct layers, each containing from 3 to 12 muscles. This apparent redundancy and unnecessary complication is after all the one safety we have in preserving the upright posture.

We know that if we hold the arm out at right angles the fatigue and pain at the shoulder soon become intolerable, and few can stand the test as long as five minutes. The main strain falls on one muscle, the deltoid, which has no relief from continuous action. The same condition would result in the back without this system of small muscles that keep working in relays, each slight movement bringing into action a new set, and relieving the tired ones. Without this ingenious arrangement the erect posture would be an impossibility. Anything that will interfere with this action of the muscles in relays will hasten the oncome of fatigue and collapse.

The constant desire for movement is the most striking quality of young animal life, human or otherwise; the play instinct, so wonderfully understood by Froebel, and so sapiently applied in the games of the kindergarten to the development of the best physical powers of the child.

Digitized by CjOOQle

r
-52-

With his introduction to regular school life, the child’s physical troubles begin. He is made to sit still from 3 to 6 hours, with but momentary rests at long intervals, the play instinct, expressed by recurrent attacks of the “fidgets,” has to be sternly suppressed by the teacher for the sake of discipline.

The rapid fatigue of the undeveloped muscles and compression of the unformed bone is enough to encourage and fix faulty postures, but if we analyze the writing posture we can trace the progress from the normal to collapse in the position of pronounced scoliosis or skewed back. I quote from Dr. Fahrner, whose description is so good that to change it would be to spoil it.

“Before writing begins the children sit perfectly upright with both scapulae thrown back equally. As soon as writing begins all the children move their heads slightly forward and to the left. Soon head after head drops with a rapid jerk from fatigue of the neck muscles ; in a short time the back also collapses so as to hang from the shoulder blades supported by the upper arm. Then two types are seen depending on the part of the book they are at. Those writing on the upper part support themselves on both elbows, and let the chest sink forward against the desk, and the back becomes curved forward, the round back.

“The eyes are three or four inches distant from the desk, and ihe support is from three points, the left elbow, the chest, and the right forearm, slightly. When at the bottom of the book they lose their third support and have ihe left elbow alone, and add to these faulis of postion a twisting or screwing of the back toward the right. The head is bent toward the left shoulder, the right arm with the scapula standing out like a wing rests anywhere and lightly, the eyes are too close to the paper.”

This is the process of collapse by tiring out the spinal muscles as you tire out the arm by holding it out at right angles, and scoliosis is the writing position become fixed.

The evils of this “confinement with hard labor” are notably increased and made more dangerous by ill-fiiting desks and seats.

The subject has been taken up so fully by more able and better informed observers, such as Scudder and Hartwell in America, Cohen in England, and Fahrtler, Eulenberg, and Bach in Germany, that I will do little more than mention the defects usually found, and name the remedies t^at have already been found efficient in combating these evils.

The seat may misfit in three ways. It may be too low, bringing the weight on the hip bones and cramping the knees It may be too high, leaving the legs suspended in the air from the knee, a position that interferes with the circulation in the legs, ar d causes rounding of the back. The seat may be too deep and the back is thus prevented from reaching the back rest, with rounding of the whole back as a result.

The desk may misfit in five ways:

When too low the pupil must bend forward and round the shoulders.

When too high the book is biought too close to the tye>, and the shoulder must be raised and the back skewed in writing.

When the desk is flat or but slightly sloped the head must be brought too far forward in reading.

In the placing of a fixed desk too great a distance between it and the seat results in some of the same defects as in a low desk, the forward bending and
-53-

stretching in writing, .while if too near, the chest is cramped and lespiration interfered with. With so many errors it would seem a delicate matter to steer clear of them all and get the ideal desk, it is surely a matter of the gravest moment that added t- confinement and fixity of position, evils in themselves, there be not added the crime of misfitting desks and seats, 10 accelerate weariness and hasten the production of the fixed scoliosis or fatigue.

The problem is to have a seat whose length and breadth is proportional to the under surface of the thighs and buttocks of the sitter. To place it at such a height that the sitter’s feet may rest flat upon the floor when the legs are bent to a right angle, and to provide a rest that will support the sitter’s back, whether quiescent or ac ively engaged.

The desk must be of the right height and slope. The under surface must not cramp the knees, and ab ve all it must not be placed so far forward in jelation to the seat as to require undue leaning forward in the sitter.

This last delect is shown in the normal dimensions given by Eulenberg and Bach, but was probably a con ession to convenience as permitting the pupil to get in and out more easily.

A vertical line dropped from the edge of the desk cover to the chair seat is called the ‘ difference," while the space between this Lne and the ed^fe of the seat is called a “distance." If the desk overhangs the seat the distance is said to be minus; if not, it is said to be plus. Remembering these two technical terms, it is easy to explain the points of a well fitting desk

The difference should be equal to measurement from the elbow tip to the seat, the forearm being bent at right angles and elbow to the side. The distance should be minus two inches, but if adjustable for distance, so much the better.

The desk slope is best at one in six inches.

The seat height should equal the measurement from the under surface of the bent knee to the sole of the foot.

The depth of the seat should enable the back to touch the back rest throughout. The back rest should have a projection for the loins, and should sweep backward to follow the natural curve of the back and give the figure a slightly reclining pose.

11 in the furnishing of a schoolroom th<. turniiure cannot be made adjustable throughout, some at least in every room should be so made, and the others constructed on the model just laid down, the rtsult of years of experiments and thought by skilled observers.

Even with well fitting-seats and desks, the present writing position is such as to favor to a marked extent the formation of fatigue scoliosis or the permanent skewed back. Vertical writing has been spoken of as a panacea for the “skewed back." It has been so strongly recommended by Cohen of London that he says, “With the slanting script one never knows whether a pupil has sat upright or not: with the vertical script he must have sat upright while writing.* Dr. E. R. Shaw has pretty clearly shown this to be fallacious, but the fact remains that its adoption would tend to lesson the frequency of fatigue scoliosis, especially if care were exercised by teachers to keep the pupils rested anddn good position.

The third point that tends to produce faulty posiure, the starting point of lateral curvature, is bad lighting of the schoolroom; if insufficient we have at once the rounded back and stooped shoulders in the pupil who cannot see clearly. The same effect is produced when the windows are so arranged that ihe pupil sits in his own light. The windows should be placed lngh up and

Digitized by CjOOQle
—54—

the light should fall over the left shoulder, and never directly from the front or back.

Every school system should have a medical officer or adviser. His duties should be in brief somewhat as follows:

ist. He should give advice in the construction of school houses in matters of general hygiene, but more particularly in the lighting and seating of the schoolrooms.

2d. He should inspect the rooms from time to time during school hours to see that the pupils are not misfitted in desks or seats.

3d. He should make a careful examination of the muscular system and heart and lungs, etc., in all pupils before taking part in the rougher games, such as football and basket ball, and keep a record of these examinations.

4th. He should be consulted by teachers in all cases where they observe a tendency to curvature or weakness, or dullness of any of the senses—and they should be examined carefully and a record kept.

These cases should be followed throughout their school life, and the teachers advised as to the defects and, where advisable, the parents should be warned and advised.

Tfie school should be the place for the detection and prevention of faults ;n growth, but the treatment of these cases should be confined strictly to what Dr. Sargent has called “straight work,7 in which both sides of the body are equally used, and it dees not fall within the province of the school to specially treat them any more than it would to prescribe glasses for shortness of sight.

Such work is therapeutic and requires special, individual medical treatment, which the instructor, when one is present, has not the time to give, even if he could and it were advisable. It is in such cases that the value of an adviser is apparent, and even those unfortunates that have passed unheeded through the plastic first stages of scoliosis till the faulty posture has become habitual, may by careful treatment be restored to the symmetry that is man’s birthright.

(From “Journal of Physical Culture.”)

PUTTING THE SHOT.

By HENRY F. COCHEMS.

IN discussing methods of training for the shot-put my discussion must necessarily be subjective from observation of personal results. However, I shall eliminate any suggestions not of general interest and application.

The idea is almost universally entertained that the only requisite for successful shot-putting is a massive, giant brawn. Nothing could be further from the truth. There is no standard event in the whole schedule of athletic feats which demands a general symmetrical development more imperatively than putting the shot. Nervous activity, agility, and the ability to focus your extremest nervous effort at the crucial moment of delivery are as absolute essentials as brawn and sinew. That this combination of muscular and nervous qualities is necessary is manifest from the history of successful shot-putters.

George R. Gray weighed only 186 pounds when he established the world’s records in shots of all weights. Garrett, of Princeton, weighed less than 180 pounds when he won the event at Berkeley Oval last year.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—55—

For four successive years the record has been held in the W. I. A. A. A. by men below 175 pounds.

The physical condition of men, so far as this is promoted by diet, rubbing and massage baths, and abundant rest and sleep, is much in conformity with the generally accepted methods of training sprinters and other track athletes, the only essential distinction being that in the shot-put the effort to reduce weight shduld'be less radical.

In training for condition the dominant purpose obviously is to bring to their highest efficiency on the day of the contest three things :

(1)	The elastic muscular condition.

(2)	Abundant nervous energy.

(3) Mental vitality. Your work should cultivate a vital and ambitious interest. This seems distinct from physical condition.

Neither of the above three can be subordinate to the other without sacrifice of the best results.

Almost invariably trainers unconsciously ignore the last two elements in a man’s condition and strive only for the fitst. This is especially the error of the old school of trainers. The result is that they over-work their men and drain them of the reserve energv with which they should be full to overflowing on the day of the contest. .

Above all, then, do not overtrain in the shot-put. From three to five throws per day are sufficient. Eight or ten shorter puts1 for practice on “form” provide abundant work for one day. I would not throw the “best” I had in me more than .once in three days. I would not touch a weight at all at least three days before a hard contest*. Build up, and when you enter the ring after such a respite from work a shot will feel comparatively light.to you.	*	*

The best shot-putter will not confine himself exclusively to work in the shot-put. This is what produces mental, “staleness,” and that condition is fatal to results. Drop your work for an interval. Such apparent waste of time is profitable. You may substitute short sprints and starting from the “mark.” Indeed, such work is always a valuable auxiliary. To avoid mental “staleness” move your ring frequently, use shots of different weights, 12, 16 or 20 pounds—anything to give you variety.

Never permit yourself to contract the habit of “fouling.” It is dangerous when under pressure in a contest.

In the mechanical directions for putting the shot four points of vital importance occur to me.

(1)	. Secure elevation in your throw; raise the shot high unconsciously. A man shirks work here because the strain of putting is severe.

(2)	Labor to increase your speed in the ring. It is remarkable how effective a persistent effort toward this result is.

(3)	Hold the shot in your hand deeply, so that the center of the shot is in direct line with the ulna and radius of the forearm. Do not hold shot forward in the fingers ; they yield when you deliver.

(4)	When you deliver the shot do not permit the elbow to swing out from the body. Your hand should turn in the delivery so the

Digitized by

Google

*
—56-

palm faces outward from the body. Then the delivery is firm and unyielding.

In standing in the ring ready for the delivery, stand rigidly erect, with the body inclined well back. Do not crouch; it impedes fast work.

PHYSICAL TRAINING

IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF LITTLE ROCK, \RK.

By HANS BALLIN.*

LITTLE ROCK is the first city in the State that has introduced physical training into her schools under the supervision of a special teacher. There are doubtless other schools in the State where physical exercises are taught. A goodly number of teachers recognize the necessity of arousing their pupils once or twice during school hours by some lively movements. They instruct them as best they know how. Some have even taken the trouble to acquire their knowledge by some special instruction ; most have taken it from text-books. Not physical exercises only, but physical training has been introduced into the schools of Little Rock this fall. Its purpose is to take care of the physical welfare of all the pupils inasmuch as the mental is looked to in all the other studies.

School life lays constraints upon the natural inclinations of the child. Left to himself, he would look for another occupation than sitting still five or six hours in his seat. No one will dispute this. He would also look for another place to assemble with his companions. The schoolroom walls he would consider too close for his childish play, if he vrere left to choose his own playground. The school has long recognized these constraints. Two factors have forced attention to the physical welfare of the pupil : The physical degeneration of school children, and the scientific study of children.

That we are not living the life of those of a hundred years ago, that our mode of living has changed, cannot reasonably be disputed. Though conditions may still differ materially when we begin to compare the life in our smaller towns and the one led in the thickly populated districts of our large cities, still there are analogous points, all tending to lead man from the more natural to an artificial life. The true meaning of Darwin’s “Struggle of Life” was never more fully realized than by our own generation. How much the next will be on the incline, no one foretells.

The public schools have long ago seen the necessity of fitting the pupil with a larger stock of mental knowledge to empower him for the harder struggle. Gradually the school work has increased, both in quantity and quality, and a graduate from our grammar school would surprise a Franklin. While this increase of mental training has been brought about by reasons of necessity, the equiping of the pupils with increased physical strength to enter the combat of life has not been considered to be part of the school work. Yet Rousseau demanded that a child be developed in his animal spirit and activities before he * be

* From the American School Journal.

>

Digitized by CjOOQle
-57-

trained mentally. That was more than a hundred years ago when we knew nothing of an age of steam and electricity, when the girls did their weaving at home, and not in factories ; when the forests parted the villages, and the boys were hunting in them, and were not newsboys and bootblacks, and cash boys. Still voices were heard at the time of Rousseau and Pestalozzi, peremptorily.asking a restoration of the Grecian conception of training body and mind harmoniously. They asked in vain until in our day the first of the two factors became so self-evident that the handwriting on the wall was seen.

Our youth is physically degenerated. An unpleasant factor to deal with a hundred years after the first warning was given. A hundred and one devices were adopted to improve the sanitary condition of the school ; every new schoolhouse must be superior to the old one in its hygienic conditions. All these measures were for sanitary considerations to check epidemics. They proved insufficient to counteract the physical degeneracy of children. Hard work is asked at school of children of a hard working race. Well-lighted rooms, spacious schoolhouses with good ventilation, good sewerage, etc., were found inadequate to give them such physical training as would render' them stronger—strong enough to meet the ever increasing demands of a progressive, and also enervating, life. This fact was conducive to the introduction into school work of physical exercises which give the child physical training somewhat equivalent in amount to his mental training. Though the introduction of this study is but a makeshift in many places it is gradually increasing in its good effects by more extended and further-reaching work. In many cities the beginning was small, but so enthusiastic were its advocates that from simple calisthenics in the schoolrooms, between the aisles, the work'has been extended to fairly equiped gymnasia for grammar and high schools. Virchow, the great pathologist, has claimed one-half of school life for physical work. When we have' scarcely fifteen minutes daily practice in the schoolroom we are surely far remote from his ideal. Those who have watched the ever increasing powers of those children who are thoroughly trained physically, will not see in Virchow’s demand any exaggeration. When we see how many make an utter failure in life from sheer lack of physical strength we will grant the necessity of more attention to the physical training of youth.

Those who have taken an opposed, or at least indifferent, stand toward physical training in schools have held that it was of no concern to public education. The Grecian conception of training mind and body was surely not theirs. The physical degeneracy of their race was by them not attributed to the public schools, ergo, they had nothing to do with it. They alleged (and do claim still) that all work which does not properly, /. e., apparently, prepare the child for life has nothing in common with public school education. “The three R’s” are their school curriculum.

To the advocates of such a common school course of study the second factor which we quoted as essential for enlightenment on the subject of physical training is an unanswerable argument. The scientific study of child life has corrected many antiquated ideas on education.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-58-

As to the subject of physical training, it has proved the Necessity of aiding the proper growth of the child during the different periods of child life. Knowledge was introduced into the small brain by degrees because it could not hold a great amount on account of its small size. The body of the child and its organs were only small in bulk, otherwise developed. That each part of the body had its time at which it grows faster than at others was not known, and, we may add, is not recognized as noteworthy by many to-day. Still this very fact of development has become one of the potent factors which can never be lost sight of again. Basedow, the great educator and practical demonstrator of Rousseau’s ideas, taught his child to speak Latin fluently at six. With him the method of accomplishing this educational feat was all important. How much are we removed from such an absurdity, and how far could we have been from it, had it not been for the scientific investigation of the growth of the human body ? This very investigation has proved the truism of Froebel’s ideas of education, has made the kindergarten an educational factor. The public school should be the continuation of the kindergarten. The trials of the primary teachers are to be found in the physical stunting of many of their pupils. That the teachers of the fourth and fifth grades meet with fewer cases of such deplorable stunting is not because the pupils have outgrown their deficiencies, but that there are many no more of this world !

The study of physical training then should not only cause pupils to dwell in houses more sanitary, should not only make their muscles stronger, but should aid them in their different periods of growth. This will certainly require a different material to be employed at different ages. It must be so with a rational system of physical training. If it has been found, for instance, that the child’s finger muscles are not sufficiently developed at the age of six years to fit it to hold a pencil in its hand, physical exercises should encourage and direct a correct growth at this time ; if it be a fact that a boy’s heart and lungs are growing more rapidly between fourteen and eighteen years than at any previous or later period, so much more as to deprive his brain of sufficient blood for mental labor, then physical exercise should be so directed as to aid this natural growth and make school work possible and enjoyable to the boy.

Physical training in the public schools of Little Rock is not only expected to furnish the pupils with suitable exercises but has been also directed to their sanitary well-being. Two weeks in the beginning of the fall were spent in testing the eyesight of all the pupils. Some very interesting facts were brought out which will be of future use to the teacher and an aid to the children. Of this and other matters of interest more anon.

—The teachers of the North American Gymnastic Union (Turnerbund) will convene in Cleveland, 0., this summer. At the same time the National Association of Teachers of German will meet in the same city. A bi-weekly course in fencing, wrestling, boxing, and in theoretical branches will follow the convention of the instructors of the N. A. G. U.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—59—

ILLINOIS SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND.

UNDER the efficient management of Superintendent Hall the State Boarding School for the Blind presents pleasing evidences of substantial advancement in every department of its work. The beautiful and thoroughly equipped gymnasium which was erected several years ago was thrown open recently to the friends of the school and the general public and a long program of physical exercises was rendered by the body of pupils, for the most part in large groups or classes, with individual work on the parallel and horizontal bars and rings by a great many of the pupils. While the general precision, accuracy, and harmony of movement were marvelous, even the unprofessional observer could not fail to notice the all-around development resulting from the careful selection of appropriate exercises for every* part of the body* The ease, grace, and beauty of the movements chosen by the instructor render every exercise pleasurable to the participants, and the daily drills in exhilarating practice, free from sudden or undue strain, must have a powerful influence upon the happiness and the health of the pupils. Physical culture for the blind, through light gymnastics, is an innovation of comparatively recent origin. Wherever introduced, the physical and moral results have been marked.

Too much credit cannot be given to the efforts of Mr. W. A. Crippen, the director of physical culture in the Illinois School for the Blind. With rare intelligence and enthusiasm that is contagious Mr. Crippen devotes himself constantly from early in the morning to late at night to the physical culture of his pupils. The State School for the Blind has a present attendance of 233 pupils, being one of the largest schools of its class in the world. The remarkable healthfulness of the institution may not be attributed to any one cause so much as to the vigilance exercised in every department and by every officer and attendant, but a very large share of the credit must be due to the devotion of Mr. Crippen.—/. C. Gordon (111. School for the Deaf) in “New Era.”

(From “American Physical Education Review.”)

THE EDUCATION OF CRIPPLED CHILDREN.

By E. H. BRADFORD, M. D.

Ija#	said that it is a fake humanitarianism which makes much of the

weak and deformed, and it is undoubtedly true that it is to the strong and healthy that the world looks for leadership, and that sentimentality may not always be wisdom. Li Hung Chang states that our civilization errs in placing too much stress on charity and too little on justice. Civilization, however, owes it to itself to care for its cripples not only as a Christian duty, but in a sense of strict justice. For it is due to our ignorance or our neglect of the proper sanitarj' laws that the ravages of tuberculosis (the most potent cause of cripplehood) are so great, and the community which fails to protect satisfactorily should charge itself with the consequences of its neglect. Even the prehistoric North American Indian, as has been shown by indisputable evidence (Peabody Museum), cared for his cripples, and any nation which claims to give a fair chanoe of happiness to its citizens should charge itself especially with the

Digitized by U.ooQle
-60-

care of the unfortunate. Looking at the question from this point of view it can hardly be said that full justice is done to the crippled in our communities.

It is the proper pride of every self-respecting family to cherish and care for its own and to provide that none ever become a state charge, and tenderness and kindness is lavished upon their shut-in lives, till they are often injured by too great attention, and the Tiny Tims become too often the petty tyrants of a cramped environment; but where there is no family to protect and care the crippled become the serfs of the almshouse, a tax on the community, a burden to others, and a source of misery to themselves. Those who are distressingly distorted sometimes gain a precarious livelihood by the brutalizing exhibition of their physical defects.

It is the Scandinavians who have first organized a means of freeing the cripple from the position of the absolute dependency, and the plan so well carried out •in Copenhagen and Christiania should attract careful attention. We in America, who claim to be a practical people, should not only copy but attempt to improve on the original design.

It may be estimated that in a community of a million inhabitants are to be found, apart from the insane, blind, or feeble-minded, at least 10,000 individuals either entirely prevented from bread-winning, or seriously handicapped in the struggle for work.

These, it will be borne in mind, are not mentally deficient or maimed in tlieir senses or intellect; they simply are unable to hunt for employment, they are unskilled, untrained, and there is no adequate means of educating and training them or finding employment for them, even if their parents attempt to do so.

It is, however, conceivable that not only could this army of unemployed be made independent, but that by a proper adjustment of economic conditions they become by their disability better fitted to do certain sedentary work than the more active. It would be necessary that they be trained to what they are especially capable of doing.

It is to be remembered that those who live shut-in lives and whose lives are not utterly crushed by pain and suffering, frequently develop unusual refinement, delicacy, clearness of intelligence, and patience. If these qualities are developed and marketed, they can be made of great use to the community.

That there is a need with us of skilled individual manual work is clear to any one who visits a Japanese museum, or even looks at a hand-colored Japanese photograph. We, who are the great electricians and the iron a,nd steel workers of the world, who utilize machinery to such an extent that hand labor has become almost a lost vocation, give to the world products which in perfection seem a marvel, but have we not lost in the rush of our civilization the infinite patience, the wonderful skill in handicraft to be seen in a Japanese bronze, a piece of carved ivory, a kakemono? It is possible that by training and utilizing this neglected contingent in our midst some good can be developed toward the production of the finest, most finished work estimated by its excellence, not by the rapidit}' or time of the production.

This can, however, only be accomplished by an organized charity similar to that first started in Copenhagen and begun so successfully in Boston.

—On March 24th the University School of Cleveland, 0., gave a gymnasium exhibition with contests of a high order.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Misp ftND BODY. ^

EREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO,

Published Monthly.

BY

Mibiscriptiun Price, $1.00 per Year.

2*£U-w6LVL2cee, ‘Wtscoaa.siaa.-

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

IN a few years we shall witness the beginning of a new century. The present one may, from an industrial aspect, be called the Century of Steam and Electricity, but it may also properly be styled the Century of the Re-introduction and Advancement of Physical Education, for it is only in the latter half of the 18th century that anything like a systematic physical training had a place in the education of man since the time of the ancient Greeks.

We have recently been informed by the papers that even such nations as the Japanese have introduced systematic bodily exercise in some of their schools. Thoroughly convinced of the necessity of practical physical education for the present generations and of the vast benefit nations would derive therefrom, such men as F. L. Jahn and Henry Peter Ling could never have dreamed of the growth of their holy cause.

Notwithstanding that they were influenced by different surroundings their characters bear a strong resemblance. We find both men highly educated, enthusiastic almost to the degree of fanaticism, exercising an unusually strong will-power to carry out that which they thought to be the only remedy and which they both had begun in the interest of their respective fatherlands.

To these two principal founders of modern gymnastics the world owes infinitely more than it does to the inventors of guns and battleships. Not without opposition, however, was physical education advocated and practiced, but it seemed to participate in the irresistible character of dynamite, its inherent force and energy growing in proportion to the resistance offered.

Especially in Germany during the time of political reaction, gymnasia and gymnasts were considered dangerous to King and State.

The years of 1818 and 1871 are of special importance in the development of physical training. The former brought into close union elements worthy of men like Ling and Jahn ; they were full of ideals and dreams of constitutional reforms, and at the same time strong believers in the words of Seneca : Mens sana in corpore sano.

But developments decided against them, and nothing was left for them than to seek a new fatherland, which would not interfere with their ideas of individual freedom.

They turned to this glorious country. To-day we find in the United States German-Americati Turner-Societies (Turnvereine) by the hundreds employing specially trained teachers to instruct mothers, men, and children in the noble art of gymnastics.

We see physical training made a branch of the regular curriculum of the public schools of so many cities, simply through the influence of

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-62-

these societies and their good enthusiasm. For all this we have to be thankful to the men of the year 1848. The final result of the German-French war of 1870—71 seems to have convinced the French, that the “Turnen” of the Germans was responsible to a very manifest degree for the defeat of France ; they were not slow in making use of the lesson. It was only a matter of a few decades that all of the European countries, and in short the civilized world at large, would appreciate the value of physical exercise and we can say to-day that Jahn and Ling’s ideas have conquered the globe.

The followers of Ling, while less successful on the continent, have gained many friends in England and in this country and are engaged in a lusty but friendly strife with the Germans for the supremacy.

This competition for gaining the public favor by gaining the public attention, if not overdone as unfortunately it sometimes is, is wholesome and beneficial to the good cause, for an old proverb truthfully says, “Competition is the life of business.” Both systems, the Swedish and the German, have each merits enough in them to command the mutual respect and admiration of their adherents and should not under any circumstances intentionally or otherwise be lowered in the estimation of outsiders. The followers of Ling deserve credit for having introduced physical training in a good many institutions and schools. Physical training in this country has to some extent become a regular and well-recognized branch of general education. We have institutions which, being in no wise representative of a special system, teach the subject on scientific principles. To such institutions and their graduates we bid a hearty welcome in our ranks. Nothing can, of course, prevent quacks, turkish bath-rub-down people, summer-sault artists and overenthused grace and relaxation advocates to call themselves exponents of rational, scientific physical education until the mature judgment of educational leaders has sifted the genuine from the counterfeit.

A few years ago in Brooklyn, N. J., an association was founded which had for its aim the advancement of physical training irrespective of system or creed. Scieniific men as well as educators took interest in the new move which since then has been steadily growing and developing. Their annual meetings were of the highest interest and have been attended by the best men of the country. In recent years the National Board came to the conviction that one la*ge body could not well encompass all those that might be interested in the cause. Hence it was concluded to form an organization similar to the N. A. G. U.

It was reasoned that st^te organizations could be more easily held together and were more feitile in the cause than could be accomplished by one single national organization. Consequently district or state associations were instituted which should be organic branches of the mother instilution, the A. A. A. P. E.

A number of such institutions have, during the last years, been established in different parts of the country.

It was expected that at the national meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education (the organization we have reference to in tins article), which was recently held in Boston, reports from the various districts wou’d pour l'ght upon the question as to whether or not this reorganization was an advantage.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-63-

Of the business transacted at that meeting we are promised a review which we anxiously expect to be forthcoming.

No n atter upon what course the national conference has agreed for the future, we possess abundant faith in the management and hope with them, that by energetic and united efforts physical training will eventually receive due recognition of the importance which it deserves.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—A branch of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Training was recently organized in Omaha, Nebr., in one of the committee room£ of the City Hall. The body starts out with a representative membership. Among those who attended the preliminary meeting were : County Superintendent of Schools Bodwcll, Athletic Director Retzer of the Omaha Turnverein, Prof. Bernstein of the High School, Athletic Director Barnes oi the Young Men’s Christian Association, and Dr. Towne. Physical Director of the State University was also present. The meeting talked over plans for the future, but the main business consisted of the election of officers. This resulted as follows : Dr. Towne, president ; F. B. Barnes and W. G. Retzer, vice-presidents; Carroll G. Pearse, secretary, and Nathan Bernstein, treasurer. The following^ committees were also appointed: Theory and Statistics— Pearse, Bernstein, and Barnes ; Publication and Bibliography—Dr. Towne, Miss Fish, and Frank Crawford ; Technical Matters—Retzer, ' Barnes, and Dr. Henry ; Executive Committee—All officers and Miss Fish and Messrs. Bodwell and Crawford. The purpose of the association is indicated in the title, the work being done principally in the ranks of school children. There is a national central body, with which are affiliated state organizations. City and town societies operate under the latter.

—We have endeavored to surpri.se our readers with going to press early this time and issuing “Mind and Body” about the middle of the month. Usually it does not happen before the eleventh hour that we manage to mail our journal. This is not at all due to negligence on our part but to the fact that our editors are kept busy with their professional duties and can give to “Mind and Body’’ only what time they have left. We give this information in answer to the many inquiries which we usually receive when we are delayed.

—In our last issue we referred to this year’s announcement of the Summer-School of Physical Training at the Harvard University. In future only such students that will have taken two full summer courses will be entitled to a diploma. The facultv and the curriculum of the course remain essentially the same as heretofore. Under the auspices of the Association Training School of the Y. M. C. A. in Springfield, Mass., a new summer-school has been opened. The course comprises, as the pamphlet says, original and advanced work. The synopsis of the different topics is exeedingly promising, especially in reference to the subject “Play”,for the history, psychology, pedagogy, and bibliography of play are being treated in such an exhausting manner as in our knowledge has never been done before anywhere. We would heartily rejoice if the lecturer, Dr. Luther Gulick, should decide to publish his lectures in book form. Round tables will be conducted by Dr. E. H. Arnold, New Haven, Conn.; Dr. T. M. Balliett, Spring-field, Mass.; Dr. Louis Collin, Boston, Mass.; Dr. Theod. Hough, Boston, Mass.; Dr. Paul C. Phillips, Amherst, Mass.; Dr. W. H. Kinnicutt, Cleveland, O., Mrs. Mary Boomer Page, Chicago, 111.

Digitized by ^ooQLe

f
-64-

PROGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF LATERAL (SIDEWARD) SPINAL CURVATURE.

(A. R. Shauds, M. D., Washington, D. C., Virginia Semi-Monthly, April 8, 1898.)

WILL she grow out of it ? is the first question asked when a case of lateral curvature is brought for treatment. In no instance can it be said that a patient with a well marked case‘of lateral curvature will, untreated, grow out of the deformity. If it be one with rotation and fixation of the vertebrae it cannot be cured, but if it is one in whom only lateral deviation exists uncomplicated by rotation, the prognosis is favorable. Other things must also be taken into consideration in prognosticating lateral curvature of the spine, its cause, whether from rickets, paralysis, the age of onset, sex, condition of general health, or whether the patient has anaemia; chlorosis too, must be taken into consideration, the site of the curvature, for certain regions of the spinal column ( are much more amenable to treatment than others. In prognosing a case the flexibility of the spine must be taken into consideration, for the more flexible the spine the greater is the chance of improving the condition. In cases with marked rotation, as is evidenced by the altered conditions of the ribs and chest, very little can be done as to improvement ; checking the progress of the deformity is the most that can be hoped for and this only by the most vigorous treatment.

It is a great mistake to think that little can be done to improve the deformity in these cases; on the contrary, a great deal can be done if taken in time. The treatment is considered from two standpoints, preventive and curative.

Preventive:	Children	should	be instructed how to carry themselves,

avoiding faulty positions that will throw extra strain on the muscles of one side, excessive use of one arm, faulty positions in writing, bad positions in sitting, long piano practice on an ordinary piano stool, the use of stiffened corsets which prevents free action of the spinal muscles, faulty positions during sleep, etc.

Curative :	Old	text	books state that the treatment should consist

of spinal braces and gymnastic exercises, making the exercises secondary; at present authorities recommend just the reverse, gymnastics and spinal braces; in fact some authorities claim mechanical supports positively injurious. In advising exercise in lateral curvature the worst advice would be to take a course of exercise in a gymnasium or institute of physical culture, for the surgeon should personally train the patient in such exercises as are suited for each individual ca.se. Improper exercises are just as powerful a factor to do harm as proper exercises are to do good.

The author has nothing new to offer in the wa}' of exercises and a detailed account of the exercises he employs is not given. Faradism and massage are most excellent adjuncts and there are cases in which spinal supports may be of assistance in weak and painful spines and there are cases that require braces for cosmetic effects.

Digitized by ejOOQle
—65-

INTERIOR OF THE NEW GYMNASIUM OF THE NORTH ST. LOUIS

TURNVEREIN.

Dimensions of clear space 90x56x22 ft. The building contains 3 bathrooms for shower baths, with a boiler of a capacity of 500 gal. In the dressing rooms there are 90 lockers of the latest pattern. Of gymnastic apparatus there are 2 circle swings with 8 ropes each, 8 pairs with adjustable rings fixed to telescoping posts, 8 adjustable horizontal bars, 8 balancing ladders, 16 climbing poles* 8 l^inch climbing ropes, 4 adjustable ladders, 8 stormboards, 6 parallel bars, 4 bucks, 6 horses, etc. The basement measures 110x56x10 feet and is used for putting shot, broad and hop step, and jump. The instructor’s office permits a clear view of both the dressing rooms and the gymnasium.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Dr. R. F.—Accept our thanks. If luck will have it we shall see each other in Cleveland this summer.

A. M. Schroeder, Washington, D. C.—You want us to open a column on graphology and you propose to analyze the characters of the writers by their handwriting. We suggest that in some way you secure the handwriting of all those that have promised to contribute to “Mind and Body” and tell us what there is wrong with them.

Dr. Robert Nohr, Cincinnati— Our congratulations. At this rate we shall soon be enabled to form a N. A. G. U. Medical Society.

I

Digitized by CjOOQle
—66—

KRAENZLEIN ON THE RUNNING BROAD JUMP.

ALVIN C. KRAENZLEIN, the Milwaukee boy who, at Franklin Field, Philadelphia, on a reeent Saturday, created a new world’s record for the running broad jump of 24 feet SV2 inches, has written an instructive article on broad jumping, and describes his world-beating jump.

Unlike many branches of athletic sports, the broad jump does not call for any particular qualifications as regards height, weight, or build. This is evidenced by the fact that the best broad-jumpers of the last five years are pretty well divided as to size. Newburn, the Irish champion, stands six feet three inches in height. Reber is also a big man, while, on the other hand, Prinstein of Syracuse, Fry of Oxford, Bloss of the New York Athletic Club, and Pennington of Pennsylvania, are, comparatively speaking, small men.

The requisites for a9broad-jumper are speed and great reflex action. To obtain this an athlete must exercise all his power of observation and husband his physical abilities. After selecting the distance for his run preparatory to the jump, the athlete should go about his work in as methodical a manner as possible. Before leaving the mark for the run, he should remain momentarily for the purpose of steadying himself and to insure satisfactory rebound from the limbs, which would be impossible should undue haste be exercised.

Three marks are usual in the run—the first about thirty-five to forty feet from the take-off. The second is about the same distance from the first mark, while the third should be ten feet from the second, making the distance of the run from eightv to ninetv feet. The first ten feet of

O	W	mi

the run is used to steady the athlete in his stride. From the second to the first distance all possible speed should be exerted, and this speed can be carried over the remaining distance before the take-off, without further exertion. This has a tendency to lengthen the stride and keep the jumper well within himself. Care should be exercised in avoiding all exertion during the latter portion of the run, as it causes a shortening of the stride and restilts in a movement similar to a jig retaining the same speed, and materially effects the jump. The last two strides should be considerably shorter than the others. The object of this is to pitch the body forward. An athlete reaching the take-off should be prepared for the jump. The crouching position of the jumper necessitates the least bit of halt. This brings the weight of the body ahead of the legs, which assist in carrying the body high in the air and sends the head in front.

The last position in jumping before landing should show the legs straightened out in an almost sitting position, as the impetus given the body in the speed carries it forward.

My jump was almost as much a surprise to me as it was to the general public. I was anxious to have Mike Murphy at the take-off. I have the greatest confidence in him, and his shouting to me.to jump high seemed to encourage me. I measured my distance, which was exactly eighty-eight feet. My first run was ten feet to get my swing. I then exerted all my speed in the next thirty-nine feet, which was just half the remaining distance. After reaching the second line I felt I had

I

Digitized by y.ooQle
-67-

the proper speed, but took the last two strides a trifile short, and never expected to make a big jump; in fact, it seemed as though the last two strides were very much shorter than the others during the afternoon, all of which were not just to my liking.

The short strides slightly unbalanced me and my body shot wa}r ahead of my jumping leg. The halt at the take-off appeared longer than usual, which is convincing proof that the last two strides should be shorter than the others.

As I landed, my body turned slightly to the side and I turned a complete somersault, which was the main fault in the jump and robbed it of a finished appearance. This was due to the fact that I did not straighten my legs before reaching the ground, which shortened the jump materially.

WAND DRILL FOR LADIES’ CLASS.

Arranged by ROB. FISHER, M. D., Cleveland, O.

12	3	4

T T	T T

FILES.

Remarks.—In Group I files 2 and 4 begin all exercises to the right. In

Groups I and II files 2 and 4 do the exercises in the following rotation:

2-1—4-3.

Two counts to every movement, 16 counts intermission between groups.

Begin left 8 counts, right 9—16 counts, repeat 17—32.

Crr©-a.p I.

Exercise I. a. Step position forward left and raise wand vertically in front (left arm up) 1—2 !

b.	^4-turn left, step position sideward left, and raise wand horizontally

over head 3—4 !	•

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 !

Exercise II. a. ^i-turn left, step position left forward, and raise wand horizontally upward 1—2 !

b.	Step position backward left, bend right knee (so-called fencing position), and cross arms in front of chest, left arm up 3—4 !

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 !

Exercise III. a. Step position left forward and cross arms left above 1—2 !

b.	%-tura left, step position backward left, bend right knee, and raise wand right obliquely forward up (right arm obliquely forward up, left hand under right shoulder) 3—4 !

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 !

Exercise IV. a. *4-turn left, step position left backward, bend right knee and wand horizontally upward 1—2 !

b.	Kneel on left knee and cross arms left above 3—4 !

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 !

Digitized by C.ooQLe
-68—

G-roup II.

Exercise I. a. Lunge sideward left, bend trunk sideward right, and raise wand vertically up on left side 1—2 !

b.	Close to the left with ^-turn right, bend trunk forward and wand horizontally down 3—4 !

c.	Lunge sideward right with 14-turn left, bend trunk sideward left, and raise wand vertically up on right side 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 !

Exercise II. a. Step position backward left, bend right knee, and bend trunk forward and wand horizontally down 1—2 !

b.	14-turn left, step position forward left, bend trunk backward and wand horizontally up 3—4!

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 !

Exercise III. a. 14-turn left, lunge forward left, bend trunk forward and wand horizontally down 1—2 !

b.	14-turn right, bend trunk backward, and raise wand obliquely forward up 3—4 !

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 !

Exercise IV. a. Lunge forward left and raise wand vertically up on left side 1—2 !

b.	14-turn right, straighten left and bend right knee, bend trunk forward, and swing wand vertically down on right side 3—4 !

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 !

Crro-u.p III.

Hands grasp \rand with reverse hold.

Exercise I. a. Lunge sideward left, wind in with left hand, and raise wand horizontally sideward left 1—2 !

b.	Wind out left, wind in right, wand horizontally sideward right, and hand opposite knee 3—4 !

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position 7—8 !

Exercise II. a. Lunge forward left, wind in with left hand, and raise wand horizontally left forward (left arm straight, right hand in front of right shoulder) 1—2 !

b.	Wind out left, wind in right, wand horizontally right forward, 14-turn right, and bend opposite knee 3—4 !

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

d.	Return to startiug position 7—8 !

Exercise III. a. Lunge backward left, wind in with left hand, wand obliquely backward left 1—2 !

b.	Wind out'left, wind in right, raise wand obliquely forward up right (right arm obliquely forward up, left hand over right shoulder), and bend opposite knee 3—4 !

c.	Return to position a 5—6 !

Digitized by C.ooQle
-69-

d.. Return to starting position 7—8 !

Exercise IV. a. Lunge sideward left, wind in left, wand horizontally sideward left 1—2 !

b.	Close to the left, bend trunk forward, wind out left, and lower wand horizontally down 3—4 !

c.	Lunge sideward right, wind in right, and raise wand horizontally to the right 5—6 !

d.	Return to starting position by closing to the right 7—8 !

INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.*

PART I.

1-	a. Small arm-circle left and lower hand-circle at the first and second counts,

and small arm-circle left and tip clubs right (arms level with shoulders to the right) at third and fourth counts—4 counts.

b.	Small arm-circle right and lower hand-circle at the fifth and sixth counts,

and small arm-circle right and tip clubs left (arms level with shoulders to the left) at seventh and eighth counts—4 counts.

c.	Repeat a—4 counts.

d.	Repeat b—4 counts.

2-	a. Large arm-circle and upper hand-circle at first and second counts, and large

arm-circle and tip clubs right (arms level with shoulders to the right) at third and fourth counts—4 counts.

b.	Large arm-circle right and upper hand-circle at fifth and sixth counts, and

large arm-circle and tip clubs left (arms level with shoulders to the left) at seventh and eighth counts—4 counts.

c.	Repeat a—4 counts.

d.	Repeat b—4 counts.

3-	a. Small arm-circle left and lower hand-circle at first and second counts, and

large arms and upper hand-circle at third and fourth counts—4 counts.

b.	Small arm-circle and tip clubs right at fifth and sixth counts, and small

arm-circle right and tip clubs left at seventh and eighth counts—4 counts.

c.	Repeat a—4 counts.

d.	Repeat b—4 counts.

4-	a. Two small arm-circles left at first and second counts, and two lower hand-

circles at third and fourth counts.*

b.	Two small arm-circles right and two lower hand-circles right—4 counts.

c.	Small arm-circle left and step to the left at the first count, execute turn

right, place right leg backward, bend left knee and practice one hand-circle forward at the second count; at the third and fourth counts execute two hand-circles forward—4 counts.

d.	Swing clubs forward downward left; place right foot forward at the first

count, execute ^turn left, place left foot backward, bend right knee and practice one hand-circle forward at the second count; at the third and 1 fourth counts execute two hand-circles and with the last count replace left foot and face forward—4 counts.

5-	a. Two large arm-circles left and two upper hand-circles left—4 counts.

b.	Two large arm-circles right and two upper hand-circles right—4 counts. .

c.	Arm-circles and leg movements as in Exercise 4, but at the second, third,

and fourth counts execute three hand-circles forward left and three arm-circles forward right—4 counts.

d.	The same as in Exercise 4, but at the second, third, and fourth counts

execute three hand-circles forward right and three arm-circles forward

left; with fourth count replace left foot and face forward—4 counts.

——___________--------

* Selected from the official pamphlet:	Closing-Day-Exercises	(June 23, 1899), Chicago Public Schools

By Heriry Suder, Supervisor of Physical Culture.



Digitized by C,ooQle
-70-

6-a. Small arm-circle left and lower hand-circle left at the first and second counts; at the third and fourth counts large arm and upper hand-circle left—4 counts.

b.	Repeat a, but to the right—4 counts.

c.	Arm and leg movements as in Exercise 4, but at second count execute hand-

circle forward left and arm-circle forward right; at third count hand-circle forward right and arm-circle forward left; at fourth count hand-circle forward left and arm-circle forward right—4 counts.

d.	The same as Exercise 4. but club exercise as in Exercise 6-c, but begin

hand-circle right and arm-circle left—4 counts.

Pose.

PART II.

1-	a. Small arm and lower hand-circle inward and small arm and hand-circles

behind shoulders inward—4 counts.

b.	Repeat a—4 counts.

c.	Small arm-circle inward at first count tip clubs (arms sideways level with

shoulders) and cross left foot backward with bending of right knfee at second count. Move fore-arms toward chest and bend trunk forward at third count. Small arm-circle inward, raise trunk, and replace foot at fourth count—4 counts.

d.	Repeat c, but place right foot backward and bend left knee—4 counts.

2-	a. Small arm and lower hand-circle inward and small arm and lower hand-

circle inward right and hand-circle backward inward left—4 counts.

b.	Repeat a, but lower hand-circle inward, left hand-circle backward inward

right—4 counts.

c.	Small arm-circle inward; tip clubs and place foot as in Exercise 1, move

forearms toward chest, bend trunk backward, and place left foot forward. Small arm-circle inward, raise trunk and replace foot—4 counts.

d.	Repeat c, but place right foot—4 counts.

3-	a. Small arm-circle inward and hand-circle inward behind shoulders and small

arm and hand-circle backward inward (with both clubs)—4 counts.

b.	Repeat a—4 counts.

c.	Small arm-circle and tip clubs and place left ioot as in Exercise 1, bend

trunk sideways left. Small arm-circle inward, raise trunk, and replace foot—4 counts.

d.	Repeat c, but place right foot and bend trunk sideways right—4 counts.

4-	a. Small arm-circle outward and lower hand-circle outward and small arm-

circle outward aud hand-circle outward behind shoulder—4 counts.

b.	Repeat a—4 counts.

c.	Small arm-circle outward at first count; tip clubs, fore-arms bend toward

chest, cross left foot backward and bend right knee at second count. Bend trunk forward and stretch arms sideways; clubs rest on fore-arms at third count. Small arm-circle outward, raise trunk and replace foot at fourth count.

d.	Repeat c, but place right foot—4 counts.

5-	a. Small arm-circle and lower hand-circle outward and small arm-circle and

lower hand-circle outward right and hand-circle backward outward left— 4 counts.

b.	Repeat a, but lower hand-circle outward left and hand-circle backward out-

ward right—4 counts.

c.	Small arm-circle as in c Exercise 4, tip clubs and place foot backward, bend

trunk backward, move arms sideways and place foot forward; small arm-circle outward, raise trunk and replace foot as in Exercise 4-c— 4 counts.

d.	Repeat c, but place right foot—4 counts.

6-	a. Small arm and hand-circle outward (behind shoulders), and small arm and

hand-circle backward outward—4 counts, b. Repeat a—4 counts.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-71-

c. Small arm-circle outward, tip clubs and place foot as in Exercise 4, 3/4turn leit and stretch arms sideways. Small arm-circle outward, face frontward and replace left foot—4 counts.

<3. Repeat c, but place right foot and turn right—4 counts.

Note:—All exercises are to be executed 1 to 16 counts.

Pose.

BOOK REVIEW.

—“Outing” for May is an exceedingly attractive number. Among its many Lreezy sketches angling naturally occupies a prominent position. The illustrations are numerous and beautiful. The contents are:	“The	Dam	Leapers”

{trout fishing), by Wm. A. Whitney ; “Up to the Hills in India,” by P. E. Stevenson; “Angling for Eastern Trout,” by Mary Trowbridge Townsend ; ““Golfing ’Round the Hub,” by Geo. H. Sargent; “The Challenge of the Shamrock” by A. J. Kenealy ; “Plover and Plover Shooting,” by Ed. W. Sandys; “Fool’s Gold,” by Paul Pastnor; “About Fly-Casting,” by G. E. Goodwin; “Through the Yellowstone on Foot,” by C. H. Henderson ; “A Day with the Longbills,” by J. D. Ackerman; “Five Weeks Awheel in France,” by Sidney Cross ; “Loitering on a Canal,” by R. R. Tybout ; “A Cruise in the Dark after Duck,” by E. W. Chubb; “A Fishing Convert,” by Oliver Kemp, and the usual editorials, poems, and records.

WORLD S BEST RECORDS.

(Compiled from the Clipper Annual.)

RUNNING.

too Yds.—o 4-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, H. Bethune, J. H. Maybury. *9 4-5 sec.: J. Owen, Jr., C. W. Stage, W. T. McPherson, J, H. Hempton, B. J. Wefers, J. V. Crum, S. H. Rush.

220 Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins. *21 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48^ sec.: R. Buttery. *47^ sec.: W. Baker.

880 Yds.—1:53^ min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. J. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12^ min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein.

WEIGHT THROWING.

12 Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thos. Carrol.

*16 Hammer Throw—158 ft. 4 in.: J. Flanagan.

*12 fi> Shot Put—55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

*16 ft Shot Put—47 ft.: G. R. Gray.

*Discus Throwing—118 ft. 9 in.: C. Heneman.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft. 8}4 in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. 3% in.: R. C. Ewery.

Running High Jump—6 ft. 6% in.: R. W. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney.

Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. 5% in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft.: R. C. Ewery.

Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. T Griffin. *38 ft.: J. Chandler.

Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. ^ in.: J. F. Hartnet. *33 ft. 8*4 in.; J. Wall.

Hop-Step-Tump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. 2% in.: W. MacManus.

Running Broad Jump—23 ft. 3V in.: C. H. Biggar. *24 ft. 6yx in.: W. T. M. Newburn.

Pole Vault—11 ft. 10% in.: R. G. Clepp.

NATATION.

*50 Yd. Swim—31 4-5 sec.: W. B. Izard.

*100 Yd. Swim—1 min.: T. Meadham.

*220 Yd. Swim—2:384:5 sec.: J. H. Tyers.

*440 Yd. Swim—5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07% min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—26:08 min.: J. Nuttall.

Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. *Plunging—80 ft. 8% in : W. Allason.

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

ROWING.

*^-Mile—57 seconds: E. Hedley.

^U-Mile—3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hedley.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbury.

*Two Miles—9:19)6 min.: Yale Freshman Crew Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

*100 Yds.—9 sec : H. Davidson.

*220 Yds.—17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson.

*440 Yds.—31^ sec.: J. S. Johnson.

*880 Yds.—1:22 2-5 min.: A. Norseng, K. Pander. . *One Mile—2:45 min.; J. S. Johnson.

* Amateur.

Digitized by C.ooole
—Physical training is steadily growing in popularity in the Illinois Institution for the Education of the Blind. To the three hours spent by each pupil in the gymnasium one evening is assigned to the girls, and. another evening each week to the boys for dancing. These dances have been a source of great pleasure to the pupils during the winter, and the time has been profitably spent, too, for dancing has helped many to overcome awkwardness and shyness and to become more self-reliant and fearless in their movements. It is gratifying to notice that the shambling walk and drooping head are giving place to a firm step, an erect bearing, and a well poised head.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—Diblee, the speedy captain of last year’s football team, will be head coach at Harvard this season.

—Spalding’s Lawn Tennis Annual is the May number of Spalding’s Athletic Librar\r. It contains the ranking of the players for 1898, tournament for 1898, official playing rules and fixtures for 1899.

—The Golfer, the official organ of the United States and Inter-Collegiate Gol* Associations comes to hand each month clear, bright, newsy, and full of good things that every enthusiastic golfer should know.

—A complete list of running, hurdling, throwing and wrestling records is given in the Spalding Athletic Almanac just issued.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

GERMAN LITERATURE.

PHYSIO LOG IE DER LEI SBUEBUNGEN.—F. A. SCHMIDT, M. D............  60

METHODIK.— ZETTLER ..............................................i.oo

GESCHICHTE DER METHODIK —PROF. DR. CARL EULER.......................2	00

“	“	“	“	“	“	“	bound..................2.50

SCHWEDISCHE HEILGYMNASTIC.—F. J. HARTELIUS.......................1.70

HAUS-GYMNASTIK FUER MAEDCHEN UND FRAUEN —DR. E. ANGERSTEIN UND G.

ECKLER ....................................................1.00

HAUS-GYMNASTIK FUER GESUNDE UND KRANKE. — DR. E. ANGERSTEIN UND G.

ECKLER...................................................  1.00

DAS TURNEN IM HAUSE—BEER WALD UND BAUER..........................1.00

HANDBUCH FUER VORTURNER—BULKY	UND	VOGT. (Zwei Theile)........2.35

BUCH DER REIGEN —W. JENNY....................................... 2.25

Address for any gymnastic or pedagogical literature :

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

468 EAST WATER ST., MILWAUKEE, WIS.

n\er i^ai\ iscf\er

S"uri>er=

t^Vafencler

fiir fra* galiv 1898.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by G.ooQle