Vol. 6.	DECEMBER,	1899.	No.	70

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARP, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. WM. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, W’is.

THE NECESSITY OF A UNIFORM TERMINOLOGY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By HERMANN O. DREISEL.

TO the German teachers of gymnastics this theme is as old as physical training itself. It has been discussed among them in numerous meetings, it has been the direct or indirect subject of many a volumn. Yet, it is worth while to talk about it again, for this question is just as important now as it was 25 or 50 years ago, especially in this •country where the German language of gymnastics is destined to become the mother of the English terminology of physical culture.

It was in 1888 when at a meeting of the German teachers of physical training at Cleveland, O., Mr. Pertuch said the following, referring to the German language of gymnastics:

“Our gymnastic terminology and the manner of gymnastic execution are generally not uniform. A diversity and ambiguity predominates in terms and execution of exercises that can never be of advantage to us.” Mr. Pertuch expressed the general opinion of the German teachers of gymnastics, and his very words have been often reiterated. But the Germans set to work firmly and persistingly in order to purify and simplify their gymnastic language, and, although they have not quite

Digitized by kjOOQle
-218-

succeeded in furnishing an entirely unobjectionable terminology of gymnastics, they have made large strides towards its realization.

The German teachers of physical culture were the first in this country who took cognizance of the fact that it* is absolutely necessary for teachere of physical training to be unified by a common technical language in order to become able to understand each other and to work together intelligently, although separated by thousands of miles.

Very few of our English speaking colleagues estimate the importance of a mutually intelligible gymnastic terminology to its full value. And yet the time will come in this country when we are in need of this very thing. Why ?

Modern pedagogy acknowledges that just as much time and attention-should be given to physical training as to mental development. This view gains more and more ground and the natural consequence will be that, in the future, physical training will be introduced in all the schools of civilized countries. (Note Japan for an example where physical culture is now included in the plan of general education.} Our country, in fact, has a good start already, and in spite of the objections of narrowminded people it will proceed in the right direction, viz., to a thorough physical training of its youth.

But the main factor in education, both mental and physical, is a suitable language. However rich and flexible the language of a people may be, it does not always offer a ready-made term for certain actions and things. The latter always existed first, the name or term for them came second. Thus the language of gymnastics was more or less skillfully formulated; nevertheless, it was a growth of language. Naturally a wide field was offered to the fancy and logic of the English speaking teacher of physical culture. He was compelled to go-through similar stages as the founders of gymnastics nearly a hundred years ago, and the result of this proceeding was the Babylonian confusion of English gymnastic terms.	1

Not taking the more or less correct translations ofGerman and Swedish text books into consideration, the English gymnastic terminology deviates to a far greater extent than the German ever did. A certain uniformity is only perceived in cities where the German system of gymnastics has been introduced into the public schools and is under the superintendence of competent supervisor and teachers.

These unfavorable conditions that retard a rational propaganda of physical culture in this country should be speedily removed. Our English text books of gymnastics must be written in a uniform language in order to be of national and not merely of local value. In this country there has been but little done in creating a uniform English gymnastic terminology. Every less competent teacher of gymnastics has invented his own specific terms and insists stubbornly upon their correctness. Thus it happened that we now have a mixtum compositum of terms-that hinders the co-operative work of the teachers of physical culture.

As I said before, sooner or later physical culture will be introduced in all the schools of this country. The consequence of this will be the demand of a common gymnastic language. How can we achieve that aim ?

\

Digitized by c.ooQle
-219-

Above all, the conductors of gymnastic normal schools should agree upon certain terms and certain text books already existing. Further, the teachers of physical culture at state normal schools, colleges, high schools, universities, etc., should come to a close contact with each other and work in unison in the large field of physical culture. The so-called “systems” are, after all, not so great a hindrance as to prevent the formulation of common technical terms. It is not necessary to use ten different terms for one and the same exercise!

We would thus be enabled to produce in a comparatively short time a corps of a competent teachers who could work together in a systematic way. A means of intercourse in the form of an intelligible language of gymnastics would be founded, fit to convey the thoughts and ideas of inventive minds regardless of time and space.

There are, to-day, teachers of physical culture who are by no means friendly disposed to a fixed terminology in gymnastics. They are in favor of a quasi explanatory gymnastic language, because they fear that “iron technical terms” would crush the life out of physical culture. This would, probably, be the case if it were intended to form a terminology that would be Sanscript to anv other human being except the teacher of gymnastics. To be sure, to advocate such a gymnastic language would be more than ridiculous. What we want are short, business-like, clear terms taken from the every-day-language of the people wherever possible. We want to have a means to make ourselves understood and make others understand what we mean. We want to enable the isolated teacher of physical training to understand the printed thoughts of others working in the same field, and we want all this because the time will come when we have to work hand in hand with each other, when a systematic course of physical culture will demand a systematic gvm-nastic language, in short, when an agreement upon certain terms and their uniform meaning in the gymnasium must come.

Fixed expressions or technical terms for exercises or movements are for the gymnastic language what the dictionary is for any other language. One may read a language correctly without knowing the least about the meaning of words, so may one teach gymnastics without knowing or understanding technical terms. But we must not forget that only a language, acknowledged, spoken and understood by all, can be the proper bearer of intelligent intercourse, of mutual understanding. So will a uniform gymnastic language connect the thoughts and ideas of separately working teachers of physical culture; it will help to increase their knowledge and capability; it will facilitate instruction for teachers and pupils; it will assist in systematic building-up and in developing physical culture and thus will beeome an important factor in general culture.

—The Registration Committee of the Metropolitan Association of the A. A. U. has reprimanded and warned Messrs. P. J. MeNaob, of the Union Settlement A. C., and George W. Corwin, of the 71st Regiment A. A., for an infringement of the rule pertaining to athletes refusing to start after having been checked off by the clerk of the course. The offense in question took place in the potato race at the 12th Regiment games held Nov. 27. A repetition of this infringement will necessitate the Committee taking some action.

Digitized by tjOOQle
—220—

(From Journal of American Medic. Ass.)

DYNAMICS QF SCHOOL PUBERTY*

By M. H. HATFIELD, M. D.

DYNAMICS, according to Webster, are “the moral as well as the physical forces, and the laws which relate to them,” hence dynamic puberty in city children, for of country children I know but little. My whole life has been a city life; my practice largely with city children, and I have come to know only too well some of the penalties which they pay for their urban existence, especially about the time of puberty; so much so that I have come to dread the time of their blossoming into manhood or womanhood under our present school system. It should be, for the child’s highest possibilities, a time of sunshine, singing birds, and spiritual bloom.

What is the actual condition of the average city child, especially the girl, at this time? Haven’t most of us n mind more than one case where one year ago the girl had the normal appetite, the bright eyes, the verve and go of the typical American child ? Since then she has entered the high school, and day by day has been losing ground. Her appetite, except for pickles and coffee, has gone. She was once a tomboy, and now complains that it tires her to comb her hair. Her rosy cheeks have disappeared; her lips are anemic, her ear-tips translucent; menstruation is scanty; the pulse intermittent, and you may find an anemic bruit on auscultation.

, But why should I enumerate her symptoms? You know them as well as I. This is what I wish to ask: Is it necessary that this girl’s blossoming should be purchased at such a price as this? Topsy in the southern cotton field knows nothing of these penalties, even though she performs hard labor when in the “dark of the moon.” What makes the difference? It is not far to seek: Topsy “just grows,” while the Chicago girl is educated according to the edicts of a board of education selected by an elective mayor: need I say more?

At present the alternative for the city girl seems to lie between culture, with the ills of the abnormal menstruation, or to be cultureless and in joyful ignorance of menstrual pangs and her Latin parts.

In physiologic dynamics we have learned that every mental effort produces a characteristic fatigue curve on a recording drum; crowd effort still further, and it passes into a fatigue irritability with characteristic and unmistakable record on the recording drum.

“In the stupid old times,” says Charles Kingsley, “children were taught to know a few things and know them well, but in these enlightened times they are taught to know a little about everything and to know it all ill, which is a great deal easier and pleasanter, and therefore quite right”—or to put it in electric nomenclature, our children are human dynamos with a certain potential voltage for each one, which voltage can not be increased by multiplying the switches, or attaching more incandescent lamps. Every additional study is an attempt to attach another lamp on the child’s intellectual circuit. Small wonder

* Presented to the Section on Diseases of Children, at the Fiftieth Annual Meeting of the American Medical Association, held at Columbus, Ohio, June 6-9, 1899.



Digitized by C.ooQle
-221-

that a girl’s, dynamo, which always runs at a higher rate of speed than her brother’s, begins to splutter somewhere along the line. Propter uterum est mulier, hence sexual irritability, religious vagaries and the sexual perversities of overcivilization.

Who is to blame for these things? Chiefly we as physicians, unless we at every convenient opportunity, and at some inconvenient ones as well, have taken occasion to make known that the time of sexual awakening is one of peculiar temptations and stress for the modern girl. We lay heavier burdens on her shoulders than she can safely bear, and then complain because she came out a morbid and bad-tempered apology for a sound, normal woman.

The boy does not generally fare so badly physically, for the wires on his circuit are usually of coarser make, and his studies are usually more of a burden to the teacher than to himself. He suffers chiefly from bad air of the school room, the cigarette, and the moral atmosphere by which he finds himself surrounded. As a rule he has plenty and more than plenty of good food, but he matures in an unhealthy atmosphere, chemically and morally, since in every great city there is a cumulative increase of refuse in the air, in the street, even in the home. A saving grace of athletics may counteract for the boy some of these forces, but as President Elliott of Harvard truthfully says, it is absolutely impossible to preserve in health any family that resides uninterruptedly for two generations in a great city.

Now add to this subnormal condition of physical health, the stupidity of our ordinary public school teachers in selecting the educational burdens which they hope to bind on the shoulders of all the students in their “grade,” and you have a condition of affairs which cries to Heaven for remedy—not in vain, I believe, if the members of this Section in season and out of season protest vigorously against what Mrs. General Lew Wallace rightly calls the “Slaughter of the Innocents.” Perhaps the physical side of the question needs no more repetition to this Section, but just a word as to its psychology—a subject sadly neglected in all our medical colleges.

On this head let me quote from my master, Professor George A. Coe, to whom here I wish to make grateful acknowledgement for original work along this line:	“Who	of	us,”	says he, “stops to think that

puberty is the time of intellectual and religious flowering no less than physical?” “The years from 14 to 17 are especially those of hesitating, introspective conscience and intellectual thirst for the absolute”—facts to which little or no heed is given in our present system of education. These are the years of the establishment and regulation of puberty as well, and I am profoundly convinced that either process of development, the mental or the physical, and still more both, since they occur conjointly, require the most careful regulation of the youth’s life at that time.”

Has it ever dawned on the average city school teacher that such pupils are liable to serious physical and spiritual injuries arising from the mental and spiritual yagaries incident to the sexual adjustment of their lives? The average grade-teacher of our progressive city schools concerns herself with little that lies not in her grade. The one essential

Digitized by CaOOQle
-222-

fact that is daily impressed on her pupils is that at any cost they must “pass” on final examinations, or be everlastingly disgraced. It may be, and generally is, true .that these examinations consist of memorized repetitions of facts that are of no possible use in the future life of the child. There has been no intelligent effort on the part of the teacher to teach the child to think; to educate, to draw out and develop its budding powers. The process in the average public school is not education, but farcement, to borrow an old English word—a stuffing of undigested facts into unhealthy children, after the fashion of the geese of Strasburg. What I wish to insist on in this paper is that the modern method of public school education during'the establishment of puberty is most hurtful to the future sexual and psychic health of the child. To quote again from Prof. Coe: “It is folly and worse than folly to assume maturity where maturity does and can not yet exist. The result is overtaxation, worry, despondencj', morbid conscience, bad temper and heightened liability to sexual temptation.” All these things we know ' and have seen, and yet we keep silence because it is the fashion to bear them.”

But all this, perhaps you say, is destructive criticism, which is vastly easier than to offer a better way. Granted! But, on the other hand, we shall never seek improvement until we grow dissatisfied with present methods; and if we can fourmulate just reasons for dissatisfaction out time has not been misspent.

Here then is our charge in the case of Puberty vs. the City Public School System, viz., The maturing child, for its perfection, needs active exercise, pure air and sufficient food. The present public school requires that pupils, irrespective of their physical condition, maintain an unnatural condition of quiet, in an unphysiologic posture for many hours each day. Add to this poor ventilation, oftener none or worse, and it is small wonder that the child grows listless, loses its appetite and gives proof of nerve tire on the proper physiologic testing. Moreover, many of these pupils, especially girls, attempt to take instruction in music at this time. Some time, I presume, the physiologists will explain to us why the study of music, especially in its earlier monotonous exercises, is so exhaustive of nerve force. But whether we understand or not the why and wherefore, the fact remains that a large percentage of menstrual irregularities occur in- young girls endeavoring to become musicians in addition to their regular school work. The humble potato will sprout and send up long waxy stems, and attempt to blossom in a sickly, ineffectual way even in a cellar. Such is the menstrual life of the city girl, if she strive for place or position, and music is a brick—if you care to carry the comparison further—laid on the flower of menstruation. Hence, from the standpoint of one who loves his race, I dread the city music teacher, and hate the musical college if its work is taken in addition to forced school work.

Fellow judges, on the bench assembled, if it be true that our city school takes from its pupils the air, appetite and vital force necessary to properly establish the function on which the perpetuation of the race depends, then our city inhabitants are making a costly exchange, in spite of the gain in wider culture and information.

Digitized by CjOOQte
-223-

Culture, let us remember, originally meant the preparation of the «arth for crops, hence Bacon speaks of the “culture and manurement of minds in youth.” Manurement, certainly, our boys get in our public schools, but what of the crop ? It has come to pass that in these latter •days we build and endow agricultural colleges in order that our farmers may better know what sort of manure to use in their wheat fields, but any crude normal school graduate may, unquestioned* ‘‘spread her compost on the weeds of our children’s minds to make them ranker.” Herein is folly. A sound, well child is the best crop of the state. No price is too high, no care too great which insures such results. Are you satisfied with the harvest that is being garnered from our present public school methods? Is the average high school girl a pleasing commentary ■on the nineteenth century civilization? Our city boys and girls have disappeared, and in their stead we have raised a crop of self-conscious, short-sighted, round-shouldered, stunted, disagreeable prigs, who despise their parents and betters, and think that knowledge shall die with them. I am heart-sick for the old-fashioned, dirty, idle, vital girl and boy who knew intimately the joys of sunshine, field, flower, brook and bird, and —thank God—nothing of Miss Harrison’s esoteric significance of bread and molasses.

In behalf of the state I call for an injunction against the present boards of education, which are sacrificing our children to our alleged ■civilization. It makes modern culture no less a Moloch to spell it with a large C and deck it with the flowers of our eloquence. The old brazen idol did its work quickly with the children laid in its arms, while the priests drowned their cries with timbrels and shoutings. We call our modern Moloch ‘‘Culture",” and it shrivels and dwarfs the souls and bodies of our children while we shout to them the names of their cerebral convolutions, and cut ourselves with the knives of our self-conceit. The Assyrian Moloch had the head of an ox; the American Moloch has the head of that humbler animal which in the fable of ^)sop was carried by the old man and his two sons as a result of their supercivilization.

PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT IN AMERICA.

Not long ago the Journal noticed the increasing girth of the average American as reported from tailors’ measurements. These apparently gave evidence that at the present rate of progress the future Yankee would be of Falstaffian proportions, which, as one would naturally prefer to be an Apollo rather than an exaggerated Bacchus, is not in all respects satisfactory. We can take some satisfaction, therefore, from the recently-expressed opinion of a distinguished Italian authority, Professor Angelo Mosso, who finds Americans far better developed and stronger than his countrymen, and who speaks of physical education being carried here to perfection. As an Alpinist of some reputation, as well as noted physiologist, Professor Mosso’s opinions on this subject, however flattering, are entitled to respect, and we may comfort ourselves accordingly. Still another authority, not as high in medicine but undoubtedly a competent observer, Mr. Julian Ralph, has also noted the

Digitized by CjOOQle
-224-

contrast between English and American women and children, the latter being, according to him, much better developed and more healthy than the former, the English boys being apt to be “runts” in comparison with the American boys at the same age. The stature of American women and their superior health is also, he says, a matter of astonishment to foreigners. When we read tl|e jeremiads of certain medical writers in this country the above may come to us as a sort of comfort; we may not be as bad off as we had thought. The question arises, however, whether in our improving development we are to see a product like Hawthorne’s celebrated description of the British matron, a result not to be earnestly desired. Let us hope that climatic and other influences, while perfecting the race, will also save us from any altogether unesthetic results.—/. A. M. A.

GYMNASTICS IN THE DENVER FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENT.

IT is now a little over a year since gymnastics has been introduced and made compulsory in the Denver Fire Department, and about six months have elapsed since its introduction into the Police Department, and already its good results are perceptible on every hand. The introduction of this branch as a compulsory measure in these departments was not an easy task, and was only accomplished through persistant labors. Many a night’s sleep was lost in studying and planning how to overcome the obstacles which so numerously presented themselves. But through the esteemed efforts of Capt. Albert Graeber, one of the best known all around athletes of the N. A. G. U., who has won many a honor in Cincinnati, Milwaukee, St. Louis, and numerous other places, and who is a member of the Denver Fire Department; also through the wise intercession and earnest perseverance of Wm. E. Roberts, Chief of the Fire Department, who is, by the way, not only one of the most renowned fire fighters, but at the same time quite an athlete himself, and last but not least through the Hon. Ralph Talbot, Ex-president of the Fire and Police Board, whose eager desire to see the fire laddies exercise under the supervision of a competent instructor before his retirement from office, these obstacles were finally overcome one by one. What the very first thing done? A gymnasium was suggested, and oh, how was some of the older fellows did howl! Just think of it, to make an old man of 40 years stand on his head, who has never before seen the inside of a gymnasium or circus in all his life, or make a man of 50 turn a front handspring, or make another walk on his hands for blocks etc. etc., and all for the amusement of some Dutch instructor! Soon matters were adjusted and made plausible, that a gymnasium meant to better their health in a number of cases, and sustain health in others, or in other words it meant not only to make better firemen but to keep them in such a robust4 condition, that they would be able to hold their positions as firemen for many years longer. The chief says, We will have a gymnasium and that settles all arguments on this question. And then every man on the Department was eager to assist and do everything in his.

Digitized by Google
—225-

power to accomplieh this end. The next important thing was to decide on a place for this gymnasium. It must be centrally located so that in case of a large conflagration in one of the down town business blocks every body can attend. There were a number of offices right above the Central Station, and if a suitable place for them to move to could be found, they might be persuaded to do so, providing the influence of a gymnasium would be strong enough bearing. This the Chief soon accomplished; a place was found, and with his crew of fire laddies, amongst whom are carpenters, masons, painters, plumbers, and jacks-of-all-trades, a complete renovation took place. Floors were torn up and relaid, partitions torn out and replaced on other places, walls were painted and decorated, one part of a structure was moved to another part, and a large room available for gymnasium purposes left. During all this time a still more important question presented itself, and that was the money question. The city had no money available, the firemen themselves (a number) were as poor as church-mice and money had to be forthcoming from some source. This riddle also was solved. A masquerade ball was suggested and carried out, subscription lists laid open, fire-laddies sold tickets, which the business men eagerly purchased, and soon several thousand dollars were at hand.

The firemen had done the work themselves, apparatuses were purchased, and in a short time (but which seemed at that time an age) one of the best equipped gymnasiums, west of Chicago, was ready for active work. The Police Department soon followed in the footsteps of the Fire Department, and also gave a masquerade ball for a gymnasium fund. Twenty-eight hundred dollars were cleared, and the ship had easy sailing. Upon my suggestion this sum was kept as a reserve, and the Police Departmeni is taking its exercises in the Firemen’s Gymnasium. If my present suggestions be adopted each department will again give an entertainment during this coming season, which will swell the fund by a few thousand more, and then a separate building will be designed and erected which will surpass anything of its kind in the country.

The gymnasium itself, as far as the instruction is concerned, is under my personal supervision. We have a musician engaged who accompanies all marching, tactics, calisthenics, and exercises with apparatuses, on the piano. A strict discipline is maintained and the same rules as apply to the departments apply to the gymnasium. When a man is unable to attend at gymnasium, a doctor’s certificate must be presented, and none others but the Police Surgeon’s go. Every day in the week, except on Saturday and Sunday, one or two men from each fire company report for gymnasium duty, so that each man attends once a week. The lessons are limited to one hour. The Police Department is also divided into five classes, but in order that my readers may have a clear understanding as to how they are arranged, a short explanation becomes necessary. The Denver Police Department is divided into three so-called “shifts;” the morning, the afternoon, and the night “shift.” The morning “shift” goes on duty at 4 A. M.; the afternoon “shift” at 12:30 P. M.; and the evening “shift” at 8 P. M. This changes every month, so that it becomes necessary to change the gymnasium classes, too, every month. The men working mornings and nights attend the after-

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
-226-

ttooti sessions of the gymnasium, and those working on afternoon^ attend mornings, at a number of instances we had occasion to appear before the public; but none was so successful as our appearanre during the last Carnival, or Festival of Mountain and Plain. In an arena, where fully 15,000 people were seated, 32 firemen gave a gymnastic exhibition, which will long be remembered by those who witnessed it. That the German system of gymnastics is taught in these departments, is vouched for by the name of the author.

Max Strass, Instructor of Firemen and Police, Denver, Colo.

TREATMENT OF OBESITY.

Dr. Rud. v. Hoesslin (“Deutsche Medizinal-Zeitung,” October 26) says that for the past five years he has adopted a combined anti-fat method which has for its basis: (1) Feeding by means of pure albuminoid fat diet after the principle of Ebstein’s anti-fat diet ; (2) increase of metabolism by hydrotherapy; (3) administration of thyroid tablets; (4) increase of oxidation by increased exercise. Feeding by means of pure albuminoid fat diet has two advantages over the prescribed diet of Oertel : firstly, the quantity of food stuffs taken by the patient need not be very materially diminished ; and secondly, he does not have to suffer from thirst. Another advantage of this diet is that it may be continued for a long time, even for a number of months, without in any way undermining the patient’s strength or giving rise to nervous disturbances. The menu for the entire year, according to the diet principle as set down by Ebstein, is, in a word, the abstinence in so far as possible from sugar, flour—in fact, all carbohydrates; with each meal a 15-gram piece of Seidl’s bread is allowed. Dessert is cooked without sugar, but with saccharin ; all sweet fruits, such as apricots, blackberries, pears, etc., as well as carrots, peas, cauliflower, are to be avoided. For breakfast coffee or tea without sugar, perhaps with saccharin, and a tablespoonful of cream, together with a piece of well-buttered Seidl’s bread, are to be given. If a second breakfast is desired at ten o’clock, then the patient receives one or two soft-boiled eggs, one or two slices of fat ham or fat bologna ; at four o’clock, tea or coffee without sugar. Among the drinks, Moselle wine, Bordeaux wine, water, and mineral water are allowed, but beer, even Pilsener, is not allowed under any circumstances. During the first few. days, until the patient becomes accustomed to the new diet, attention must be given to the gastro-intestinal tract, since half of the patients have gastric disturbances on account of the unaccustomed fat consumption. On the second or third day mild nausea, belching, and pressure in the gastric region are often complained of. Patients soon, however, become accustomed to the diet. This diet is enhanced in its effects by hydrotherapy, in the forms of cold douches and sweat baths, which increase the metabolism. Thyroid extract is an effective help in the treatment of obesity ; tablets of 0.3 gram each are used, given once or twice daily. The pulse is observed twice daily, and if increased in frequency the dose is at once diminished or the drug is entirely discontinued. Many

-->

Digitized by c OQle
-227-

patients, even with small and infrequent doses, react with continuous cardiac palpitation and increased pulse frequency. In these cases the drug must be discontinued entirely.

A NEW VARIETY OF AN OLD PLAY.

By Prof. H. A. ADRIAN, State Normal, River Falls, Wis.

HE teacher over in Butternut evolved a new game of “Fox and

Geese” that proved more popular than the old one had been. He had noticed how eagerly both boys and girls looked forward to the coming of the snow, which would enable them to begin their regular winter sport. The first fall came just as his “A Class” in geography were beginning the review of Wisconsin. The winter before he had often “chased the geese” with them in the adjoining pasture, and this morning as he began to draw an outline map of the state on the board, he looked out of the window on the broad white fields and thought of the eager crowd that would soon be boisterously “laying out” the ring. He had promised to “lead” in the preliminary survey, and he himself was not without a good deal of pleasant anticipation of the fun.

He had read that article about the Kansas teacher who laid out her state and built up its relief in a fallow field near by, and as he gazed out of the window he thought of a plan for review that looked more like play than work. He did not feel sure, however, that the children Would accept it as either.

Most of the pupils were there by a quarter to nine, so that he had time enough to present his new plan in general outline and talk it over with them a little, though he did not suggest any connection between it and their geography work ; and when the “A Class” was called, without any explanation he assigned a lesson on Minnesota.

At recess the entire school climbed the old worm fence into the pasture beyond and at a brisk trot they set out after the teacher in a northerly direction, making a somewhat wavy^ line about 20 rods long, then southwest for 4 rods, then to the north and northwest 22 rods, then south and southeast 25 rods, then due east to the starting point, making a fairly accurate outline of Wisconsin, following as nearly as possible the “critical boundary.” The second and third times around, the teacher called out the boundary as he ran, and each pupil called it out to the one behind him. During noon-time they put in the Wiscon sin river, making a straight portage from its source to the northern boundary line, then the Fox with its canal, the Rock with a portage line to Lake Winnebago, and the Chippewa with a portage line to Lake Superior. After this the main lines of the C. & N. W., the C. M. & St. • P., the Wis. Central, the Soo, and the Green Bay railroads were added. Next the leading cities were located for goals, and everything was ready for the first game. All were called together at Madison, the home goal, and the rules explained.

Railway lines, rivers, and the boundaries were to be open runways. A runner would be “safe” on reaching a town, provided he could name it and tell where located. A goose, when caught, would have to be released if the fox failed to name the railway or the river on which the

Digitized by

Google
-228-

catch was made. These were the only conditions imposed at first, and soon the fun was fast and furious. Of course the smaller pupils kept near Madison, and so did the geographical weaklings, but in a short time all were venturing further and further from home. They were learning to travel by traveling, and taking the consequences of mistakes.

Before the end of the week all the towns of importance were added, and new conditions were beginning to be imposed. One day it would be to give the approximate size of the goal towns as a condition of “safety.” Another day the characteristic industry ; then some other matter of interest or information of sufficient importance to be taught in geography work.

A little later placards were made, each one bearing the name of some Wisconsin ex;port or import. Each goose took one, and with this fastened to his back he must seek the place where it was produced, or the point where it entered the state. There he was safe, but the play was to get these products to the proper market by the usual routes without being caught. When the first map became badly disfigured, the state was outlined iH another place. Facts of drainage, soils, and climate were then made conditions, at various times. Nothing was allowed to come into the game that was not of sufficient importance to be worth knowing, and at no time was it correlated with work going on in the schoolroom. The teacher discouraged any mention of it during work hours, in the same way that he did with other matters of play. He believed that work should be work and that play should be play; and that at no time should they be mixed. If the hours of work could in any way be made more pleasant, consistent with thorough mental discipline, he was ready to take advantage of it ; and if the materials of play could sometimes be useful facts, without detracting from the “fun,” it seemed to him a good thing.

I am not sure that he thought much about the latest resujts of child study, or whether his experiment was in strict accord with advanced pedagogical thought, but his pupils were very enthusiastic about their play, and as deeply interested in their school work, and they seemed to have more of the real, business man’s geography than any corresponding grades I have ever had the pleasure of examining.— The Western Teacher.

AN OPPORTUNE NEW PUBLICATION!

Games for Schools and Gymnasia. By W. C. Schaefer. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. Pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50 Cents.— The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public arid private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English literature was devoid of any acceptable collection of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with ^reat insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention pf every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
Mi"P «nd body. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

*Y

FREIDENKEfc PUBLISHING 'CO.,

Milwaukee, Wlaconain.

’ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

“FREAKS” IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

A.	A. Stagg, the “coach” of the various University of Chicago athletic teams was interviewed by a reporter of the “Chicago Times-Herald” and a summary of the interview was published in that journal on Nov. 19, in which he describes the athletic training which his boy-baby of 7 months “Amos Alonzo Stagg, Jun.,” is receiving.

The value of the article is enhanced by four accompanying large illustrations, showing in the first picture the baby standing upright and unsupported on one hand of his papa, in the second hanging on the hands of his father apparently just ready to do a “pull-and-press-up” to a hand-stand, in the third in an opistothonic position as a preliminary exercise for “head-sphis” etc.

The article is sufficiently interesting to be reprinted:

Have you heard of Stage’s baby ?

Down on the South Side, near the University of Chicago, where Stagg’s baby is known, the little fellow is accounted not only a seven dayp’ wonder, but a seven months’ wonder. In short, Stagg’s baby is a lively exponent, as far as he has gone, of his father’s new system of raising up invincible football players for the University in the years to come.

Athletics for the nursery, gymnastics in kindergarten, tumbling taught in the cradle and calisthenics for babes in long clothes : these are called for by a system of physical education which A. A. Stagg, the well-known athlete and coach at the University of Chicago, is evolving and demonstrating by a practical example. A. A. Stagg, Jr., now seven months old, is this most interesting example.

Beginning when he was 4 weeks old, this athletic prodigy by regular and systematic exercise administered- by his parent coach has developed strength and skill in muscular movements which surpass ordinary human beings many times his age. A gymnast at 4 months of age is no mean accomplishment. Well-developed muscles of the arms and legs are not usually found on children who have traveled but half-way to their first milestone, yet this youth was decidedly muscular at 4 months, and at 6 could control all the great muscles which govern the movements of the body. His career is a most interesting addition to the sum of experimental knowledge in child development, and is worthy of extended notice.

Amos Alonzo Stagg, Jr., was born April 11, 1899, And claims Chicago as his native city. He pulled up eight-pound weights when placed in the balance, and showed no superior muscular activity to ordinary kicking babes until his father took him in hand and began to coach him. When 4 weeks old he took his first lesson. Until this time, the health of Stagg, Jr., had been poor, and he was far from athletic.

With the instinct of the trainer and coach Stagg, Sr., commenced to administer regular doses of exercise, which he believed to be a sure antidote for many ills. The first attempts were pure experiments, but the results soon showed that the experiment was to be a great success. Simple movements of the arms and legs constituted the first week of training. The effect was noticed from the first. Not only did the infant grow in strength in his arms and legs, but his general

Digitized by L.ooQle
-230-

health improved. The work toned up his system and seemed to stimulate growth in every part of the body.

Light massage and easy movements were introduced for the body muscles, aqcj the child was taught to hold his head up by the muscles of the neck. Friends of Professor Stagg were often startled to see the professor roll his sou about and gather him up by the clothing without supporting his head. There was no shrinking on the part of A. A., Jr., either. Instead of fretting and chaffing under the rugged treatment he. crowed and smiled and exhibited a decided taste for the work. Football methods were to his liking, and he thrived on thorough exercise. His health improved, and has been perfect ever since. The fretful, whimpering babe of 4 weeks became the spirited, buoyant child, full of life and activity, when 8 weeks of age. The change is largely attributed by his parents to the regular exercises given him.

The progress since has been steady and consistent, and the child at 7 months old is the picture of health and robust happiness. He is what Coach Stagg calls a “good trainer.” Regularly three times a day he takes his exercise under the tutelage of his father. At other times he acts like other babies. He is a good sleeper and keeps excellent hours. Only when he dissipates by missing his regular exercise does the youngster show symptoms of being out of humor.

A few weeks ago Professor Stagg left the city for a few days, and in his absence Alonzo, Jr., did not get the thorough course of training usually administered by his father. The result was noticed in his fretful disposition and inability to sleep soundly. As soon as his father returned and resumed training him the child assumed his normal, even temperament. In his training Professor Stagg has taught his son a number of tricks, some of which are worth the price of admission t'o a football game to witness. Since he was 2 months old the child has been tossed about in rough and tumble fashion on a soft couch. His tumbling feats consist of headrstands, somersaults and roll-overs, helped, of course, by a strong hand.

The early exercise of his leg muscles gave him the movements for walking, and when 3 months old he would toddle across the floor, supported by guiding hands, which, did not allow him to bear his weight on his feet. His next feat was to raise himself from a sitting posture to stand on his feet. This he has been doing now tor a month and shows the remarkable strength of his leg muscles. Many a grown person would find it difficult to raise his weight by using simply the leg muscles, yet, this prodigy does it not once, but three or four times without stopping, and then does not seem to tire.

Stagg has coached his infant to arch his back like the wrestler, thus bringing into use the back muscles, and has made him use his abdominal muscles by raising the weight of the body from a horizontal to a vertical position without using the arms. But one of the most interesting and spectacular performances of this precocious athletes is the one shown in the picture. It shows him standing on his father’s hand, erect and balancing his weight. He stiffens his back, throws out his chest and looks every inch the little man he is. He can balance well, too, and never fears falling, nor does he weaken or let down in his statuesque position. He performed this trick first when 4% months old, and now is an adept at it.

His latest accomplishment is to hang by his hands to a small trapeze bar. This he has done only a few weeks now. Gripping his little fingers about the small bar he can hang suspended for a minute at a time and can be raised and swung about quite roughly without lettine his grip slip. All these feats he performs with a will and enjoys the work, for ne is never in better humor than when going through the roughest exercise.

Mr. and Mrs. Stagg are both athletic. The professor’s record as an athlete and director of athletic sports is too well known to need repetition. Mrs. Stagg has also won distinction in athletic contests. As a student at the university she has a record in basket ball and tennis quite the equal of any co-ed. She has advanced most in tennis, in which she was one of the leading women players of the country in the summer of 1898.

Mr. and Mrs. Stagg are thoroughly convinced, after six months’ trial, that the regular exercising is very beneficial for the infant. Since they have tried it and proved its efficacy other parents in the neighborhood have followed their

Digitized by VjOOQle
-^Si-

example. Now there are three or four infants on the Sotith Side receiving regular exercise. The experiments have gone far enough in each case to leave no doubt of the final results. Thus athletic precocity seems destined to become fashionable in that region.

Were it not for the fact that as the report indicates the ever ready society is about to take up the ill-advised fad, and were not so many innocent.and helpless babies made to suffer the consequences* we would gladly’ pass in silence over this newest wrinkle in sensationalism. Nobody' that possesses some knowledge of the laws of growth, physiology, and anatomy of the child could endorse such a departure in physical training.

' It is not necessary to point out to our readers the fallacies and the dangers consequent upon such an undertaking, even if such a “scientific’, course in physical training given to a babv of 7 months be administered by a well-known football ‘"coach.” The development of muscle seems to be the only important thing with him.

Perhaps Mr. Stagg will soon surprise us with a code of exercises for infants beginning at the age of—say 24 hours, or perhaps at births We may yet live long enough to see our newborn infants out-do those dear little pussey- and monkey-babes. And to think that the Roekafeller University is to father such peculiar excrescenses on the theory of evolution!

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Oscar Weinebrod, teacher of physical training; of the Chicago public schools and the Chicago “South Side Turngemeinde,” died on the 20th of December after a short illness. Mr. Weinebrod was an able teacher and an enthusiast for the cause. It is highly to be regretted that he had to leave the ranks while still young and full of promises as he had a brilliant future before him.	,

—The Out door-Recreation League of New York has issued a circular in which it urges a continuance of the good work for the winter months.

CORRESPONDENCE.

H. O. D., Chicago.—We are satisfied.

W. A. O., Cincinnati.—Exchanges will reach you regularly after New Year We wish to thank you for your kind wishes and reciprocate same.

Louis Leyerzapf, New Haven.—Our friend that had promised the series on “School Boxing” has forgotten his promise. If possible we will secure such a contribution from another source.

C. J. Schrader.—We certainly agree with you that reports of the meetings for the Philadelphia Festival should be sent us by a specially delegated person. It seems to us that it would enhance the interest of prospective visitors of the festival.

Max Strass, Denver.— Thanks for article.

—The Canadian universities have decided to discard the Canadian Rugby foot ball game next year and adopt the English Rugby as the latter gives less chance for foul play and is much more enjoyable for spectators.

Digitized by LaOOQle

/
-232-

“PLAY BALL.”

By S. Y. GYLLAN, “Western Teacher. 1

‘QNTE OVER” was played by two opposing groups, but they seldom gi divided by choosing sides, for exact division at the outset was not important. Two boys would usually challenge the rest: “Give us the first ball, and we’ll stand the crowd.” The two groops took opposite sides of the house and the ball was tossed over the roof of the house, the side throwing it giving the signal “Ante over.” If any one on the other side caught it, all ran around to the opposite side, charging in two squads. The one carrying the ball would hit one of the opposite party, who then changed sides. The object was to “break up” a side by thus bringing over all its members. This was the only ball game in which both girls and boys engaged.

One-cornered cat was played by three boys, one with a bat, and the other two in turn were pitcher and catcher; the batter facing each alternately until caught out, when he surrendered the bat to the one who caught the ball. Two-cornered cat was a degree higher in the scale of evolution. It was played by four boys with two bats and was enriched by a new element, the bases. At the beginning each pair 'of players would “toss up for bases,” the winners taking the bats, the other two playing alternately as pitchers and catchers with stations behind the two batters, who might be “caught out” or “crossed out,” for after the “third tick,” that is, after the ball was hit three times, the batters must exchange bases, and while making the run a catcher who should throw the ball across in front of a ruuner or hit him was entitled to the bat. Three-cornered and four-cornered cat, played by six or eight boys, was governed by substantially the same rules, but sometimes the contest element of “sides,” or group against group was emphasized by adopting the rule of “one out, all out,” so that all the batters changed with the catchers whenever any one was caught out or crossed out.

From this contest between groups it was but a short step to “town ball.” This was played by any convenient number, usually from four to a dozen on each side. There was a careful choosing of sides. A home base and four others were marked on the ground. The first inning was decided by lot. Each side had a pitcher and catcher; the others of the outs were scattered about the field outside the circuit of bases, but without any systematic arrangement. The ball being soft, crossing out or hitting the one who was running the bases was in order. There was no umpire. It is clear that base ball was evolved from town ball, as it is virtually the same game more highly organized and modified so as to adapt it to the use of a hard, heavy ball.

So far as the writer is aware the games above noted were the only ball games played in the country schools of the upper Mississippi valley forty years ago. Shinney and foot ball had been heard of as a sort of tradition, but were not played. Tennis had not been heard of, and of caurse golf was unknown.

Some interesting correspondence has reached us in response to the suggestion of last month. It indicates that most of the old ball games still survive and that a few new ones are now played in the country schools, some of which will be described next month.

Digitized by

Google
-233-

NEED OF PUBLIC PLAYGROUND.

Mr. Louis Leyerzapf, who is president of the New Haven branch of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Culture, and who is an enthusiastic believer in the municipal ownership of play grounds, outdoor gymnasia, and public baths, was asked by a reporter as to his views on the value of such public enterprises. He said:

“I conscientiously endorse all public movements for the establishment of play grounds for school children, the equipping of outdoor gymnasia and athletic fields, and the building and maintenance of a bath house system for all the people.

“If the strengch of a nation is in the strength of its men and women, and when these are allowed to degenerate, the nation suffers proportionately; then it seems to me that this is a most important question. We ought to make more of an effort to develop the children of the community while they are growing, and the way to do this is through gymnastic and athletic exercise. A well equipped outdoor 'gymnasium and field for athletic sports would not only prove a blessing to the school boys and girls, but just think what it would mean to the great bulk of the young men who are confined all day in factories or in counting rooms, where there is little chance for exercise or fresh air.

“Of course, such an enterprise would require intelligent supervision. It would require the services of a man an expert in his line, and of a sympathetic, human nature. There would be no room for a poseur, and the position would be no sinecure for a conscientious instructor.

“I would like to see our city fathers investigate this scheme of play grounds, outdoor gymnasia, and public baths and see if, from the experiences of other municipalities, they cannot perhaps endorse and accept apd bring to a realization what they have found feasible and valuable to the community at large.

“If our public park system does not contain some convenient and appropriate site for such a purpose, h?re is an opportunity for some one of our generous-hearted real estate owners to perpetuate his memory by presenting to the city a tract of land suitable for a public play ground. I do not believe it would cost more than from $500 to $800 to sufficiently equip such a place with the necessary apparatus, and the cost of maintenance would not be an enormous one. If a city wants its men and women, its school boys and girls to be well built, strong, and hearty, clear skinned, lustrous-eyed, and rich with life and vigor, it must make some public provision for their physical welfare.”

—The Influence of Physical upon Mental Disease. Dr. W. J.

Handheld Haslett formulates his conclusion to an interesting article upon this subject as follows: That febrile, suppurative, painful, and constant diseases are most likely to produce benefit, particularly boils, carbuncles, erysipelas, and some of the specific fevers; that protracted and debilitating and wasting diseases, producing anaemia and loss of blood, rarely produce any mental improvement; that purely convulsive neuroses are rarely capable of any amelioration in this way; that stuporous mental states and the second stage of acute attacks are most

Digitized by CjOOQle
-234-

readily influenced for good; lastly, that the evidence chiefly points to the influence being produced by unwonted afferent impulses by abnormal peripheral irritation.

—Winter Cldthing. With the coming of December every one thinks of winter clothing, and as a clothing we all believe in wool. Undoubtedly, as the saying goes, “there is nothing to beat it.” A man clothed in wool is far nearer to the condition of the natural monkey with whom he is said to have such affinities than when dressed in any other garb, even than when got up in furs or in the homely sheepskin, The trouble is that wool is difficult to wash, and very difficult indeed to sterilize without deterioration, whereas cotton and linen can be made not only to look clean, but to be really clean by the simple process of putting it in a copper and boiling it. If one inquires how woolen underclothing is dealt with by the ordinary laundress, one finds that it is washed in warm water well lathered with soap, and rapidly dried, preferably upon some form of stretcher, the aim being not entirely cleanliness, but the avoidance of the shrinking which is apt to take place if it be left long in water, and of the “going hard” which occurs if the fabric is boiled. The process is definitely laborious, and one that the poor find too tedious and expensive to be indulged in more frequently than is absolutely necessary. Hence, no doubt, what a contemporary calls the “dreadful smell of humanity” which characterizes a British crowd, for Great Britain of all countries in the world is the one whose inhabitants most affect woollen cloth.—Hospital.

—Widener Industrial Home for Crippled Children. Mr. P. A.

B.	Widener, the railway magnate and capitalist, has announced the purchase of a tract of land of thirty-six acres in the outskirts of Philadelphia, upon which he contemplates erecting and endowing a home, hospital, and school for crippled children at an estimated total cost of $2,000,000. The object of the institution will be not only to give proper medical and surgical attention to its charges, but also to furnish elementary and grammar-school training, and technical training for those more advanced in years, to qualify the patients, when discharged, to earn their own living. Special attention will be given to instruction in those trades that are adapted to the feeble-minded, as chronic cases will also be cared for. There will be twelve buildings in all, erected in Colonial style, of red brick and white marble.

—A new girls’ sporting goods house has established a golf school on the second floor of their building. Thejr have arranged a net on three sides of the room into which the ball can be driven with full force, the dimensions of same being 23 feet wide by about 10 feet high. They have also a putting green made with a carpeted space about twenty feet square with the cup sunk in the floor at one side, so as to give 15 to 20 foot space for putting. The bunker is arranged by a movable horse 12 feet long and 3 feet high, over which a piece of felt is thrown ; and the tee, off of which the ball is driven, is made of heavy canvas padded underneath, so as to give absolute freedom for the full stroke without danger of breaking the club on the hard floor. The instructor is a young Scotchman who has played the game ever since he was a boy, caddying in the old country, and who is also a thorough club maker, consequently understanding not only the use of the clubs, but the proper hang and shape of every club that one might desire.

Digitized by CaOOQle
D

CQ

o

o

a
—236—

EXERCISES WITH LONG WAND.

By KARL F. ROSS, Los Angeles, Cal.

Remarks.—The class is arranged in front column, ranks in open order of twa steps distance. The number of rank members is dependent upon the length of the wand. March time.

Starting position: Wand down in front, ordinary grip.

<3-ro-a-p 31-

Exercise I.

a)	Step forward left and raise arms forward......................... 1—2

b)	Bend left knee and raise arms upward............................. 3—1

c)	Return to position a..............................................   5—6

d)	Return to starting position.......................................   7—8

Same stepping forward right ........................................ 9—16

Repeat from 1—16....................................................17—32

Exercise II.

a)	Step sideward left and raise arms forward.........................   1—2

b)	Bend left knee and move arms sideward right (right arm extended, left

hand in front of right shoulder)..................................... 3—4

c)	Return to position	a...............................................  5—6

d)	Return to starting	position......................................... 7—8

Repeat same sideward	right.........................................  9—16

Repeat from 1—16....................................................17—32

Exercise III.

a)	Step backward left and raise arms upward............................ 1—2

b)	Bend left knee, bend arms and place wand upon shoulder.............. 3—4

c)	Return to position a................................................ 5—6

d)	Return to starting position........v................................ 7—8

Same stepping right backward.......................................  9—16

Repeat from 1—16................................................... 17—32

Exercise IV.

a)	Cross step left in front and raise arms upward...................... 1—2

b)	Bend left knee and lower arms sideward right (left arm extended sideward right hand behind shoulders)..................................  3—4

c)	Return to position a...:..........................................   5—6

d)	Return to starting position......................................... 7—8

Same right.........................................................  9—16

Repeat from 1—16..................................................  17—32

O-rovtp XX.

Exercise I.

a)	Step forward left and raise arms upward.... .......................  1—2

b)	14turn right on heels and lower arms sideward (wand remains in left

hand)...............................................................  3—4

c)	Return to position a................................................ 5—6

d)	Return to starting position......................................... 7—8

Same right........................................................ 9—16

Repeat from 1—16....................................................17—32

Exercise II.

a)	Step sideward left, bend arms and take reverse grip with right hand

(wand remains in left hand).......................................... 1—2

b)	turn left on heels and straighten arms upward....................... 3—4

c)	Return to position a................................................ 5—6

d)	Return to starting position......................................... 7—8

Same right.......................................................... 9—16

Repeat from 1—16................................................... 17—32

Exercise III.

a) Step left backward and raise arms upward.......................... 1—2

b)	Vitum left on heels, place left hand on hip and right hand on right

shoulder (wand in right hand)..................................... 3—1

Digitized by C.ooQLe
—237—

c) Return to position a.................................................   5—6

d) Return to starting position......................................... 7—8

Same right.......................................................... 9—16

Repeat from 1—16......................................................17—32

Exercise IV.

a)	Cross step left in rear, bend arms and take reverse grip right (wand in

front of chest)........................................................ 1—2

b)	%tum left on heels, straighten right arm obliquely sideward upward

and left obliquely sideward downward (wand in right hand)............. 3—4?

•c) Return to position a............................................... 5—6

d) Return to starting position......................................... 7—8

Same right............................................................ 9—16

Repeat from 1—16......................................................17—32

0-ro-a.p IU.

Exercise I.

a) Lunge foiward left and raise arms upward ........................... 1—2

b)	Bend trunk forward and lower arms downward........................ 3—4

■c ) Return to position a................................................. 5—6

d) Return to starting position............................................ 7—8

Same right..........................................................   9—16

Repeat from 1—16....................................................17—32

Exercise II.

a)	Lunge sideways left and bend arms (wand in front of chest)........... 1—2

b)	Bend trunk sideward left, place left hand on hip and straighten right

arm with wand upward ............................................... 3—4

c)	Return to position a ..............................................   5—6

d)	Return to starting position.......................................... 7—8

Same right............................................................ 9—16

Repeat from 1—16......................................................17—32

Exercise III.

a)	Lunge left backward and raise arms upward............................. 1—2

b)	Bend trunk backward and bend arms (wand in front of chest)............ 3—4

c)	Return to position a .............................................     5—6

d)	Return to starting position........................................ 7—8

Same right...........................................................  9—16

Repeat from 1—16....................................................  17—32

Exercise IV.

a)	Lunge left obliquely forward outward and bend arms (wand in front

of chest).............................................................. 1—2

b)	Twist trunk right, straighten left arm with wand obliquely sideward

upward and lower right arm obliquely sideward downward................. 3—4

<0	Return to position a................................................. 5—6

d)	Return to starting position.......................................    7—8

Same right............................................................ 9—16

Repeat from 1—16......................................................17—32

(3-ro-u.p ITT.

Exercise I.

a) Step forward left and raise arms upward............................. 1—2

b)	^4turn right on heels, bend trunk forward and place hands on hips,

wand in left hand..................................................... 3—4

■c)	Return to position a................................................. 5—6

d)	Return to starting position....................................... 7—8

Same right........................................................... 9—16

Repeat from 1—16.....................................................17—32

Exercise II.

a)	Step sideward left and bend arms (wand in front of chest)............. 1—2

b)	!4tum left on heels, bend trunk sideward left, straighten right arm with

wand upward and place left hand on hip................................ 3—4

c)	Return to position a.................................................. 5—6

Digitized by <^.ooQLe

/
-238-

d)	Return to starting position...........................................  7—8

Same right...........................................................  9—16

Repeat from 1—16......................................................17—32

Exercise III.

a)	Step backward left and raise arms upward............................... 1—2

b)	Vitum left on heels, bend trunk backward and place hands on hips,

c )	Return to position a................................................ 3—4

d)	Return to starting position............................................ 5—6

Same right............................................................. 7—8

Repeat from 1—16..................................................... 9—16

Exercise IV.

a)	Cross step left in front and	bend	arms	(wand in	front	of	chest). 1—2

b)	Twist trunk left and straighten arms	sideward	(wand	in	right hand)...	3—4

c)	Return to position a.............................................. 5—6

d)	Return to starting position	....................................... 7—8

Same right..........................................................   9—16

Repeat from 1—16...................................................17—32

QUADRENNIAL FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. G. U.

The Technical Committee, with Prof. Pertuch as chairman, met and discharged the following business concerning the “Turnfest:”

Washington Park, the largest and most popular one available, was chartered for the time during which the festival is to occur. The contract compells the propietor to level and resod the entire field this fall, so that it will be in the best condition for the purpose. All other requirements which the festival rules call for are to be placed by and under the supervision of the committee.

For the exercises “en masse” an orchestra of nqt less than sixty men is to furnish the accompaniment.

A pentathlon is to be contested between the best men of the N. A.

G.	U., for which a special prize will be awarded. The different ievents for this have not been decided upon.

The registering of time for the climbing in the regular contest is to be done by electrometers.

The committee recommended to the executive • committee that invitations be extended to organizations and institutions, which might wish to take part in the festival and that a special effort be made to induce foreign organizations to be represented at this golden jubilee of the N. A. G. U.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—The glory and glow of the fall and the tang of early winter color “Outing” for December. Its votaries are not deprived of their pleasures because high summer has past. The Wild Fowl in Old Virginia compensates for past pleasures on the prairie. A ’Possum-Hunt by Night is as enticing as a fox-hunt by day. The Building of an Ice Yacht for $60.00 is as pleasurable as building a canoe, and Fishing in the Bahamas no whit less exhilarating than Jhat in the closer waters of the earlier season.

Nothing has been omitted which would make “Outing” for December comprehensive, instructive, and interesting; sport afield and afloat, amusement, adventure in foreign lands, travel and the acquisition of health are all comprised within



Digitized by C.ooQLe
—239-

- its pages, and elucidated and illustrated by the best that pen and pencil can produce. Ed. W. Sandys pilots “A Novice on the Trail;” Capt. A. J. Kenealy describes ‘‘The Decisive Races for tlje Cup;” Charles Turner depicts ‘‘The Woman’s Championship and Other Golf at Bala;” H. Percy Ashley gives specifications and diagrams for the building of ‘‘An Up-to-date Ice Yacht for $60.00;” Wm. Jamieson Reid is a chaperon through ‘‘The Enchantments of Madeira Awheel;” George • Elliot Flint gives practical ‘‘Hints on the Use of Weights for Health;” I. Day Cnap personally conducts “Wild-Fowl Shooting in Virginia,” and Guy E. Mitchell has “A Brush With the Spear-Throwers of Honduras.”

These are some of the many subjects dealt with and illustrated in “Outing's” best manner. In the Monthly Review our friend, the Gentlemen’s Roadster, has a new department devoted to him.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—The annual report of finances of the different athletic departments of Harvard University has just been issued by S. L. Fuller, graduate manager of Harvard athletics. The full report is published in the Harvard Graduates’ Magazine for the month of December, and covers 14 months, ending with Sept. 1, 1899. Following is a summary of the report: Foot ball—Expenses, $10,239.74; receipts, $37,985.70; balance, $27,715.96. Base ball—Expenses, $10,677.77 ; receipts, $11,364.65; balance, $686.88. Track team—Receipts, $823.43; expenses, $4245.47; deficit, $3422.04. ’Varsity crew—Expenses, $10,530.08; receipts, $514710; deficit, $5112.98. Lawn tennis—Receipts, $976; expenses, $1000.74; deficit, $24.74. Freshman crew—Receipts $2250; expenses, $2526.06; deficit, $276.06. Freshman eleven—Expenses, $2010.99; subscriptions, $1494.37; deficit, $516.62. Freshman base ball—Expenses, $2329.34; receipts, $1508^75; profits, $279.41.

—Mr. Herbert M. Harriman is the amateur golf champion.

—The athletes making up basket ball teams must become registered in order to play under the A.«A. U. rules, that is, each individual athlete must register with the A. A. U., the fee for which is 25 Cents. It is also necessary that the basket ball team secures sanction for all games played on its own ground or at its home. When a team goes away to play, the opposing team must look out for the. sanction. The registration period is for one year from the date card is issued. The majority of the cards held by basket ball players to-day expired on the 28th of February this year, and it would be well for all who contemplate playing to examine their cards, and if it has expired, secure a new one, as the A. A. U. intends from now on to follow the matter up very closely, and as soon as any registration runs out, the athlete’s name will be at once stricken from the list.

Nearly all the Y. M. C. A. teams throughout the country are now registered and playing. Applications for registration in New Jersey, north of Trenton, and New York State, should be sent to F. W. Rubien, P. 0. Box 611, New York City.

Applications in New England should be sent to Kilbume Adams, Newtowne Club, North Cambridge, Mass.

Those in New Jersey, south of Trenton and including Trenton, Delaware, West Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland, District of Columbia, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Virginia, should be sent to John W. Kelly, Jr., Box 471, Woodbury, N. J.

Those in Ohio, Illinois and Indiana, North of 40 degrees North Latitude, and Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa and Minnesota, should be sent to Dr. George K. Herman. 96 La Salle St., Cnicago, 111.

Those in California, Arizona, Utah and Nevada, should be sent to H. A. Keeler, 572 Tenth St., Oakland, Cal.

Those in Idaho, Montana, Washington, Oregon and Alaska, should be sent to E. C. Coffman, University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.

Those in Alabama, Louisiana, Florida, Mississippi, Texas, Georgia and Tennessee, should be sent to B. P. Sullivan, 233 Barone St., New Orleans, La.

Digitized by <^.ooQle


-240-

Those in Missouri, South Dakota, Kentucky, Wyoming, Indian Territory, Nebraska, Arkansas, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, North Dakota, Colorado, and Ohio, Indiana and Illinois South of 4o degress North Latitude, should be sent to J. J. O’Connor, 2718 Thomas St., St. Louis, Mo.

The A. A. U. is divided into the above sections or associations, named the Metropolitan, New England Atlantic, Central, Pacific, Pacific North West, Southern and Western Associations respectively.

—Amateur Basket Ball teams cannot hereafter play games with unregistered teams or professional teams. They must confine their competitions entirely to teams that are registered with the different associations of the A. A. U. and with registered Y. M. C. A. teams.. Nearly every Y. M. C. A. team is at present registered and the A. A. U. tfeams have started in registering for the season. All those whose tickets have expired are now renewing. The 17 separate co., of Flushing, Knickerbocker A. C., Nassau Wheelmen, St. George’s A. C., Washington Heights Y. M. C. A., Cleveland Basket Ball Team, Manhattan Basket Ball Team, and a few other teams are still eligible to play under their last registration cards.

—Mr. R. C. Lehman to whom Harvard owes her rowing supremacy will coach the Oxford (Eng.) Varsity Crew for their annual match with Cambridge.

—Chicago by defeatir's*Wisconsin 17 to*0 at foot ball has a clear title to the Western Championship.

—Miss Beatrix Hoyt, who has won the ladies’ golf championship for three successive years, was beaten this year by Miss Underhill.

HARVARD’S NEW BOAT HOUSE.

Harvard University’s new boathouse is fast taking shape, and promises, when finished, it is now hoped next March. *o be one of the notable sporting establishments of the neighborhood. The site '‘Jkosen was decided upon with reference to the vicinity of Soldiers’ field, just back of it, and the proposed Charles river embankment, which will probably be one of the most beautiful bits of landscape gardening in the country. The house will be on the Brighton side of the river, about 100 yards west of the bridge.

The site thus compels some attention to architectural demands and to this problem Messrs. Peabody & Steams, the designers have responded worthily. The foundations have been built for some time and most of the framework is in place, but unforseen delays have postponed the possible opening till early in spring, rather than Feb. 1, as was expected. It will be used by the Newell Boat Club and the university crews.

The building is to be 139.4 feet long and 85.9 feet wide, and to consist of two stories, with a basement. The basement, which extends under the entire building, has not yet been assigned for any particular purpose, but will probably be used as a storeroom.

The first floor will have seven entrances from the land side and three from the water side. The middle entrances open directly into the main hall, 71* by 63 feet, which has not yet been assigned for any special use. but most of the oars, and probably many of the boats, will be placed in it. To the right of the main hall is a workshop, 71 by 21 feet, and beyond it, in the east end of the building, is a rowing tank, 51 by 28 feet. Boat racks will be placed on the walls of the rowing room.

On the other side of the main hall is a second workshop, of the same size as the first, which will be used, in part, as a storage room. In the west end of the building will be a second rowing tank similar to that in the east end

On the river side is a wide piazza over 55 feet long. Between the piazza and the main hall is the vestibule from which lead the stairs to the basement and to the second floor. The office is on the first floor under the west tower, and the hot water room is in the east tower.

In the second story, directly over the main hall, is a large room which will be used1 for a gymnasium and for the rowing machines. The trophies will also be put in it. To the west of this room will be the lockers, and to the east three rooms, one for coaches, one for the university crew, while the third will contain shower baths. The other baths will be in the towers. Balconies will extend out from the second story toward the speedway.



Digitized by Google