HIND AND BODT

Tol. 22.	DECEMBER,	ISIS.	No.	844

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah.

EMIL RATH. Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All Business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee. Entered at ihe Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

n

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Our readers attention is called to the reprint of Mr. Foster's article on “Intercollegiate Athletics" from the November issue of the Atlantic Monthly. We think the time is ripe for the high schools of the public school system to take the stand advocated by Mr. Foster Being supported entirely by public taxation, these schools can have athletics for all students at once, if they care to have them.

THE RECREATIONAL FACILITIES OF MADISON, WIS.

Speaking of the comprehensive booklet, a letter sent by the Board of Commerce says:

This is the first survey of the positive and negative factors in recreation made by a commercial organization. Work was done by a representative committee, appointed by the Madison Board of Commerce, including every social and civic interest in the city, under the leadership of Clark W. Hetherington, Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin.

- Commenting upon the survey, the Wisconsin State Journal has a strong editorial. If we only had more newspapers that would help us with words as forceful and to the point as the following: Next to the battle against poverty, which is the World's great war for the century to come, the gravest problem for the sociologist and the statesman to solve is the right use of leisure. When we have found work for a man we have met only half his need. Play is part of his problem,—play in the big sense. We don't mean checkers or croquet; we mean the investment of leisure, the recreation that rests, the let down, that lifts up.

Of such fundamental importance is this problem to city building and trade promotion that everywhere we find the city boards of commerce lending themselves to the'solution of this problem as once they

Digitized by o.ooQLe
busied themselves with the promotion of infant industries. Now they have learned that industries seek the cities that have good living conditions, good schools, libraries, parks, healthful and educational pastimes for the hours when the shop work is done.

To help the people to health and happiness is the first step to help them to wealth, and so our own Board of Commerce has wisely lent itself to the truest light in twentieth century city building and issued its most pretentious book on the subject of health and recreation.

Most of the vice and crime of Madison, as of every other city, is the result of lack of opportunity for the properly directed association of young men, of young women, and especially of young men and young women together.

The recreational organiation of adult activities is important not only for the sake of the adults themselves,' but because the example they set is the strongest, most persistent and effective influence in determining the actions and interests of youth and children.

Millions of dollars have been spent in purchasing separate systems of recreational equipment in cities throughout the country. But the strong tendency everywhere today is toward the extension of the equipment and use of the public education system to meet the recreation need. And what is true of equipment, tends to be true of administrative machinery. The tendency is toward consolidation.

The most vital thing in this hundred-and-three page pamphlet is its CHALLENGE to the city, and particularly to the Madison Board of Education to stop its pottering and dilly-dallying, and begin in a business-like way to man and equip the public school system of this city to meet the recreational needs of its people.

There are other things, important things, of course, in this report. Many pages are given to the diagnosis of the disease of play-gone-wrong, and to detailed consideration of The Nature of the Recreation Problem, Distribution of Population, Work of the Garden Association and Pleasure Drive Association; to Parks, Zoo, Bath Houses, Library; to Theaters, Movies, Dance Halls, Pool Halls, Bowling Alleys, Saloons; to the problems of play in connection with Churches, and the matter of Home Play.

The heart of the Survey Committee's common-sense answer to the big central problem is in this reiterated declaration:

“Schools should be open for evening use under the direction of a skilled community secretary.

“The entire taking over of the school garden work by the Board of Education is to be desired.

“It seems safe to conclude that if every school were equipped with large, well-equipped gymnasiums, opened certain evenings of the week and supervised by competent instructors, the demand would be fairly well met.

Digitized by C^ooQle
859

“It would seem most natural that branch libraries should be established in the schools as rapidly as expansion of library facilities is desirable.

“The importance of the evening recreational and social use of the schools is not easily exaggerated.

“There seems to be no escape from the logic of making the school the agency.”

Apparently as an after-thought, the report recommends the appointment of a permanent “Play and Recreation Committee,” that shall be “under the control of the Madison Board of Commerce.’" And this may be desirable; but if such a committee is appointed, its essentially private and volunteer character precludes its having any real authority over the public uses of the public buildings, whether for instruction or recreation or the neighborhood assembly of citizens. The proper function of such a committee is to camp on the trail of the Board of Education until this body appoints an assistant to the superintendent of schools and a staff of associates who shall be responsible for organizing and developing the full civic and recreational use of the schoolhouses and all other facilities now existing or to be acquired, in accordance with the Wisconsin law.

When this is done, and not till then, will the effort of the men and women who have co-operated in making this splendid survey, actually succeed in accomplishing its aim of “obtaining action on one of the most vital of modern problems.”

This is essentially the same recommendation that Professor Edward J. Ward made five years ago; that Mayor Joseph C. Schubert made four years ago; that the citizens in five districts of Madison made three years ago; that the Neighborhood Committee of the Madison Improvement Association made two years ago, and that Mayor Kayser made last year.

Shall we “obtain action” now ?

Or does the School Board need more time to consider the mat1

ter?

At a time when even men who hitherto have been pacifists are caught in the general hysteria of armaments, says “The Survey,” it is refreshing to know that the San Francisco Peace Congress, despite the varied character of the delegations attending it, opposed “preparedness” in the following resolutions:

“The defense of the Republic is not primarily a matter of armies and navies, but it lies in justice, conciliation and trust in international law. While we do not urge disarmament under present conditions, we are opposed to the current widespread demand for costly preparation against hypothetic dangers. If exhausted Europe is an increased menace to America, it must likewise be so to other neutrals,

Digitized by
8B0

while armament expansion on our part invites similar action in the nations of South America and Asia.

‘ The hoped-for leadership of America in the achievement of a new world order would be defeated by her surrender to the belief that the lesson of the great war is that she should seriously enter further into the old world competition in armament, for, in the words of Washington, ‘Overgrown military establishments are, under any form of government, inauspicious to liberty, and are to be regarded as particularly hostile to republican liberty/

“This congress looks with apprehension on the presence in advisory boards of the United States government of men personally interested in the preparation, manufacture or sale of munitions of war.

“The congress further questions the propriety of appointing on congressional committees men who are or who have been concerned with the manufacture or trade in war materials/,

Cause of Excessive Humidity in Gas-Heated Rooms.—During the combustion of gas the hydrogen, either free or as a hydrocarbon, combines with oxygen of the air to form water. With the average manufactured gas the quantity of water thus formed amounts to about forty pounds for each thousand cubic feet of gas burned. So if the products of combustion are cooled below 212 degrees Fahrenheit, the moisture will be perceptible and even a source of much annoyance.

This may explain the humidity often noticeable in rooms where the gas-heaters are not flue-connected.

This formation of water vapor occurs whenever gas is burned regardless of the kind of burner, and precautions should be taken either to keep the products at a temperature above the condensing point or to provide means for disposing of the condensed water whenever gas is burned in such a quantity that tbe condensation may be an annoyance. When gas room-heaters are used as auxiliaries to other sources of heat and burned for short periods, the water vapor formed is generally not sufficient to cause annoyance.—George S. Barrows before The American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers.

Digitized by Google
861

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

The Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind., opened for work for the year 1915-16 on September 17th. The class this year numbers 105, an increase of 32 over last year's class; there are fifty-one men and fifty-four women. In spite of this increase the regular program was begun immediately, and the classes are now well into their work. It may be worth while mentioning that members of the class come from all parts of the country: Colorado as well as Massachusetts, Minnesota as well as Connecticut, New Mexico as well as New York being represented.

Because of the ideal weather this fall, much time is being devoted to outdoor work. The women have been working on the jumps, low hurdles, hurlball, basketball, far-throw, shot-put, kicking the football, and the 100-yards dash; the men on the low and high hurdles, javelin throw, hurlball, broad and high jumps, and sprints. Hockey for women and soccer for men are also being taken up.

Shortly after school opened the Students' Alliance held its first meeting and elected new officers for the first semester: President, Fritz Berg; Vice-President, Florine Siling; Secretary, Frieda Flaig; Treasurer, August J. Eckel.

An “Introductory Dance" was given by the senior class on the 25th of September. A week later the Sozialer Turnverein gave a reception for the students in order to get them acquainted with the actives and ladies of the society and the members of the Board of Trustees. A “Farmers' Dance" was given by the Students’ Alliance on October 30th, and the decorations and costumes were fitting to the occasion.

A men's class consisting of thirty-two, took part in the “Turn-tag" of the Indiana district of the N. A. G. U. held at the German House October 31st, with free exercises and apparatus work.

The Seniors began their observation in the public schools of Indianapolis the first week of October; they will continue to observe the work until the end of the first semester when practice teaching in the schools will begin.

Frances H. Starck, Recorder.

NOTES ABOUT NEWARK.

The newest feature to be inaugurated by Mr. Randall D. Warden, Director of Physical Education in Newark, is the establishment of a “Social Centre" in the Hamburg Place School.

Already rapid strides have been made, and the popularity of the “Social Centre" may be attested to by the fact that over four hundred (400) are already enrolled in the numerous clubs or societies.

Digitized by C.ooQle
862

The new gymnasia that have been equipped and opened with the .new term, and the teachers appointed to them are Robert Treat School with Mr. George Young, Lafayette School with Mr. August R. Goeltz, McKinley School with Mr. Robert L. Latimer. Mr. Carl Baumann who formerly had two schools, has been assigned to the Abington Avenue School where the alternating plan similar to the Gary System has been applied. Mr. Richard M. Hall will temporarily take charge of Warren and Boys’ Industrial Schools. Mr. John Skillm^n has been appointed to the Ridge School, Mr. Abraham Jacobson, formerly of Ridge School was transferred to Morton Street. Mr. James A. Molloy who was at the Morton Street School was promoted to the East Side High School. Miss Edna P. Brown was appointed to the Barringer High, Miss Winifred Pierce to the South Side, and Miss Katharine Quinn appointed to the Central High School to take Miss Dolan’s place. Miss Dolan resigned to become the bride of Mr. Homer D. Rich.

Mr. Lewis H. Field has been promoted to the assistantship at Barringer High School, and Mr. Robert L. Criswell takes his place at Hawthorne Avenue. Mr. Joseph A. D’Angola was promoted from assistant at Barringer to the position of Special Teacher of Athletics, assisting the supervisory department of Physical Education. Newark’s physical education force now numbers forty-three members.

While Orange is not in Newark, still it is very close by, and the appointment to the schools there as Physical Director, of Mr. Carl

F.	Seibert is announced.

Ernest H. Seibert.

STATE NORMAL, LA CROSSE, WIS.

The Physical Education Club held two very instructive and pleasant meetings. The girls’ basket ball tournament started with eight teams in the race.

On October 30th a masque ball was given by the seniors to the juniors. On October 5th, the foot ball team received fifteen maroon and gray blankets from the junior class.

A big county fair was held in the gymnasium on November 13th. The juniors managed the affair successfully, and realized the sum of $150.

The state champion basket ball team have before them a strenuous pre-season training trip. Games are definitely scheduled with Campion College, Platteville Normal, Northwestern University, Purdue University, Fort Wayne and the strong city team of Tipton, Indiana. The trip will start on Dec. 13, and will be brought to a close on Dec. 23.

Arthur Strum, Recorder.

Digitized by vj ' )QlC
863

THE RELATION OF RECREATION TO THE OTHER SOCIAL MOVEMENTS OF THE COMMUNITY.

Recreation is a social movement, whether it be expressed in terms of a playground in a small town or through the wonderful “small parks” of Chicago which have become famous throughout the world. The value of recreation as a social movement in a community depends, first upon the personality and leadership of those in charge, and second upon the facilities and equipment of the “recreational plant.” All workers in the field of recreation are not “social workers,” but more and more they are becoming socialized workers. It is to the value of all to see the inter-relation of this new* movement of “social recreation” to the other fields of public service.

So, may we speak as one who is socialized and sees the relation between his field of work and the other fellow’s? We will speak as one who has a well equipped recreational plant under his charge, like the “small parks” of Chicago. Stanford Park, for example, is equipped with a large outdoor swimming pool, separate playgrounds for children, girls and women, boys and men, a play or athletic field, some park space; a building with separate showers for both sexes, two gymnasiums, one for each sex, a playroom for children, a circulating library, clubrooms, and an assembly hall. Each department is under supervision and all employees are under civil service. Stanford Park is one of the units of the West Chicago Parks, whose commissioners are appointed by the Governor. Stanford Park is an example of a public recreation center, supported by taxes, and where no charge qf any kind is made for the use of any facility.

Stanford Park is located where it is (Jefferson, Union, Barber Streets and W. 14th Place) because of a recreational survey, and thus we come to our first relationship of recreation to the other social movements. One of the newest movements in America is city planning, and placing recreation centers in that city plan is a very important part. As regards recreation or a plan to play for our children and our children’s children, we have lacked foresight, and our cities have just grown up like Topsy, without much plan and purpose, just “topsy-turvy.” Therefore, we who are interested in recreation are vitally interested in city planning, and demand that the cpmmunity set aside playspaces so that every child can easily walk

By SIDNEY A. TEDDER, Director of Stanford Park, Chicago.

Digitized by
864

to a playground, and every adult come in contact with a recreation center. In a recreational survey, which gives the recreational facts for your city plan, we not only inquire about playspaces and activities, but look into the health, housing, morality, delinquency, etc., etc., of the field of our survey.

The relation of recreation to health is almost self-evident, but we must bring it home to both sides. While the health department is trying to decrease the death rate, the recreation center is increasing the health rate. We are trying to make health catching instead of disease, give cleanliness instead of filth, and fresh air and exercise instead of foul air and cramped quarters. As regards the health movement, recreation is constructive and preventive, constructive for health and preventing disease. Our recreation survey of the site of Stanford Park, showed 597 people on less than three acres of ground, a congestion of over 200 per acre. There was one bathtub in the block. Infant mortality was high, the tuberculosis death rate was high. What has happened in the five years that Stanford Park has been opened to the public? Over a million shower baths and swims have been given where one bathtub existed before, the death rate has gone down, the health rate has gone up. The neighborhood has been literally washed up and the children no longer “smell.” With outdoor playspaces and indoor gymnasiums, with a “breathing spot” near at hand, the neighborhood has become healthier. Surely it is better to build playgrounds which in a measure prevent tuberculosis, than to establish places to cure this disease after it has been started. So your recreation center radiates health and cleanliness, and thus is related to all social movements for health. But the recreation worker who is socialized, sees farther than his own playground and asks this pertinent question: “What about the rotten housing that breeds disease? What about water supply, clean air, clean streets, clean alleys, garbage removal, clean food, etc?” Recreation in itself cannot purge its own neighborhood, and so it must join with the other social movements to be fully efficient and effective. But one great nascent force is there. The recreation center with its example and high standard of housing, toilet facilities, cleanliness, order, fresh air, facilities for bathing, etc., slowly but surely stirs a “life consciousness” into those who come in contact with it. This life consciousness, when it becomes articulate, demands for the people in their own dwelling places, at least the minimum standard

Digitized by Google
865

of housing, health, toilet facilities, bathing facilities, etc., that every human being is entitled to . Therefore the recreation center, reacts on its own neighborhood, and the whole community is lifted up and made conscious of higher things.

Chicago has been proud of the fact that it established the Juvenile Court, but as regards delinquency of children, adolescents and youth, some day it will point with greater pride to the establishment of its recreation centers. The solution of juvenile delinquency is not the Juvenile Court. The solution of juvenile delinquency is the prevention of juvenile delinquency. It is f^r better for a community to build playgrounds than reform schools, and so as regards the movement for better community morality, recreation stands as a strong constructive and preventive force. It has been shown in an exhaustive study, that delinquency is reduced about 30 per cent within a radius of a half mile of a recreation center. The “gang” is translated into the team or club, and all the play instincts of childhood and youth have a sane and constructive outlet. We must fight the open saloons, open poolrooms and cheap dance halls, with clean fire; and if you offer an attractive recreation center, the young people will go there. The ideal is to have a wholesome environment for every child and youth. The recreation center approaches this ideal for its neighborhood.

One of the biggest problems in our communities, large and small, is the assimilation and Americanizing of the immigrant. The public school is doing a great deal as regards the children and for some adults along the lines of education. But you can go to school a long while and know your roommates only in a distant, formal way. We call our playgrounds “melting pots,” bringing all races, religions and nationalities together to make the American. School relationship is compulsory, play relationship is voluntary. You don’t know people until you play with them. And so we find one of the greatest factors in the assimilation of the immigrant is the recreation center. The recreation center in the eyes of the foreigner is run “by the government” for the benefit of the people. Here America is really a “free country.” At the recreation center he quickly learns the difference between liberty and license. With all kinds of folk dances and playfestivals, with celebrations of national holidays and patriotic events, with the feeling that he is welcome here and that everybody is an American or recognized as a potential American, the assimilation and not the exploitation takes place. The recreation center stands as a strong exponent of democracy; and on this common ground, irrespective of race, creed, color, politics, nationality, or any other fictitious difference, we can and do come together. The recreation center can transform a community from a “city wilderness” to a neighborhood conscious of itself, with pride, and loyalty and achievement.

Digitized by V.ooQle
866

Recreation is related to education. You cannot separate mind and body and soul. Formal education is repression, play is expression. We are educating through play; and if education is preparation for life, for the highest life, it is of more value to the individual and for the community, to play a game according to its rules, with its spirits of fair play, loyalty, self-control, sacrifice for the good of the group, being a “good sport” and a good loser, than it is to know how many soldiers were killed in a certain battle in the Civil War, or where a town is in the heart of Africa. The idea is to get more “play” into formal education, and more real education into undirected play. All of education should be made “play,” all of play should be made education. All of life should be made “play.” Think of making our school systems, like our playgrounds so attractive to the child that he would go because he wants to, and not because he has to ! So the educators of to-day, mental, physical and moral, should be getting together to see their interrelationship.

The socialized recreation worker is concerned with the economic problems of his community. Children come to the gymnasium with toes and heels out of stocking feet, with insufficient food in their bodies. What’s the use, in a way, of giving the children an hour in the gym, and creating a physical desire, called hunger, for food, and then having those children going back to family groups where the family is not getting a “living wage” or worse still, where the wage earner has been “unemployed” for months? So we are vitally interested in relief problems, child labor, hours and conditions of work, industrial insurance, etc. We are working towards the superman and superwoman, for better citizens in that tomorrow of our country and state. Recreation can only work with the material which comes to its hands, and is interested in that material being better, and eventually the best. Recreation cannot build the temple of democracy alone, nor can recreation be left out and make the temple a success. Each and all are needed. All must work together. None can stand alone.

The socialized recreational worker can see half of his work being nullified by negative conditions in the community; he can see how much further the same amount of energy and force would go if the destructive forces were themselves destroyed. He can see how all social problems are related to each other and none can stand alone. He asks the other so-called “social workers” of the community, leaders of social movements, and all socialized persons to see how recreation is related to their problems and to the community’s welfare. Social recreation, with the right kind of leadership and personality, with sufficient equipment and facilities, is a strong social force in America, and best of all, its work is constructive and preventive.

Digitized by
867

TABLES—THE USE, FOR A YEAR, OF A RECREATION CENTER BY ITS

NEIGHBORHOOD.

Stan-

(1) Attendance in activities. ford

Park.

A—Swimming pool

Men .................... 117,582

Women ................... 29,286

Special outdoor gatherings:

Occasions ................... 10

D—Attendance .................. 52.150

B—Playfleld ................  102,130

B—Outdoor gymnasium:

Men ...................   53,485

Women ..........*........ 37,386

B—Children’s playground....... 90,248

A—Tennis courts .....................

B—Skating pond ................ 1,411

A—Gardens ...........................

C—Indoor gymnasium:

Men ..................... 29,907

Women ................... 13,521

A—Shower baths:

Men ..................... 94,303

Women ................... 57,319

Assembly hall:

Occasions .................. 331

Attendance .............. 69,925

A—Clubroom s:

Men ..................... 14,940

Women ................... 10,379

A—Kindergarten ......................

C—Playroom and game room.... 16,472 A—Library ..................... 65,108

Total occasions ............... 341

Total attendance .......... 855.655

Stan-

(2) Data to interpret attendance, ford

Park.

1—	Football games .................. 1

2—	Playground ball game____s...	* 703

3—	Basket ball games.............. 248

4—	Indoor ball games.............. 172

5—	Tennis games................... 199

•6—Volley ball games.............. 482

7—	Dances ......................... 48

8—	Concerts (indoor) ............... 4

9—	Entertainments ................. 30

10—	Lectures ....................... 52

11—	Holiday celebrations............ 14

12—	Educational gatherings......	9

13—	Social (no dancing)............. 24

14—	Open club meetings.............. 11

15—	Number of clubs using park

during each month	of year.	129

16—	Total active membership of

clubs ...................... 1,768

17—	Total number of club meet-

ings ....................... 1,609

18—	Dinners or banquets.............. 1

19—	Refreshments served at gath-

erings ........................ 40

20—	Track meets held................. 6

21—	Band concerts.................... 3

22—	Play festival celebrations—

outdoors ....................... 6

23—	Outdoor picture shows............ 4

24—	Number children’s gardens..........

25—	Registration—men’s gymna-

sium ....................... 1,955

26—	Registration—women’s gym-

sium ......................... 598

27—	Registration children’s play-

rooms ........................ 625

28—	Number of books circulated.. 55,835

29—	Number days natatorium open	99

30—	Number days skating............. 18

31—	Number wrestling bouts......	11

32—	Miscellaneous activities not

otherwise selected............ 100

33—	^Number of times assembly

hall was used................. 331

(N. B.) A—Actual attendance by count.

B—When outdoor activities are open, after school hours, until 9:30 o’clock, two counts are made, one before supper—6:00 o’clock—and one after 6:00 o’clock. The sum of these two figures represents the attendance for that day. When the playfleld is open, from 8:00 o’clock in the morning until 9:30 o’clock in the evening, three counts are made, one before 2 .00 o’clock in the afternoon, one between 2:00 and 4>:00, and one after 6:00 o’clock. The sum of these figures represents the attendance for that day.

C—Actual number of persons on the gymnasium floor, not including spectators or galleries.

D—Estimated attendance for concerts and outdoor gatherings—an average of two or three estimates.

Digitized by
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By H. ARM IN 8TICHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

EXAMINATIONS FOR POSITIONS AS TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING—HIGH SCHOOLS, GRAMMAR SCHOOLS AND SWIMMING—PUBLIC SCHOOLS, BUFFALO, N. Y.

I. PHYSICAL EDUCATION—HIGH SCHOOLS.

(Open to Men and Women.)

Candidates desiring to qualify for the position of director of Physical Education in the high schools must possess the following qualifications:

Graduation from a recognized high school, or equivalent academic training; subsequent graduation from a recognized normal school of physical training giving at least a two years' course in technical training; and in addition, three years of successful experience in teaching physical training, a satisfactory portion of which must have been spent in high school work.

In addition to the above qualifications, the candidate should know the principles underlying the foremost systems of evmnastics and the methods practised in the successful application of the same. He must possess satisfactory skill in actual teaching as well as ability to conduct physical tests of high school pupils and to supervise the gymnastic, aquatic and athletic activities connected with the high schools.

The scope of the examination is as follows:

(a)	A written test in each of the following subjects:	(i)

Applied Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene, and First Aid to the Injured; (2) Methods and Principles of Physical Training; (3) History and Literature of Physical Education.

(b)	Oral (practical) tests as follows:	(1)	A demonstration

of personal skill and ability in gymnastics and athletics, including a general knowledge of the conduct and management of athletic sports, games and the manly arts of self-defense; (2) A demonstration of teaching ability with a class in the gymnasium in tactics, free exer-. cises with and without hand apparatus, classic and aesthetic gymnastics, exercises on the various apparatus.

Salary Schedule.—Minimum salary $1,200.00, annual increase of $100.00 and a maximum of $1,800.00.

II. PHYSICAL EDUCATION----GRAMMAR SCHOOLS.

Only male candidates are admitted to the next examination:

Candidates desiring to try the examinations in the German system of school gymnastics must possess one of the following qualifi-

Digitized by 0.ooQLe
869

cations: (a) Graduation from a recognized high school, or evidence of an equivalent education, and graduation from a recognized school of physical training; (b) High School graduation, one year’s experience in teaching school gymnastics, and graduation from the physical training department of a recognized summer school, such course to be equivalent to three summer terms of at least six weeks each; or (c) High School graduation and three year’s experience as a teacher of school gymnastics.

Aside from the above qualifications, the candidate should know the underlying principles and methods pursued in the foremost systems of gymnastics. He must be skilled in actual teaching and in supervisory work. He must be apt in demonstrating the regular gymnastic lesson to the grade teacher and in assisting him or her in matters pertaining to the physical welfare of the pupils. Candidates must give evidence of ability to use the English language correctly. The examination is partly a written and partly a practical test.

The written examination will embrace:	(a)	Anatomy,	Physi-

ology, Hygiene and First Aid to the Injured; (b) Theory and Practice of teaching gymnastics; (c) History and Literature of Physical Education, (d) The oral examination or practical test is as follows:

(1)	A demonstration of personal skill and ability in gymnastics;

(2)	a demonstration with a class in tactics, class management, free exercises with and without hand exercises, aesthetic gymnastics, exercises on the apparatus, gymnastic and athletic games suitable for the various grades.

Salary Schedule.—Men, Minimum Salary $1,200.00, an annual increase of $100.00 and a maximum salary of $1,400.00. Women, Minimum Salary $600.00, an annual increase of $50.00, and a maximum of $1000.00.

Women instructors are now teaching mostly in the lower grades.

IIII. SWIMMING.

Candidates desiring to qualify as swimming instructors, must possess the following qualifications:	(a)	Graduation	from	a	high

school, or an equivalent education; and (b) satisfactory experience as a swimming instructor.

The examination will embrace the following:

(a)	Written examination:	This	will include questions on

general hygiene, first aid to the injured, management and care of swimming pools and shower baths, and methods and principles of teaching swimming in the public schools.

(b)	Class Teaching and practical demonstration of personal

skill:	This part of the examination will call for a class lesson to

pupils of different grades and ages involving land drill and water exercises. The candidate will also be called upon to demonstrate the different swimming strokes, such as side, breast, crawl, overarm, etc., and will be judged according to form and speed displayed. He

Digitized by C.ooQle
870

will also be required to demonstrate the correct methods of swim* ming and diving and to show his skill in saving a drowning person and resuscitating such a person.

Salary Schedule.—Men, Minimum salary $800.00, annual increase $50.00, maximum salary $1,000.00. Women, Minimum salary $500.00, annual increase $50.00, maximum salary $700.00.

Hours of instruction: daily from 1 to 6 P. M., except on Saturdays, when the hours are from 9 to 12 A. M.

GENERAL NOTICE.

The next examination will begin on Monday, Jan. 24, 1916. Candidates should be prepared to remain at least three days. Candidates are examined in only one subject per day.

Any person desiring to secure a position as teacher in the public schools of the city of Buffalo, must apply to the Secretary of the Board of School Examiners, Mr. Chas. A. McMahon, room 608 Prudential Building, who will furnish the applicant with the necessary blanks.

The application for entrance for any examination must be filed in duplicate with the Secretary of the Board 15 days prior to the 24th of January.

The examinations will be conducted in the new Hutchinson High School Gymnasium and Swimming Pool.

INTERMEDIATE TEAM TUMBLING.

By H. DARNELL BRITTIN, Lorain, Ohio.

Series 3, No. 1.

A, top (smallest boy) ; M, middle; B, bottom. •

1 B 1-Facing A, half forward roll to mat with thighs flexed.

A	Fig.	33.	B

Digitized by L.ooQle
871

A 2-Short run—describe a cart wheel over B. B assist by placing feet on xVs abdomen and pushing upward as A is turning.

2 B i-Half forward roll to mat to position. (Fig. 38A.)

A 2-Short run—place hands on B’s knees and describe a hand spring over B. B assist by grasping A’s shoulders and pushing upward as A is turning. (Fig. 38B.)

3	B 1-Facing A, half forward roll to mat with thighs flexed.

A 2-Short run—place hands so that B’s head is between and describe a hand spring over B. B assist by placing feet on A’s abdomen and pushing upward as A is turning.

4	B i-Facing same direction as A—half forward roll to position.

A 2-Short run—place hands on B’s shoulders, head in B’s hands and describe a head spring over B. (Fig. 39B.) B assist by pushing upward with hands as A is turning.

5	B i-Facing A—half forward roll to mat, thighs flexed and arms vertical.

A 2-Grasp B’s hands (thumbs in; B place feet as in Fig. 40A) spring forward keeping arms stiff and describe a handspring over B. B assist by pushing with legs and bending arms. (Fig. 40B.) As A leaves B’s feet in turning, B straighten arms quickly, release hands and A come to stand facing same direction in which he started.

Avoid a “bump” by having a neutral stand on right side of A and as A is turning place right and left hands on A’s chest and back respectively to assist in turning. Avoid any preliminary movements before actual figure is performed, (i. e.—one, two, three, go). After acquiring

(Fig. 39A.)

A

Fig. 59.

B
872

A	Fte-	40-	B

the necessary co-ordination with partner this figure can be made more effective if A precedes with a short run.

6	Same as number 5 except A faces same direction as B, B

places feet against A’s buttocks and A describe a back somersault over B. In teaching, B place hands on A’s shoulders during the somersault.

7	B 1-Facing each other, grasp hands (thumbs in.)

A 2-Jump into a forward roll on B’s back. B assist in bending forward. A finish facing same direction in which he started. (Fig. 41.)

8	B 1-Facing A. Side stride position, hands on hips.

A 2-Momentary hand stand in front of B with legs spread.

Digitized by CjOOQle
873

A 3-Fall over B, B bending forward. (Fig. 42A.)

A 4-Place hands on B’s hips and describe a hand spring off B, B assist by straightening back. (Fig. 42B.)

9	A i-Facing B. Momentary hand stand with legs spread.

B 2-Place head between A’s legs, grasp A’s thighs and pull A to a straddle mount on B’s shoulders.

A 3-Back somersault to mat.

10	A i-Momentary hand stand with legs spread.

B 2-Grasp A*s ankles and assume position. (Fig. 43A.)

B 3-Bend forward pulling A to straddle mount on B’s back.

' (A keeping legs stiff.)

A 4-Describe a backward roll on B’s back and land on mat facing B. (Fig. 43B.) Avoid a bump by having neutral support A’s shoulders during backward roll.

Fig. 43.

Fig. 42.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
874

11	B i-ln front of A facing same direction, side stride position,

bend forward at waist.

A 2-Short run—jump throwing legs upward and land on B so that both backs are parallel to each other.

B 3-Break shock of A’s fall by coming to prone position on mat using arms as a “shock absorber” (B prone on mat, A supine on top of B with heads in opposite direction.)

A 4-Backward roll over B.

B 5-Forward roll.

12	B i-Facing A, half forward roll to mat with hands just above

knees and thighs flexed. Place feet on A’s abdomen lower part.)

A 2-Grasp B’s ankles and describe a forward somersault over

B.	B assist by straightening knees quickly when A is turning. Avoid a bump by having neutral stand on right side of A and as A is turning place right and left hands on A’s chest and back respectively. This figure can be made more effective and more difficult if A precedes movement with short run.

13	A 1-In front of B facing same direction. B grasp A’s hands

(thumbs in) and assume position. (Fig. 44A.)

A	Fig.	44.	b

A 2-Spring upward and describe a forward somersault between B’s arms. B assist by holding A in air and giving a slight push forward during the somersault. (Fig. 44B.) After becoming proficient, release hands during somersault.

14	B A 1-Assume position as in Fig. 44A.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
875

A 2-Jump sideward over B’s left arm—jump back to original position.

A 3-Jump sideward over B’s right arm—jump back to original position.

A 4-Jump backward over B’s head—jump back to original position.

A 5-Forward somersault between B’s arms. (Hands are clasped throughout this figure.) B assist by holding A momentarily in air during jumps. A bring knees close to chin in jumping.

15	MB 1-Form “basket” (each grasp own left wrist with right

hand, palms down, then grasp each other’s right wrist with left hand) and stand with backs parallel to sides of mat.

A 2-Place hands on M and B’s shoulders and jump to a sitting position on “basket” (take hands off shoulders).

A 3-Describe a back somersault off “basket” to mat, M and B assisting by lifting arms as A leans backward. Have neutral stand in back of A to prevent overturn.

16	A i-Standing in front of B facing same direction. B grasp A

as in (fig. 45A.)

A	Fig.	45.	B

A 2-Describe a back somersault over B. (Fig. 45B) B assist by lifting A.

(to be continued.)

Digitized by CjOOQle
EXTENSION COURSE FOR TEACHERS IN THE PHILADELPHIA PLAYGROUNDS.

(Continued.)

GYMNASTIC DANCING.*

Gymnastic steps adapted to school or recreation work graded according to age groups. The time is given for each step and should be counted as follows:

2-	3—one, and two, and etc.

3-	4—one, two, three; one, two, etc.

4-	4—one, two, three, four; one, etc.

6-8—one, two, three, four, five, six, counted fast. Alternating of the steps consists of taking two different steps alternately an even number of times.

E. G. Glide balance hop 1—2, swing hop 3—4, etc.

2	two steps 1—4, 4 walking steps 5—8, repeat, etc. Combination of steps consists of taking two or more different steps an uneven number of times.

E. G. 6 glide hops 1—12 and 2 swing hops 13—16.

2	waltz steps 1—6, waltz balance 7—9, and cross steps turn

10—12. Four polka hops, 2 swing hops and 2 glide balance hops.

Age 5 to 7 years.

1	Closing steps 2-4 rhythm.

a.	with leg exercise 2-4 3-4 4-4 rhythm.

2	Follow steps 2-3

a.	with leg exercises 2-4 3-4 4-4 rhythm.

3	Glide closing and follow steps 2-4.

a.	with leg exercises 2-4 3-4 4-4 rhythm.

4	Gallop, glide galop 2-4, 6-8, 3-4, 4-4 rhythm.

5	Skipping 2-4, 6-8.

6	Step hops 2-4, 3-4, 4-4.

8 Glide hop 2-4, 3-4, 4-4.

8	Two steps 2-4.

9	Steps 1 to 8 alternating and combining arm, head and trunk

exercises.

Age 8 to 9 years.

1	Step hop variations. Knee swing hop. Swing hop.

Foot swing hop 2-4, 3-4, 4-4 hopping once, twice, three times,

a.	with leg exercises 2-4, 3-4, 4-4 rhythm.

2	Balance hop 2-4, 3-4, 4-4.

3	Glide balance hop 2-4, 3-4, 4-4.

* Compiled by Arlington Evans, Principal Sherwood Recreation Center, Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by C.ooQle
877

4	Three step 3-4.

5	Waltz balance step 3-4.

6	Three step waltz 3-4.

7	Three step run 6-8.

8	Change step 2-4.

a.	with leg exercises 2-4; foot placing once, twice or with knee raising, bending, etc., 3-4. 2-4.

9	Step cut 2-4, 4-4.

10	Change step cut.

11	Steps 1 to 10 alternating and combined with arms, head and

trunk exercises.

Age 10 to 11 years.

1	Balance touch step (Mazurka balance) 3-4.

2	Rocking step 3-4.

3	Draw rocking step.

4	Dip step.

5	Cross step turn one-half and one whole turn 3-4, 4-4 rhythm.

6	Gavotte step 4-4.

7	Caprice step 4-4.

8	Schottische step 4-4.

9	Skaters Schottische 4-4.

10	Polka hop 2-4.

11	Leap hop.

12	Steps 1 to 11 alternating and combining with head, arm and

trunk exercises.

Age 12 to 13 years.

1	Three step turn 3-4, forward, sideward.

2	Draw rocking step 2-4 rocking leap.

3	Two step turn 2-4.

4	Cross change step rear front 2-4.

5	Mazurka hop.

6	Steps 1 to 5 alternating and combining with arm, head and

trunk exercises.

Age 14 years and over.

1 Waltz step 3-4.

2 Waltz step turn 3-4.

3	Mazurka hop turn 3-4.

4	Redowa polka 3-4—glide 1, cut 2, hop 3.

5	Polka Mazurka 3-4 Mazurka hop L and redowa polka R etc.

6	Swing hop 3-4, one hop.

7	Swing hop with front cut 4-4.

Step left (L) forward, raise right (R) leg backward 1.

Step L, swing R leg forward 2.

Front cut R 3.

Swing L foot forward 4.

Digitized by
878

8	Linked steps.

a.	Two different steps that will when linked together produce an exercise of 4-4 time.

1	Change step and rocking step.

2	Change step and three step turn.

3	Polka hop and draw rocking step, etc.

b.	Linked 3-4 steps.

1	Change step and rocking step.

2	Polka hop and change step.

c.	Linked 6-4 (6-8 slow) time.

1	Heel and toe polka hop and draw rocking step.

2	Heel and toe polka and three step turn.

9	Step 1 to 8 alternating and combining with arm, head and trunk

exercises.

DUMBBELL DRILL.

By MISS RAY KLEIN, Baltimore, Md.

Music:—March Militaire by Franz Schubert.

group 1.

1.

2.

3-

4.

Foot placing left forward and arms forward, raise....

Swing arms sideward..................................

Return movements....................................

Repeat three times, right, left, right..............

Foot placing left sideward and arms sideward, raise.

Raise arms upward...................................

Return movements....................................

Repeat three times..................................

Foot placing left backward and arms fore-upward, raise...

Lower arms to sideward position.....................

Return movements....................................

Repeat three times..................................

Stride left sideward and hands on shoulders.........

Bend trunk forward and stretch arms downward........

Return movements....................................

Repeat three times..................................

1— 2

3— 4

5-3

9—32 1— 2

3— 4 5-8 9—32 1— 2

O—?2 I- 2

3— 4 5-8 9—32

GROUP II.

1.	Lunge left forward and raise arms forward... Lower trunk forward and bend arms upward.

Return movements.........................

Repeat three times, right, left, right...

2.	Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward.

Bend trunk left and bend arms upward.....

Return movements........................

Repeat three times.......................

I— 2

9—32 I— 2

3— 4

5-8

9—32

Digitized by C^ooQle
871)

3- Lunge left backward and raise arms upward........... i— 2

Bend trunk backward and bend arms upward............ 3— 4

Return movements.................................... 5— 8

Repeat three times.................................. 9—32

4.	Raise heels and the arms sideward.................. 1—	2

Bend knees and swing arms forward................... 3—	4

Return movements........................-........... 5— 8

Repeat three times.........'........................ 9—32

GROUP in.

1.	Lunge left forward with raising arms forward and click

bells ............................................ 1— 2

Swing arms sideward................................. 3— 4

Return arms sideward................................ 5— 8

Repeat three times, right, left, right.............. 9—32

2.	Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward........ 1—	2

Raise arms upward and click bells................... 3—	4

Return movements.................................... 5— 8

Repeat three times.................................. 9—32

3.	Lunge left backward with raising arms sideward upward

and click bells................................... 1— 2

Lower arms to sideward position......1.............. 3— 4

Return movements.................................;.. 5— 8

Repeat three times.................................. 9—32

4. Lunge left forward and raise arms sideward.......... 1— 2

Bend trunk forward and swing arms downward bells on

floor with raising right leg backward to horizontal position .......................................... 3— 4

Return movements.................................... 5— 8

Repeat three times.................................. 9—32

NEWER ASPECTS OF METABOLISM.

(Editorial, Journal, Am. Medical Assn.)

For a long time physiologists have been endeavoring to find some suitable basis for the comparison of the metabolism of persons of different ages, sizes, sexes and temperaments under what might be called standard conditions of living. - It has, of course, been recognized from the outset that there are marked differences between the infant and the adult in respect to the total energy transformation; but even aside from such obvious extremes, the apparent unlike dietetic needs of classes of individuals more nearly alike in size and activity have raised the question of how to evaluate the variations observed. It became apparent to the earlier investigators that a comparison of the metabolism of different individuals could be

Digitized by C.ooQle
880

made satisfactorily only when muscular activity and the absorption of food were temporarily excluded by making the observations on subjects in complete repose and in the oostabsorntive condition. The measurement of the energy exchange in this way has been termed the “basal metabolism.”

How is the basal metabolism of different persons or the same individual at different times to be compared; in other words, what are the factors determining or modifying normal basal metabolism? With the accumulation of valuable data made possible by the development of facilities for the study of the energy metabolism all over the world, it became apparent that the unlike basal metabolism in different persons was not to be explained merely on the basis of their unlike size in terms of body weight. Calculated into units of Weight—into energy transformations per kilogram per hour, for example—the results were still divergent.

Following Rubner’s lead, physiologists thereupon began to believe that the heat production of the living body (whereby the basal metabolism finds expression) is proportional to the surface area. As Benedict(i) has remarked, this helpful hypothesis served to bring order out of chaos in the earlier study of energy requirements and transformations in the living organism, but as experimental evidence accumulated, the validity of this so-called “law of surface area” has frequently been called into question. It is true that a smaller individual such as an infant, with a proportionately larger body surface losing heat, may have a larger metabolism per kilogram of body weight than a larger adult. The larger the number and the greater the diversity of types of subjects, the greater have become the complications and the apparent lack of uniformity by any method of comparison. Much of the evidence points to distinct individuality.

In view of the extended series of observations collected by him at the Nutrition Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, and in disagreement with many other workers in this field, Benedict(i) rejects the current modes of comparison. He maintains that an examination of the available material shows that there is a relationship between the heat production and the body composition, that is, that any physiologic data which imply a difference in the proportion of active protoplasmic tissue are invariably accompanied by a difference in the basal metabolism. One of the indications in favor of the fundamental conception that the heat production of the body is proportional to the active mass of protoplasmic tissue is given by Benedict's study of the influence of athletic training. (2) Here differences in surface area were eliminated by making the comparisons only between groups of individuals with like height and weight. In general there was a distinct tendency for the athletes to have a measurably larger basal resting metabolism (about

Digitized by v^ooQle
881

7	per cent.) than the non-athletes with whom they were compared. The differences could not be due to changes in body surface. From what is known with regard to athletic training, it may be maintained that the increased catabolism is directly due to the larger proportion of active protoplasmic tissue in the body of the athletes.

Furthermore, according to Benedict, men with a smaller amount of subcutaneous fat and a correspondingly greater proportion of active protoplasmic tissue have been found to have a greater metabolism than women of the same height and weight. The study of normal and atrophic infants showed that with two infants of the same height and weight the elder, who would naturally be somewhat atrophic, invariably had a higher basal metabolism than the normal, well-nourished infant. Even with normal adults, it can be maintained that of two individuals having the same weight but different heights, the taller individual will, in general, have the greater proportion of active protoplasmic tissue, and the comparison of the heat production of normal men of like age and weight but different heights shows that there is almost invariably a distinctly greater metabolism with the taller individual.

It is along these lines that Benedict and his co-workers(3) interpret the recognized fact that the energy needs of men as a class are somewhat greater than those of women. In groups with essentially the same body surface area (and excluding individuals of athletic habits) it is not logical to assume, we are told, that the larger heat production noted with the men is due to a disproportion between the body measurements and the body surface. The data showing a basal metabolism for men about 5 or 6 per cent, greater than for women of similar weight and height are believed to find their explanation in other directions. In all probability the women, particularly in those groups with the greater body weight, have a much larger proportion of subcutaneous fat than do the men, thus indicating a consequent smaller proportion of active protoplasmic tissue.

A further stumbling block has been found in the fact that frequently normal individuals with approximately the same weight have very great variations in their basal heat production. To Benedict this appears as evidence that the mass of active protoplasmic tissue may function with varying degrees of intensity. It points strongly to distinct differences in the intensity of cellular life. The

1.	Benedict, F. G.: The Factors Affecting Normal Basal Metabolism, Proc. Nat. Acad. Ss., 1915, i, 105.

2.	Benedict, F. G., and Smith, H. M.: The Influence of Athletic Training upon Basal Metabolism, Proc. Nat. Acad. Ss., 1915, i, 102.

3.	Benedict, F. G., and Emmes, L. E.: A Comparison of the Basal Metabolism of Normal Men and Women, Proc. Nat. Acad. Ss., 1915, i, 104.

Digitized by
882

basal metabolism of the individual thus appears as a function, first, of the total mass of active protoplasmic tissue, and, second, of the stimulus to cellular activity existing* at the time the measurement of the metabolism was made. The latter feature involves the problems of age, sleep, the character of previous diet, and the after-effects of severe muscular work. Many of these factors may act as a stimulus to the protoplasmic tissue, resulting in a higher metabolic plane.

STERILIZATION OF THE SWIMMING POOL

By ELIZABETH U. MEEHAN. Germantown Y. W. C. A.

The disinfection of the swimming pool is of very great importance. Contamination of many pools has caused their being closed by the health authorities.

In swimming pools where there is no circulating system of the water it becomes necessary to continually empty the pool. This is a constant trouble and expense. Even then the water is not free from germs.

Our pool at the Young Women’s Christian Association, Germantown, is equipped with Ultra Violet Ray Sterilization.

Nearly every source of light produces with the visible rays some rays, which are too short to be seen with the naked eye. These radiations of light are known as Ultra-Violet Rays.

When the water is lead at the proper speed across the lamp which is rich in violet rays, every microbe that passes across this light is killed within 1-20 of a second.

This system is used in conjunction with a Alteration plant. By this means the water is kept absolutely clean, clear and free from germs and it is only necessary to empty the pool every three or four months.

Our pool is 20x60 ft., contains 55,000 gallons of water and has a surface drainage gutter extending around the pool. An electric pump draws the water from the pool and forces it through two large filters. From the filters it passes through the Ultra Violet Ray Sterilizer and then flows back into the pool.

The entire water in the pool is refiltered, and sterilized every ten hours. Any substance or sediment which may accumulate in the pool from the suits or dust is cleaned out with a long-handled, weighted brush.

The following tests show how effective this system is:—Sterilized water coming in 8. Water after it has been in the pool three weeks and 2,500 people have bather in it, 400.

The entire cost of installation of the Ultra Violet Ray Steril-' izer is $900.

Digitize* v^ooQle
883

Capacity up to 8,000 gallons per hour. Electric energy consumed 1.2 K. W. Voltage of lamps 500 D. C.

The installation of the Violet Ray system has saved us time and trouble and money. It has done away with the use of all chemicals, which if used too freely have been proven to be injurious as well as having a disagreeable taste.

NEW OBSERVATIONS ON VENTILATION.

According to orthodox views of architects, ventilating engineers and hygienists, as expressed by O. W. Griffith in an article in The Medical Officer (London), there are three points which must be strictly observed:

1.	To provide sufficient cubical space per person, and a sufficient renewal of the air to insure its chemical purity.

2.	To keep the temperature at about 6o° F.

3.	To keep the relative humidity at 75 per cent or thereabouts.

Mr. Griffith was referring particularly to the conditions that

would have to prevail in England after the present war, for he said, “when the young fellows in the army return to civil life, they will demand healthier conditions than they formerly experienced in overheated factories and badly ventilated offices.”

“Now these three cardinal points,” added Mr. Griffith, “are shrouded in mystery, and though they are quoted in books on housing, ventilation, on hygiene and even on physics, one never finds a reference to any experimental facts in support of them. .	.	Every

attempt to discover poisons—organic or inorganic—in the air of occupied rooms under normal conditions has failed.

“As our experience widens, our knowledge of phenomena deepens, though now and again a genius appears before his time, has a vivid glimpse of the truth of things, and proclaims what he sees to an unheeding world. It is nearly a hundred years since Dr. Haber-deen—a medical man—in a short communication to the Royal Society, pointed out that the reading of an ordinary thermometer is no criterion of comfort, which really depends on the rate of cooling of the body. He advocated, as a test, warming the thermometer to about ioo° F., and then determining the time of its cooling through one degree in the neighborhood of the temperature of the body. This rate of cooling he took to be the proper indication of the state of the atmosphere. His fellows gave his idea a decent burial in the transaction of the Royal Society—and his work was forgotten. But it has recently re-incarnated in the mind of Dr. Leonard Hill, who independently rediscovered it and extended it to the testing of the moisture in the air as well. The instrument adapted for this purpose is called the Kata-thermometer.

Digitized by CaOOQle
884

“After a long and elaborate research conducted by Drs. Hill and Flack and myself, the complex part which temperature, humidity and movement of air play has been determined. Within a certain range, and keeping a proper balance between them, all three can be varied without affecting the pleasantness of the conditions. The movement of the air is, of course, more readily controlled than temperature and humidity, and that is really, I suppose, why the 6o° F. and 75 per cent humidity were fixed as standards. But it is important to notice that no combination of degrees of temperature and moisture can produce comfortable conditions in absolutely still air. Herein therefore comes the paramount importance of ventilation. Gentle varying air motion is stimulating to the skin—this is the prosaic physiological equivalent of the popular phrase: “Variety is the spice of life.,, On a beautiful spring or early summer day the radiant heat of the sun keeps the ground warm around our feet, and the /soft, gentle, refreshing breezes circulate in eddies about the body, keeping the head cool and stimulating the nerve endings in the skin. These latter are like so many little telephone exchanges, which, when thus “rung up,” call into vital activity all parts of the system. The kata-thermometer enables one to determine when this state of affairs obtains. It has the advantage that from its readings —taken in a few minutes—one can not only test the degree of comfort of the air, but one can also measure the humidity or the vapor pressure and the velocity of the eddies. For preserving and registering a continuous record of the comfort factor, Dr. Hill and the writer have invented an automatic electrical apparatus, called the Caleometer.

• “Our observations show that to maintain the atmosphere of a room comfortable while the degree of moisture is going up—as it is liable to do when a number of persons are present—the temperature must be lowered, or the movement of the air increased. Since, however, overcrowding causes both moisture and temperature to increase, the necessity for more rapid air movement becomes greater.

“In the designing of houses therefore the size of the apartment must be such that a gentle air motion (as distinguished from an unpleasant draft) is sufficient to keep the air temperature and moisture from rising excessively and to preserve a standard kata-thermometer reading. To insure this the apartments must be roomy and lofty. The point, however, can only be settled by direct observation. The question of artificial heating complicates the matter enormously, but there are some points which the kata-thermometer has decided for us.

RATE OF COOLING SHOULD BE GREATER AT HEAD LEVEL THAN AT

FLOOR LEVEL.

“It is absolutely essential that the rate of cooling should be greater at head level than at floor level. One of the chief disad-

Digitized by 0.ooQle
885

vantages of the coal fire is that it sometimes inverts this arrangement. There is often a cold draft along the floor on account of the drawing power of the chimney. Draft excluders at the bottom of the door, or a small mat outside it, are the usual means adopted to cure this defect, and even when it is not completely eliminated, one can always keep comfortable by placing one’s feet on the fender, so as to receive the full benefit of the radiation from the fire.

“In olden times the Chinese and the Romans kept their fire burning by a downward draft, and, I believe, the chimney passed under the floor. This, in principle, was an excellent arrangement. Heating by steam radiators (which are not radiators), and all similar ways of creating convected heat are thoroughly bad, because they produce slower cooling at head level as compared with foot level. Meanwhile we must rigorously test every new system and every new scheme. We must determine with precision the defects of the houses we have already got. The kata-thermometer helps to do this.”

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. F. KROQH, M. D., Cleveland 8chool, Newark, N. J.

The Regulation of the Circulation.—Recent experiments on man at rest and at work by Boothby, in the surgical clinic of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital at Boston, indicate that the circulation rate increases progressively with the oxygen consumption, in a manner corresponding to the increase in the total ventilation. This seemingly close interrelationship between the respiratory functions of the lungs and the circulation of the blood has suggested that there is some underlying biologic or physiologic factor which controls both of these processes. Indeed, in its broadest sense, respiration consists of something more than the physical and mechanical changes which have their seat in the lungs. It is not uncommon to speak of cell respiration or tissue respiration as an aspect of the metabolic functions on which life depends. Between the gases of the atmosphere and the body cells, the devices for the diffusion and transport of oxygen are interposed.

The control of breathing is effected with such a degree of nicety as to afford one of the most striking examples of a delicate physiologic regulation in the organism. It aims to maintain in each individual a practically constant partial pressure of carbon dioxid in the alveolar air. The latter reflects the conditions obtaining from moment to moment in the blood. A rise in the pressure of carbon dioxid promptly increases the breathing. It is now generally agreed that the action of the blood on the respiratory center is due to its “total acidity,” not to Tie carbon dioxid alone. The effect on the
regulatory mechanism is determined essentially according to the concentration of the hydrogen ions in the arterial blood that reaches it. —From EditorialJournal A. M. A., Sept, n, 1915.

The Practical use of Copper Sulphate in Swimming Pools.— The method of using copper sulphate is very simple. I found as the results of experiments that about one-twentieth (0.04) part of copper sulphate to a million parts of water, used every day. kept the water pure. As stated before, this amount cannot be recommended absolutely for every pool. The chemical contents of the fresh water, the number of bathers, the frequency of refiltration, etc., are factors that should not be overlooked. However, for most pools averaging not more than from 100 to 150 bathers per day, and in which the proper care is taken, this amount will prove the proper one.

In order to determine in pounds the amount of copper sulphate to add, the capacity of the pool must first be determined. In the case in which, this is known as a certain number of gallons, the problem simply amounts to multiplying the number of gallons capacity by 8.3 (the weight in pounds of a gallon of water), and dividing the weight of the water thus determined by 2,000,000 (the solution being one-half part per million). The result is the weight in pounds of copper sulphate to be added. For example, suppose the pool contains 90,000 gallons of water:

In case the capacity of the pool is not known, it may be determined as follows: Multiply the length in feet by the width in feet, and the result by the average depth in feet. This will give the capacity of the tank in cubic feet. As a cubic foot of water weighs 62.5 pounds, we now have the formula:

The copper sulphate should be added daily. The method of introduction consists simply in dissolving the required amount, placed in a small bag, such as a 5-cent salt sack, directly in the pool, either fily dragging the bag through the pool by means of a pole, or by throwing it into the pool as an object for the bathers to dive for. Another very easy way is to dissolve the disinfectant in a quart or two of water and pour this solution into the pool. No more than enough solution for one treatment should be prepared at one time if it is used in this way. The swimmers soon distribute the dissolved salt throughout the pool.

As to the time the treatment, it is best to use copper sulphate between the two most popular times for the pool, such as at noon if there are large morning and afternoon classes, and at supper time if there are large afternoon and evening classes. To use any disinfectant just before or just after adding a large amount of fresh water is, of course, simply a waste.

Copper sulphate may be obtained at the present time under the commercial name of blue vitriol for about $7 per hundred pounds.

Digitized by C^ooQle
887

One hundred pounds will last the average pool about a year.— Stanley Judson Thomas, MS., M.A., South Bethlehem, Pa., in Journal A. M. A., Sept. 25, 1915.

The Love of Health.—If any one doubts that this is an era of health propaganda he must, indeed, be oblivious of what is going on about him. Municipal, state and national agencies are using forces and funds at their disposal to further the interests of public hygiene. Educational influences are directing their energies to the spread -of the lessons of procurable health in public print and in documents of both official and unofficial character. Novels and short stories, the literature of biography and travel, the platform and even the pulpit are proclaiming the gospel of health far and wide. The medical profession, more enthusiastic if not more vitally interested than any other group in the promotion and outcome of the modern hygienic movement, may well stop from time to time to inquire about the sanity of the methods of the propaganda. The religious doctrine of past ages involved the threat of harm; it inculcated a fear of the destruction or danger that was sure to follow the violation of the law. This dismal attitude has long since been replaced by a religion of love, of uplift and joyous anticipation. In the health propaganda, likewise, much of the pessimistic attitude, unconsciously perhaps, has been introduced in the past. The fear of disease has been held over the heads of the people. Rarely have we seen the more appropriate spirit of the modern “better health” movement better expressed than in a recent pamphlet of the Life Extension Institute. “It is not a fear of illness or of death that we should encourage, but a love of health, a sense of responsibility for the care of our bodies, a desire for bodily endurance and -efficiency and full achievement. If the mind is fixed on these ideals, and the already known means of ao-proaching them are utilized, the needless miseries that embitter the lives of so many mav be left to take care of themselves. It is not so much necessary to fight disease as to cultivate health for the happiness, contentment and moral p-ain that it brings.” There is something unusually optimistic and buoyant in such words. They embody the psychologic cue to comfort and happiness for many a patient, without implying that “man is incapable of sin, sickness, and death,” or that “health is not a condition of matter, but of mind.” To inspire a love of health does not mean to exclude the great body of scientific knowledge which is the best that science can offer today regarding disease, or to replace medicine by crude metaphysics. The ardent love of health insures a mind receptive to the lessons of modern medicine.—Curent Comment, Journal A. M. A., Sept. 25, 1915.

Swimming-Pool Sanitation.—A valuable contribution to this subject is contained in Public Health Reports, Sept. 17, 1915. It is

Digitized by Google
888

by W. A. Manheimer, Ph.D., of the Department of Bacteriology of Columbia University, and details in tabulated form the results of a bacteriologic study of the water of a number of pools under various conditions of use, without and with the use of a number of chemical disinfectants. Among the conclusions reached were, that the cubic capacity of a pool affects its sanitary condition, pools of small capacity being more difficult to keep in a satisfactory condition even with the use of chemicals; the process of adding dilution water is an efficient means of reducing the bacterial content; the supervision of the plant and the class of attendance are also important factors in pool sanitation; filtration is an adequate means of clarifying the water, which is a means of preventing accidental drowning. In pools in which refiltration is not practiced the water becomes so cloudy in one day that the bottom of the pool cannot be seen; chemical disinfection with calcium hypochlorite is effective, but if added too infrequently or in too small quantity its value is largely lost. A trace of chlorin should be constantly present; the best method of keeping a pool in safe and sanitary condition is by the combined method of refiltration and chlorination.

AN INDICTMENT OF INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS*

By WILLIAM T. FOSTER.

I.

Intercollegiate athletics provide a costly, injurious, and excessive regime of physical training for a few students, especially those who need it least, instead of inexpensive, healthful, and moderate exercise for all students, especially those-who need it most.

Athletics are conducted either for education or for business. The old distinction between amateur and professional athletics is of little use. The real problems of college athletics loom large beside the considerations that define our use of the terms ‘professional’ and ‘amateur.’ The aims of athletics reveal the fact that the important distinctions are between athletics conducted for educational purposes and athletics conducted for business purposes.

When athletics are conducted for education the aims are (i) to develop all the students and faculty physically and to maintain health; (2) to promote moderate recreation, in the spirit of joy, as a preparation for study rather than as a substitute for study; and (3) to form habits and inculcate ideals of right living. When athletics are conducted for business, the aims are (1) to win games—to defeat another person or group being the chief end; (2) to make money—as it is impossible otherwise to carry on athletics as business;

From the November issue of the Atlantic Monthly. Printed by permission of The Atlantic Monthly Company, Boston.

Digitized by CjOOQle
889

(3)	to attain individual or group fame and notoriety. These three —which are the controlling* aims of intercollegiate athletics—are also the aims of horse-racing, prize-fighting, and professional baseball.

These two sets of aims are in sharp and almost complete conflict. Roughly speaking, success in attaining the aims of athletics as education is inversely proportional to success in attaining the aims of athletics as business. Intercollegiate athletics to-day are for business. The question is pertinent whether schools and colleges should promote athletics as business.

Nearly all that may be said on this subject about colleges applies to secondary schools. The lower schools as a rule tend to imitate the worst features of intercollegiate athletics, much as the young people of fraternities, in their Social functions/ tend to imitate the empty lives of their elders that fill the weary society columns of the newspapers.

If the objection arises that intercollegiate athletics have educational value, there is no one to deny it. ‘Athletics for education’ and ‘athletics for business’ are general terms, used throughout this discussion as already defined. Exceptions there may be: only the main tendencies are here set forth. The whole discussion is based on mv personal observations at no less than one hundred universities and colleges in thirty-eight states during the past five years.

The most obvious fact is that our system of intercollegiate athletics, after unbounded opportunity to show what it can do for the health, recreation, and character of all our students, has proved a failure. The ideal of the coach is excessive training of the few: he best attains the business ends for which he is hired by the neglect of those students in greatest need of physical training. Our present system encourages most students to take their athletics by proxy. When we quote with approval the remark of the Duke of Wellington that Waterloo was won on the playing grounds of Eton, we should observe that he did not maintain that Waterloo was won on the grandstands; of Eton.

What athletics may achieve without the hindrance of intercollegiate games and business motives is suggested by the experience of Reed College. There the policy of athletics for everybody was adopted five years ago before there were any teachers, students, alumni, or traditions. Last year all but six of the students took part in athletics in the spirit of sport for the sake of health, recreation, and development. Sixty per cent of the men of the college, including the faculty, took part in a schedule of sixteen baseball games. Nearly all the students, men and women alike, played games at least twice a week. There were series of contests in football, baseball, track, tennis, volley-ball, basket-ball, and other out-of-door sports. All of this, according to the report of the athletic association, cost the students an average of sixteen cents apiece. No money
890

for coaches and trainers; no money for badges, banners, cups, and other trinkets; no money for training-tables and railroad fares; no money for grandstands, rallies, brass bands, and advertising. Fortunately, it is the unnecessary expenses that heap up the burdens— the cost of athletics as business. The economical policy is athletics for everybody—athletics for education.

II.

Opposed to the three educational aims are the aims of athletics as business—winning games, making money, and getting advertised.

Almost invariably the arguments of students in favor of intercollegiate games stress the business aims and ignore all others. Win games! Increase the gate-receipts! Advertise the college! These are the usual slogans. Thus the editors of one college paper reprimand the faculty for even hesitating to approve a trip of fifteen hundred miles for a single game of football:—

/Contrary to the expectations of the students, the matter of the Occidental football game for next fall has not been acted upon as yet. That such an important matter as this has not received attention so far from the Faculty is unfortunate. While it is generally believed that the Faculty will act favorably in regard to letting the game be scheduled, it is understood that some opposition has developed on thd ground that such a long trip would keep the football men away from their classes too long a time.

‘From every point of view, there seems no reason why the game should not be played. To state any of the arguments in favor of the ofifer is unnecessary. Every one knows what it would mean to football next fall, the greater interest it would mean to the game, the incentive it would prove to every football man to work to become one of the seventeen men to take the trip, the advertising it would give to the college, and, perhaps most important, the drawing card it would be to bring new athletes to the college in the fall. These points and others are too well known to need pointing out and too evident to need proof/

This is a typical football argument. It attempts to prove the necessity of the proposed trip by showing that it would tend to perpetuate the thing the value of which is under dispute.

In like vein the students of Cornell complain because the faculty did not grant an additional holiday in connection with the Pennsylvania football game. It is the familiar cry, ‘Support the team! Win games! Advertise the college!’

‘Our friends, the professors, will per-force hold forth in their accustomed cells from eight till one of that fair morning. The benches, no doubt, will derive great benefit therefrom. .	.	.

‘We want the football team to have as much support as possible. The faculty should want the football team to have as much support as possible. The faculty should foster true Cornell spirit whenever

Digitized by Google
891

it can honestly do so, and intercollegiate athletics is the greatest single thing that unites the different colleges into Cornell University. A victory over Penn would mean a lot of Cornell.’

After all, how important is this end for which such sacrifices are made? To hear the yelling of twenty thousand spectators, one might suppose this aim to be the only one of great importance in the life of the university. Yet who wins, who loses, is a matter of but momentary concern to any except a score or two of participants; whereas, if there is one thing that should characterize a university, it is its cheerful sacrifice of temporary for permanent gains,—in Dr. Eliot’s fine phrase, its devotion to the durable satisfactions of life.’

The making of money, through intercollegiate athletics, continues a curse, not only to institutions, but as well to individual players. Only childlike innocence or willful blindness need prevent American colleges from seeing that the rules which aim to maintain athletics on what is called an ‘amateur’ basis, by forbidding players to receive pay in money, are worse than useless because, while failing to prevent men from playing for pay, they breed deceit and hypocrisy. There are many ways of paying players for their services. Only one of these, and that the most honorable, is condemned.

There are many subterranean passages leading to every preparatory school notable for its athletes. By such routes, coaches, over-zealous alumni, and other ‘friends’ of a college, reach the schoolboy athlete with offers beyond the scope of eligibility rules. Sometimes payments are made expressly for services as half-back, or shortstop, or hurdler, and no receipts taken, the pay continuing as long as the player helps to win ~^mes. Sometimes payments take a more insidious and more demoralizing form. The star athlete is appointed steward of a college club-house on ample pay, his duties being to sign checks once a month. Or his college expenses are paid in return for the labor of opening the chapel door, or ringing the bell, or turning put the lights.

Athletes may be paid for their services in other ways that escape the notice of the most conscientious faculties and athletic associations. But there are hundreds of boys who know that they are paid to win games and keep silent; they are hired both as athletes and as hypocrites.

The sporting editor of one of the leading daily papers said recently, ‘It is well known that the Northwest colleges are at present simpjly outbidding one another in their desire to get the best athletes. Money is used like water. It is a mystery where they get it, but they do.’

So common is the practice of paying athletes that they sometimes apply to various colleges for bids. While I was acting as Registrar of Bowdoin College, I received a letter from a man asking how much we would guarantee to pay him for pitching on the col-

Digitized by

Google
892

lege nine. I found out later that he had registered at one college, pitched a game for his class team, left his trunk at a second college awaiting their terms, and finally accepted the offer of a third college, where he played ‘amateur’ baseball for four years before joining one of the big league professional teams.

At the athletic rallies of a New England college, a loyal alumnus is often cheered for bringing so many star athletes to the college. Officially, the college does not know that he hires men to play on the college teams. And what is to prevent a graduate of the college or any other person from hiring athletes? All but futile are the rules .governing professionalism. Is it not a worthy act to enable a boy to go to college? And shall he be denied such aid because he happens to be an athlete? No eligibility committee knows of all these benefactors or even has the right to question their motives. But the objectionable motives themselves can be eliminated by one act—the abolition of intercollegiate athletics. With the subordination of winning games as the chief end in athletics, falls also the money-making aim and its attendant evils.

All the serious evils of college athletics centre about the gate-receipts, the grandstand, and the paid coach. Yet the aim of nearly every college appears to be to fasten these evils upon the institution by means of a costly concrete stadium or bowl, and by means of more and more money for coaches. When the alumni come forward to ‘support their team/ they usually make matters worst. Typical of their attitude is a letter signed in Philadelphia last fall by some thirty graduates of a small college:—

‘The team has just closed the most disastrous season in its history. .	.	.	The	alumni will co-operate cheerfully with the under-

graduates in increasing the football levy. It only remains, then, to initiate a campaign for procuring the money. .	.	We	must	depart

from our time-worn precedents and give more money for the coaches! Alumni are tired of reading the accounts of useless defeats!’

The extent to which interest in athletics is deadened by paid coaches was shown last spring, when a track team from one university, after traveling over two hundred and fifty miles—at the expense of the student body—to compete with the team of another institution, took off their running shoes and went home because the coaches could not agree on the number of men who should participate in the games. Could there be a more abject sacrifice of the educational purposes of athletics? Consider the spectacle. A glorious afternoon in spring, a perfect playground, complete equipment in readiness, two score of eager youth in need of the health and recreation that come from sport pursued in the fine spirit of sport. Could anything keep them from playing? Nothing but the spirit of modern American intercollegiate athletics and the embodiment of that spirit,
893

the paid coach, who knows that there is but one crime that he can commit—that of losing a contest.

The athletic policy of many an institution is determined by a commercial aim, the supposed needs of advertising, much as the utterances of many a newspaper are dictated by the business manager. But does the advertising gained through intercollegiate athletics injure or aid a college? At one railroad station I was greeted by a real-estate agent who offered to sell me ‘on easy terms a lot in the most beautiful and rapidly growing city in America/ (Thus do I safely cover its identity.) Among the attractions, he mentioned the local college. He was proud of it; he said it had the best baseball team in the state. Apart from that he had not an intelligent idea about the institution, or any desire for ideas. The only building he had visited was the grandstand. He could not name a member of the faculty or a course of instruction. College advertising which gets no further than this is paid for at exorbitant rates.

The people of Tacoma discovered recently that college athletics conducted as a business are too costly. They brought college students 1400 miles to play a football game at Tacoma on Thanksgiving Day for the benefit of the Belgian refugees. The charitable object of the game was widely advertised and there was a large attendance. After they had paid the expenses of the ‘amateur’ teams, the coaches, and the advertising, they announced that there was nothing left for the Belgians.

A writer in the North American Review tries to justify the time spent by college boys in managing athletic teams on the plea that it is good training for business. He gives testimony to this effect from a graduate of two years’ standing ‘engaged in the wholesale coal business in one of the large New York towns.’ Following the usual custom, this young graduate returns to his college and gives the admiring undergraduates the benefit of his wisdom, lest they be corrupted by the quaint notions of impractical professors. He has them guess what part of his college work has proved of greatest use; then he assures them that his best training came as manager of the baseball team. Such is the mature judgment of the coal-dealer. And such is the advice of alumni that makes undergraduates resolve anew not to allow their studies to interfere with their college education. But some people raise the question why a boy should be maintained in college for four years, at a great cost to society and to his parents, in order that he may gain a little business experience when he could gain so much more by earning his living.

The conflicts frequently arising between faculties and students over questions of intercollegiate athletics are the natural outcome of the independent control of a powerful agency with three chief aims —winning games, making money, and getting advertised—which are antagonistic to the chief legitimate ambitions of a university

Digitized by CjOOQle
faculty. No self-respecting head of a department of psychology would tolerate the presence in the university of persons working in his field, in no way subject to him and with aims subversive of those of the department. No professor of physical education should tolerate a similar condition in his department. It is one of the hopeful signs in America that several of the men best qualified to conduct athletics as education have declined to consider university positions, unless they could have control of students, teams, coaches, alumni committees, grandstands, fields, finances, and everything else necessary to rescue athletics from the clutches of commercialism.

I	have read a letter from one of the ablest teachers in America, declining to accept a certain university position under the usual conditions, but outlining a plan whereby, as the real head of the department of physical education, he might begin a new chapter in the history of American athletics. His plan was rejected, not because it had any defects as a system of education, but solely because it would cause a probable decline in victories, gate-receipts, and newspaper space. That university continued the traditional dual contest of coaches and physical directors with their conflicting ideals. Recently I received a letter from the professor of physical education who did accept the position, himself one of the ablest athletes among its graduates, declaring that he would no longer attempt the impossible, in an institution that deliberately prostituted athletics for commercial ends.

We hear much about the. value of intercollegiate games for the 'tired business man’ who needs to get out of doors and watch a sport that will make him forget his troubles. It is true that for him a game of baseball may be a therapeutic spectacle. The question is whether institutions of learning should conduct their athletics—or any other department—for the benefit of spectators. Doubtless university courses in history could provide recreation for the general public and make money, if instruction were given wholly by means of motion-pictures. But such courses would hardly satisfy the needs of all students. Is it less important that departments of physical education should be conducted primarily for all students rather than for spectators? We do not insist that banks, railroads, factories, department stores, and legislatures jeopardize their main functions in order to provide recreation for the tired business man. Universities are institutions of equal importance to society, in so far as they attend to their main purposes. Athletics for the benefit of the grandstand must be conducted as business; athletics for the benefit of students must be conducted as education.

It is when we rightly estimate the possibilities of athletics as education that the present tyranny of athletics as business becomes intolerable. Is it not an anomaly that those in charge of higher

III.
895

institutions of learning- should leave athletic activities, which are of such great potential educational value for all students, chiefly under the control of students, alumni, coaches, newspapers, and spectators? Usually the coach is engaged by the students, paid for by the students, and responsible only to them. He is not a member of the faculty or responsible to the faculty. The faculty have charge of the college as an educational institution; athletics is for business and therefore separately controlled. Why not abandon faculty direction of Latin? Students, alumni, and newspapers are as well qualified to elect a professor of Latin and administer the department in the interests of education, as they are to elect coaches and administer athletics in the interests of education.

A few of the more notable coaches of the country are aware of the possibilities of athletics controlled by the faculty for educational purposes. Mr. Courtney, the Cornell coach, spoke to the point when he said,—

Tf athletics are not a good thing, they ought to be abolished. If they are a good thing for the boys, it would seem to me wise for the university to take over and control absolutely every branch of sport; do away with this boy management; stop this foolish squandering of money, and see that the athletics of the University are run in a rational way.'

Next to the physical development and the maintenance of the health of all the students and teachers of an institution, the main purpose of athletics as education is to provide recreation as a preparation for study rather than as a substitute for study. But, intercollegiate athletics having won and retained unquestioned supremacy in our colleges, students do not tolerate the idea of a conflicting interest.

Even the nights preceding the great contests must be free from the interference of intellectual concerns. An editorial in one of our college weeklies makes this point clear. If a member of the faculty ventured to put the matter so extremely, he would be charged with exaggeration. But in this paper the students naively present their conviction that even the most signal opportunities for enjoying literature must be sacrificed by the entire student body in order that they may get together and yell in preparation for their function of sitting in the grandstand. In this case the conflicting interest appeared in no less a person than Alfred Noyes. For a geographically isolated community to hear the poet was an opportunity of a college lifetime. Yet the students wrote as follows:—

The Rally vs. Noyes.

‘Returning alumni this year were somewhat surprised to find the Hall used for a lecture on the eve of our great gridiron struggle, and some were very much disappointed. The student body was

Digitized by Google
896

only partially reconciled to the situation and was represented in great part by Freshmen (who were required to attend)/

The relative importance of intercollegiate athletics and other college affairs, in the minds of students, is indicated by student publications. There is no more tangible scale for measuring the interests of college youth than the papers they edit for their own satisfaction, unrestrained by the faculty.

Let us take two of the worthiest colleges as examples. The Bowdoin College Orient, a weekly publication, is typical. For the first nine weeks of the academic year 1914-15, the Orient gave 450 inches to intercollegiate athletics. For the same period, it devoted six inches to art, ten inches to social service, thirteen inches to music, and twelve inches to debating. Judging from this free expression, the students rate the interests of intercollegiate athletics nearly three times as high as the combined interests of art, music, religion, philosophy, social service, literature, debating, the curriculum and the faculty. Second in importance to intercollegiate athletics, valued at 450 inches, are dances and fraternities, valued at 78 inches.

Another possible measure of the student's interest is found in Harvard of Today from an Undergraduate Point of View, published in 1913 by the Harvard Federation of Territorial Clubs. The book gives to athletics ten pages; to the clubs, six pages; to debating, five lines,—and that student activity requires sustained thinking and is most closely correlated with the curriculum. The faculty escapes without mention. ‘From an undergraduate point of view' the faculty appears to be an incumbrance upon the joys of college life.

These publications appear to be fair representatives of their class. It is probable, furthermore, that the relative attention given by the student papers to intellectual interests is a criterion of the conversation of students.

Not long ago, I spent some time with the graduate students at an Eastern university. Their conversation at dinner gave no evidence of common intellectual interests. They appeared to talk of little but football games.

On a visit to a Southern state university, I found the women's dormitory in confusion. The matron excused the noise and disorder on the ground that a big football game was pending and it seemed impossible for the girls to think of anything else.

‘The big game comes to-morrow?' I asked.

‘Oh, no, next week,' she said.

Last spring, at a large university on the Pacific Coast, I met one young woman of the freshman class who had already been to thirty-one dances that year. At a state university of the Middle West, I found that the students had decided to have their big football game on Friday instead of Saturday, in order to wrench one
897

more day from the loose grip of the curriculum. When the faculty protested, the students painted on the walks, ‘Friday is a holiday,— and it was.

Intellectual enthusiasm is rare in American colleges, and likely to be rarer still if social and athletic affairs continue to overshadow all other interests. Their dominance has ^given many a college faculty its characteristic attitude in matters of government. They assume that boys and girls will come to college for anything but studies. They tell new students just how many lectures in each course they may escape. A penalty of unsatisfactory work is the obligation to attend all the meetings on their schedule, and the usual reward for faithfull conduct is the privilege of ‘cutting’ more lectures without a summons from the dean. Always the aim of students appears to be to escape as much as possible of the college life provided by the faculty, in order to indulge in more of the college life provided by themselves. Their inventive powers are marvelous; they bring forth an endless procession of devices for evading the opportunities for the sake of which (according to old-fashioned notions) students seek admission to college. The complacent acceptance of this condition by college faculties—the pervasive assumption that students have no genuine intellectual enthusiasm—tends to stagnation. In the realm of thought some appear to have discovered the secret of petrified motion.

The pronounced tendencies in higher education aggravate the disease. Feeble palliatives are used from time to time,—the baseball schedule in one college, after six hours of debate by the facultv, was cut down from twenty-four games to twenty-two,—but the bold and necessary surgeon seldom gets in his good work. When he does operate, he is hung in effigy or elected President of the United States.

Concerning the policy of no intercollegiate games at Clark College, President Sanford says: ‘Our experience with this plan has been absolutely satisfactory and no change of policy would be considered. Doubtless some of the less intellectually serious among the students might like to see intercollegiate sports introduced. It is generally understood that in a three-year college there is not time for such extras.’ The faculty appear to be unanimously in favor of no intercollegiate games, since the course at Clark College takes only three years. Intercollegiate contests appear to be ruled out chiefly on the ground that, in a three-year course, students cannot afford to waste time. But why is it worse for a young man to waste parts of three years of his student life than to waste parts of four years of it?

The educational.effect of our exaggerated emphasis on intercollegiate athletics is shown in the attitude of alumni. It is difficult to arouse the interest of a large proportion of graduates in anything else. At one of the best of our small colleges, in the Mississippi valley, I saw a massive concrete grandstand. This valiant emulation

Digitized by C.ooQle
898

of the Harvard stadium seemed to me to typify the indifference of alumni to the crying needs of their alma mater. For these graduates who contributed costly concrete seats, to be used by the student body in lieu of exercise, showed no concern over the fact that the college was worrying along with scientific laboratories inferior to those of the majority of modern high schools. ‘What could I do?’ the president asked. ‘They would give the stadium, and they would not give the laboratories.'

IV.

There have been numerous attempts to prove that intercollegiate athletics are not detrimental to scholarship by showing that athletes receive higher marks than other students. Such arguments are beside the point. Though we take no account of the weak-kneed indulgence to athletes in institutions where winning games is the dominant interest, and of the special coaching in their studies provided them because they are on the teams, we must take account of the fact that .wherever the student body regards playing on intercollegiate teams as the supreme expression of loyalty, the men of greatest physical and mental strength are more likely than the others to go out for the teams, and these are the very men of whom we rightly expect greatest proficiency in scholarship. That they do not as a group show notable leadership in intellectual activities seems due to the excessive physical training which, at certain seasons, they substitute for study.

But this is not the main point. A large college might be willing to sacrifice the scholarship of a score of students, if that were all. The chief charge against intercollegiate athletics is their demoralizing effect on the scholarship of the entire institution. The weaklings who have not grit enough to stand up on the gridiron and be tackled talk interminably about the latest game and the chances of winning the next one. They spend their hours in cheering the football hero, and their money in betting on him. The man of highest achievement in scholarship they either ignore or condemn with unpleasant epithets.

Further hindrances to scholarship are the periodic absences of the teams. It is said that athletes are required to make up the work they miss during their trips, but is not this one of the naive ways wherein faculties deceive themselves? They are faced with this dilemma. Either the work of a given week in their courses is so substantial, and their own contribution to the work so great, that students cannot possibly miss it, and ‘make it up' while meeting the equally great demands of the following week, or else the work of all the students is so easy that the athletes on a week's absence do not miss much. What actually happens, year in and year out, is that the standards of scholarship of the entire institution are lowered to meet the exigencies of intercollegiate athletics.

Digitized by LaOOQle
899

To what an illogical position we are driven by our fetish worship of college amateur athletics’! We especially provide the summer vacation as a period for play and recreation, and as a time when a majority of students must earn a part of the expenses of the college year. For these purposes we suspend all classes. Yet the student who uses this vacation to play ball and thereby earn some money must either lie about it or be condemned to outer darkness. There are no intercollegiate athletics for him; he has become a ‘professional.’ It matters not how fine his ideals of sport may be, how strong his character, or how high his scholarship. These considerations are ignored. The honors all go to the athlete who neglects his studies in order to make games his supreme interest during that part of the twelve months which is specifically set apart for studies.

Far more sensible would be an arrangement whereby, if we must have intercollegiate athletics at all, the games could be scheduled in vacation periods, and a part of the gate-receipts, if we must have them at all, could be used for the necessary living expenses of worthy students instead of being squandered, as much of that money is squandered to-day. That this will seem a preposterous plan to those who are caught in the maelstrom of the present collegiate system need not surprise us. An accurate record of the history of intercollegiate athletics shows that, year in and year out, the arrangements desired by students are those that interfere most seriously with study during the days especially intended for study.

The maelstrom of college athletics! That would not seem too strong a term if we could view the age in which we live in right perspective, an age so unbalanced nervously that it demands perpetual excitement. We have fallen into a vicious circle: the excesses of excitement lereate a pathological nervous condition which craves greater excesses. The advertisement of a head-on collision of two locomotives is said to have drawn the largest crowd in the history of modern ‘sport’; next in attractiveness is an intercollegiate football game. It is unfortunate that our universities, which should serve as balancing forces,—which should inculcate the ideal of sport as a counterpoise to an overwrought civilization—are actually making conditions worse through cultivating, by means of athletics as a business, that passion for excitement which makes sustained thinking impossible and which is elsewhere kept at fever heat by prize-fights, bull-fights, and blood-curdling motion pictures.

But even if intercollegiate games are detrimental to the interests of scholarship, is not the college spirit they create worth all they cost? Perhaps so. A university is more than a curriculum and a campus. .It is more than the most elaborate student annual can depict. Even in Carlyle’s day, it was more than he called it: a true university was never a mere ‘collection of books.’ It is the spirit that giveth

v.

Digitized by
900

life, and 'college spirit’ is certainly a name to conjure with. The first question is what we mean by college spirit. A student may throw his hat in the air, grab a megaphone, give 'three long rahs/ go through the gymnastics of a cheer-leader,—putting the most ingenious mechanical toys to shame, — and yet leave some doubt whether he has adequately defined college spirit.

What is this college spirit that hovers over the paid coach and his grandstand—this 'indefinable something/ as one writer calls it, 'which is fanned into a bright flame by intercollegiate athletics' ? Shall we judge the spirit by its manifestations in an institution famed above all else for its winning teams and its college spirit? In such an institution, not long ago. every student was cudgeled or cajoled into 'supporting the team/ and many a callow youth acted as though he thought he had reached the heights of self-sacrifice when he sat for hours on the grandstand, watching practice, puffing innumerable cigarettes, and laying up a stock of canned enthusiasm for the big game. A student who would not support his team by betting on it was regarded as deficient in spirit. Every intercollegiate game was the occasion of general neglect of college courses. If the game was at a neighboring city, the classrooms were half empty for two days; but the bar-rooms of that city were not empty, and worse places regularly doubled their rates on the night of a big game. Some of the most enthusiastic supporters of the team went to jail for disturbing the peace. If the contest took place at home, returning alumni filled the fraternity houses and celebrated with general drunkenness. An indefinable something — consisting of college property and that of private citizens—was 'fanned into a bright flame' in celebration of the victory. Following this came the spectacle of young men parading the streets in nightshirts. For residents of the town who did not enjoy this particular kind of spirit, the night was made hideous by the noises of revelry. All this and much more was tolerated for years on the assumption that students, imbued with college spirit, should not be subjected to the laws of decent living that govern those members of civilized communities who have not had the advantages of a higher education. The most serious difficulties between faculties and students and between students and police, the country over, for the past twenty years, have arisen in connection with displays of 'college spirit' after the 'big game.' Any college and any community might cheerfully sacrifice this kind of college spirit.

But some men mean by college spirit something finer than lawlessness, dissipation, and rowdyism. They mean the loyalty to an institution which makes a student guard its good name by being manly and courteous in conduct at all times and in all places. They mean the sense of.responsibility which aids a student in forming habits of temperance and industry. They mean that eagerness to make a
901

grateful use of his opportunities which leads a student to keep his own body fit, through moderate athletics, and a physical training that knows no season—is never broken. By college spirit some men mean this and far more: they mean that loyalty to a college which rivets a man to the severest tasks of scholarship, through which he gains intellectual power and enthusiasm, without which no graduate is an entire credit to any college; and finally they mean that vision of an ideal life beyond commencement which shows a man that only through the rigid subordination of transient and trivial pleasures can he hope to become the only great victory a university ever wins —a trained, devoted, and inspired alumnus, working for the welfare of mankind. There is no evidence that the intercollegiate athletics of to-day inculcate in many men this kind of college spirit.

Have I exaggerated the evils of intercollegiate athletics? Possibly I have. Exceptions should be cited here and there. But I am convinced that college faculties agree with me in my main contentions. My impression is that at least three fourths of the teachers I have met the country over believe that the American college would better serve its highest purposes, if intercollegiate athletics were no more. At a recent dinner of ten deans and presidents, thev declared, one by one, in confidence that they would abolish intercollegiate athletics if they could withstand the pressure of students and alumni.

It is therefore necessary for all institutions to give up intercollegiate athletics permanently? Probably not. Let our colleges first take whatever measures are necessary to make athletics yield their educational values to all students and teachers. If intercollegiate athletics can then be conducted as incidental and contributory to the main purposes of athletics, well and good. But first of all the question must be decisively settled, which aims are to dominate—those of business or those of education. And it will be difficult for a college already in the clutches of commercialism to retain the system and at the same time cultivate a spirit antagonistic to it. Probably the quicker and surer way would be to suspend all intercollegiate athletics for a college generation by agreement of groups of colleges, —during which period every effort should be made to establish the tradition of athletics for education. If an institution could not survive such a period of transition, it is a fair question whether the institution has any reason for survival.

Typically American though our frantic devotion to intercollegiate athletics may be, we shall not long tolerate a system which provides only a costly, injurious, and excessive jegime of physical training for a few students, especially those who need it least. The call today is for inexpensive, healthful, and moderate exercise for all students, especially those who need it most. Colleges must sooner or later heed that call: their athletics must be for education, not for business.

Digitized by
902

ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High 8chool New York City.

UNIFORMITY IN ATHLETICS FOR WOMEN.

By CARL L. SCHRADER, Cambridge, Mass.

(CONTINUED.)

The hurl ball, one of the many varieties of play-balls, made its appearance about fifty years ago in Germany. It is there known as Schleuderball and used in a game of that same name. Schleuderball is'a game where the ball is thrown back and forth with the ultimate object of crossing the opponent’s goal line. Line-up of players and defense of goal are very similar to soccer and foot ball. The ball, weighing from five to eight pounds, it may readily be concluded that Schleuderball is a game for men; a game from which decided good must result. Aside from the use which the German Turner organizations in America have made of this game, it never has held a place as a game with us, at least not a prominent one. It is not the intention here to urge the adoption or the practice of this game, nor to consider and describe it, but rather to put the ball to new use. The adjective new is not used here to claim originality, for the writer is well aware that sporadic and similar attempts have been made by a number of colleagues. It is rather an effort to secure a legitimate place for this throwing activity among the very few similar field events. As long as fifteen years ago the hurl ball was tried out as an athletic event in the West Chester, Pa., State Normal School. First as an event for boys and later for girls, it has held its place, as far as I know, to the present day. Together with the trying out of hurling and the javelin throw the hurl ball event was experimented with for the past three years at the Sargent Camp by the normal school pupils.

In a certain sense the hurl ball throw for women may be said to take the place of the hammer throw of the men. The description of the action involved, which will follow further along, will make this clear. Various weights were tried and the best results obtained with the ball weighing six pounds, which weight was finally adopted as the regulation weight. The ball is about the size of a soccer ball, but made of heavy leather, filled with felt. It is brought up to the regulation weight by small shot placed in the centre. A loop serves the place of a handle by which the ball is held. The throw may be made from a stand without a body turn, or with a jump and a body turn. There used to be a style of shot-nut from the stand, which however, has entirely disappeared, and has left the nresent better and only form, i. e., that from a seven-foot circle with jump and turn. Tn-as-much as the hurl ball throw with jump and turn is the more

Digitized by Google
903

preferable by far, it will suffice to have merely mentioned the other form from a stand.

There is no prescribed form for any athletic event, and as long as certain regulations are observed, the form in which the ultimate result is obtained is optional. Thus a competitor may use any style of high jump, so long as he lands on his feet first; he may put the shot any way he chooses, so long as he does not throw it, etc. In coaching, therefore, it is only the generally accepted, most advantageous method that is brought to the attention of those under instruction. These methods, naturally, are subject to such changes which actual practice suggest. The following description is not the form of throwing, but a form, which has proven most satisfactory so far. The ball is to be thrown from a seven-foot circle like the shot. The thrower takes her place in the rear of the circle, carrying the ball by the loop in the right or delivering hand. A few preliminary pendulum-like swings are taken to establish a perfectly even swing. This is gained by swinging the arm with the ball forward and backward at a right angle to the body, shoulder high both front and rear, using the left hand to steady the ball by a mere touch when in front. This is suggested because the general tendency is to jerk the ball from its necessary even motion by beginning the backward swing before the forward one has definitely ended, or vice versa. That is to say: the length of pendulum in this action is from the shoulder to the bottom of the ball; the oscilation of this pendulum requires a definite measure of time. If, now, the forward swing is checked before it is naturally ended, it will cause a break in the pendulum at the loop, and the ball will flop upward, causing that jerk which interferes with the even, smooth swing. Practice and attention paid to this common fault, together with the guiding of the other hand, will soon establish an even swing. With this accomplished, when the arm is at the end of the backward swing, and together with the beginning of the downward swing, the body makes a complete turn left around its long axis, by springing up and forward. This spring or jump is made from the left foot onto the right after the turn, with the left falling near the front edge, or toe board, of the circle, ready for the delivery of the ball. The body is inclined well forward over the circle during this delivery, like in the shot-put and • othef throwing events. The arm swing which accompanies this jump and turn is a vertical one, starting as is stated above, at the end of the backward preliminary swing, continuing upward so that it is practically straight upward near the ear at the completion of the turn, making the last backward, downward and forward swing, as the body falls forward on the left foot. The releasing of the ball must be well timed. If the ball is released too soon, it is likely to roll along the ground, or will at least have a very shallow flight. If released too late, it will shoot straight up in the air. Like in all

Digitized by
904

other throwing events a flight with an angle of about forty-five degrees is best for good distance, so that the release in this throw should be governed accordingly.

While this performance is not nearly as intricate as this detailed description might suggest, it is nevertheless an accomplishment which can not be mastered with one or several attempts. As stated elsewhere, it is not the event which is mastered with little effort and practice which gives most pleasure and satisfaction. The hurl ball throw, next to the javelin throw, has proven the most popular field event with the several hundred Sargent school students and is recommended most earnestly for wider use. The best distance covered so far as known is 76 feet 4 inches. The regulations which govern this event, in addition to the weight of the ball, are like those observed in shot-putting. No part of the body may touch the ground outside of the front half of the seven-foOt circle until the measurement has been made. The distance is measured from the inner edge of the toe board to the nearest imprint made bv the ball in a straight line with the center of the circle.

(To be continued.)

BOOK REVIEW.

“Keeping in Condition,” by Harry H. Moore. 137 pages 5 by yl/2 inches, illustrated. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Price 75 cents.

The book, which is a hand-book of training for older boys, has an introduction by Prof. Clark W. Hetherington. The preface says:

“Most youths of fourteen to eighteen years of age are ambitious to be strong and clean and vigorous. If a high standard of manhood is constantly before them, they will strive earnestly to achieve the qualities of manhood therein represented. They are eager for information which will explain how they may get their bodies into the best possible physical condition, how they may keep fit.

This little book is an attempt to set up an ideal of vigorous manhood and to supply the youth with the necessary information for its achievement.”

While the book is written for boys, it also will be found useful for teachers and others coming in contact with boys, parents included.

The Rhythms of Childhood, by Caroline Crawford and Elizabeth R. Fogg. 84 pages, 9 by 11 inches, board cover. Published by A. L. Barnes Company, New York. Price $1.50.

The book contains fifty-two pieces of music that are characteristic of the best and most useful rhythms for the teaching of young children. It should be a real help to the teacher looking for music that expresses the mood as well as the activity of the children.

Digitized by C,ooQle