MIND AND BODY

Vol. 32	FEBRUARY, 1926	No.	346

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO; NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, /p/d, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1870.

41-----------------------------    ♦

Qriginal articles and reprint^

♦----------------------------------*

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN RELATION TO THE REST OF THE SCHOOL CURRICULUM

Major H. J. Selby, M. C. B. Sc.

Man, we are assured, possesses certain attributes which place him on a plane above all other forms of known life. From earliest times the power to think and the power to worship have been characteristic of man alone.

These special abilities must have been employed in a very primitive fashion at first, and would have been concerned with the protection of the individual and the securing of food. That is to say, the primary aims and needs of life were protection and hunting. Even in those primitive days the parental instinct must have been present, and it is only logical to assume that, desiring to assist their offspring in their fight for life, the parents would pass on their own experiences to the children and teach them the best methods of protecting themselves against wild animals and human antagonists and of taking a successful part in the hunt, and through these media the principles of character and conduct would be taught. Here we have

Reprint from Physical Education, England, .

Digitize
866

our elementary form of education, and it is worthy of notice that this form, sufficient for the age in which the people lived, would consist in instruction in the two subjects of what is now termed in the school curriculum, Physical Education and Handicraft; for in the first place, under these hard conditions the health of the body was of fundamental importance, the strong, healthy, nimble and dexterous man would live, the weak and awkward person would be exterminated. Secondly, since man was at all times confronted with animals which were his superior in physical strength, it became necessary for him to devise some apparatus which would tend to level up the unequal state of affairs. Man would, of course, make use of whatever nature had provided, a stone, a log of wood. But as time went on man’s brain would come to his assistance and nature’s tools would be fashioned so that they might prove more useful for the purpose in hand, and so the elementary pursuit of Handicraft would come into being and would in the natural order of things become an accomplishment to be mastered by the young. We must not forget that at the same time the young would receive a certain amount of moral training, the ideals of manhood would be impressed and the child would be taught how to conduct himself in company with others of his own age and station, and, again, in company with his elders, and it is most probable that this moral training would be inculcated through the medium of Physical Training. From this line of thought it is logical to state that Physical Training can be regarded as the basis of all education and that Handicraft followed as a natural order of things due to man’s inability to persuade his body to assume the necessary degree of strength which existing conditions demanded.

Growth of Mental Activity

As time went on one particular community would grow in size and in protective power, and with this growth in communal security came the opportunity for greater mental development. Since a man was not constantly called upon to defend his life and home and since the fear of death became more remote he found himself with much time on his hands, and he would possibly permit his senses to observe certain phenomena, and with observation came enquiry and then experiment, and experiment led to progress in many directions. Men were still retained to fight and to hunt, and the need for physical fitness would still predominate in the minds of the individuals aild the rulers, but, as a lecturer at the Oxford County Teachers' Conference said, the lazy man was coming into his own and was starting to develop other lines of activity.

The development of specialization followed the growth in security, and we find that a certain class of persons was exempt from military service and at the same time participation in the hunt became less dangerous and less arduous. To a certain class therefore the need for physical fitness becomes less ap-

Digitized by

Google
867

parent, whilst to those who were called upon to make use of physical prowess such a high degree of physical strength as was essential in remote ages became less necessary.

I have no time, nor is it my present purpose, to describe the gradual decline in the attention paid to the physical fitness of individuals and the increasing attention paid to their mental attributes, but it should be remembered that since life has apparently changed from a battle of muscles to a battle of wits, it is not unnatural that on the surface, such a state of things should appear natural and perhaps desirable. The education of our young, which aims primarily at preparing the individual to take his place as a useful citizen in the State, must vary according to the conditions existing at the particular age in which he lives. In passing it is interesting to note that the curriculum of the school has at all times been influenced by the prevailing ideas of the leaders of the State; thus religion and politics have always played a part in shaping the course which education should take, and since these rulers have generally been men of high intellectual attainments—by which I mean a complete knowledge of Greek and Latin—it is not hard to understand why physical education did not receive its jost place in the education of the young.

As I have just said, viewed from the basis of utility it seems quite natural that modern education should tend to neglect the body, which in many respects has apparently lost much of its usefulness, and to concentrate upon the mental state of the individual. Physical strength is not an essential of present day life, the weak and flabby man has as great an opportunity of attaining high position in the State as one possessed of greater bodily vigour. Modern warfare, so we are told, is not a test of physical manhood but of mental strength. Wars are won not by the physically perfect but by the mentally perfect and often physically imperfect. Physical fitness is not required in the fields where nature’s resources are tapped, for man’s brain has devised certain mechanical means which tend to make manual labour superfluous; even in our every-day life physical fitness is unnecessary; from our infancy we are carried from one place to another in some mechanical contrivance or another. From this premise we might argue then that the education of our young, since it is intended to prepare the child for later life, should consist solely of mental studies, and this undoubtedly was the basis of the system in the Victorian age, and even the other day I heard one of His Majesty’s Inspectors state that he had recently met a headmaster who deplored the waste of time spent in catering for the physical needs of his charges.

Let me at the outset state that I wish in no way to deprecate the importance of mental studies, nor do I underes-

Education And The Age

Is Physical Fitness Necessary?

Digitized by
868

timate the power of the brain over the body, but what I so often feel is that the true meaning of education is often really misunderstood even by its most fervent exponents. So often I feel that there is a tendency to enlarge upon the importance of the accumulation of a vast number of facts by children; to my mind the facts are a means to an end and not an end in themselves.

Importance of the Senses

Now, if life could be conducted solely through the means of unmaterial and invisible medium, by some process of thought transference, I feel that the Physical Educationalist would have but a poor hearing and much of the argument of the advocate of pure mental training would be perfectly valid. Unfortunately in many respects, we possess a body, a fact of which we are only too conscious when we are apt to neglect it. The body indeed, is an essential thing through which in the first place the mind receives impressions and then gives expression. As Mr. Pearson, late Principal of Sheffield Training College, once stated, the baby receives its first impressions through the media of the senses of touch and sight, and it is by this means that the child receives its first education. “There is nothing in the intellect which was not first in the sense, because there may be elements in a thought complex which may be purely mental, but the thought would not have been there at all if the foundations had not been offered through the senses. If anyone thinks otherwise let him imagine a person whose senses have been sealed up from birth, and then ask himself what thought, what mental life is possible under such circumstances. Out of nothing comes nothing and where there has been no presentation through the senses there can be no concept, no imagination, no judgment, no reasoning—in a word no mind.”

This then gives us our first clue to the connection between mental and physical training, since the senses are the means by which the brain or mental state is permitted to function, and chief amongst the senses is the sense of muscular feeling and the sense of touch, and Mr. Pearson suggests that should the remaining senses be deficient or totally absent, the subject is still capable of a wonderfully full intellectual life. These two senses come very fitly under f'C care of physical training and there is little doubt t' at careful treatment will tend to improve the mental state of the individual. The centres controlling these senses become stimulated and their functioning activity is sensibly improved, and it is also certain that by some unknown means this stimulation effected by means of correct Physical Training communicates itself to other centers, thus tending towards more complete mental powers. This fact is instanced in the dull child, the child who is unable to concentrate its mind, to memorise, to reason or to think and express itself clearly. It is invariably noticed that although the child may possess no physical defect yet its sense of mus-

Digitized by Google
869

cular feel is generally lacking, when it picks an object off the table it will invariably use the whole of its hand, and appears to have no control over the finer muscles of the body. I have found it possible to take such a child and by applying exercise to improve its muscular sense and on all occasions the child’s mental powers have also sensibly improved. It may be that some unknown obstruction has been caused in the sensory paths, that the energy applied is in some way dissipated and that the application of exercise gradually permits the correct passage of the nervous impulses.

Physical Training can therefore by this means have a direct bearing upon the mental efficiency of the child and can be used as an aid to promote success in other branches of the school course. When we discover a child whose mental state will not permit it to keep up with the level of the rest of the class we are sometimes apt either to allow the child to meander on in its own sweet way or else give ourselves much pain to press the particular items of knowledge upon the unresponsive mind. The intentions are probably good, but often better results would be obtained at less expense of patience both to child and teacher if other methods were employed. The obvious way would be to appeal to the child through the medium of its physical senses, a gradual course in Physical Training followed and running in some way concurrent with a course in handwork, which is after all only a specialized form of Physical Training, would, I believe, have far reaching results.

The Brain a Physical Body

My next point of connection between Physical Training and the rest of the curriculum rests upon a purely physiological basis. The brain itself, where it is believed that thought emanates, is a physical body, dependent for its life and existence upon the same principles which affect other more obvious parts of the body. It must have exercise and it must have nourishment in order that it may be permitted to develop from a physiological point of view to the maximum of its ability. Nourishment is of course conveyed by the blood stream, which in its turn is the means by which waste products are eliminated from the active portions of the body. Now, mental work produces waste products to the same extent as any physical labour, and it is essential that the waste products should be removed, otherwise the working of the brain will be impaired. In olden times, and perhaps even to-day, the industrious student intent only upon passing of exams will on burning the midnight oil experience a stifling sensation within his brain; and to obviate this distressing symptom of nature outraged will tie a wet towel round the offending member. The effect can be produced far more efficiently by persuading the blood supply to move on by application of exercise to other parts of the body, for it is a well known fact that directly a physical disturbance is caused in another part of the body the inquisitive constituents, like the

Digitized by

Google
870

indefatigable policemen, will hasten to the new scent of bis activities and thus relieve the pressure upon the former.

Indirectly, however, other factors are brought into being. The brain receives food from the same sources as other parts of the body, i. e. via the intestines and the blood, and the food must be properly prepiared and the blood in a fit state to convey it. As I have mentioned before, every organ of the body can function properly only if it receives a certain amount of exercise. By means which must be perfectly well known to all of you Physical Training can be made to affect each one of these organs, and by this means increased functioning will result. The heart, the lungs, the digestive organs will all benefit by the exercise applied, and hence the brain, depending upon these organs for its healthy existence, must share in the general bodily and functional improvements which will result from the application of exercise. And since its cal wants are well attended to

the brain will be in a mon state to carry on its legitimate work.

Another aspect occurs to me in this respect, and I am not sure whether this should not have been placed with my remarks upon sense training. Unfortunately our bodies are the media through which the sensations of pain and pleasure are conveyed to the brain. More particularly are we conscious of that sensation of pain. There is not the slightest doubt that pain comes into existence as a result of some disease in the physical body, and disease, which is not a natural heritage, comes from some human neglect to attend correctly to the wants of the body. Chest troubles are caused probably by neglect of correct breathing, or at any rate, breathing in an incorrect fashion in unnatural surroundings. Toothaches result often from incomplete digestion; neuritis, from an over indulgence in mental work and a lack of attention to physical needs and so on. The outstanding feature of pain is the sense of disturbance which it creates in the nervous system, and it should require no words of mine to persuade you that where pain exists there can never be efficient mental effort. I might recall to your mind some particular occasion when you have been attempting to instill into the youthful and seemingly dull intellect some cardinal facts relating to the science of numbers whilst at the same time you have been literally consumed with the raging pain resulting from a decayed molar. There is no need to point to the obvious fact that your efficiency as a teacher must have been reduced by an amount proportionate to the amount of pain you were suffering. Similarly with the child, no efficient work can be obtained from the child in its mental labours if it is at all times a victim to physical pain. Sir George Newman tells us that every year 2,000,000 pounds Sterling are spent on rheumatic diseases and in each year over 3,000,000 working weeks are lost to the nation. We cannot gauge the amount of mental

Pain and Mental Activity

Digitized by

Google
871

efficiency lost on account of pain. Pain can only be reduced and the efficiency of the brain consequently increased by giving facilities for the various organs to function to the best of their ability. Natural life does not permit of this, and largely as a result of our civilised system-of society we are compelled to introduce artificial means, namely Physical Training.

Physical Work An Antidote

So far I have attempted to show how Physical Training can be applied to assist in every way mental training, and I hope that I may have made clear my point that the mind and the body are interdependent. Physical Training is the basis of training from which the rest of the curriculum has evolved, and that whereas Physical Training may add considerably to the efficiency of the brain, yet it is unlikely that the mental portion of the curriculum offers any assistance to the physical portion. In fact, it is possible to infer that the brain consumes the product of the physical effort without contributing directly in any way to the successful working of the body. I won’t press this comparison. I merely wish to point out that the pursuit after knowledge often results in physical defects which m turn will reflect adversely upon the intellect of the child in a kind of vicious circle and that it is the work of Physical Training to remedy these defects in order to maintain the body at its highest level of efficiency. From this point of view, therefore, the physical training lesson acts as an antidote to the evil influences resulting from the teaching or application to other subjects of the curriculum.

Physical Training and Character

Lastly, I should like to mention briefly one aspect of education which is suitable for inclusion in the Physical Training lesson and which is generally neglected in the teaching of other subjects. I refer to the training in character. In the classroom the character of the child is left to take care of itself, or else is taught in a formal manner under the heading of moral or religious instruction. Now nothing appeals less to a child in such matters than an impersonal appeal, where words are used and little appeal made to actions. It becomes all the difference between learning from a book which is lifeless and soulless and learning from active participation.

During the Physical Training lesson the medium used is games. This is no new feature, for from ancient times our big public schools have paid considerable attention to the training of gentlemen through participation in games, even to the neglect of the more academic side of the curriculum. I do not think the elementary schools are ever likely to proceed to that length, nor do I consider it desirable, but I do firmly believe that by a careful supervision and instruction in playing games under what is known as the team system all those finer attributes which Eire so essential to the individuals of a commun-

Digitized by

Google
872

ity living in harmony can be developed and directed into the most useful channels. The child can be taught to be a sportsman in the true sense of the word; he can be taught to lose with a smile, to win without boasting, to help his weaker members, to compete fairly whatever the odds. He can be taught that everyone has to sacrifice something for the good of all, that every question has two sides and that toleration is the foundation of harmonious communal life. It is, however, not sufficient to apply the principles to the playing of sports only, and this is where correlation can be effected with other subjects of the school curriculum, especially religious instruction, history and civics.

Correlation

Correlation is a wretched term, and has caused much heart-aching in the past. Still, since we are training the child as a whole and since it is not logical to divide him into certain watertight compartments and say so much history, so much arithmetic, so much goes to make up the education of the child, and since each subject is really interdependent upon another, it is impossible to neglect such an important question as correlation. I always feel that there is not sufficient done to persuade the children to take a more intelligent interest in their own bodies and the activities which go towards securing physical fitness.

Science

The most obvious connection is with science. I know you will say that there is so much to be taught under this head already, but even so there is generally time to give the children a broad outline on the form of the body. It. should also be remembered that chemical reactions, often so lifeless on the laboratory benches, find their counterpart in the reactions in the body. Physical laws apply equally to the living frame as to inanimate objects, and in the teaching of chemistry and physics ample illustration could be drawn from and applied to the working of the human body.

With regard to nature study, botany, or whatever you would call it, the same connections could be found and analogies drawn only with greater force and clearer interpretation. With the upper standards the outline of life as a whole could be shown and the needs for physical exercise could be reduced.

History

The connection between History and Physical Education is perhaps not so clear on the surface. I see no reason why children should not be taught to understand how the type of sport has varied from age to age; how sport gives us an indication of the trend of public morals and is a rough guide to the temperament of a nation. The days of the gladiators, of the contestants in the lists, of cock fighting, bear fighting and prize

Digitized by

Google
873

fights, could be excitingly described and compared with the more sober pleasures of the present day man and woman. Surely such items of interest are as entertaining and instructive as are the details of Henry VIII’s matrimonial adventures or the pathetic misfortunes of Queen Anne’s life. Furthermore, such a development of a theme in which the average child is deeply interested would be as useful as one in which this interest is apt to flag.

Geography

Once again, since games are merely the outcome of natural tendencies, a comparison of the games played in various countries would give the pupil a useful idea as to the different degrees of civilisation of the inhabitants, and if skillfully handled could be used to bring the countries concerned more vividly before the minds of the children.

Geographical and historical games are useful. A large sketch map of a country chalked upon the surface of the playground would • provide both mental and physical activities in the matter of jumps and runs, etc., from place to place.

The plan of a battle—if plans of battles are taught nowadays—could be most vividly impressed if the children were permitted to act the whole scene in the play ground or playing-field.

Conclusion

My remarks have, I am afraid, been scattered, but I trust that you may be able to extract from them something of value. What I have endeavoured to express is that the education of the child must take into account his whole make-up. To attend to the mental side only is to produce one-sided development and in fact incomplete development even on that side, for man is composed of mind and body, and the two are completely bound together; in fact, the mental state rests upon the support of the physical state. A negro proverb has it, “High learnt niggers ain’t much use at rolling logs.” We might paraphrase it to say the man whose physical education has been neglected is incompletely developed. Physical Training is not a thing apart from what is termed academic training, but forms an integral part of such training, and any division into physical and mental in this respect is purely superficial.

Our aim as educationalists is to produce a collection of physically, mentally and morally healthy beings, and as a means to this end, in the words of Rousseau, we just realise that the “Great secret of Education is to secure that bodily and mental exercise shall always serve to relax one another.”

Address given in Oxford under auspices of City of Oxford Education Committee.)

Digitized by C^ooQle
874

NINETY-ONE YEARS YOUNG

From The North Carolina Health Bulletin as published in the July (1925) issue of “Good Health”.

When Dr. Charles William Eliot, president-emeritus of Harvard University, celebrated his ninetieth birthday, his academic colleague of many years’ standing, Dean Briggs, wrote, in a tribute printed in the Atlantic Monthly of March, 1924: “Today he is the greatest figure in the history of American education, the foremost citizen of the United	States—not

honored only, but beloved.	Every	power	with	which

nature and unremitting labor have equipped him he directs to one supreme end. His noble speech, perfect in voice and enunciation, unmistakable in purpose, dignified, controlled, with tremendous strength in reserve, his amazing capcity for work and his delight therein, his scorn of fear and favor and defeat, his every gift of body and mind he has used with complete unselfishness for a purpose beyond the horizon of most men in private life or in public. .beyond his university was the country; beyond the country was the world.

“At ninety he still strikes with uncomprising truthfulness and courage, for every great cause in America or out of it, and his voice, whether recognized as his or not, is heard thru-out the world.”

Mental and spiritual powers have yet a physical base. Bodily vigor nourishes a great mind. The sources of energy are natural, not metaphysical.

Let Dr. Eliot himself, speaking in print* for the sole and single time in his life upon the subject of his own health, tell how he has kept that health and has attained his age of ripe and mellowed wisdom in full strength of mind and body:

“I must have inherited from my parents what is called a sound constitution.	Looking	back on the family

habits in my childhood, I perceive that the family diet was simple; that the children kept early hours; that our parents took care that we should have exercise in the open air every day, and that we should spend two months in the country or by the seaside every summer. My paints both inherited a comfortable property and lived in one of the best houses of that day in Boston; but they had no luxurious habits—those sure destroyers of family stocks. .Cleanliness of house and person was strictly observed, but there was no plumbing in the house until I was a well-grown boy.	.	During	my	residence

in Harvard College as student and teacher (1849-’58) I depended for warmth in winter entirely on an open fire in my room, the entries being as cold as outdoors. Whether or not this prevailing discomfort indoors during the cold weather had any influence on health is an open question.

*A Late Harvest, by Charles W. Eliot.

Digitized by

Google
875

“At seven years of age I was transferred from a dame school to a private school for boys, kept by a Harvard graduate under Park Street Church, opposite the ample Boston Common. At that time the Common was a delightful playground for boys. We lived in the heart of a small city, but had some of the advantages of country life. We played there the simple games of ball then in vogue, and hopscotch and marbles in their season, and there we had admirable coasting in winter. Great elms and thrifty lindens were to be seen there and green grass half the year. One of our most enjoyed sports was running races 'round the Common on the outer brick sidewalk. The circuit was something over a mile in length, and the competition for the run in the shortest time was keen. Like all my sisters, I was sent to dancing school, taught to ride on horseback, and encouraged to accompany my father on his daily walk.

“In my boyhood the family spent July and August at Na-hant (North Shore). There I learned to find mushrooms on the rough pasture lands, to row a boat. .	. But the summer

experience which I remember with the greatest pleasure was roaming about on horseback, a privilege secured on terms which well illustrate my parents’ views concerning my physical education. In the preceding spring I had occasionally ridden an amiable and sprightly horse named Brilliant. Arrived at Na-hant, I asked my father whether I couldn’t have Brilliant there. He said, ‘Yes, provided you will take all the care of him’—a proposition I gladly accepted.

‘‘For two or three years before I went to college at fifteen I had much enjoyed two walking sports. The first was visiting, sometimes with my father, sometimes with boy comrades, the places mentioned in Frothingham’s Siege of Boston, as sites of camps, forts, or engagements. The second form of walking sport was practiced in this wise: Three or four boys would take train for a few miles out of Boston and then walk across the broken country from six to ten miles to some station on the next railroad, whence they took train for home. This was an instructive and interesting sport for city boys in free afternoons of either spring or autumn, but best in the long days of spring.

“My mother took the best accessible advice about the care of her children’s teeth and saw that we followed it approximately. Experience has convinced me that dental hygiene is an important department of preventive medicine. Nether of my parents took enough thought for their children’s eyes. The lamp by which I worked wirfter evenings and mornings used whale oil and had two round wicks, each about as large as an ordinary pencil. Over the flame was a tin shade, painted white inside. I was congenitally near-sighted, and the difficulty increased considerably during my childhood and youth, perhaps because of the hard use I gave my eyes on grammars and dictionaries and much ordinary reading. This defective

Digitized by

Google
876

vision cut me off from some desirable sports and entertainments and prevented me from recognizing my friends on the street, unless they had a characteristic figure, walk or clothing. It has been a serious obstacle all my life, for no oculist has been able to procure for me full vision.

"While still a pupil in the Latin School I attended a Boston gymnasium, where I learned to use the common gymnastic apparatus, such as ladders, parallel bars, the vaulting horse, the vaulting bar, and swings; and when at last Harvard College acquired a gymnasium in 1856 I had an opportunity of renewing these exercises after an interval of about seven years. When I was an undergraduate I took several series of boxing lessons, and renewed them later when a college teacher. While in college my chief exercise was walking, for there was then no organized sport for undergraduates and no gymnasium.

“In 1856, being at that time a tutor, I joined a new boat club. .As I proved in this club to be a strong and enduring oarsman, in the spring of 1858 I was invited to join the Harvard crew of that year, because it had proved impossible to find six undergraduates competent and willing to row. .	.

This crew was successful in two regattas on Charles River Basin, winning the first prizes against a large number of crews composed chiefly of vigorous young men who could hardly be described as amateurs. That spring I was doing a large amount of work. . .Obviously, I possessed a sound muscular and nervous system, capable of much regular physical work without fatigue, and of occasional severe exertion, but I was not heavy or large-boned, for my normal weight was only from one hundred and forty-five to one hundred and fifty pounds.

“I have never been a large eater. I have eaten in moderate quantities a good variety of food, for I have always been able to assimilate comfortably any article of food or drink used in the countries where I have lived. I have not eaten so much meat, butter and eggs as most of the men with whom I have been intimate or whom I have met at public luncheons and dinners. This moderation was natural to me and not the result of any peculiar wisdom or lively sense of duty. In the second half of my life I often had to speak at public or semipublic dinners; under such circumstances the only safe way is to eat lightly. It seems to me that people who bolt a large amount of food, as a dog does when he has a chance, do not get so much pleasure out of eating as slower and more moderate feeders.	I imagine that my good health has been largely

owing to my moderation in eating and drinking and to the habit of daily exercise.

“From the time I became a tutor, at the age of twenty, onward, I think I have done per day an unusual amount of mental work, much of which, however, has had a routine or repetitive character, as in all teaching and administration. From the time of my appointment to an assistant professorship, in the spring of 1858, and my marriage in the following autumn,

Digitized by Google
877

I have borne without intermission considerable responsibilities, both family and professional, which involved anxiety, a sense of risk, and sometimes professional conflict. That I nave borne much labor and responsibility without ever suffering even a temporary breakdown seems to me due—after the inheritance of a sound constitution—to my possessing a good muscular and nervous system, preserved by open-air exercise and the habit of moderate eating. It may have contributed to the fortunate result that at no time of my life I ever made habitual use of any nerve stimulant like tea, coffee tobacco, or alcohol, although I have never been a total abstainer from any one of these stimulants except tobacco. When I have taken them it has always been in dilute forms.

"It undoubtedly contributed to my endurance of the laborious and responsible life I led as president of Harvard College for forty years that, beginning in 1871, I passed the long summer vacation at or near the island of Mount Desert, devoting, however, part of the time during the first nine years to cruising in a seaworthy sloop along the New England coast from Block Island to Grand Manan. This ‘summer life gave me a strong and wholesome change of air and scene, and also of mental occupation, for I went skipper and pilot. It provided for me and my family during nearly a quarter part of the year a simple, wholesome, natural life in close contact with the ocean, woods, and hills, with opportunity for various excellent kinds of physical and mental activity, and with freedom from the turmoil, noise, dirt, foul air, and nervous tension of city life.

"One result of the balance between my bodily and mental powers has been that I have always been able to sleep well at night and, since I was seventy, briefly in the daytime also. I could always spend a long evening in stirring debate or in public speaking, and go to sleep, on getting home, without delay or need of any calming process. I could also write diligently all the evening on a subject which greatly interested me, stop at 11 o’clock, and fall asleep the moment I got into bed.

“I am aware of two mental or 'moral conditions which have contributed to my safe endurance of physical and mental strains. The first is a natural gift, namely, a calm temperament; the second is the result of the combination of this temperament with a deliberate practice of avoiding alike anticipation of disappointment and vain regrets. When necessarily involved in contests or critical undertakings, I tried first to do my best in the actual struggles, and then not to concern myself too

much about the issue..........If any one says that these methods

require a serene mind or disposition I can only say that it is hard to tell whether the sound nervous system produces or results from, the serenity. Certainly any one who ardently desires to cultivate a calm temperament would do well to provide himself, if possible, with strong muscles and obedient nerves.

“My own experience has led me to think that strenuous

Digitized by

Google
878

work, done with interest and zeal, usually promotes health and vigor, and is seldom injurious if kept within the limits set by bodily fatigue. From observation of other people I have come to believe that imperfect sleep is a sure indication of excessive fatigue or of unwise nervous stimulation, and that the best counteracting influence is the cautious development of the muscular system. .. ..

“Although my life as it draws to its close appears to have been on the whole successful, it has had at various stages quite the ordinary share of disappointment, disaster, and bereavement; and I cannot but believe that bodily health and strength were a support in these exigencies, and that it is a legitimate motive for trying to keep well and strong, that one may be able to meet, without being overwhelmed and crushed, the trials and losses to which humanity is exposed.

“My experience does not furnish a short, explicit prescription for keeping health and working power till eighty years of age, probably because many and various causes have contributed to the result; but I feel safe in affirming that any one who desires to have a like experience will do well to eat moderately, to sleep at least seven hours a night with windows open, to take regular exercise in the open air every day, to use no stimulants, to enjoy all the natural delights without excess in any, and to keep, under all circumstances, as serene a spirit as his nature permits. This is the way to win from life the maximum of real joy and satisfaction. Does this seem a materialistic doctrine? It by no means excludes the spiritual influences of abiding love and good-will.”

ATLANTIC CITY SCHOOLS HEIGHT-WEIGHT SURVEY

Department of Health Instruction Atlantic City Public Schools

The Baldwin-Wood Standards of Age-Height-Weight were used in our work. These standards are accepted by all of the United States Health Organizations and Schools interested in the problem of malnutrition.

Pupils who are distinctly underweight for their age and height work under a severe handicap. They are, as a rule victims of early fatigue, lack or loss of interest, indiffei ence in attack and are more susceptible to sickness and disease conditions than their more fortunate companions.

The eradication of physical defects such as diseased tonsils, enlarged adenoids and carious teeth is necessary if pupils are to properly and profitably assimilate their food.

The Nutrition Classes and the opportunities for securing milk during the school day should be stressed again and again.

The success of your teaching, the regard you have for your pupils, their love and respect for you are all intimately associated with the pupils’ good health and your good health.

Digitized by

Google
Let us make our Health Program reach every child; to keep well those who are well and to bring up to vigorous health those who are below normal and who need our help.

F.	W. Maroney, M. D.

Height and Weight Survey

Number of Pupils Examined..........................................9554

Number of Boys Examined..........................................-.4718

Number of Girls Examined.........................................  4836

Total Pupils in Group A................................-.7198	or	75.3%

Total Pupils 7% Underweight..............................1041	or	10.8%

Total Pupils 10% Underweight............................-. 828 or 8.7%

Total Pupils 15% Underweight............................. 487	or	5.2%

Total Boys in Group A....................................3641	or	77.1%

Total Boys 7% Underweight................................ 552	or	11.7%

Total Boys 10% Underweight............................... 340	or	7.3%

Total Boys 15% Underweight............................... 185	or	3.9%

Total Girls in Group A.................................-.3557	or	72.6%

Total Girls 7% Underweight................................489	or	10.4%

Total Girls 10% Underweight...............................488	or	10.1%

Total Girls 15% Underweight...............................302	or	6.9%

Group A includes pupils of Standard Weight and over.

The data for this Survey was compiled by the Physical Training Teachers.

High School Pupils—Classification.

Boys  Class	Enroll-  ment	No.	A  %	7 % under B  No. %		10% under C  No. %		15% under D  No. %
Senior 			 136	58	42.6	43	31.1	18	13.2	17 12.5
Junior 		....... 177	81	45.7	49	27.6	19	10.7	28 15.8
Sophomore ...	...... 176	94	53.4	46	26.1	14	7.9	22 12.5
Freshmen 			 407	240	58.4	110	27.0	28	6.7	29 7.1
Total 		....... 896	473	52.7	248	27.8	79	8.8	96 10.7

Girls				7% under		10% under		15% under	
	Enroll-	A			B	C		D	
Class	ment	No.	%	No.	%	No.	Of  /o	No.	VO
Senior 		....... 155	103	67	23	15	15	10	14	9
Junior 			 212	147	69	23	11	23	11	18	9
Sophomore ...			 277	185	67	31	11	35	12	26	10
Freshmen 			 364	249	69	38	10	44	12	34	9
Total 		....... 1008	684	68	115	11.5	117 11.5		92 9	

Digitized by
880

Number of Pupils in Each Group (A, B, C, D.)

School	Boy Enrollment	A	No.  B	of Boys  C	D	Girl  Enroll-  ment	A	No. of Girls B ’ C		D
Mad		... 381	284	40	44	13	335	229	36	46	24
Mass		... 501	397	45	46	13	427	317	39	43	28
Penn 		366	307	31	23	5	392	287	46	39	20
Ill		... 110	99	7	3	1	145	118	13	11	3
Ind		552	461	43	39	9	664	530	58	48	28
W. S		.. 179	146	16	14	4	174	132	18	16	8
Texas 		306	273	20	9	4	285	230	25	22	8
Mont		... 224	205	16	3	0	241	203	23	11	4
Bri		342	276	38	23	6	324	221	39	42	22
Rich		... 246	200	15	24	7	256	189	19	33	15
Jr. High ...	.. 465	398	23	25	19	495	356	48	48	43
Sr. High ...	... 896	473	248	79	96	1008	684	115	117	92
Voys* Voc..	89	71	6	5	n					
Girls* Voc .						69	49	5	10	5
Texas										
Spec. Class	37	29	3	4	1	13	7	3	1	2
Indiana										
Spec. Class	24	23	1	0	0	8	5	2	1	0
Total ...	... 4718	3641	552	340	185	4836	3557	489	488	302

Percentage of Pupils In Each Group.

7% under 10% under 15 %under Enroll- A	B	C	D

School	ment	No.	%	No.	%	No.	%	No.	%
Mad			 716	513	71.6	76	10.6	90	12 5	37	5.1
Mass			.... 928	714	76.9	84	9.	89	9 5	41	4.4
Penn		.... 758	594	78.2	77	10.1	62	9.3	25	3.2
Ill			 255	217	85.	20	7.8	14	5.4	4	1.5
Ind		.... 1216	991	81.5	101	8.3	87	7.2	37	3.
West Side			 353	277	78.5	34	9 6	30	8.5	12	3.4
Texas 		.... 591	503	85.1	45	7.6	31	5 2	12	2.1
Mont		.... 465	408	87.7	39	8.4	14	3.	4	.8
Bri		.... 666	497	74.	77	11.	64	9.	28	6.
Rich			 502	389	77.5	34	6.7	57	11.1	22	4 3
Jr. High 		.... 960	754	78.6	71	7.4	73	7.6	62	6 4
Sr. High			 1904	1157	60.8	363	19.2	196	10.2	188	9.8
Boys* Voc.		89	71	79.	6	6.7	5	5 6	7	7.8
Girls Voc.		69	49	71.	5	7.2	10	14.4	5	7.2
Texas									
Spec. Cl		60	36	72.	6	12.	5	10	3	6
Ind. Spec. Cl.	32	28	87.5	3	9.4	1	3.1		
Total 			 9554	7198	75 3 :	1041	10.8	828	8.7	487	5 2

Digitized by t^ooQle
881

EXERTION IS THE SECRET OF PHYSICAL WELL BEING

Excerpts from an address delivered to the Lions Club by Carl L. Schrader.

"Most of us have a thought for the proverbial rainy day, an expression we use when we lay by funds which are to serve us when need arises. We do not think much of the fellow who lives from hand to mouth. We aim to have a reserve or bank account upon which we may draw, either to bridge over a momentary slack, or to permit us to be extravagant socially or indulge in luxuries we do not need. Not until man looks upon physical fitness, or in a broader sense, health, in terms of abundance, will he derive that sense of security which the man with the bank account has, when the day of need arrives. The average man considers the state of health to be that when he is not sick in bed, a sort of from hand-to-mouth existence, a situation which may again be likened unto the financial status of the man who has neither debts nor money laid by, who just manages to make both ends meet. Unless we interpret the meaning of good health to mean possessing it in abundance, we are merely holding our own so long as conditions are favorable.

“Our health should enable us, when need be, to labor several days without sleep but without collapse, or, applying it to a pleasanter extravagance, we should be in a condition to attend a social function, say a dance, lasting well into the morning, without having to hibernate afterwards in order to recuperate; or again, we should be in shape to climb a mountain, possibly lose the trail, be overtaken by rain and cold, arrive home well-nigh exhausted, but after a good bath, followed by a good meal and a sound sleep should feel aglow both from the physical reaction, and the satisfaction of having mastered a trying situation.

“How are we to accumulate this abundance? Just as we must invest money to earn more money, so must we invest energy in order to earn more energy. This reduces the problem to the cold fact of proper recreation. There are two distinct types of recreation, one in which we are passive; that is where we are entertained by others, which may be by listening to music, a lecture, the drama, or by observation of athletic or acrobatic performances. The other is the active type where we personally function, which may be in any of the above suggested fields. Both of these types serve a distinct purpose but of the two, the latter—the active form of recreation—after all is the one which nets the more valuable and more lasting returns.

"Linked up closely and vitally with the standing of our physical bank account is this question of how much energy we invest in active participation in purposeful physical recreation. We are known the world over as a people seeking short cuts toward many ends. There is no short cut toward health and
882

physical fitness in abundance. Every individual has to earn in order to possess it. There is no secret about physical fitness, never has been, and the physical culturist who, through his or her alluring advertisement, promises to work a miracle and make the lean fat or the fat lean, the short tall and what not else, is but preying on those who want to achieve without effort. It can’t be done.

“Improvement and increase in strength, vigor and agility, all decided health factors can be won only by exertion, and the more such exertion can be gained under inviting and social conditions, the greater will be the result. The social game calling for real exertion, such as volley ball, fist ball, hand ball, squash, tennis, etc., serves this purpose admirably, so will, as a second choice, the well conducted class of gymnastics in its great variety serve a good purpose. Home exercises, splendid and effective as they may be in themselves, lack the social element and are less likely to be carried on as regularly, nor to the point of exertion, which, I repeat, is essential, than the exercises taken in companionship with others. Boxing or fencing with your boy or neighbor at home, a handball or volley ball court in your back yard, even if not of official size, offers types of recreation at home with which to store up energy. We sleep sounder when we are really physically tired, a feeling which comes after exertion. We, too, often mistake feeling weary and sleepy for feeling physically tired. We may become weary from overworking mentally, and sleepy either from monotonous situation or stuffy air but we get the good, effective tired feeling only through physical exertion. It is the man who is weary and mainly sleepy who does not find ready sleep upon retiring. The physical exertion, though many times entered into reluctantly, serves as the best remedy for sound sleep. To suffer from sleeplessness certainly is no rare experience for the busy professional or business man or woman.

“Both man and woman have to learn that it is far pleasanter and less costly to voluntarily set aside a definite time for such energizing recreation, than to take a long chance to get along without it, and then find themselves forced to lay up for repairs for long periods. Once 'physically bankrupt it takes a long time to become solvent again.

“Not having mastered any of the varied types of games and sports during youth makes the problem to choose complicated. Don’t hesitate to begin, even though you are middle-aged or more, and plump but don’t match yourself with the person who is too speedy for you. Find your own class of skill and speed, it’s a large one, you may be sure. One is never too old to play, but old rather because one does not play. Just realize that something has been denied you when you went to school, namely to learn the technique of games and activities worth while, which carry over. Your rooting for the other fellow has not netted you very much. If you do come to this realization, lend your aid to your community toward
883

better and equal opportunities for the children growing up. Such is the purpose of the physical education legislation m the various states in the country. The privilege heretofore for those few already well endowed by nature and trained to thrill the multitudes is now to be given every boy and girl, just as it is in all other branches of education. The boy and girl will then arrive at manhood and womanhood prepared to choose intelligently a form of recreation he or she has mastered and learned to love. But those of the present generation who have not shared in such preparation cannot afford to pass by the opportunity which still is theirs. Set aside a definite time for this purpose. If possible, join a class where under good leadership a well-balanced program is carried out and where following the exertion there is opportunity for the refreshing shower. Make a beginning at least by stretching consciously to full height a number of times a day. Rise up high on your toes, draw in the abdomen, lift the chest high, get your neck from between your shoulders and aim to touch your head to the ceiling. This will give you the feeling of what you might be through the investment of time and energy toward permanency of such a set up. In your community urge the use of the school equipment for recreational purposes, you are contributing toward it. We have only begun to use the school equipment to its fullest extent. In brief, it’s entirely your job, for your own personal benefit by your own personal exertion. It’s up to you! The weaker the body, the more it commands; the stronger the body, the more it obeys.’”

THE VALUE OF FANS IN FURNACE HEATING.

By C. G. Buder

(From a Paper Presented at the Semi-annual Meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers in Atlantic City June 16-17,1925)

When a furnace is placed in a casing and heated, the air within the casing expands and thus becomes lighter per cubic foot than the air without and air motion is produced. This is known as gravty circulation. The amount of air that can be displaced is a direct function of this difference in temperature. It can be readily seen that as the demand for heat becomes greater there must be a rise in temperature at the register.

In a well designed gravity installation, the maximum allowable temperature at the register is about 180 degrees, or a difference of 110 degrees from the desired room temperature of 70 degrees F. This difference of temperature will cause the air to stratify in the room and while not objectionable in buildings with low ceilings, it is very objectionable in buildings with high ceilings, such as churches and theaters.

Where a fan is used in connection with the furnace, a

Digitized by

Google
884

larger volume of air can be delivered at a lower temperature diminishing the possibilities of stratification.

For example, suppose a building requires 200 cu. ft. per minute to be recirculated at a register temperature of 110 degrees above room temperature. The B. T. U. requirement would 2000

be-------x 110 or 4000 B. T. U. per minute. If this volume

55

could be increased to three times 2000 cu. ft. per minute or to 6000 cu. ft. per minute, a temperature rise of only 36.6 degrees would be required.

An actual test of a building having a ceiling height of 35 ft. showed a temperature of 63 degrees at the floor and 98 degrees at the ceiling when operating as a gravity system, a difference of 35 degrees or an average of 1 degree per foot. The fan was then run for an hour and the temperature showed 70 degrees at the floor and 77 degrees at the ceiling or a diffe'-ence of 7 degrees or 0.5 degrees per foot.

In addition to preventing stratification the fan helps to insure better distribution to all parts of the building and thus helps to prevent air stagnation.

The transfer of heat between a hot metal and the surrounding air depends upon the velocity of the air over the surface of the metal. This is due to the insulating effect cf a more or less stationary film of air next to the surface. This film of air offers considerable resistance to the flow of heat, known as the surface resistance. The surface resistance is affected by the character and roughness of the surface and the velocity of the air over the surface. The moving air tends to break up this insulating film and decrease its thickness and insulating effect. With the higher air velocities over the surface of the furnace, attained by forced circulation, the insulating effect of this film of air is decreased and the heat transfer, for the same temperature difference between the furnace and air in the casing, is increased.

The rate of heat transfer from one body to another depends upon the difference in temperature. The fan by increasing the volume of air handled produces a lower air temperature inside the casing, a greater heat transfer is therefore made possible and higher efficiency is realized. Hence, the efficiency of a furnace is increased doubly by forced circulation, First, due to the decreased surface resistance caused by the greater air velocity and, Second, due to the greater difference in temperature between the furnace and the surrounding air.

When a furnace is operated as a gravity system, the motive power causing air motion over the furnace is supplied by the increase in temperature of the air itself, hence, the air next to the furnace, being most heated, rises more rapidly than the air near the casing wall. This is a condition which is desired. With the application of a fan there is no great tendency for a maximum air velocity over the furnace and baffling becomes

Digitized by

Google
885

necessary to gain this end, hence a furnace with fan offers a field for careful design in arranging such baffles in order to produce the best results.

There are four requirements for an ideal fan for use in producing forced circulation in a warm air furnace: First, max-mum capacity, Second, minimum power consumption, Third, quiet operation, Fourth, freedom for air flow. In other words the fan must not obstruct the passage of air when it is not in use thereby permitting the furnace to be operated as a gravity system when desired.

In order to gain appreciable advantage over the gravity system in the matter of increased heat transfer due to high velocity over the furnace and low air temperatures the fan should be able to supply at least three times the quantity of air circulated with the gravity system. Fans with high tip speeds are generally noisy so in order to avoid annoyance from this source, fans of low tip speed should be used.

Perhaps the most difficult problem is to find a fan that does not obstruct the air passage when it is not in operation. There are many standard makes of fans that operate silently and have sufficient capacity but they usually require hand operated or automatic by-passes in order to allow the furnace to operate as a gravity system. The failure to have these bypasses operated at all times when running as gravity system may result in damage to the plant.

In the installation of heating plants economy of operation must be taken into consideration as well as ability to function properly. Care should be taken that the maximum air delivery is given for the power required. A fan especially designed for furnace work has a quiet operating speed and will produce four times the gravity volume. The free area through the wheel is as great as the area of the duct it is designed to be attached to and the power consumption is low. These fans are made in three sizes, the largest having wheels 24 in. in diameter, handling 7000 cu. ft. per minute against 0.25 in. static pressures with a little less than 1 H. P. All sizes are made to fit 24-in. ducts.

INCREASED CAPACITY.—It has been proven that by increasing the air volume and fuel consumption, an increase of capacity three times that of normal operation can be obtained without damage to the furnace. This gives the fan and furnace combination a flexibility that is hard to equal.

ADAPTABILITY.—The fan furnace system is adaptable to the use of all open type buildings, schools, churches and homes. Its development has tremendous possibilities and the future holds promise of the ideal in furnace heating when this apparatus is coupled with air-washers, filters and other air conditioning apparatus all automatically controlled.

Digitized by

Google
886

THE PASSING OF THE REDMAN.

Lillian C. Watt, Philadelphia, Pa.

This pageant represents dramatically the history of the American Indian. The story is idealized and generalized. It is divided into four main episodes. The first episode reveals Indian life before the coming of the white man. The second episode deals with the first white settlers and their varied methods and attitudes in dealing with the Indians. The third episode shows the Indians defeated and pushed westward by the advance of the frontiers. The fourth episode shows the remnant of the Indian tribes coming completely under the dominion and influence of the whites in the government reservations.

The actual scenes are carried on in pantomime. Between the acts a number of allegorical characters give, in words, the atmosphere for the coming scenes. These characters are: The spirit of the Indian, represented by the god, Tehoronhiawakhon, the friend of man, two early settlers, the Man of Peace, the Soldier, the Spirit of Progress; and the Sentimentalist. They act before the curtain.

The Pageant should be presented on an outdoor stage, background of woods. The stage should be provided with footlights, spotlights and a curtain. The play should be produced at night. All the actors should wear heavy grease-paint makeup.

Introduction

Orchestra plays “By the Waters of Minnetonka.”

Spirit of Indian appears before deep red curtain. Should be man with deep voice, compelling personality and ability to act. His costume is entirely white. He wears buckskin leggings, moccasins, and blouse heavily decorated with beads and quili embroidery. He wears the full feather headdress. His sleeves are flowing, his hands empty.

Tehoronhiawakhon :-

"Ye whose hearts are fresh and simple,

Who have faith in God and nature

Who believe that in all ages

Every human heart is human

That in even savage bosoms

There are longings, yearnings, strivings

For the good they comprehend not,

That the feeble hands and helpless,

Groping blindly in tha darkness Touch God’s right hand in the darkness And are.lifted up and strengthened.

Look upon this simple story Of the history.oftheJRedman.

Digitized by Google
887

I, Tehoronhiawakhon Known as mankind’s friend and helper Look upon them with compassion With paternal love and pity.

First, I know them in the forest Ere the coming of the white man. Innocent they were, but savage,

Living glad lives in the woodland,

By their blazing fires they gathered,

Sang and danced in joy together;

There, among the ferns and mosses,

In the moonlight and the starlight,

From the circle went the warrior Richly wrought with quills and wampum, On his head his eagle feathers.

Round his waist, his belt of wampum,

In his hand his bow of ashwood,

Strung with sinews of the reindeer.

Forth he strode into the forest,

Left behind him in the village All the women and the children Working, playing in their doorways Looking forward to the hour He returns in triumph homeward.

In the damp and dusk of evening From the darkness blaze the campfires, Round them gather all the old men And the wise men of the village Sit them down to smoke the peace pipe Giving thanks to the great Spirit,

Gitche Manito the mighty,

For their land of peace and plenty.

Act 1.

Scene 1.

As curtain rises men go out to hunt. Wigwam to left of stage, squaws in front. Children in groups in center and right; fire on right. Men wear hunting dress, leggings of buckskin, fringed and beaded; hair knotted on top of head with quills stuck through. They carry bows and tomahawks. Women wear leggings, skirts above ankles, blouses fringed and embroidered. Hair worn in two plaits. Children very lightly clad.

Action. Women at work at dressmaking, pottery and weaving. Children play; boys, target practice and foot races; girls, beadwork and ball games. Boys and girls dance and play around fire. The men return from hunting. Indian drops game at door and retires to corner to rest and put hunting implements in order. Squaw takes game to entrance of wigwam where she skins and cuts up animal, reserving the choice parts. Large
888

chunk is put in pot on fire. Boys aid father. Girls aid the women. All gather around fire to partake of evening meal, dipping fingers in the pot.

One youth begins to beat tomtom to summon a council together for a social time. More Indians enter. Children start dancing. Many others join them. One couple starts the “Elating Dance," advancing and retreating towards the fire. Dancers gradually stop and are seated around the fire. Peace pipe is passed. Each man puffs and passes it on. Never receive pipe from the right.

Tomtoms beat softly. All join in a slow “Dance to the Great Spirit” accompanied by a wailing, wordless song. Tableau, all arms upraised toward the sun. Curtain.

Interlude between Acts 1 and 2

Orchestra—Ski-bi-bi-la

The Man of Peace wears a long belted robe of deep blue, similar in shape to a monk’s cassock. The soldier wears a close fitting red costume, a soldier’s helmet, and carries a sword and shield.

The	Man of Peace.

Let us go hence upon this barren land In frail ships we’ve crossed the mighty seas Seeking our liberty on this alien strand Let us build up our homes beneath these trees.

Other men are here they’ll be our friends In faith and brotherhood we’ll dwell together We’ll work in hope of reaching noble ends Of love and comradeship with one another.

The Soidier

We’ll labor with what zeal we may To make this our land, ours alone.

We’ll drive these idle savages away

And keep these shores and woodland for our own.

Tehoronhiawakhon

Who is this who comes upon us Comes upon us in our forests?

Welcome to ye, pale face strangers Welcome to the Redman’s country.

The Soldier

What ho! A savage Redman yonder.

The Man of Peace:

A stranger. Let us greet him, brother.

The Soldier:

I’ll draw my sword. He seeks to slay us.

Digitized by Google
889

The	Man of	Peace

Nay, if we trade with him and treat him kindly 'Tis better far than to rush forward blindly Bent on destruction without honest cause.

Trade with him, teach him all our laws. Bitterly will we rue it if we strive From out these woodlands forcefully to drive These honest peaceful men They are our friends. Let’s work together for our common ends.

The Soldieri

We have no common aims. Bom enemies are we.

Tehoronhiawakhon:

There is evil for the Indian

Shame and evil for the Redman

From these grasping, quarreling strangers.

If they vie with one another,

Jabber with the throats of bluejays Can the Redmen trust their kindness?

Cast himself upon their mercy?

No, the Redman is unconquered.

He will strive to hold his forests.

Peace he longs for, and the stillness And the solitude of our hunting grounds.

Go, go, go, I warn ye, strangers,

Go, tiie Redman’s knife is sharpened.

Learn to dread the warrior’s tomahawk.

Learn to dread his hate and vengeance. *

Soldier draws sword. Man of Peace restrains him.

Soldieri

We’ll drive these Redskins far away.

Tomorrow is the white man’s day.

Orchestra "Redwing”

Episode Two

Scene. l.^Trading between Indians and Quakers.

Woodland scene. Very large tree near center of stage. Left of stage, upstage, group of Indians. Costumes. Girdle of skin or leather around waist (striped cheese cloth may be used.) Leather strap over right shoulder, under left arm. supporting quiver containing arrows. Bows carried in hands. Head bands of various colors, two or more feathers stuck under band. Hair hanging straight and loose. Blankets of various bright colors used as wraps, thrown around shoulders or caught with hands in front. Feet bare, or with moccasins. Leaning against tree is Indian chieftain. He wears large feather head-

Digitized by

Google
890

gear of white feathers tipped with red, fox skin robe held loosely around him.

Opposite the Indian group are a group of white settlers in somber costumes. Shirts white, knee breeches and a very short‘coat of dull green or grey cambric. Stiff white Puritan style collars and cuffs. Top coat loose, somewhat flaring with silver (Nickel) buttons down front. Grey or black knit wool stockings, low shoes with buckles and tongue; hats, grey, green or black, either stiff large Puritan style, or large hat with rolling brim. Natural hair worn straight and long. Some appear without topcoats or hats. Leader, (Wm. Penn), stands in front of group, carrying scroll.

Down stage left are Indians carrying bales of furs, and baskets containing grain. Down stage right are white men with packs of merchandise, knives, cheap jewelry, calico cloth, and bags of salt.

Leaders advance, bow and parley.

Assistant hands Indian chief wampum belt. Chief exchanges belt for the white man’s scroll. Leaders retire upstage and are seated in friendly talk. Groups mingle and exchange commodities, with signs of delight on part of the Indians. White men exit. Indians assemble around tree.

Curtain.

Scene 2. Northern Trade Post.

Scene. Open space in front of log .trading house. House on right rear of stage. Door and window facing audience. Large pile of fir wood center upstage. Left upstage Indian tying horse to hitching post. Three Indian women carrying furs. In doorway of hut, fat white man lazily smoking pipe. Two white men on step. Two Indians huddled on ground near door. To right of house, five traders talking. Furs of bear and lynx tacked on front wall of hut. Two large hogsheads, presumably containing liquor, against right wall of house.

Costumes. Traders: Long, loose fitting blue grey breeches. Brown cowhide belt with case for firearms. Blue homespun shirt thrown open at neck. Some wear coats of brown or tan leather, or of the homespun material. Black or brown roll brim hat, or coonskin cap. Some wear trousers of dark brick red woven material, and shirts of unbleached material looking very dirty.

Indian women: Skirt of buckskin, more or less ornamented, reaching from waist to half way below knee. Upper dress same material. Brilliant and varied colored shawl thrown over shoulders and head. Fringed leggings and moccasins. Many jewels and ear rings. Hair plaited in two braids. Feathers in hair.
891

Indian men: Long fringed leggings and moccasins. Some with spears, shields with scalps hanging from them; tomahawks, or bows and arrows. Bracelets on upper arm.

Action: Indian tying horse comes forward with bale of furs. Traders in doorway talk with him. He points to hogsheads and they give him liquor in stone demijohn. Indian women cross stage carrying baskets and boxes of Indian workmanship. One enters hut and returns with small handful of beads. Women protest and demand more. Meanwhile fat man in doorway sells a bell-mouthed gun to one of the Indians. The Indian, with the demijohn, who has been drinking by the wood-pile begins to grow drunk. He picks a quarrel with one of the white men. The fat man calmly draws a pistol and shoots him. The Indian women flee. The other Indian men prepare to fight, but are immediately covered by the guns of the white men who now stand in a compact group by the door. The Indian with the new gun attempts to fire it. It misses fire and the fat trader laughs. The Indian throws down the gun and tries to use his bow but is slain by the bullet of one of the white men. The rest of the Indians flee leaving the bodies of their comrades.

Interlude between Acts Two and Three.

Tehoronhiawakhon:

On our shores they swarm by thousands.

Mingling with the smokes of wigwams Are the furnaces of the white men.

Harnessing our rushing rivers Are the millwheels of the strangers.

No longer are our broad dominions ours alone and ours freely.

Through the forests roam the white men Bringing gifts and trading with us.

Bringing evil gifts and habits.

Buying furs for swords and muskets And the white man’s good and evil Slaying us in blind unreason Killing all that we hold sacred.

Sick at heart and faint and weary We are forced to leave the homeland.

Westward, ever westward pushing They seize our forests, lakes and rivers,

Heeding not their brothers’ warning Fearing not the evil spirits.

The paleface tribes conspire against us,

And hurl us from our former holdings.

Now behold our nations scattered,

Restless, struggling, toiling, striving.

Speaking many tongues, yet feeling

Digitized by Google
892

But one heart beat in their bosoms.

See the remnants of our people

Like the withered leaves of autumn,

As they fly before the west wind

FVom the mighty Mudjekeewis.

Orchestra—“From the Land of the Sky Blue Water.”

Act Three

Scene 1. Farewell ceremonies.

Setting: Night scene. Campfire in center of stage. Wig*-warn on either side. Indian men, women and children grouped in background. Medicine man seated behind fire, light making his face appear ghastly.

Costumes: Men and women as in act two. Children very scantily clad. Waist girdles and head bands. Medicine man wears close fitting suit of pale skins, with white horse hair trimmings. His face is made up to resemble skull. His hair is long and white.

As curtain rises, some are talking in dejected groups; some are caring for fire. Two old women, right rear, begin to beat tomtoms, very low. One is pitched a fifth higher than the other. They beat alternately in monotonous rhythm, swaying back and forth. The medicine man beats two bones together. Gradually all rise and dance around the fire.

Orchestra plays softly—“The Temple Bells.”

Gradually only youths are left dancing. They sink down one by one as music dies away, and tomtoms cease. Gradually the firelight fades and the tribe settles down to slumber. Just before curtain is drawn, all the tribe sleeps but the medicine man. He rises slowly, stands above dying fire' and extends his arms, with their bony, clawlike hands in a ghostly gesture. Curtain.

Scene 2. Same camp as dawn is breaking.

Sleeping men arouse one by one. Squaws cook over campfire. Men disappear to return with horses, while women break camp. The wigwams made into bundles are placed on crossed poles dragged behind the horses. Carrying bundles suspended by bands from their foreheads, one with a papoose, the squaws leave camp. The men lead the horses, crossing the stage in a long slow procession. Last of all is the medicine man tottering on a staff. A crying child clings to his robe. Curtain.

Interlude between Act 3 and Act 4

Tehoronhiawakhon:

I am old. The Redman’s gods are dying,

Digitized by

Google
893

Progress, the white man’s curse, stalks forth across the land.

And I, alas, must see my people perish.

They live perhaps, but lose their ancient ways.

No more the hope of happy hunting.

No more the manly sports, the council fire.

No more the songs and dances of the tribes.

They vanish. Westward, ever westward, moving. Destroyed and hidden in the white man’s land.

I must go home. The Redmen’s day is over.

The spirits of the Redmen hope no more.

We go. There is nothing here to satisfy us.

Father, we bow to thy will.

Light fades out entirely. The Indian exits. Suddenly the spotlight blazes on a new figure standing in his place. The Spirit of Progress is clad entirely in gold. The whole costume is made in sharp angles, with a square cut tunic and square flat cap. Elbows at side, hands clasped behind a rectangular shield.

The Spirit of Progress:

I am the Spirit of Progress I am the white man’s God.

I build great cities, mighty empires for him.

The weak, the old, the useless I destroy.

And push my strong dominion to the seas.

The Indian flees before me.

I do not care to harm him.

He need not die. I’ll make a place for him.

A neatly sheltered place, and bring

The white man’s wisdom to his uncouth mind.

Ignorant as he is, he yet may learn The white man’s knowledge, yet may learn How best to honor, serve and worship me.

Orchestra—“Indian Lament.”

Act 4.

Scene 1. Life in Reservation Village.

Yard of an ugly frame house. House is on right, door facing front. Women and children gathered in yard, women working at pottery, baking, weaving on an old fashioned loom, one with modern sewing machine. Children playing at mud pies, etc. One man lolls in broken rocking chair against the wall.

Costumes:	Ordinary	American	farm'	costumes.	Women

wear faded gingham dresses. Children wear rompers. Man wears gaudy shirt. Youth who enters wears dark suit, bright yellow shoes, bow tie, straw hat, and carries shiny suitcase.

Digitized by \jOOQlC
894

Action: Women work and children play. Youth enters. He is greeted with surprise and joy by all. He goes into house, removes his coat, hat and yellow shoes; returns to find the women and children busy as before. He wanders aimlessly about, finally pulls up a chair beside the other man, leans back listlessly and Degins to smoke.

Scene 2. Schoolhouse scene.

Front of school house center back of stage. Open yard.

Costumes: Ordinary American clothes for country school children.

Action: Children being dismissed for recess. Door opens and children file out. They break ranks and scatter to play boisterously. White teacher comes out and sits on step reading newspaper. Boys play tag, ball and leapfrog. Girls skip rope, or merely talk. Bell rings and children instantly obey signal and march in file back into the building.

Interlude Between Scenes 2 and 3

The sentimentalist; clad in sporting attire, khaki trousers and 0. D. flannel shirt; a rather elderly man.

I	am a seeker after truth.

I love jold things and dead things.

I love \the woods and fields And those who dwell therein.

I seek for virtues vanished and forgot.

Here where the remnant of the Indians dwell May I still hope his virtues to retain, Recapture still the Redman’s former knowledge. Still may I find some scraps of ancient lore, Relearn his ways and save them from oblivion.

Steps aside and gestures. Curtains open revealing same scene as Scene 1, Act 4. It is night. The house door is shut and there are no persons on the scene. Sentimentalist beckons. The door opens and the Indians troop forth as if they were walking in a dream. They enter in European costume. They form semicircle in rear of stage. White man goes forward and builds fire in center of stage. As the light flares up the Indians seem to come to life. They cast off their shabby clothes and reveal themselves clad in native costume. The man of the striped shirt and the broken rocking chair appears as the medicineman. He stands behind fire, beckons the white man forward, presents him with the headgear of a chieftain. The tomtoms begin to beat very faintly. The Indians dance very slowly and wearily around the fire, the white man dancing too. In the middle of the dance the tomtoms slacken and cease. The Indians look dazed and stop dancing. The figure of Te-

Digitized by

Google
895

horonhiawakhon, suddenly appears in the background. None see him but the white man. The Indians slip silently into the house. The white man kneels watching the Spirit of the Indian. The firelight is very dim. The Indian moves forward and stands across the fire from the white man. looking above the heads of the audience.

Tehoronhiawakhon

I stand, the ghost of my once mighty self.

The Redman's day is ended, his twilight merged with night.

Only our memory remains, and that is swiftly vanishing.

Few men recall my name. None know my ways.

Like Ishkoodah the comet, my nation blazed across the skies

Is gone forever. Oh, bitter mockery. Our sun can never rise again.

There is no spark which can rekindle the Redman’s council fire.

We vanish from the whiteman’s world and pass forever.

White man removes his headgear and bows head, still kneeling.

Tableau. Slow curtain.

Orchestra—“By the Waters of Minnetonka” Played slowly.

Extracts and reprintC

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS O

GYMNASTICS AND SPORTS IN FRANCE AND GERMANY

Author Dr. G. Frostell, Stockholm, Sweden. Translated into German by Folke Swenson. Translated into English by Dr. D. V. Besser, Philadelphia.

Dr. G. Frostell, a Swede by birth, and a sport enthusiast, accompanied the Swedish team to the Olympic Games at Paris as its medical adviser. Homeward bound he visited Germany. His observations and impressions of Gymnastics and Sports in France and Germany he expressed in the following terms: For a long time France has been compelled to pay attention to her race problem. So far as her physical education is concerned the world war has furnished a new incentive for her physical training, which became apparent at the Olympic games at Paris. By arranging and conducting her games and exhibitions France enabled one to judge to what extent she

Digitized by

Google
8%

had advanced her physical training..	The exhibitions

in a number of instances were failures, and the character of the games was more professional than at previous Olympic festivals. One can say that the international meet, in which France tried to be strongly represented, impressed the observer that her physical training was not a state affair.. . The schools of France never had a uniform physical training system of any consequence, like Germany or Sweden. The attempt to form a system of their own, composed of German turner and Swedish gymnastics, and intermingled with French athletics, never succeeded. .

.After the world war France claimed that the final success of the great struggle could be directly attributed to the superiority of her race. To perpetutate this claim it was decided to create a new system of physical training embodying all the modem thoughts of body development. This was considered a splendid idea, and was approved by many. The French pointed with pride to their ability to create their own independent system. The same thought was expressed by a professor of a French university, who during a conversation, declared that France has no need to hunt outside her territory to find a suitable system of physical education. Much of German tumen and Swedish gymnastics, he boasted, was originally ‘French’ and copied from the French. .In 1920 the author already had the opportunity to study the culture physique in Joinville, France, which appeared to him a blend of German tumen, intermingled with light athletics and military exercises.

.The Olympic Games comprised two French exhibition numbers, one for men, one for women. The foundation work of the men’s exhibition was in a higher degree German tumen than I saw in Joinville. Some pleasing rhythmical movements were cleverly arranged to change the appearance of the origin of the calisthenics, which was undoubtedly German. The same exhibition number contained movements of a vigorous type. Presumably they were patterned after the system of the Dane Niels Bukh. In addition the exercises were intermingled with modem sports. One must be a Frenchman to detect anything original in this new system. .The other exhibition number, that of women, was a typical example of the low standard in general of the physical training for the gentler sex. The participants were a large number of young women in gorgeous attire, with hardly fair physical training. Most of the exhibition consisted of plastic poses and stage dancing, which the author characterized as a burlesque of systematic training. Ballet dancing upon Swedish and other stages distinguishes itself from this performance, in that it is executed with greater precision. Furthermore, the number was a failure, because of insufficient rehearsals, which threw the performance in a hurly-burly and caused it to end in confusion. Nevertheless a leading Paris newspaper called the exhibition a great demonstration of' French gymnastic training of women

Digitized by
897

My criticism may sound unjust, says the author, but my unbiased judgment is the result of impartial observation..

France is making great efforts at present along scientific lines by investigating the physiological influence of bodily training upon the human organism. The physicians at Joinville, and in the army, conduct extensive research work. Their labor, no doubt, will bring important results. With the means of anthropometry, with medical and physiological experimentation, with Roentgen Rays and with kinematographic reproductions much has already been accomplished. The progress of the scientific research by French physicians, which is important for the practical exercise, has not yet received the proper attention by French writers on physical education problems. Physical education literature is lagging behind the advances made by the medical investigators.

With all the physiological experimentations one comes to the conclusion, that the physiologic results of an exercise are not the only means by which its effectiveness should be considered. By means of anthropologic research we are able to furnish more facts, relative to certain external influences of exercises than by any other science. Anthropology is a science the value of which can be universally attested by America, France, Germany, Sweden or any other country. For practical purposes it is the most valuable science for standardizing physical work.

If you come to Germany, (like Dr. Frostell) with your French impressions still upon your mind, and you visit the High School of Physical Training at Berlin, you will be astonished how energy and voluntary interests are coordinated, with scientific research. Nowhere have I ever found more honest efforts to investigate the results of exercises of modem trend, with regard to their educational and physiological value, than in the metropolis of Germany. The university reminds one of the endeavors at Joinville, France, but without flattering, one must admit, that the German High School of Physical Education conducts the investigations more thoroughly and on a more systematic basis. .

I see with Swedish eye and view the new kind of bodybuilding exercises as a group by itself. They must be separated from most of the sports exercises and a large part of apparatus work, because the beneficial influence of the latter is not so easy to determine as is the case of the new forms. . .When I unreservedly commend the German High School for its efforts to discard the old training system in favor of one founded upon higher scientific lines, I am guided primarily by the effectiveness of the new forms, their educational characters and their physiological value. If we eliminate the work of French investigators at Joinville, the German High School at Berlin is the only institute to my knowledge, which has incorporated all branches of physical training in its research work.. . Not

Digitized by

Google
898

every Swedish gymnast now-a-days clings to his old training system either. The reform wave, that swept over Europe after the war, in order to change the existing forms of training, in favor of modern methods based on scientific principles, has also reached Sweden. For practical reasons concessions were made by which some modem training forms became a part of our system. Since then quite a number of our gymnasts prefer the new way of training forgetting thereby the high value of the old method. These happenings surprise nobody, because they are apt to occur in any reform movement. .

After reviewing the merits of physical training in France and Germany I thought it possible that an exchange of opinions on current physical education topics could be arranged, that would create ultimately a desire of all enlightened countries to work together for the good of the cause. Such arrangements would add zest to one’s judgment and be productive of good results, which count in all forms of labor.

♦ ------------------------------------------

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

« — - ■ ■

A COMBINATION DRILL BY WOMEN, SENIORS AND ACTIVES, MCKEESPORT, PA., TURN UND GESANG

VEREIN

By Adam Doehla

Women.........................Free	Exercises'

Men	(Actives)...............Wand	Exercises

Senior Men............... Dumbbell	Exercises

Music: “Connecticut March” by William Nassann Formation: A Column of 9 ranks in open order

1	representing	Men	(Actives)

2	representing	Senior Men

3	representing Women

Part I

121333121

121333121

Part II

131232131

131232131

Part III

121333121

121333121

Digitized by

Google
899

Free Exercises (Women)

Part 1.

1.	Touch step forward left and raise arms upward........... 1-4

• Bend-knee-step backward left and 3-4 arm circle inward (arms sideward)................................ 5-8

Return to first position............................... 9-12

Starting position..................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right.......................... 17-64

2.	Touch step sideward left and raise arms sideward left 1- 4 Cross touch step obliquely backward left and swing arm

to the right (1-2 D. A. C. upward)...................... 5- 8

Return movement........................................ 9-16

Repeat right, and left and right...................... 17-64

3.	Touch step backward left and raise arms obliquely

backward...............................................  1-4

Bend - knee - step forward left, bend tipper trunk backward and swing arms through upward position side-

wai^l (palms upward).................................... 5- 8

Return movement........................................ 9-12

Starting position......................................13-16

Repeat right, left and right...........................17-64

4.	March forward 4 steps................................... 1- 4

Mark time 4 steps....................................... 5- 8

Center row jump to side stride arm to a circle overhead outer rows lunge inward, inner arm obliquely side-

upward outer arm obliquely side-downward............... 9-16

March backward 4 steps and	mark	time	4	steps. 17-24

5.	Touch step backward left and place hands on shoulders 1- 4 Lunge left forward and raise left arm obliquely forward

upward right obliquely backward......................... 5- 8

Bent-knee-step backward left and change position of arms.............................................. 9-12

Starting position........................................ 13-16

Repeat right left and right.........................   17-64

(While playing the Introduction the outer rows of women will change places with the Seniors.)

Free Exercises (Women)

Part II

1.	Lunge forward left and raise arms upward................ 1- 4

Bend arms for thrust-5, stretch arms upward-6. bend

arm for thrust-7, stretch arms upward-8................. 5- 8

Bent-knee-step backward left	and	3-4 arm	circle inward 9-12

Starting position..................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right.......................... 17-64

2.	Lunge sidewaid left and raise arms sideward, left.......	1- 4

Raise arms upward-5, lower to the left-6, raise arms up-

ward-7, lower to the left-8............................. 5- 8

Bend knees to a full squat and circle arms right (upward) left arm 4-4 circle, right arm 1-2 circle (arms sideward) ............................................. 9-12

Digitized by Google
900

3.

4.

5.

Starting position.................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right......................... 17-64

Jump to side stride and raise arms sideward........... 1-	4

Jump to cross stride and raise arms upward-5, jump to side stride arms sideward-6, jump to cross stride arms

upward-7, jump to side stride arms sideward-8......... 5-	8

Turn trunk left, bend upper trunk backward and arms

for thrust............................................ 9-12

Starting position.................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right........................  17-64

March forward 4 steps and mark time 4 steps........... 1-	8

Bend knees and raise arms forward..................... 9-16

March backward 4 steps and mark time 4 steps....... 17-24

Jump to side stride and place hands on shoulders...	1- 2

Jump to position and stretch arms upward.............. 3-	4

Lunge left forward, arms diagonally (left arm obliquely fore-upward right arm obliquely backward).......	5-	8

Step backward left and kneel on left knee, left arm in

rear of body, right arm to guard over head............ 9-12

Starting position ................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right......................... 17-64

While playing the Introduction Women, who stand between Men change places with Seniors 1-8.

Free Exercises (Women)

Part III

1.	Raise left leg sideward and arms left sideward.......... 1-	2

Bent-knee-step left obliquely backward (inward) 1-2

D. A. C. right (Arms sideward right) .................. 3-	4

Lunge sideward left and circle arm left, left arm 5-8 of a circle to position obliquely side-upward, right arm

7-8 of a circle to position obliquely side-downward.	5- 8

Bend trunk sideward left and place left hand on hip, right

arm to a semi-circle over head.......................   9-12

Starting position.................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and	right......................... 17-64

2.	Raise left leg forward and arms upward.................. 1-	2

Bent-knee-step backward left and 3-4 arm circle inward (arms sideward)................................... 3-	4

1-4 turn left, change lmee-bending, bend trunk forward

and lower arms (left knee between arms)................ 5-	8

1-4 turn right, straighten trunk, kneel on right knee

and raise arms for	thrust.............................  9-12

Starting position....................................  13-16

Repeat right, left and right........................   17-64

3.	Raise left leg backward and place hands on shoulders.. 1- 2 Lunge left backward, bend upper trunk backward and

throw arms sideward (palms upward)..................... 3-	4

Lunge left forward and swing arms downward and fore-upward ................................................ 5-	8

Digitized by kjOOQle
901

Lower trunk forward, raise right leg backward (Stand-

wage) and circle arms inward (arms sideward).......... 9-12

Step right backward-13, close heels backward and lower arms-14, rest 15-16.......................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right......................... 17-64

4.	Close to center...................................... 1- 4

Outer rows lunge inward-5, inner rows place hands on shoulders of outer rows-6, stand on thighs of outer rows 7

raise arms sideward-8 ................................ 9-16

Inner row down-1-18, outer rows close heels and march back to places-19-24............................ 17-24

5.	March forward 4 steps................................ 1- 4

Lunge forward left and raise left arm obliquely fore-

upward and right arm obliquely backward............. 5- 8

Bent-knee-step backward left and change position of

arms.................................................. 9-12

Close heels forward and lower arms................... 13-16

March backward 4 steps............................... 17-20

Bent-knee-step backward left and raise right arm obliquely fore-upward left arm obliquely backward... 21-24

Lunge forward left and change position of arms...... 25-28

Close heels forward and lower	arms.................. 29-32

Two outer rows change places with Seniors........... 1- 8

All bend knees and raise arms forward................. 9-16

Lunge forward left and move	arms sideward.......... 17-24

Mark time............................................ 25-32

64

Wand Exercises (Men)

Part 1.

1.	Touch step backward left and cross arms in front of

shoulders, left arm upward............................ 1-	4

Bent-knee-step backward left, bend trunk backward and

raise arms upward (above eyes)........................ 5-	8

Return to first position.............................. 9-12

Starting position.................................... 13-16

Repeat right......................................... 17-32

Repeat all........................................... 33-64

2.	Touch step sideward left wand on left hip, right arm

over head............................................. 1-	4

Bent-knee-step obliquely backward left and cross arms

in front of shoulders, left arm upward................ 5-	8

Return movement....................................... 9-16

Repeat right, left and right......................... 17-64

3.	Touch step forward left and raise arms upward.......... 1-	4

Bent-knee-step backward left, bend trunk forward and

lower arms (touching floor)........................... 5-	8

Return Movement....................................... 9-16

Repeat right, left and right......................... 17-64

4.	March forward four steps 1-4 and mark time four steps 5-8

Digitized by Google
902

Lunge inward (toward Seniors) inner arm obliquely side-*

upward, outer hand in front of inner shoulder.......... 9-16

March backward four steps and mark time four steps 17-24

5.	Touch step forward left and raise left arm upward,

right hand in front of left shoulder................. 1- 4

Bent-knee-step backward left, bend trunk forward turn wand, lower right arm (touching floor) left hand under right shoulder............................ 5- 8

Close left to right and bend knees, arms forward........ 9-12

Starting position..................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right.......................... 17-64

Wand Exercises (Men)

Part II.

1.	Lunge left forward and raise wand in front of shoulders 1- 4

1-4 turn right, change knee-bending, bend trunk forward and stretch arms downward.................... 5- 8

1-4 turn left, change knee-bending, straighten trunk and

raise arms upward....................................... 9-12

Starting position..................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right.......................... 17-64

2.	Lunge left backward, left arm obliquely backward, downward, right hand in front of left shoulder............ 1- 4

Lunge left forward, right arm obliquely backward down

ward.................................................... 5-8

Lunge left sideward and place left hand on hip, right

arm over head.......................................... 9-12

Starting position..................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right........................   17-64

3.	Lunge left sideward and raise right arm upward, left

hand in front of right shoulder...................... 1- 4

Change knee-bending, b'end trunk right sideward and

swing left arm upward................................ 5-	8

Change knee-bending, turn trunk left and bend forward, circle arms, right arm down (touching floor) left

hand under right shoulder.........................:...	9-12

Starting position....................................  13-16

Repeat right, left and right.......................... 17-64

4.	March forward 4 steps and mark time four	steps......	1-	8

Lunge inward (toward women) inner arm obliquely side-

upward, outer hand in front of inner shoulder.......... 9-16

March backward 4 steps and mark time 4 steps......... 17-24

5.	Jump to side stride and raise arms	upward............ 1-	2

Jump to knee-bending, (full squat)	arms forward......	3-	4

Lunge left sideward and cross arm in front of shoulders

left arm upward...................................... 5- 8

Bend trunk left sideward, right arm upward............. 9-12

Starting position..................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right.......................... 17-64
903

Dumb-bell Exercises (Seniors)

Part 1

1.	Stride left forward and raise arms forward........... 1-	4

Bend left knee and place bells on shoulders......... 5-	8

Return movement..................................... 9-16

Repeat right, left and right....................... 17-64

2.	Stride left sideward and raise arms sideward...... 1- 4

Bend left knee and raise arms upward............. 5- 8

Return movement	9-16

Repeat right left and right........................ 17-64

3.	Stride left forward and place bells on shoulders..... 1-	4

Bend left knee and stretch arms upward........... 5- 8

Return movement..................................... 9-16

Repeat right, left and right....................... 17-64

4.	March forward 4 steps and mark time 4................ 1-	8

Bend knees and raise arms forwards.................. 9-16

March backward 4 steps and mark time	4............ 17-24

5.	Stride left sideward and raise both arms	left........ 1-	4

Bend left knee and raise arms upward................ 5-	8

Return movement..................................... 9-16

Repeat right, left and right......................  17-64

While playing the Introduction Seniors change places with

the outer rows of Women, 1-8

Dumb-bell Exercises (Seniors)

Part II

1.	Lunge left sideward and place bells on hips.......... 1-	4

Change knee-bending and straighten arms upward...	5-	8

Return movement	9-16

Repeat right, left and right....................... 17-64

2.	Lunge left forward and raise arms upward.............. 1-4

1-4 turn right, change knee-bending bend trunk forward and lower arms (touching floor)................ 5-	8

Return movement..................................... 9-16

Repeat right, left and right....................... 17-64

3.	Lunge left sideward and raise arm sideward........... 1-	4

Change knee-bending, bend trunk right sideward arms move with body, left arm upward, right arm downward 5- 8

Return movement..................................... 9-16

Repeat right, left and right....................... 17-64

4.	March forward 4 steps and mark time 4................ 1-	8

Lunge inward, inner arm obliquely side-upward, outer

arm obliquely side-downward.......................   9-16

March backward 4 steps and mark time 4............  17-24

5. Jump to side stride and place bells on hips.......... 1-	2

Straighten arms sidewards..........................  3-	4

Bend trunk forward and lower arms (touch toes)...	5-	8

Straighten trunk, turn trunk left and bend upper

trunk backward, bell on shoulders................... 9-12

Starting position................................   13-16

Repeat right, left and right....................... 17-64

Change places with outer rows of women- 1-8
904

Wand Exercises (Men)

Part III

1.	' Lunge left sideward and swing wand horizontally

around left hip........................................  1-	2

Bent-knee-step obliquely backward left and swing wand

horizontally around right hip........................... 3-	4

Lunge left forward and raise arms upward................ 5-	8

Bent-knee-step backward left, bend trunk forward and

lower arms (touching floor)..............................  9-12

Starting position.......................................  13-16

Repeat right, left and right............................. 17-64

2.	Lunge left forward, right arm obliquely backward, left

hand in front of right shoulder......................... 1-	2

Close left to right and bend knees, arms crossed in

front of shoulders, right arm upward.................... 3-	4

Lunge left sideward, wand obliquely side-upward (left

arm upward, right hand in front of left shoulder)...	5-	8

Bend trunk left sideward, right arm upward................ 9-12

Starting position........................................ 13-16

Repeat right, left and right............................. 17-64

3.	Lunge left sideward wand obliquely sideward, left arm

sideward right arm over head..............................  1-2

Close left to right, bend knees and cross arms in front

of shoulders, left arm upward........................... 3-	4

Lunge left forward, wand under right arm forward,

left hand under right shoulder.......................... 5-	8

Bent-knee-step backward left, left arm upward, right

hand in front of left shoulder............................ 9-12

Starting position................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and right............................. 17-64

4.	Close to center (toward Seniors) 1-4, Lunge inward and swing inner arm obliquely side-upward, outer hand in

front of inner shoulder 5-8...........................     1-	8

Bend trunk inward and swing outer arm upward........	9-16

Straighten trunk and lower arms.......................... 17-20

March back to place...................................... 21-24

5.	March forward........................................ 1- 4

Jump -to side stride and raise arms upward.............. 5-	8

Jump to knee-bending and lower arms forward............... 9-12

Straighten knees and lower arms.......................... 13-16

March backward..........................................  17-20

Jump to side stride and raise arms upward................ 21-24

Jump to knee-bending and lower arms forward.............. 25-28

Straighten knees and lower	arms........................ 29-32

Mark Time...................... ...................... 1- 8

Lunge inward (toward women) inner arm obliquely side-

upward outer hand in front of inner shoulder.............. 9-16

Bend trunk inward and swing outer arm upward........	17-24

Carry wand............................................... 25-28

Mark Time................................................ 29-32

Digitized by CjOOQle

64
905

Dumb-bell Exercises (Seniors) Part III

1.	Lunge left forward and raise arms upward................ 1-	2

Bent-knee-step backward left, bend trunk forward arms

down (Touching floor) .................................. 3-	4

Straighten trunk, close left to right and bend knees, arms

forward ................................................ 5-	8

Jump to side stride and raise arms sideward.............. 9-12

Jump to position.....................................   13-16

Repeat right, left and right............................ 17-64

2.	Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward............. 1-	2

Close left to right and raise arms upward............... 3-	4

Bend knees and raise arms forward................r...	5-	8

Lunge left forward and swing arms obliquely backward 9-12

Starting position....................................... 13-16

Repeat right, left and	right..........................  17-64

3.	Lunge left forward and place bells on hips.............. 1-	2

Close left to right and stretch arms upward............. 3-	4

Lunge left sideward, arms sideward...................... 5-	8

Close left, bend knees and move arms forward............. 9-12

Starting position....................................... 13-16

Repeat right left and right............................. 17-64

4.	Mark time 4 steps....................................... 1-	4

Bend knees and place bells on floor..................... 5-	8

Straighten legs backward to front lying support ......... 9-16

Return to kneebending, bells on floor................... 17-20

Mark time............................................... 21-24

5.	March forward 4 steps................................... 1-	4

Lunge left forward, raise arm forward and move sideward on the first count................................. 5-	8

Bent-knee-step left backward and place bells on shoulders ..............,.............................. 9-12

Close left to right and lower arms...................... 13-16

March backward 4	steps....................... 1-	4

Bent-knee-step backward left and place bells on shoulders...................................................  5-	8

Lunge left forward,	arms sideward........................ 9-12

Close left to right and lower arms.....................  13-16

Change places with ladies..............................   1-	8

Lunge inward and raise arms diagonally (schrag).....	9-16

Bend trunk inward and raise outer arm to a semi-circle, over head left hand on hip.................. 17-24

Mark time.............................................  25-23

64

Digitized by Google
906

♦

P

,HYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KEOGH, U. D.

E

Effect of Tobacco Smoking.—Mendenhall feels that the results of his investigation seem to warrant the following conclusions: (1) The immediate effect of smoking on a sensory-mechanism is conditioned on the state of the sensory mechanism at the time when the subject indulges in smoking. (2) The immediate effect of smoking is stimulation when the sensory mechanism is depressed or depression when the sensory mechanism is in a state of hyperexcitablity. The depressing effect of smoking is much more marked on the threshold than is the stimulating effect. (4) The sensory mechanism of smokers and nonsmokers, bcth male and female, reacts alike to the influence of smoking. (5) Non-nicotine containing smoke does not produce the same results as nicotine containing smoke. The results are suggestive of nicotine action because of the difference of effect produced by nicotine smoke and non-nicotine smoke; and because the known action of nicotine on nervous structure is chiefly that of depression.

American Journal of Physiology, Baldmore, (72:387-693)

When a Muscle Contracts.—In respect to their functional performance no less than the amount of tissue involved, the muscles are of dominating importance in the body. In the adult they form nearly half the body weight, while their contribution to the metabolism is not less significant. Hence it was that the German physiologist Meyerhof* remarked, in a lecture delivered a few months ago in this country:

“The problem of the activity of muscle has accompanied physiology, so to speak, from its cradle. This is not astonishing, for the era of physiology cqincides with that of technical development. Our science is hardly a hundred years old. In the muscle, nature has produced a machine, so startling and at the same time so perfect, that the explanation of its mechanism could not only give satisfaction to the searching mind, but also promise a rich harvest to the technical progress of mankind. And this problem is so clearly a physical one that even the vitalist admits the possibility of its being solved by means of inorganic natural science. For it is nothing else but the question, how chemical energy in the animal body is transferred into mechanical work.”

An adequate theory of muscular contraction should explain the mechanism by which the shortening of the contractile elements is produced, the nature of the energy that is transformed into mechanical work, and the relation of such phe-

* Meyerhof, Otto: Chemical Dynamics of Life Phenomena, Philadelphia, J. B. Lippincott Company, 1924.

Google
907

nomena to the chemical changes that follow stimulation of a muscle to activity. Formerly it was customary to compare a muscle to a heat engine, in which the potential energy of the fuel is first converted into heat by combustion, and then in some appropriate way a portion of the heat is utilized to perform work. Such an analogy is still widely quoted in the popular literature of physiology, particularly because heat and work are evident concomitants of muscular function. The assumptions necessarily involved in the hypothesis lead to thermodynamic considerations that cannot well apply in a living tissue, so that the comparison cited, wherein all the energy set free in contraction is believed to exist at first as heat, is evidently faulty. Furthermore, thermometric measurements of great deli-* cacy have shown that most of the heat developed in connection with a muscular contraction arises after rather than before the movement. Hence, the heat-producing or oxidative reaction cannot well precede the contraction.

In summarizing the current conceptions of muscular function, to the elucidation of which he himself has made outstanding contributions, Professor Hill** of University College, London, speaking before various American audiences, has formulated a newer conception of the muscular machine., He fancies it as “an accumulator of energy, analogous in its way to a lead electrical accumulator. The initial discharge which may take place at a high rate, depends in no way on the oxygen supply: the final recharge, which is slower, depends directly on oxidation. In voluntary muscle, all oxidation must be regarded as recovery oxidation: even though oxidation takes place during continuous exercise, and appears to be comtemporary with the exercise, it must really be .regarded as recovery from previous elements of the exercise.”

** Hill, A. V.: Muscular Activity and Carbohydrate Metabolism, Science 60:505 (Dec. 5) 1924.

Sunlight and Heliotherapy.—“Sol est remediorum maximum.” These are the words in which the elder Pliny ascribed a great remedial potency to the sun’s rays. His dictum merely embodies, in the form of what would nowadays be termed a slogan, the long held belief in the value of the sun in curing and preventing disease. Generations of laymen as well as physicians have somehow assumed that part of the undoubted beneficial effects of an outdoor life is attributable to sunshine. The Greeks had their helioses and the Romans their solaria; yet heliotherapy has as yet scarcely emerged from the most empiric of performances into the dignity of a scientifically justified or rationalized procedure.

The pioneer experiences of Finsen with radiant therapy, and particularly the successes Pollier and others have achieved by employing the direct rays of the sun in the treatment

Digitized by

Google
908

of certain types of local tuberculosis, naturally forced more serious attention to the problems involved. The discovery of the bactericidal action of light gave a possible clue for further investigations. Under suitable conditions, ultraviolet rays are capable of killing bacteria and protozoa in water in a few seconds. Such facts suggested that part, at least, of the benefit of sunlight might be microbicidal in character. Again, it was argued that the erythema of the skin and increased metabolism in it set up by sunlight may be most important in keeping up the immunity to disease, acting like a vaccine when injected subcutaneously, stirring up the mechanisms that defend against cutaneous injury.*

. An entirely fresh impetus to the study of the subject has been derived from investigations of the biologic actions of light particularly as they are related to dietary deficiencies. It is now clearly established** that exposure to ultraviolet radiations as supplied either by direct sunlight or by various forms of special lamps will protect both animals and man against the effects of lack of antirachitic factors usually supplied by an adequate diet. Ultraviolet rays act curatively in rickets as well as phrophylactically. Furthermore, certain foods can acquire antirachitic properties through being irradiated. According to Hess*** and his co-workers, when vegetable oils are activated by means of ultraviolet radiation, the antirachitic factor is confined to the nonsaponifiable fraction. Further investigation has demonstrated that phyosterol obtained from these oils, although unable to protect against rickets, can in the same way be endowed with antirachitic potency.

Recent experiments on the effect of radiation on the bactericidal power of the blood, indicate that exposure of the skin of animals to a source of' ultra-violet radiation gives an increased bactericidal power to the blood and serum. Other agencies intense enough to produce inflammation of the skin, as heat rays and mustard poultices, had the same effect. Similar results were obtained by irradiation of the human skin. Studies of the effects of irradiation of blood in vitro have indicated that exposure to a source of ultraviolet radiations destroys its bactericidal properties. On the other hand} when this irradiated blood is passed into the blood circulation, an

* The Science of Ventilation and Open Air Treatment, Part II, Medical Research Council, Special Report Series 52, London, H. M. Stationery Office, 1920.

** The Photo-Activity of Substances Curative of Rickets—A Remarkable Discovery, editorial, J. A. M.A. 83:1169 (Oct. 11) 1924.

*** Hess, A. F.; Weinstock, Mildred; and Helman, F. D.: The Development of Antirachitic Potency in Phystosterol and Cholesterol Following Irradiation, Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. & Med. 22:227 (Jan.) 1925; Oil Activated by Irradiation, II, Separation into an Antirachitic and an Inactive Fraction, ibid, 22:76 (N9ov) 1924.

Digitized by UjOOQle
909

increase in bactericidal power in observed. In the investigations of Hill and Colebrook the rays from a carbon arc or mercury vapor lamp,* as well as certain heat rays, were found to raise the bactericidal efficiency of the subject’s blood, this effect being referable to improved functions of the leukocytes. A similar improvement in the blood was found to occur after exposure to the alpine sun in winter. It is suggested that this enhanced power of the blood to kill microbes plays an important part in the beneficial action of sunlight on tuberculosis and other infections. In conformity with clinical experience, it has been found by experiment that irradiation for purposes of treatment must be carefully graded, since excessive exposures cause a deterioration of the blood no less striking than the improvement obtained with smaller doses. In connection with the studies by the Medical Research Council, it has been noted that more of the ultraviolet rays even on sunny days come from the sky as a whole than directly from the sun; this is particularly the case when the sun is low or obscured by cloud. This is a fact of practical importance in heliotherapy.

Editorial, The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. May.

4-----------------------------

News, notes and comments

«■■ ' —^^^i—H *

A Revolution Impending in Schoolroom Ventilation.,

At its last meeting, held in St. Louis, The American Public Health Association passed the following resolution relative to the Mechanical Ventilation of School Buildings. Only a moment’s consideration is needed to show that the resolution strikes at the roots of the present system of mechanical ventilation. The resolution reads as follows:

Whereas hundreds of thousands of dollars are wasted every year on this continent in the installation and operation of systems of school ventilation which are not only not beneficial but are positively harmful to the health of school children, and Whereas, in the light of current knowledge, the supply of as large an air volume in school rooms as 30 cu. ft. per minute, per capita, is necessarily accompanied with dangerous overheating of the school room in order to avoid resulting drafts, and

Whereas the use of ozone and other chemicals for treating schoolroom air had little or no scientific justification and little or no practical value:

Resolved, that the system of ventilating schoolrooms by fresh untreated outdoor air, admitted at the windows with gravity exhaust ducts for removing vitiated air from near the

Digitized by

Google
910

ceiling, is the most generally satisfactory method of school ventilation; and

Resolved: That state laws and city regulations interfering with such scientific and economical methods of school ventilation should be repealed in the interest of the public health.

—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

In a circular of information sent to those in charge of the Recreation Centers of the West Chicago Parks by Superintendent J. H. Schultz, we find the following notes that should be of more than local interest.

The Yuletide Season in the West Chicago Parks will again this year be one long series of celebrations and merry making for the children and adults attending the Recreation Centers.

Each of our Recreation Centers will have a beautiful evergreen tree decorated with lights, tinsel and other gee gaws. These trees have been received in a special car from the mountains of the State of Washington, and are of a beautiful shape and coloring which eastern trees do not possess. The trees will be the center of interest at all of the parks and playgrounds and will form the background for plays presented by the children for parties and celebrations, using as their theme “Christmas Doings.” Many of these Recreation Centers are in the congested tenement districts where the children have no opportunity of either obtaining trees for themselves or of seeing them in the homes of their neighbors or companions. Consequently, the park tree is a source of never ending wonder and delight to the children, and in many of the parks the interest is so great that it is necessary to form lines so that the children may pass by and admire the tree.

Dr. John Dill Robertson, President of the West Park Board has ordered that large artificial trees be erected in each of the large parks, namely: Columbus, Douglas, Garfield and Humboldt, also one on Washington and Ashland Blvds. He also wishes activities conducted in the Recreation Centers for the holidays.

These trees are made by constructing a frame work in Hie shape of a fir tree and then filling in the frame work with bundles and branches of trees. Throughout these branches colored lights are placed and the whole is sprinkled with water. The water in dripping and freezing forms icicles and crystals which reflect the rays from the colored lights making the tree an iridescent mass of splendor. The trees, electric lighting and facilities for these entertainments are all provided free of charge to the public by the West Chicago Park Commissioners.

Outdoor Exercise

At a recent meeting of the Association of Life Insurance presidents, held at New York, Dr. Edwin W. Dwight of Boston presented some statistics that should be of interest to all teachers.

Digitized by Tooele
911

While life insurance death claims indicate a slight reduction in the general death rate throughout the country for 1925, the toll of lives exacted by motor cars will be higher than last year.

Referring to general health conditions in the country and basing his conclusions on the death claims of fifty-two life insurance companies for the first ten months of 1925, Dr. Dwight who is medical director of a life insurance company, estimated that deaths from motor accidents this year will total 18,600 as compared with 17,566 in 1924.

“A greater saving of life in younger ages than in middle and latex' ages is indicated for the current year,” said Dr. Dwight. Diseases typical of the older ages such as heart disease, cancer and Bright’s disease show increases ’ or only minor decreases, while such diseases as are more typical of children and younger adults as measles, scarlet fever, diphtheria, meningitis and whooping cough show marked decreases.

Influenza, typhoid fever and homicides also loom up with increased death rates during the first ten months of the current year.

Dr. Dwight presented a study of ways and means to lessen Twentieth Century strain on the lives of middle aged men and women. Preventive medicine should now turn its energies toward prolonging the lives of this large group of trained, experienced and useful people by combating circulatory diseases, declared Dr. Dwight and more outdoor exercise was suggested as one means to that end.

‘"Using the United States Census figures, we find that during 1922 the mortality from heart disease was greater than that from any other cause, and, if we except pneumonia, tuberculosis and cancer, deaths from Bright’s disease and apoplexy are far in excess of those from any other condition,” said Dr. Dwight. ‘‘The increase in deaths from disease of the arteries and diabetes have placed them among the important causes of death. Circulatory disease caused more deaths in 1922 than all of the preventable and infectious diseases combined and, what is of more importance, it affected that group of individuals who are at this time of the greatest importance to our development as a nation.

“The incidence of circulatory disease is in inverse relation to the amount of physical exercise which the group takes in the open air, and other things being equal it is in direct relation to the amount of nervous and mental strain.”

Health Rules for Middle-Aged Presented by Insurance

Expert

By Dr. Edwin M. Dwight, Boston.

1.	Do not follow ideas because they are new. Consider the “Laws of Moses” which have stood the test of more than thirty centuries.
912

2.	Do not follow fads, or become extremists in your habits of life. You were created to be omnivorous—therefore, eat plainly of a mixed diet. Fuel is necessary for the creation of energy, and oxygen for the combustion of fuel. As much energy is needed for mental effort as for physical.

3.	Treat yourself as you would your bank account. Make more deposits than you draw checks and you will create a reserve which will, be available in those physical and mental emergencies which come to us all.

4.	Circulatory disease is largely a personal affair and its prevalence is in inverse relation to the amount of physical work done in the fresh air.

5.	This above all: “to thine own self be true.”

Recommendation that the requirements for license as director of physical training be amended to provide that a diploma as doctor of medicine be held by all applicants will be made to the Board of Superintendents by Associate Superintendent Joseph M. Sheehan, of New York City.

The change is of much significance at present due to the fact that a vacancy exists in this position through the retirement of Dr. A. K. Aldinger. Three applicants have appeared thus far and not all of, them are practising physicians.

Military Training voted down. The student body of the College of the City of New York, by a vote of 2092 to 345, on Nov. 20 recommended abolition of compulsory military training in that institution.

The results of the referendum will be placed before the Board of Trustees. The course in “military science and tactics” is conducted through a unit of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, instituted at the college in 1919.

How the meaningless drill, that in many schools is called military training, is still tolerated in numerous institutions always has been a puzzle to us. Any half intelligent boy can master the manual of arms and the few marching exercises in several weeks. At the end of a half year this simple work naturally becomes monotonous, and at the end of a year or two wide awake boys are apt to be rebellious. Real military training is so different from what is dispensed under this name in most institutions that army officers should protest against the misuse of the name.

Digitized by v^ooQle