MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	MAY-JUNE, 1934 No.	421

INDIVIDUALIZATION IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Paper read by Edward R. Maguire at the Conference of the Philadelphia Physical Education Association

I begin by defining my terms:—

1.	A school is a place for personality interrelationships

2.	Learning is growth

3.	Teaching is causing learning

4.	Personality is that which can be integrated

5.	Character is that which can be socialized

6.	Integration is unity, wholeness, wholesomeness

7.	Guidance is adapting mass education to individual needs

8.	Objectives are good intentions.

In furtherance of definition, I quote a very modern writer on modem education:—

“When he has bound together the three principles within him—when he has bound all these together, and is no longer many, but has become entirely temperate and a perfectly adjusted nature, then he proceeds to act. . . .that which preserves and co-operates with this harmonious condition is and and the knowledge which presides over it, wisdom. That which at any time impairs this condition is unjust action; and the opinion which presides over it is ignorance.”

That, again, is a definition of integration—and here is another quotation from the same writer on Guidance-.

“The intention was that, in the case of the citizens generally each individual should be put to the use for which nature intended him, and to one work, and then every man would do his own business.”

And I quote this writer again on modem objectives:—

“The four virtues:—Wisdom, Courage, Temperance, Justice.” The authority I have just been quoting, and whose thoughts have such a truly modem ring is none other than Plato in “The Republic.” Such is modernity. And, while we are so close to modernity, let me recall to you Plato's four virtues as objectives

Digitized by v^ooQle
50

of our work:—They are fl] Wisdom [2] Courage {3] Temperance

[4]	Justice remembering that Wisdom lodged in the Guardians; Courage was the universal saving power of true opinion; and Justice was every one doing his own work.

Further: Plato again says: “Music and Gymnastic will harmonize passion.”

Now that we are clear in our definitions, a word regarding the topic in hand will not be amiss. My subject is Individualiza-zation in Physical Education; and I will treat the topic as well as I can in the time afforded me.

What to do with the individual when you find him.

I attempt individuation in my own school in every subject of the curriculum in every period of the day. I call my teaching learning procedure The Group-Study Plan. I realize that individuation may connote to some of my hearers ideas of personal isolation and academic solitariness—which were indeed a pity— and I hasten to correct the error.

Viewed from my point there is no such thing as individualizing any kind of education, physical or otherwise. The individual is a mere theory, an abstraction; he does not exist. He cannot eat, drink nor have his being isolated. He cannot learn alone, he cannot be integrated alone, he cannot be educated alone.

Integration is unity of self with self and of self with society. In brief, education, physical or academic is a social thing.* People learn together, live together. There is no need to elaborate this point. But it is obvious that the individual is never an individual when he is one of a mass, and he is never an individual alone. If the individual ever is an Individual it is as a member of a small group. In a small group he can be; he can realize that he is.

Let me outline the Group-Study Plan as it operates in academic subjects, and later let me try to indicate its application to Physical Education:

In brief: The Group-Study Plan functions as follows:

1.	Classes have registers of about 40. Test of achievement—or for diagnosis reveals needs in quartile groups usually—so the teacher finds her class composed of [a] a top quarter, [b] a bottom quarter and [c and d] two middle quarters—a quartile grouping.

So we form a group for each quartile and we are ready for action with our pupil personnel grouped according to neeas. Having so far arranged our pupil-personnel we have now to

Sare [1] subject-matter for each group [2] time for work by group and [3] a system of checks.

In other words we have four organizations to provide

2.	Time we organize by dividing the period of 45 minutes into 3 etjual parts—15 min. each. In two of these parts we have

Digitized by LjOOQle
51

group activities, in the middle part we have a unit class, audience situation.

15 min.

Group 1-Grammar Group 2-Liter. Group 3-Comp. Group 4-Words

15 min.

Audience Situation — Review Ndw Matter, Quiz Criticism, etc.

15 min

Group 1-Liter. Group 2-Comp. Group 3-Words Group 4-Grammar

Thus we have provided time for each pupil to have two group activities and one unit class activity in the period.

3.	Subject-matter organization consists of mimeographed prospectuses in all subjects. These prospectuses show the work by weeks, the sources of the material, columns for checks, for needs and for the names of “leaders” who helped the individual with any revealed need. The prospectuses are prepared by teachers in committee and are mimeographed in the school. The sheets usually contain the projected work for six weeks, and the pupils paste them in their note books as they receive them. The prospectus is a clear partnership agreement between teacher and pupil and the pupil is taken into the secret: it tells him just what he has to do each week, where he can find it, and permits of three checks on its accomplishment.

4.	The organization of the Checks is a very simple matter, easily automatized and habituated. Checks understood, are very good facets of character education. I mean that checks agreed upon in advance are ideals to be striven for—and character education is like that. Suppose we agree in advance that the written note-book study or the blackboard study is to be checked on three points: Form, Penmanship and Content: and that it is to be checked by three people: the Pupil, the Group Leader, and the teacher. So we “organize” it into a checking form like this and each participant checks in his column.

P	L	T

F

P

C

This record is then transcribed to the large class achievement rating sheet which hangs on the wall and which shows at a glance who has done the job and who has not. This silent sheet is a great .driving force: nobody likes to * see blank spaces after his • name. The sheet looks like' this:
CLASS	SUBJECT	TEACHER

Jobs	1	2	3	: 4	: 5 : 6	: 7 : 8	etc.
Adams	V	V	V	V	V : V	V : V	
Brown	V	V	V	V	V : V		
Cohen	V	V	V	V	V : V	V:	
Dunn	V	V	V		V :		
Edwards	V	V	V		A : A		
Ford	V	V		V	V : V		
Garret							

The check is also entered on the individual prospectus sheet in the appropriate spaces. So there is a very complete checking organization. When the time comes to make out report cards these checks are evidence of achievement.

So you have the four organizations of Time, of Subject Matter, of Pupil Personnel, and of the Checks.

The next points for consideration are the Four Self-Activities:

1.	Study 2. Discussion 3. Evaluation 4. Government

1.	Study is intensive application of the self to a problem. Study is done in the study groups with notebooks and text books or at the blackboards. It is kept to proper form and topic by Study Guide Lines of various forms that show the pupil how to study: what to look for, how to analyze, etc. These guide-lines are varied and will suggest themselves if they are not already in use.

The study-groups—either in seats or at blackboards follow study-problem cards, or work from the prospectus. The pupils are able to study, because the prospectus, the guidelines and the teacher’s previous “Assignment” make the study possible.

2.	Discussion groups follow Leaders who are supplied with leadership cards containing topics and the answers. There is much freedom in this group, much talking, much criticism of each other. Drill groups also form and act in the same way.

3.	Evaluation is a very important activity, constantly encouraged democratically. One must evaluate his own contribution and be prepared to evaluate that of others. This is not only a group activity but a unit-class activity—the blackboard work of the study group supplying material.

Digitized by t^ooQle
53

4.	The Government activity is important enough to deserve a chapter to itself. Suffice it to say here that the freedom of the self-activities makes Government an absolute necessity, and every individual sees that. So the tendency is toward self-government and social amenities because

without those the group activities would have to stop------

and nobody, wants them to stop because each individual pupil is participating in a socialized project which he can do and in which he wants to take part. The attitudes that are developed lead to very suggestive heights. The whole thing develops into a School-City, which governs all the pupils everywhere in the school and which penalizes infractions of law through the School Court by means of a point system. The teachers are freed from rating pupils in deportment, all such rating is done only by the School Court.

The groups and the group activities alternate within the period according to a schedule which is posted by the teacher.

The schedule looks like table on next page:

The schedule shown—a group rotation schedule—makes automatic the classroom procedure. The pupil enters the room, looks at the rotation sheet, which tells him what his group does at the beginning third of the period and at the final third of the period.

It also tells him where his group meets. The teacher need give no orders, has no need for domination, may, in fact, remain outside the room on some other duty, entering at last to find the activities in full swing. This is a big step toward pupil self-government.

Analysis of the model shows that there are four group activities and one unit-class activity provided for every period. It is read for Group I as follows: Oh Monday, Group I, for the first 15 minutes goes to the Blackboards [Col. 2] for Written Review [Col. 1]. For the final 15 minutes Group I goes to the rear comer, [Col. 2] for Silent Reading of Problems and Oral Discussion [Col. 1]. The middle 15 minutes is a time for unit class mass formation—five minutes Oral Arithmetic and ten minutes for new assignment. On Fridays this teacher’s card indicates a special procedure in checking notebooks for the week and in a snort test which will determine group personnel for the following week.

Digitized by CaOOQle
( t

Activity	Group  Position	T.	M.	'IK  T.	w.	T.
Written	Black-	15m	I	II	Ill	IV
Review	boards	15m	Mass Formation			
			5m Oral ICm New Assign			
		15m	II	HI	IV	I
Self-Dir-		15m	II	III	IV	I
ected  Stury from Prospectus Charts	Seats	15m	Mass Formation 5m Oral 10m New Assign			
Conference		15m	III |	1 IV	I	II
Fundamental Opera-tions-	Front  Corner	15m	HI	IV	I	II
Short  Methods		15m	; Mass Formation 5m Oral 10m New Assign			
		15m	IV	I	II	III
Silent Reading & Analysis	Rear	15m	IV	I	II	HI
of Prob-  lems-Oral  Discussion	Corner		Mass Formation 5m Oral 10m New Assign			
		15m	I	II	III	IV

Friday

O

W

«

o

H

s

o

*

td

§

a

0

1

►

u

w

>

d

a

85

B

»

2

a

2

w

*i

O

50

0

1

w
55

The floor plan of a Group-Study Pten classroom will look somewhat like this:

		XXXXXXXX		
Group I		Group V		Group II
Grammar		Problems		Literature

X]	X]	
X]	X]	Group VI
X]	X]	
X]	X)	

Seat Study with Notebooks

Group III		Group V		Group IV
Composition		Problems		Words
		XXX XXXXXX		

Blackboard Study

Subject—English

The teacher is free. He, moves from group to group and checks, notes errors, stays where he is needed for as long as necessary or sits at his desk and individuals from the seat group come to him for individual conference and check.

The procedure is a "supervised study” technic. It is based on three factors: 1. Socialized Self-activity 2. Freedom 3. Government.

From the New York City Course of Study in Physical Activities I give the following Group Rotation Sheet in Physical Education:—

The following plan is suggested for a rotation of nine squads in nine individual events. Each squad takes part in three events during one period. In the selection of activities for squad rotation, consideration should be given to the span of interest. Events of similar type should not succeed one another.

A.	Rope Climb.

B.	Broad Jump

C.	Basket-Ball Goals

D.	Mat Stunts

High Jump	'Period 1
Squad	Events
1	A'-B-C
2	B-C-D
3	C-D-E
4	D-'E-F
5	E-F-G
6	F-G-H
7	G-H-I
8	H-I-A
9	I-A-B

F.	. Basket-Ball Distance Throw

G.	Chinning Bar

H.	Potato Race

I.	Mat Stunts

Period 2	Period 3
Events	Events
D-E-F	G-H-I
E-F-G	H-I-A
F-G-H	I-A-B
G-H-I	A-B-C
H-I-A	B-C-D
I-A-B	C-D-E
A-B-C	D-E-F
B-C-D	E-F-G
C-D-E	F-G-H

Digitized by Google
56

Integration and Socialization are the bases of our objectives because we are discussing Personality and Character. These presuppose an understanding by the teacher and the supervisor and a philosophy that is, unfortunately, often lacking.

The major factor in integration of personality is the success element. Your individual must succeed. He must not be allowed to fail. Failure is partial death; failure is the outstanding disintegrating force, bringing with it its own defense mechanisms and escape-neuroses which are what make the problem pupil a problem.

I wish to submit several axioms which I can simply submit and not discuss within the limits of this article:

I	Personality integration and Character Education are the

major objectives of the school.

II	These major objectives, then, must color all the activities

of the School, and the classroom procedures, the auditoriums, the shops, the gymnasiums—the entire government of the school—all must function toward integration and socialization primarily. .. I mean that every function of the school is a function of these two factors: Integration and socialization.

III	Your school, in other words, must become a unity.

IV	This unity is founded upon learning or growing and learning

is a synonym for self-activity.

V	But self-activity can only function in Freedom. A domiJ

nated pupil cannot be self-active.

VI	And Freedom cannot be imagined without self-government

VII	So you have a triangle as the symbol of your unity.

VIII	Upon this triangle you must build your school.

IX	And your technics of teaching, of supervision, of organization and of administration based upon the triangle, must all function through 4 factors in mental hygiene:*

1.	Adequacy

2.	Reality

3.	Authority

4.	Security.

1.	Your individual must be made to feel himself adequate to the task: that is, the learning must beffitted to his need and his success.

•See Mental Hygiene Quarterly, Jan. 1934

‘?The Mental Hygiene of the Teacher”—J. S. Plant, M.D.

Digitized by Google
57

2.	Your individual must be made to sense a reality in his task, that he has a part in a project, that he

K ojects himself outward toward his fellows: that he corner an exetr avert.

3.	Your individual must be made to feel that there is authority for his activity, that he is not alone, that he has group relationships.

4.	Your individual must be made to feel that he is secure-, that he has a background; that he IS.

Let us not forget that these four factors must be; and if the school fails to supply them the streets and the gang will.

Consideration of all these factors brings home the point that a traditional typical New York City classroom set-up with the teacher dominant and the class treated as a unit is outmoded. The modem classroom must become a set-up for treatment of individual differences, for individual success, for community in small-group-life, for socialized activity, for “giving to each according to his need and demanding from each according to his ability” for placing the feeling of responsibility over on the learner for making the classroom a place of life—situations, democratized and vitalized. These things must be done and they can be done.

Now, relate all this to your work in Physical Education. I am afraid you have an inferiority complex. You do not look upon yourselves as important members of the teaching corps: you view yourselves as teachers of a minor subject.

But I want to say your work is a major task. Look at the new fields that are open to you:—

1.—the field of Personality

2.—the field of Character Education

3.—the field of Mental Hygiene

4.—the field of Guidance

5.—the field of Physical Health

6.—the field of Worthy Use of Leisure.

In all of these your subject is a major subject, you are major teachers. Your subject should have full recognition in the Time Schedule of the school as is the case in my school. Health is a major matter.

So:—Install in your Gymnasium the four organizations:

1.	Of Time—organize so that every individual ma participate in social freedom.

2.	Of Subject Matter:—organize your topics so that each may be met as a problem, “assigned”, “studied”, “discussed”, “evaluated”.

3.	Of Pupil Personnel:—organize your groups according to ability levels or to need levels; socialize your individuals in this way; maintain the success motif in this way; provide for mastery, for joy, for community.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
58

4.	Of the Checks:—organize these as pre-understood ideals to be striven for, and remember that the striving is personality—integrating, and that the socialization is character-education.

Now publish everything—your time chart, your group rotation sheet, your prospectus, your guide lines for study, your achievement checking chart. Tack these to the walls; let each student provide himself with a loose-leaf note book, and have him, as home-work, write out his studies of his dance steps, of his game technics—that is, convince him that there is Education in Physical Education, that there is mind in it, that there is attention in it, that there is concentration in it. There are Principles to physical education—and principles call for mentality.

For example:—There is a principle behind the position of the feet. Why do you tell your pupils to stand with feet together? to dance with feet in certain positions, to box the same way, to play tennis, to play golf, to play billiards? There is a principle here that results in grace, in speed, in efficiency—and all of these are economy. Look at Dempsey, Tilden, Jones, Hoppe, Schaefer.

There is a principle behind the position of the elbows. In analyzing physical activities in sports we find the elbows are close to the body in the golf swing, in tennis, in boxing, in horseback riding, in billiards—Why? for efficiency, for economy, for control, for speed.

There is a principle behind the adage “Keep your eye on the ball”—the principle of attention—all these and more. It is the comprehension of principles that makes education educative and makes progress possible and satisfies the seeker after rightness. It is this that takes the drudgery from drill, that instills hope. And Hope will be a splendid stimulus to the worthy use of leisure.

Recreation in the Argentine

Dr. Eduardo G. Ursini, Associate Director of Physical Education for the City of Buenos Aires, Argentine.

Recreation in the Argentine Republic is undoubtedly just in its initial stage. This particular social problem has been taken care of by government authorities. With regard to recreation in private institutions, however, a great deal of work has been done, but it has been accomplished without definite purpose or plan, and according to the wishes and desires of the great majority of the members of the associations.

Recreationally the work of the following institutions is outstanding: El Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima de BA. with its boys’ section and its children’s gymnasium; El Club Cadete Universita-rio, under the supervision of the University Club of Buenos Aires; the work of the Y.M.C.A. in various parts of the city, and of a

Digitized by CjOOQle
59

hundred sport and musical organizations like the Asociacion de Profesorado Arques, and the activities of a large number of theatres which have done a great deal of work in the field of recreation by improving the drama. A good example of this is the People’s Theatre which has accomplished a very fine bit of work.

The work of the Ateneo Argentino de Educacion Fisica, which I represent, has for its purpose the unifying of all this work and studying particularly the basic principles of recreation and physical education the problems which are of fundamental importance to the moral and physical health of our people, and the scientific control of these problems. An attempt will be made to avoid the prejudices which exist in sports practice and to discover the roost efficient measures that should be adopted for this work. While the programme is new, it is undoubtedly going to be of fundamental importance to our methods of physical education and system of recreation.

Buenos Aires, the capital of the Argentine Republic, which has more than two and a half million poupulation, has all the problems that the care of children and young people create in a large city. It is for this reason that the movement was started to solve these problems. Buenos Aires was also the first city in the country to have an official organization to administer and direct the recreation of its people.

The Direccion Municipal de Ejercicios Fisicos de Buenos Aires, since 1930 has conducted an intensive programme to serve the recreational needs of its people. As a part of this programme playgrounds were started—there are now altogether seven in the city. These playgrounds are established in the best parks of the city, have ample space for the proper development of physical activity, and are shaded by large trees which give protection from the sun during games and rest periods. These areas, which are called Plazas de Ejercicios Fisicos, are kept open daily the year round from eight in the morning until eight at night, and carry on a well organized recreation programme.

In our city of Buenos Aires, the Medical Department of Physical Education, a branch of the Direccion Medica de Ejercicios Fisicos, is of great importance because of its work of physical examination which determines the activities that may be entered into and the development and state of health of the boy.

The work which is done on the playgrounds may be summarized as follows: [1] Physical education, sports and games; [2] Training school for leaders; [3] Camps [within the city and in the country]; [4] Art activities [music, singing]; [5] Social activities [libraries, social games, fiestas]; [6] Neighborhood organizations.

This great programme includes activities appropriate for children from six to twelve years of age, for young men and women twelve to twenty, and for adults, all of whom find recreation on the playgrounds.

Besides the medical examination already mentioned, there is a study made of the child’s environment, in order to determine

Digitized by CjOOQle
60

what is best for him physically and mentally. All of this work is done by thoroughly competent people.

Besides the playgrounds, the city has more than twenty areas devoted to the games of children up to fourteen years of age. These spaces are equipped with see-saws, toboggans, giant strides, swings and other apparatus suitable for children of this age and surrounded with trees for shade and coolness.

In the parks where the playgrounds are, there are large dining halls with kitchen equipment and store-rooms which are provided for the vacation camps. These organizations function during the months of December, January and February, that is, dining the period of the school vacation. The children attend daily from six in the morning to six at night, under the care of a competent personnel. They receive free breakfast, lunch and tea. Dining the day a programme of games, reading, physical exercises, music, art and other activities is carried on for both boys and girls. The municipality gives free transportation on the street cars to the children who are accompanied to the camps by their parents.

There exist in Buenos Aires eight vacation camps which have an enrollment of more than twenty thousand boys and girls. Every boy and girl has to pass a very thorough physical examination. These examinations are made in order for the

physician to discover deterrents to the physical progress of the child and to control the general health conditions in the camp. This work is under the supervision of the Officina Medica de E. F., an organization which functions only for boys six to twelve and girls six to fourteen. It was started in 1921 and since its establishment has shown innumerable benefits to the child population.

The city of Buenos Aires has five swimming pools, and though insufficient for its population, they serve, together with many private swimming pools, a very important recreational need and contribute to the extensive programme of swimming all over the country.

Buenos Aires is situated on the Rio de Plata, and has but few beaches. There is one municipal bathing beach called the “muni-cipal”and another under construction. Dining the summer season more than three hundred thousand people are served by these beaches. This is notable in view of the many splendid private beaches which exist close to the city and in nearby towns. The swimming pools are under the control of the Officiana Medica. People who have skin or other contagious diseases are prohibited the use of the pools. Each person who is examined and found fit is given a monthly permit for the use of the pool. A small nominal fee is charged for the examination. This work is found to be well worth while.

The municipality of Buenos Aires maintains a fine children’s theatre, called “Labarden.” Besides training young actors, this theatre contributes to the recreation of young people in various parts of the city by giving free periodical performances. The

Digitized by v^ooQle
61

municipality also has travelling theatres equipped with radio and motion picture equipment, which go from place to place in the city to give performances. There is a municipal band composed of one hundred players, selected for their musical competence, which gives public concerts/,of classical music in the different parks and public squares of the city.

Rosario, the second city in size in the Argentine Republic, with a population of more than 600,000, already feels the need for a solution of its problems of recreation. Four playgrounds are at present under construction. The official department in charge is the same one which the Direccion de Ejerciciones Fisicos de Buenos Aires asked to have represented at the First International Recreation Congress. I was chosen to be its representative and considered it a great honor.

In my brief paper I have tried to give in a rough outline the characteristic work of the recreation department in the Republic of Argentine. I also wish to say that our desire is to accomplish within a brief time as much progress as possible, taking as examples those organizations of other countries whose representatives at the Recreation Congress have told of their various programmes and from whose work we hope to profit for the betterment of recreation in the Argentine Republic.—Vyayam, India.

FREE CAMP FOR UNDERPRIVILEGED GIRLS. PHI DELTA PI PROUDLY LAUNCHES A NEW PROJECT

Phi Delta Pi, National Professional Physical Education Fraternity for Women is to establish a Camp for Underprivileged Children at Camp Brosius, Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin, in July of this year. The Campers are to be ten and eleven year old girls who live in the congested districts of Milwaukee. They are recommended by Social Agencies to the Advisory Committee of the Summer Outing Fund of that city. Children who are most needy and most worthy of this fine opportunity to build up their health and spirit of play, are to be selected.

The Camp is a National Project of Phi Delta Pi, which is supported by a Camp Fund, collected from members. The Camp Staff is to be made up of members of Phi Delta Pi. These members are appointed because of their qualifications as Camp Leaders and their special interest in bringing happiness into the lives of the children.

Martha A. Gable of Philadelphia, Director of Physical Education for Girls in a Senior High School, is to be Camp Director. There is to be a trained nurse at Camp. Physical and Medical Examinations are to be given. A complete record of the health assets and liabilities of each'’child will be kept. Food is to be selected for its nutritive value. It is expected that many improvements will result from this life in the open. Miss Hazel C. Orr of Cincinnati, Director of Physical Education for girls in Senior High School, is Grand President of Phi Delta Pi. This fraternity is a member of the National Professional Panhellenic Association.

Digitized by

Google
62

THE TREND IN MODERN PHYSICAL EDUCATION AS EXEMPLIFIED BY ENGLAND’S 1933 SYLLABUS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR SCHOOLS.

Captain F. J. C. Marshall, M.C., Head Master, St. Luke’s College School, Exeter; Lecturer in Physical Education, St. Luke’s College, Exeter, and Loughborough Summer School for Teachers.

Few, if any, people will be found to dispute the fact that the conditions under which our modern civilised life is being spent have become exceedingly complex. Increased specialisation nas multiplied human dependencies and shown the absolute necessity for co-operative and co-ordinative effort. Eveiyone is aspiring to a fuller human opportunity and the accomplishment of new things.

It is quite apparent, therefore, that a considerable amount of time is now demanded and a variety of means employed for ensuring that the youth of the race is fit to take its place in the community. These means set out to produce in the individual the ability to adapt himself to the environment in which he may be set, and to give him such intellectual moral and social efficiency as will enable him to live a full, complete, and amiable life amongst his fellows. It is obvious that this end cannot be reached if only bodily needs—food, shelter, clothing—are considered, whilst growth and development are left to nature and to chance. Consequently there has grown up in all civilised countries during the course of the ages an educational process to which every individual child has to submit in order to acquire the rudiments of knowledge and such intellectual and moral discipline as will help him to become an intelligent and useful citizen.

When, however, educationalists come to consider the contents of this educational process, some divergence of opinion is manifested. Whilst all are agreed that it should include the "tools” for acquiring knowledge some believe in what might be termed the “cistern” or “filling station” plan. In this, children’s minds are thought of as jugs or tanks to be filled up, and a hoary custom has grown up of getting the “teacher” to examine the contents from time to time to see how much has leaked out. Other educationists believe that what our modern age requires is not so much the acquisition of facts as the power to think and feel and act in vital relation to the world’s life.

Let me develop this point a little more by considering present conditions. As I have already stated, civilisation is making great demands upon the vitality of the race. A big proportion of our population has exchanged a life of muscular effort in the open air for one of brain work indoors. Manual labour is avoided. Farms are deserted, whilst store, office, and desk are crowded. Those of us who are in daily contact with parents know that they, including the great mass, of our manual workers, are demandihg that their children be trained for the so-called “black-coated” professions.

Digitized by VjOOQle
63

Life continually grows in complexity, and the strain which formerly rested on the muscular system now rests heaviest on the youngest and most delicate portions of the nervous system. In the school itself the same tendency holds good, for school work calls primarily for the functional activity of the higher centres of the nervous system. It neglects the motor activities related to the lower centres which control circulation, respiration, nutrition, and elimination. It also minimises almost to vanishing point those motor activities related to good posture, and the economical and graceful control of the body whether in repose or action. School practices which train ouly hand or eye or tongue or ear do not promote the health of the pupils* For this, the active use of the big muscles is essential. The higher levels of the nervous system depend for their health and stability upon the organic development of the middle and lower levels of the nervous system, and the most effective way of strengthening these is by healthy vigorous exercise of the fundamental muscle groups of the body. An American biologist has stated the matter quite plainly when he says: “We must not forget that the development of the muscular system dragged after it the development of the most important viscera, kidneys, heart, lungs, blood-vessels, and even the brain itself. The muscular system is, as it were, the strategic centre through which we can reach exercise and strengthen all the various organs which are essential to life.”

The nerve centres controlling the fundamental muscles are older, tougher, and have more endurance than those controlling the accessory muscles. The best physiologists therefore insist upon the fullest possible development of these fundamental centres. They are the seat of endurance which enable us to hold out against the strain of modem life.

The school, therefore, should be an institution of power as well as of learning. It should help to preserve the child from all forms of morbidity, combat his unfavourable heredity arid the bad conditions of his environment: in short, fortify his constitution and mentally fit him for the struggles of life.

It is thus perfectly obvious that physical education of some kind must play an important part in any educational system. Indeed, I venture to assert that it embodies the very quintessence of educational ideals, namely, the development and coordination of the latent powers of the individual, with a view to securing greater social efficiency, the enjoyment of a fuller and richer life through complete health of body, mind and spirit. Though the means whereby these ends are obtained are bodily activities, involving the use of the fundamental neuro-muscular system, the emphasis is on neither physic or physical. Were it restricted to or mainly focused on the correction of defect, and thus regarded as therapeutic or as an antiseptic to the harmful influences of restricted movement and sedentary habits, the inevitable result would be a sterilised programme. Only the conservative persistence in some quarters of the mediaeval dualistic conception of Body and Mind preserves the term “Physi-

Digitized by
64

cal,” which would otherwise disappear, carrying with it much of the confusion of thought found in Physical Education to-day. Though we deal with bodily activities we do so not only to make the bodies of our pupils fit temples for their minds, but also because we realise that these bodily activities give rise to situations in which both will and intellect are exercised. Thus in the infant, the first signs of intelligence and will are evoked by movement. Any observant mother will tell you that it is not until the infant begins to have some muscular control that it begins to show any signs of “will.”

No; Physical Education is but one aspect of the larger problem of Education in general, and any system which divorces, or tends to divorce, the physical from the moral and intellectual aspects of life by failing to recognise the inseparable unity of body and mind is thoroughly unsound. “To educate a man— or a child for the matter of that—you must get round his entirety—mind and body and soul and character, all regarded as an inseparable unit”—so writes Dr. Jacks, thus extending the precept of the XVIth century Montaigne, who stated: “ ’Tis not a soul, ’tis not a body that we are training up, but a man, and we ought not to divide him into two parts.”

So, then, Physical Education is educating by doing. It seeks to develop skill rather than strength, brain rather than brawn, and the power to think and feel and will and act. Because of this, it must be given a more generous place in our School System.

But modem developments in Physical Education have sprung not only from a recognition of the facts I have already placed before you, but also from another very important source; in fact, one that has done much to revolutionise the whole of educational practice. The present century has witnessed what might very well be termed the “rediscovery” of the child—a rediscovery which is the result of much research chiefly in the realms of Physiology, Biology, and Psychology. These studies have shown that the child must be considered more in the light of his evolutionary development and of his biological needs, so that, as a consequence, there has been a revaluation of his requirements and capacities and a re-assessment of the importance, in his education, of his instincts and interests. This new attitude has influenced very profoundly not only the many changes that have taken place in the administration of Physical Education but even the actual teaching and the content of the teaching.

The developments in the administrative side of Physical Education in this country began just over twenty-five years ago, when the Board of Education emphasised the importance of the subject as an integral part of education by taking steps to systematise its teaching in the schools all over the country. Included in these steps were the issue of official syllabuses, the systematic instruction of students in Training Colleges, the appointment of Inspectors and Organissrs to advise and guide the teachers in carrying out the schemes. To those of us who have
65

seen some of these developments during these twenty-five years, progress all along the line has been most marked, and I should like here and in this place to pay my humble tribute to the great work of the Chief Medical Officer of the Board of Education, Sir George Newman, and his Staff Inspector of Physical Training, Captain Grenfell. These two gentlemen, backed up by the great Inspecting and Organising Staff that they helped to create have done much to change both the popular conception of the nature and implications of the subject. 'Whereas in former days it was regarded and taught as drill with its dull monotony and formality, its purposeless and harmful posturings, e.g., “Gibson Bends” and Pouter Pigeon chests, its maneuverings reminiscent of the barrack square, it now makes the fullest use of the child’s natural love of joyous and spontaneous movements so that the Physical Training lesson is almost invariably a favourite lesson of normal children.

But the present time is witnessing still further developments in educational administration of this country as a result of the deliberation of the Consultative Committee of the Board of Education, which are set out in the famous “Hadow” Reports. In these developments Physical Education is destined to play a very important part.

Practically up to the present time, the Compilers of the Official syllabuses that have been prescribed for use in the schools have had to face that in this country there has been no definitely English System of Physical Education, such as is found in Scandinavian Countries or in Germany, upon which they could base a system suitable for schools. True activities, like our national games, dancing and swimming, have always made a strong appeal to the general masses, but these, of themselves, are not sufficient or adequate, since they do not and cannot promote a complete harmonious bodily development. Organised Gymnastics have never been widely practised in this country, consequently the compilers were forced to lay very simple foundations and to consider the best means of building up a suitable scheme, consisting of carefully chosen exercises designed on Physiological principles to train body and mind, and combined with games, dances, swimming and other activities of various kinds. The question of the content of the syllabus was not the only difficulty. It had to be so framed that it catered for the needs of classes containing, especially in rural areas, pupils of widely different ages and of different sexes. In addition, only such exercises could be employed as could with safety be taught in the school playground by all class teachers irrespective of their teaching capacity, to children often unsuitably clad for the purpose. Hence only a selection of the simpler free-standing exercises of the Swedish System could be included. This meant the elimination of gymnastic apparatus, a most important feature of the system not only because of its great value in promoting and assisting the development of the body but also because of its inherent attraction for children. Many valuable exercises have therefore not
66

been available, too, because they are performed in “floor” positions. Further, it has been impossible to make separate provision for the divergent needs of the older boys and girls. The conditions obtaining in the un-reorganized “AH Standard Elementary Schools,” therefore, have very seriously limited both the scope and the completeness of the gymnastic training that has been given.

For similar reasons, too, the effective organisation of the Field Games, and the provision of satisfactory facilities for them, have been difficult if not impossible, where, as in rural areas particularly, the children have been widely dispersed in a number of very small schools.

In spite of all these obvious drawbacks, remarkable progress has been made. Teachers have shown remarkable enthusiasm for the subject, and their ability to teach the activities has exceeded all expectations. These two facts as much as anything have helped to put Physical Education on a sound basis. But syllabuses and methods must keep pace with the times and with new knowledge and discoveries. The importance of maintaining the pupils’ interest by appealing to their natural love for joyous and spontaneous movement has already been mentioned. This finds expression in a modem lesson by introducing active dynamic movement. In earlier days, lessons consisted of a constant cessation and recommencement of exercises, producing an unsettled state of mind and robbing the children of that exhilaration which accompanies a reasonable spell of movement. In a modern lesson, “movement” is a watch-word, and this is obtained by the abolition of such unnecessary formalities as Numbering, Opening Files, partly by dispensing with rest periods, and partly by “bridging the gaps” that are likely to occur between the completion of one exercise and the commencement of the next. In the 1933 Syllabus, it will be observed that “Breaks,” or, as some people call them, “Quickeners,” do not figure quite so prominently as in the 1919 issue. This is due partly to the fact that movement which breaks are intended to give is secured in other ways and partly because their use has in many cases produced what one might term the “Fragmentary type” of lesson, in which the teacher has failed to visualise the lesson as a whole, and has merely succeeded in giving the class a few exercises strung together. If the inseparable unity of body and mind is to receive its due recognition in a physical training lesson, the class must be led in the joyous performance of a cohesive series of purposeful, flowing movements, calculated to induce strong physical and favourable mental and social or moral reactions.

The desirability of including more movement in modem physical training lessons is very closely associated with the emphasis which is now being placed on the cultivation of rhythm, relaxation, and co-ordination in all phases of the work. All three are of vital importance to a physically well-educated person. Their development in the modem Physical Education Scheme has received much inspiration from Scandinavian Teachers,
G7

notably Miss Bjoerksten, Major Thylin, Niels Bukh and Professor Iindhardt.

In former days, a great deal, if not all, of the work was performed in response to words of command or by numbers, a method very well calculated to take most of the spontaniety and interest out of the lesson. There is still a place for this method, but opportunities should be provided for carrying out movements in an individual or a class rhythm. The 1933 Syllabus contains a very considerable number of this type of movement and great care will have to be exercised by teachers to ensure that their pupils get the right effort when performing them. They are, in my judgment, amongst the most difficult to teach satisfactorily.

True rhythmical work has a very important value in that it presupposes the ability to relax. Relaxation conserves both energy and vitality, assists the development of strength and the powers of endurance. It should thus figure very prominently in all Physical Training lessons. Stiffness, rigidity, puffed-out chests and hollow backs must be replaced by an easy poise with all parts of the body easily adjusted to one another. In this way the danger of strain is obviated, and the organs of the body are able to fulfil their functions adequately and to the needs of the body.

The development of co-ordination as expressed in graceful, easy and economical movement, is closely linked up with the modern stress upon DYNAMIC as opposed to STATIC work, hence large portions of the lesson must be devoted to all forms of general activity—running, jumping, vaulting, games; the inclusion of many combinations of rhythmical arm and leg and arm and trunk movements, and the informal practice in small groups of pupils of the essentials of games and exercises which demand a high degree of co-ordination.

The social value of this modem trend in the conduct of the physical training lesson is obvious if it be true that “much of the awkwardness and lack of poise which make for self-consciousness is due to the fact that various parts of the body are used independently, as though they bore no relation to the whole.”

I have already referred to the fact that great attention is now paid to class mobility. Children should not be kept for any length of time in rank or file formation, but the organisation adopted by the teacher should permit of frequent and rapid dispersal of the class, either singly or as members of small groups to allotted places where they may engage in individual practice or specific group work under the direction of recognised leaders. It follows, therefore, that an adequate supply of loose portable apparatus, such as ropes, balls, bean bags, should be available so that every child may obtain concentrated practice in such basal and developmental occupations as throwing, aiming, jumping, dodging, etc.

So far I have dealt with points connected with teaching technique and have said very little about the types of exercise which should figure in the scheme. That there has been some-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
68

thing radically wrong with some of the exercises which have figured in our syllabuses and schemes has been apparent for some time. Enthusiastic teachers can and do make even the most uninteresting exercises a joy and delight to do, but even these have-been unable to secure that complete interest and pleasure that make the pupils want to do them in their spare time. In addition, some of the exercises that have figured in past syllabuses have been very severely criticised by Orthopaedic Surgeons; indeed, several have declared with apparent justification that some of the exercises produce, rather than correct, bad posture. That there appears to be some urgent need for the inclusion of exercises which Orthopaedic Surgeons can recommend as suitable is proved by the results of a recent survey made by two Medical Officers of the Board of Education. These two doctors, after examining roughly 2,000 children from six education areas, came to the definite conclusion that 75 per cent, of the children had some postural defect that was preventable. This is a startling discovery, but is somewhat explained when we consider how few DAILY lessons are given in the schools, the number of children who perform their exercises unsuitably clad, and the appalling conditions under which some teachers have to take their lessons. It is a matter for great satisfaction to find that the new syllabus contains a number of exercises that are especially recommended by Orthopaedic Surgeons, particularly those who have given some thought and time to the study of Posture. Many of the most valuable of these exercises can only be done in “Floor positions,” so that the use of an exercise room will have to be resorted to occasionally.

May I give a few examples:—

The chief cause of bad posture is poor tone in the abdominal muscles. Many exercises in the 1919 Syllabus with so-called postural effects failed in their purpose because the abdominals were exercised under unfavourable conditions, for example, with the weight of the arms raised, thus disturbing the balance, or with the hip muscles relaxed by separation of the legs. In the new Syllabus, training is given, especially in the early stages, by taking arm movements in the Lean Standing position or in the Back Lying position. These positions enable the children to keep the abdomen retracted.

Then again the new Syllabus includes exercises which aim at training the child to contract simultaneously the Abdominals and Buttock muscles [i.e., the Hip Extensors]. This is a fundamental necessity for good stance in all sports. The “Unrolling” exercises are intended to give this training.

The standing position has been altered, too. When the toes are turned out beyond a very small angle, there is a disturbance of the very delicate balance of the muscles acting on the arch of the foot.

These are but a few examples to show what care and consideration has been given in the compilation of the Syllabus.

Digitized by LjOOQle
69

In the case of Senior Pupils, for whom no official Syllabus has yet been issued, a period of experimentation is being followed. The 1933 Syllabus clearly shows the aims of the work as far as the Junior School is concerned. Teachers who work through it will give their pupils a thorough grounding in the fundamentals and in the maintenance of good posture with normal flexibility and mobility. It seems to me that Senior School work must proceed along the assumption that Senior Pupils require apparatus and a special exercise room. The apparatus must in these early days consist of the portable variety—benches, mats, jumping stands, buck and vaulting box. These cost money, but if the foundational work of the Junior School is not to be lost, it is absolutely essential. Daily lessons are absolutely essential if Physical Training is to be something more than a mere formality in the curriculum and if it is to accomplish its aims.

I have left until last the question of the teacher. In days gone by instruction has been in the hands of those whose qualifications have been limited to Physical Training. Opinion now is against this. It is now considered that in boys’ schools it should be taught by the class master, if he is qualified, rather than by an ad hoc gymnast. The argument urged against this type of teacher is that he can rarely hope to teach effectively after middle age. This is an argument that I am totally unable to subscribe to. Surely years of experience are just as valuable as mere executive skill; and there is obviously something wrong with a system of physical training which wears a man out before his allotted span has been bridged. Physical Training teachers generally have attached far too great importance to executive skill in the performance of certain agility movements, and too little to real teaching ability. What is the use of being able to do handstanding with arm bending if one’s general movements are awkward? Demonstrations have their place, but their true educational value is open to some considerable doubt when one considers that there is not much purpose in showing a child something it must feel.

That the teacher should be able to take other subjects in the school curriculum is a view I hold very strongly. The History teacher is apt to consider his subject and his subject only. In Physical Training the teacher must consider the pupil so that a teacher of both benefits himself, his pupils and the subjects.

Those of us who have an interest in Physical Education are often tempted to feel that it is the Cinderella in the curriculum. We should not forget two things: [a] that Cinderella must have made her two ugly sisters very comfortable at home; and [6] that she married the prince because her feet were adaptable. Well, this, so it seems to me, exactly describes the relation of Physical Training to the other work of the school. Games and Gymnastics, when they give the child a beautiful body, trained for power and endurance, form the foundations upon which other work can be built. Secondly, the adaptability of Physical Training gives the children the best of moral training, respect

Digitized by

Google
70

for their own bodies, endurance and courage, willing obedience, self-control, and the corporate spirit.

If you ask the students of history who are the men and women who do big things and inspire great movements, they will reply the enthusiasts are the men and women of great ideals who have seen visions and dreamed dreams, who have suffered in working out those dreams in order to make the world a better place to live in. I believe most profoundly that those who have framed our syllabuses have been men and women of vision. Like William James, they “cannot believe that our muscular vigour will ever be a superfluity.” Even if the day ever dawns in which it will not be needed for fighting the old heavy battles against nature, it will still always be needed to furnish the background of sanity, serenity, and cheerfulness to life, to give moral elasticity to our disposition, to round off the wiry edge of fretfulness, and make us good-humoured and easy of approach. That blessed internal peace and happiness that wells up from every part of the body of the muscularly well-trained human being, and soak the indwelling soul of him with satisfaction, is quite apart from every consideration of mechanical utility, an element of spiritual hygiene of supreme significance.

Physical Education is still passing through anxiouB times. Educationists who are not quite certain about its ultimate value still flourish, but I venture to plead that a system whieh seeks inter alia, to promote the Body Beautiful, must inevitably be worthy of all consideration and respect.

The revised or new Board of Education Syllabus will do much to remove the fears and doubts of any, more especially when it is intelligently applied. It represents the close collaboration of Gymnast with the Orthopaedic Surgeon, the Teacher, the School Doctor, and the Athletic Trainer. It may not even yet be the ideal—I am sure we don’t want that yet—but it sets tie right key-note—perfect control of the Body machine taught by sound Educational methods by keen enthusiastic teachers.

So, then, Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen, may those of us who share the great work of Physical Education ever realise the true import of the words of the French mystic, Novalis: “We touch Heaven itself when we lay hands on a human body.” —Lecture given on behalf of The British Association for Physical Training, at the Conference of Educational Associations at Univer-versity College, London. Reprint from Phys. Edu. Eng.

Poise

Edwin C. Broome, Superintendent of Philadelphia Public Schools.

A few days ago a young man came to my office to bring a message. _ Ordinarily, when boys come into my office, they come and go without especially attracting my attention, but this young fellow was different. He walked in with an erect carriage. He

Digitized by ^ ooQie
71

looked at me directly through clear and steady, but by no means impudent, eyes. He stood as he talked, and he spoke with clear ana articulate speech. I, naturally, was impressed by this young man because he was so different from the majority of the youth with whom I come into contact. He seemed to have his mind and emotions, as well as the muscles of his body, in complete but easy control. His message had evidently been prepared beforehand so that he might deliver it briefly, without wasting any time; and, he delivered it directly, in speech which was clear ana understandable. He did not slouch, stand first on one foot and then on the other, look out of the window or in back of him for some way of escape, nor did he mumble his words as though he were afraid that I might make the mistake of thinking that he was over-refined or over-educated. After he delivered his message he said “Good Morning,” and departed in the same direct and manly way in which he had entered the office.

After he had gone. I began to think of this young man and, naturally, such thoughts as these passed through my mind: If I were to need a young man as my personal assistant, or as a messenger to send on important errands to the offices of other people, that is the kind of boy I should choose, because I should always be certain that he would go promptly on my business, would not be diverted by other things, and that when he presented himself to some business or professional man as a representative of my office, not only would he make a good impression for himself, but also for me and my office. I also thought that if such a young man had reasonably good ability and good education nothing could prevent him from going to the top in any occupation which he might choose. He would always stand out from the rank and file of young men.

This thought also passed through my mind: How many other boys from the same school which he attends have cultivated such commendatory qualities, and how much do we stress such qualities in our dealings with pupils? Are we able to say that one in ten, or twenty, or twenty-five, or fifty, or a hundred of our students can present as favorable an impression of their school as he did upon me? Is the cultivation of such qualities less important than achieving high rank in algebra or Latin? Certainly, the acquisition of such qualities is not inconsistent, with good scholastic attainment any more than polished and agreeable manners are inconsistent with good character. If we agree that such qualities as this young man displayed are as largely instrumental in success in life as anything else which one can possess, then, are we doing everything within our power in the school to develop such qualities as good posture, mental and physical poise, a steady and courageous eye, and clear and articulate speech? If we are not, then, how can we do it? There seems to be no course of study or educational regimen that is definitely planned to produce these results. It is doubtful if any course could be devised which would produce them. Like good character, these are the consequences of many influences. Physical education, if

Digitized by VjOOQle
72

properly taught, contributes somewhat, especially toward the acquisition of good posture and physical poise; and self-control, or emotional poise, grows out of a number of experiences in the classroom, on the playground and athletic field, and in the numerous social contacts within the school. Articulate speech may be primarily the responsibility of the teacher of English, but not wholly so. Pupils are using speech in all of their recitations. Articulate speech, therefore, should be the responsibility of all teachers in all classes. The place to begin is for the teacher, himself to set a good example, and the next thing to do is to insist that nobody in the class will be listened to or heard who does not put forward his best effort always to speak clearly and correctly. Pupils should be made to feel that it is an insult to the hearer to mumble one’s words.

A good carriage, mental and emotional control, directness of look and manner, and articulate speech will carry one further along the road to success than any other combination of personal qualities. They should have a high place among our educational objectives, and should be kept constantly in mind by all teachers of youth.

Gymnastics for School Children—A Reply to Angelo Patri

Theodore A. Gross, President of Tumverein Vorwaerts, Chicago.

In November 1933 there appeared in the public press an article on “Dancing as one of the best forms of exercise for growing children” by a noted authority on child training, Mr. Angelo Patri, who said in part, [quote] “	having	children

stand on fixed spots on the gymnasium floor and following the commands of a militaristic teacher, one, two, one, two, arms up, chest high, one, two, one, two, for forty minutes, it is much better to teach them the steps of a folk dance and turn on the This, Mr. Patri says, will return the children to their lessons with rested minds, the opposite would result following a period of exercise executed by commands. Mr. Patri further states [quote] “Children sitting in school for hours makes them dull, restless and irritable. Regulation gymnastic exercises are of little help in this situation. What we need is rhythm, easy and effortless movement and pleasure. I would make the physical training period a happy one". Mr. Patri further states that “corrective work should be done at a special time and by thoroly trained and expert practitioners”. With regulation gymnastic exercises and corrective work removed from the lesson, that leaves us the gym period for gay dances, tableaux, charades and pageants, says Mr. Patri. [Qoute] “All that healthy physical exercise can do for a school child can be done in the open air in the playgrounds, in airy siums,, in pleasant projects”.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
73

You don’t always need a gymnasium. A good walk in the woods and thru the hills is the best of all exercises for a child, says Mr. Patri. [quote] “Then let walk and dance and prance in a carefree spirit of childhood when we have physical exercise. Then we can achieve our end, the growth of healthy, hdppy children”.

I have always read with interest the articles on child training published in the public press by Angelo Patri, and have the highest respect for his reputation as a teacher.

I do not question, in the least, his authority on the subject of child psychology and the philosophy of play, but am inclined to disagree with him on the subject of physical education as stated in his article of November 25, wherein he questions the value of what he calls “severe gymnastic work under militaristic teachers”.

Mr. Patri’s statement to the effect that dancing is good exercise for school children is not to be disputed, and the value of folk dances with its exhilirating musical accompanyment is recognized by all teachers of physical education who understand their business. However, when Mr. Patri maintains that there is no value to school children in mass exercises under command I think he is stepping a little out of his sphere as an authority on this phase of child training and because of the wide spread publicity given to his theories can do much harm by giving false impressions intentionally or unintentionally by his statements to the effect that such training is weak, sad, distasteful and displeasing to the child.

To begin with, Mr. Patri infers that such training involves standing in one spot performing exercises of the arms and chest under fixed attention, and the commands of a militaristic teacher for forty minutes. I do not know where Mr. Patri obtained this conception of gymnastic training. I have been a gymnast for forty years, both as a pupil and a teacher, am familiar with the German, Bohemian and Swedish systems of gymnastic training, and I have yet to see a class of children put through such an ordeal as that described in Mr. Patri’s article.

Such statements are misleading and prejudicial and may be construed as a reflection upon the system of physical education used in the public schools of the country which was introduced by the German Turners more than thirty years ago in the Chicago Public Schools, and is still used in most of the school systems of the United States to-day. This system recognizes the value of spontaneous action and free play and such activities are a part of every gymnastic lesson. Exercises of the arms, chest, trunk, and legs, on fixed spots, executed upon command [calisthenics] are merely a part of the class lesson and are very important to proper and symmetrical muscular development.

That corrective work should be done by a specialist in cases of spine and other deformities is also not to be disputed, but calisthenics, with emphasis placed upon full extension and contraction of the muscles, tends to correct many of the lesser cases of physical abnormality and teaches relaxation and develops

Digitized by LjOOQle
74

coordination and a sense of muscular control that can not be obtained in dancing, pageantry, or free play, alone.

To hold that dances, tableaux, charades, and pageants, are all that is needed to counteract the fatigue, ill posture and other physical ailments caused by long, steady perioas in class rooms is evidence of a lack of knowledge of the real purpose of physical education. Furthermore, to infer that gymnasiums are not needed, that a walk in the woods is splendid exercise, are also statements that must be qualified, for these statements may, or may not, be true.

The gymnasium is as necessary to the proper development and muscular training of the child as the classroom is to mental training. We could perhaps get along without schoolrooms— children could by instinct and parental contact learn to speak well enough to exist—but how? In the same sense gymnasiums are not needed. But how many children and grown ups, too, for that matter, really know how to walk correctly in order to gain the most from walking?

Walking is good exercise if done correctly and bad exrecise if done incorrectly. That is true also of running, climbing, springing, throwing, lifting, or any of the muscular movements involved in our daily actions.

Many need to be taught how to do these things correctly, just as we need to be taught how to spell, figure, or eat correctly. To walk, dance, and prance in a carefree spirit is good, but not enough to achieve our end,—the growth of healthy, happy children.

Coordinated, progressively and logically graded muscular exercises, presented in a formal manner, plays as large part in the proper training of growing children as do those mostly recreational activities such as dances, charades, pageantry, and games.

I need only refer to the astounding figures and causes for rejection on account of physical unfitness involved in the drafting of recruits during the late war. More than 30% of those men and boys who had no previous gymnastic or athletic training, while only 6% of those who did have formal gymnastic training, were rejected. These figures showed the necessity for intensive and formal physical education as an important part of the program for child training in our public school system.

Eating Utensils as a Source of Infection

In the prevention of disease we often make the mistake of looking too far away for the source and neglecting everyday affairs directly at hand. For some years certain companies and certain cities have insisted upon the physical and bacteriological examinar tion of food handlers. Unquestionably many sources of infection have thus been eliminated.

Attention has also been directed to the sterilization of eating utensils. In some cases these are washed clean but infected later

Digitized by LjOOQle
75

by the handlers. A striking example of this was the epidemic of typhoid fever among university students at Madison, Wis., in which a waiter who suffered from a walking case of typhoid fever, wiped and stacked dishes after they had been washed, and infected some 41 persons. He finally died, after suffering severe headache for some 3 weeks, for which he consulted an optician.

In New York City an investigation of 1,980 food handlers in 1917 showed 10 active and 15 arrested or suspected cases of tuberculosis, 19 active and 32 suspected cases of syphilis, and 6 of gonorrhea. Other examinations have revealed similar conditions and it seems not only possible but probable that patrons of restaurants have been infected through such means. It is said that in certain establishments where soft drinks and ice cream are served, glasses and spoons have nothing which can be called washing, but are simply rinsed, drained, and used again sometimes without drying. Even in high-class restaurants finger bowls are used over and over by different patrons without even being rinsed in between. The single service paper cups and finger bowls have done a good deal to rectify such conditions, but there is still much to be desired.

The mechanical dish washer is coming into more or less general use in hotels and restaurants, and bacteriological examinations show that the results are much better than hand washing, except in those cases where the latter is done with extreme care, with really hot water and soap, and with clean and hot rinse water. When the rinse water is only lukewarm, there is absence of disinfecting action, and in a short time, becomes rich in bacteria. With hand washing the tendency, of course, is to use water which is not hot enough to scald the operator.

The examination of restaurant apparatus referred to was carried on in Montreal, and showed that rinse water at temperatures from 37° to 47° C. contained members of the colon-aerog-nes group. As the temperature of the water was increased, the number of bacteria diminished, but even at 55° C., a certain number of bacteria persisted, though none of the colon group were found. On the other hand, when utensils were cleansed and sterilized by boiling water, the total counts were very low, and members of the colon-aerogenes group were absent. Further experiments showed that properly conducted machine washing gave better results when the utensils were dried in the air than when a towel was used. The total obtained from the examination of 6 types of tableware dried in the air were 34 bacteria for air and 327 for towel drying. Similar results were obtained in homes and clubs, the advantage being markedly in favor of air drying.

Bacteria are transmitted to eating utensils by handlers, and the types are largely determined by whether or not these handlers are infected with some contagious disease. They may be in the nasal secretions and saliva, and be coughed or sneezed on to utensils, especially those like cups, spoons and forks, which also come into direct contact with the mouth. The whole study emphasizes that there is undoubted evidence of the transmission of

Digitized by

Google
76

certain communicable diseases through the medium of improperly cleansed and disinfected eating utensils, both in private homes and in public eating places. There is good reason to believe that the conditions in Montreal are not unlike those elsewhere, and may be accepted as representative. The sanitary arrangements in many hotels and restaurants are much below the accepted standards for cleanliness and safety. Mechanical dish washing is better than any method of hand washing. There should be a better inspection of eating places.—of Health.

PHILADELPHIA’S FOUR YEAR PLAN

Philadelphia of the future — a city of great cultural wealth. A singing people with a deep appreciation for the arts. A people who have renewed their vigor through an intimate contact with simple outdoor pleasures.

This is the Philadelphia that the Playground and Recreation Association is attempting to build. . . .The people themselves are ready and eager for it, the association feels.

A series of weekly public hearings on “What Do People Want To Do with Their Free Time?” was held under the auspices of the association. Suggestions were asked for both from the general public and from experts in various lines.

The hearings now over, the association has compiled a summary report with concrete ways in which the life of a Philadelphian may be enriched by wise spending of his free time.

The Board of Directors of the Playgrounds and Recreation Association will meet the first of May to discuss the projects, after which they will be referred to the three public recreation agencies, the Board of Education, Bureau of Recreation and the Fairmount Park Commission, as well as to City Council.

The report to be submitted to the Board of Directors follows:

1.	Invite the Board of Education, the Fairmount Park Commission and the Bureau of Recreation to make a 4-year plan to bring all their present resources into public use.

2.	Suggest that the Board of Education: Open more schools for recreation at night; permit more abandoned schools to be used as boys’ ciubs; increase the size of school yards in the congested districts; offer more opportunities for people above school age to keep up skills which they learned in youth—for instance, handicrafts, chorus singing, dancing, etc.

3.	Urge the Fairmount Park Commission to: set aside places for picnicking where fires may be built in stone fireplaces; increase the number of ban fields and tennis courts and allow some of them to be reserved in advance, especially for smaller boys and organized clubs; open Pennypack Park with trails, boating, swimming—but preserve its wildness and keep automobiles out; organize a Division of Recreation.

4.	Bureau of Recreation [Department of Welfare]: Obtain use of large vacant lots and certain abandoned cemeteries for sand

Digitized by ^ooQie
77	'

lot base ball leagues and schedule their use through permits; open some playgrounds on Sundays; open some Recreation Center buildings on Saturday nights during the winter.

5.	Suggest a better administrative arrangement than the present division of power and personnel among the Board of Education, the Bureau of Recreation and the Fairmount Park Commission.

6.	Urge greater participation in hobbies, music, dramatics art, nature study, stamp-collecting, etc,

7.	Consider a plan to have the Association act as a clearing house on all leisure time activities.

8.	Develop more playgrounds in the slum districts—similar to Association’s Tot Lot.

9.	Development of an “Annual Cultural Olympic” to stimulate through contests and exhibition participation in art activities.

10.	Do our part in helping in slum clearance in order to create new playgrounds and parks.

11.	The 450 amateur dramatic groups in the city be invited to take advantage of skilled leadership available in order to get better production and greater benefits from their efforts.

12.	Development of large park areas beyond city limits but within reach of our citizens for outings and nature lore. Development of a camp for youth as a part of their education.

13.	To develop leadership for greater participation in all forms of individual and community music.

14.	To devise a plan to substitute for ready-made forms of recreation a more vital, satisfying, active type. Less need for commercial forms if one’s own initiative course is followed.

15.	Consider the needs of Kensington and Richmond districts and specifically the developing of the old Franklin Cemetery into a playground.

16.	To develop a playground in the 10th and Glenwood neighborhood.

17.	To study the request for a playground in the 40th Ward. Hiking and Trail Blazing

18.	All groups interested in hiking and trail blazing be urged to affiliate with the new trail project from Valley Forge to Appalachian Trail.

19.	To work toward the development of more facilities and leadership for boys and giris over 16 years of age.

A Committee Report On Leisure Time.—The analysis and existing programs of physical education in colleges as presented by W. G. Moorhead in the December, 1933 issue of The Journal of Health and Physical Education indicate varying contributions of these programs to the partial solution of preparing individuals for effective use of leisure time. The following table is intended to show an analysis and evaluation of values within the activities

Digitized by CjOOQle
78

themselves which tend to be lasting. We will be interested in receiving the reactions of our readers to these results.

Riding Swimming Bowling Archery Badminton Horseshoes Paddle tennis Handball Squash Ring tennis Camp craft Hiking Ice Skating Siding

Snow shoeing

Curling

Canoeing

Roller skating

Cross-country running

Track and field

Team Activities

Field hockey

Ice hockey

Football

Volleyball

Baseball

Soccer

Softball

Basketball

Crew

Self-Testing Activities Stunts

Rhythmic Activities Folk dancing Tap dancing Creative dancing Social dancing Combative Activities Wrestling Boxing Fencing

Carry-over Values for Youth

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Negligible

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Negligible

Limited

Limited

Limited

Limited

Limited

Negligible

Limited

Limited

Limited

Limited

Considerable

Negligible

Negligible

Limited

Carry-over Values for Middle Age

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Considerable

Negligible

Considerable

Limited

Limited

Negligible

Limited

Limited

Negligible

Limited

Negligible

Negligible

Negligible

Limited

Limited

Negligible

Considerable

Neglibigle

Negligible

Limited

Activity

Individual Game, Outing Water, and Winter Activities Tennis

Golf .........................

Digitized by CjOOQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	May-June, 1934	No.	421

PUBLISHED BT MIND AND BODY PUBUSHINO CO., NXW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Sendee, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editori 604 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn* Knitted at second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, *	,	Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

EDITORIAL

Several communities have made use of Federal funds to provide recreational opportunities since Philadelphia took the first step in this direction last year. The National Recreation Association has just issued a bulletin reporting the excellent program conducted in Omaha. The report is published in this issue of Mind and Body not only because it is interesting, but because it may serve as a source of inspiration and suggestion to other communities.

Registration at the convention of the A. P. E. A. in Cleveland and of the Eastern District Society in Atlantic City was surprisingly heavy in these days of reduced and unpaid salaries. This speaks well of the professional interest of our teachers and is convincing evidence that we are continuing to prepare an enlightened resistance to the onslaughts of the “frill” eliminators. At this time we have no information concerning attendance at the other district conventions, but we are hopeful that it was impressive.

Omaha’s C.W.A. Program

On December 8, 1933, Omaha, Nebraska, under the leadership of the Board of Recreation embarked on a C.W.A. Federal recreation project. A director and assistant director were appointed, together with ten supervisors, one for each of the ten centers contemplated. On December 20th the centers were opened consisting of five park pavilions and the central office supplied by the Park Department, two community center halls furnished by the Finance Department, and two centers given by private agencies.

Digitized by v^ooQle
80

The staff appointed for work at each center and in the sur-cunding community consisted „df .ten people—a supervisor, clerk, caretaker, drama instructor, music director^ pianist, physical education instructor for men, a physical education director for women, a woodcraft instructor, and a handcraft teacher.

Four of the centers are equipped with gymnasiums and an auditorium. Five have the use of one large room, and in some instances a small basement room. The downtown area had no building available which would serve as a central community center, and the program is being conducted by a staff working out of the central office and using the facilities offered by the Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., Jewish Community Center, Knights of Columbus, City Mission, Federal Transient Bureau for Men and Boys, Salvation Army, Homeless Men’s Bureau, the Cass Street School, Christ Child Social Settlement, and downtown churches and schools.

Because of the lack of space it was found necessary to use all free facilities available in the community. For the first ten days of the project the supervisors and staff spent from two to three hours a day working in the communities surrounding the centers. In some instances they went from door to door outlining their plans, telling of the recreation leadership offered and requesting cooperation from churches, schools, clubs and other social agencies. This survey of the territory which they planned to serve showed immediately the particular needs of the community and resulted in splendid cooperation from existing agencies which had space but no leadership. By January 1st the time of every member of the staff was filled and more requests for leadership have come in than it has been possible to meet. At present the recreation staff of 103 people are serving in addition to their own recreation centers the following agencies: Thirty-six public schools; 25 parochial schools; 12 P.T.A. groups; 10 clubs; 22 social agencies; 15 Catholic churches; 40 Protestant and Jewish churches.

To supervise the program of this large staff wor’ ing all over the city, weekly staff meetings are held in the central recreation office. All supervisors meet for two hours every Monday morning for special instructions, conferences on programs, announcements and training. Each supervisor holds a weekly meeting of her own workers in her own center to pass on the information she has received.

The twenty physical education directors meet every Tuesday morning for one hour. This group is conducting an inter-center ping pong tournament, and an inter-center basketball tournament, culminating in a city-wide play day.

The ten dramatic instructors are planning an inter-center drama tournament with finals during March.

All handcraft instructors meet under a special supervisor who gives training in handcraft, teaches design and conducts exhibits in all parts of the city. Five of these handcraft directors comprise a traveling staff offering special classes such as sewing, rug

Digitized by boogie
81

weaving, drawing, painting, leather craft, silver craft, paper craft basketry and Wood work.

On Thursday the ten music directors and the pianists who serve them and the physical education staff meet at the central office for conference. The music directors have trained a citywide chorus of men and boys which appeared at the Y.M.C-A. carnival in February. A city-wide chorus of Girl Scouts was presented in March. The music directors conduct the singing at all the evening entertainments at the centers, train choral groups, glee clubs, orchestras and rhythm bands, produce operettas, conduct musical studies, and teach music appreciation.

The first week of the project the total attendance for all of the ten centers was over 6,000 men, women and children. By January 23rd the attendance had grown to over 35,000 people per week, while the attendance for the week ending February 8th showed over 42,000 participants.

The classes conducted fall into four major groups—drama, music, physical education and hander ft. The majority of these classes have been meeting from one to three times a week since January 1st.

Physical Education. Under the physical education program 125 basketball teams have been organized into 28 leagues, over 50 per cent of the membership being made up of unemployed boys and men. An inter-center league contest is being played off on a daytime schedule which churches and school gymnasiums used for practice games. There are 1,310 men and boys on these teams. Other types of activities include ping pong, volley ball, boxing, wrestling, tumbling and mass games. Thousands are supervised by the physical education directors in the skating area, and a special skating instructor travels from park to park. Five athletic associations have been formed to insure community support of athletic and playground programs. These associations are made up of boys over sixteen years of age, are self-governing and have already given great assistance in the care of property, policing of grounds, and maintaining order in and around the centers.

The physical education program offered women and girls includes tap dancing, social dancing, rhythmic exercises, folk dancing, basketball, volley ball, ping pong, health-building exercises, and mass games. At one center alone 500 women and girls participate in tap dancing in one afternoon.

Tap dancing has proved one of the most popular activities with a great appeal to boys from sixteen years of age up. In one center where the older boys problem has been acute and gymnasium facilities were not available at all times, tap dancing classes have been attended regularly by 100 boys between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five.

Music. As soon as the centers had opened, the music directors began teaching Christmas carols, and a Christmas program was given on Christmas Eve. From these small groups has grown a large city-wide music program in which 58 groups are

Digitized by v^ooQle
82

participating who are studying everything from chorus work to opera. On February 8th, 4,262 men, women and children were organized in study groups, chorus, rhythm bands, orchestras, operettas, and musical comedies. Twenty-six orchestras, four string quartets, two drum corps and a band have been organized. Six rhythm bands for small children practice regularly on instruments made in the handcraft shops. Every neighborhood program held in the centers is opened with community staging, and hundreds of men and women who do not take part in the class work of the center sing together at least three times a week patriotic and old-time songs.

Handcraft. During Christmas week a handcraft instructor taught the children coming to the centers to make Christmas tree decorations. The next week handcraft exhibits were taken from center to center, and men and women of the communities were asked to decide what kind of craft they wished to learn. Twelve woodcraft shops for men and boys were opened, some in the centers and others in unused manual training rooms for the schools. Classes in varied crafts were scheduled for the girls and women. At the present time 3,864 men and boys, women and girls are creating things with their hands. Most of them meet from one to three times a week. Out of scrap materials and with very simple tools some beautiful and useful articles have been made which were exhibited at the city auditorium in February as part of the Y.M.C.A. public carnival.

Drama. During Christmas week a short Christmas play was produced for the program, the cast being selected from children who came to the center during the four days preceding Christmas. Ninety-seven classes in drama, public speaking and expression are now being conducted by the ten drama specialists. On February 8th over 5,000 people were enrolled in drama activities, and 111 plays were in rehearsal the best of which were entered in a drama tournament held in March.

Recreation for Transient Men and Boys. The following daily recreation program in which the facilities of the Y.M.C.A. were used was arranged by C.W.S. workers for transient boys: 9:00-11:00 Basketball, volley ball, gymnastics and pool 11:00- 1:00 Wood work shop, Y.M.CA., game room

Boys’ department, ping pong, checkers, billiards 1:00- 2:00 Tap dancing

2:00- 3:00 Musical chorus and harmonica orchestra practice

Federal Transient Bureau. Two recreation workers spend their entire time at the transient shelter, one teaching wood work and carving, the other conducting a physical education and recreation program. Three times a week lessons in painting are given, and a complete art and handcraft exhibit was on display in February preceding the original minstrel show produced by the men. Every Friday night a program of outside talent is brought to the two shelters.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
83

Neighborhood Parties. Every center conducts an open house program at least three times a week consisting of community singing, plays, games and old-time social and square dancing. These fun nights are attended by capacity crowds. In one week 35 such recreation nights were scheduled. These neighborhood parties have been responsible for a genuine community feeling and have meant much to the unemployed.—National Recreation Service.

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the third set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards gor firls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encourated to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

Digitized by LjOoq ie
Digitized by

Fair

Good

Excellent

o

o

rj

Reach high

Three step run forward and backward two times, and then swing three times with the knees riased forward.

Reach high

Pendulum swinging with good form. [Touch-off left and right during each swing].

Reach high

Pendulum swinging with a half turn at the end of each forward swing. [Touch-off left and right during each swing.]

Head high

With a jump turn over backward	to	an	inverted	squat-

hang [hips and knees bent] placing one foot into each ring.	Return to a	stand

through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward	to	an	inverted	squat-

hang. Return with straight legs	to	a	bent-arm	hang.

Drop to a stand.

Slightly above head high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short [hip] swing forward and backward. [Three forward and three backward swings.]

Slightly above head high

Jump to a bent-arm hang with knees raised forward. This position is to be held at. least five seconds. Then drop to a stand.

Jump high

Jump to a hang [arms straight] Short [hip] swinging forward and backward and at the end of each forward swing straddle legs sideward and close them. The straddling should be executed five times. Then stop the swing and drop to a stand.

Head high

Jump and turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang. Lower legs placing left knee over left forearm into a knee-hang left. Right leg and body are in a straight line and are in a horizontal position. Return to an inverted balance-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang [legs straight]. Drop to a stand.
Digitized by

Fair	Reach high  Pendulum swinging with good form. [Touch-step left and right during  each swing.]
Good	Reach high  Pendulum swinging with halfftum at the end of each swing [Touch-off left and right during each swing.]

^ Excellent  0  eg  FT	Reach high  Pendulum swinging with touch-off with feet together and with a half turn at thejend of each forward swing.

GIRLS—GRADE 7B Head high

With a jump turn over back* ward [hips and knees bent] through an inverted squat-hang and place one knee over each forearm to a double hand-knee-hang. Return to a stand through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang. Swing to a knee hand left [over left forearm] with right leg horizontal. Return to an inverted balance-hang. Swing to a knee hang right over right wrist. Return to a stand through the bent-arm hang.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted squat-hang. Place the feet against the ropes and straighten the legs upward to an inverted hang. Return to an inverted squat-hang. Return through a momentary bent-arm hang withfstraight legs, and drop to ajstand.

Slightly above head high ■

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Then raise the knees forward and lower them. Repeat twice. Drop to a stand.

Jump high

Jump to a hang [arms straight] Short [hip] swinging forward and backward and at the end of each forward swing raise knee forward quickly and return. Repeat several times. Then stop the swing and drop to a stand.

Slightly above head high

Jump to a bent-arm hang and turn over backward to a nest-hang [knees bent during the turn-over backward]. Take feet out of rings and straighten legs to an inverted balance-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.
Digitized by

RINGS—BOYS—GRADE 7A

Fair

Reach high

Pendulum swinging with good form [touch-off left and right during each swing.]

Slightly above head high

Jump to a bent-arm nang. Then raise knees forward and lower them. Repeat three times. Drop to a stand.

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted squat-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang. Drop to a stand.

Good

Reach high

Pendulum swinging with a half turn at the end of each swing. [All swings are forward].

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to a hang rearways. Place the feet on the floor. Release grip and straighten to a stand. Note: Knees may be bent during the turn over.

Jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Short [hip] swinging forward and backward and at the end of each forward swing straddle legs sideward t and close them. Stop swinging. Drop to a stand.

o

o

<2

Excellent

n

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to a free inverted squat - hang. Straighten legs to an inverted balance-hang. Return with straight legs to a stand through the bent-arm hang.

Jtrfmp high

Jump to a straight arm-hang. Three short [hip] swings forward and backward and turn over backward to a nest-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang with straight legs. Drop to a stand.

Slightly above head

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short [hip] swing forward, backward and then forward with a turn over backward to an inverted balance-hang. Return to a bent-arm hang [holding the legs straight in the return]. Drop to a stand.
Fair	Reach high  Pendulum swinging with a half turn at the end of each swing. Touch off left and right. [All swings are forward].
Good	Reach high  Pendulum swinging with a quick raising of the knees to the chest and straightening them at the end of each forward swing.
Excellent  n'  CD  Cl  cr  b  0  0§  FT	Shoulder high  Upper-arm hang. Pendulum swinging with a half turn at the end of each forward swing. The feet are together when touching off from the floor. [All swings are forward.]

BOYS—GRADE 7B

Head high

With a jump turn over backward to an inverted squat-hang. Lower slowly backward to a hang-rearways. Straighten legs and place the feet on the floor. Release grip and straighten to a stand.

Head h^jh

With a jump turn over backward to a nest-hang. Return through a momentary bent-arm hang to a stand. The legs are straight while lowering.

Slightly above head

Jump to a ■ bent-arm hang. Turn over backward with straight legs to a free inverted hang. Return to a stand with straight legs passing through a momentary bent-arm hang.

Jump high

Jump to a straight-arm hang. Short [hip] swinging forward and backward at least five times. Stop swinging. Then drop to a stand.

Slightly above head high

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short [hip] swinging forward and backward at least five times. Stop swinging, drop to a stand.

Slightly above head -

Jump to a bent-arm hang. Short [hip] swing forward, backward, and forward with a turnover backward into a nest-hang left. [The right leg is straight and in line with the body which is horizontal.] Straighten to a free inverted hang. Bend hip and lower forward slowly to a bent-arm hang, legs straight. Drop to a stand.
88

MIMETIC GAMES

Grover W. Mueller.

For a number of years “Story Plays” have been used regularly in many communities as a part of the physical education program for school grades one and two. However, there appears to be an increasing amount of dissatisfaction with this part of the program because in a large percentage of cases there has been too little vigorous activity. In spite of this fact administrators have been reluctant to eliminate story plays inasmuch as the principles underlying them seem to be sound, and the children frequently derive much pleasure from them under the direction of enthusiastic teachers.

The main reason for the lack of sufficient vigorous activity which so frequently has characterized story plays is clearly that teachers and writers of story plays have overemphasized dramatization of a story and have given little place to big muscle activity. The lesson in physical education thus became a period of dramatization. Instead of using dramatization to stimulate increased interest and vigor in movement, it is used too commonly as an end in itself.

In some communities an effort has been made to remedy the fault. In one of these cities a series of “Mimetic Games” has been evolved and they have proved to be satisfactory. They were planned for use by children who wear their regular street clothes under conditions which do not permit sitting or lying on the floor or ground.^ In this issue and in subsequent issues of Mind and Body we will print a number of that series of mimetic games in the belief that they will prove useful to many readers. We feel that the introductory paragraphs and “Some Suggestions for Teaching Mimetic Games” which were issued to principals and teachers will also be found interesting and helpful.

Introduction

Mimetic Games have been devised for the purpose of presenting certain important fundamental activities in a form which is more meaningful and more interesting than free exercises for pupils in Grades 1 and 2. Each mimetic game consists of a carefully selected series of exercises built around a central theme which the children can understand, such as “Fun On The Playground”, “A Visit To The Toy Stop”, and “A Day On The Farm”. The exercises represent incidents or experiences which are enacted by the children while the teacher stimulates her pupils to vigorous and appropriate action by means of suggestive and descriptive remarks.

In the use of these games the teacher must be careful that they do not degenerate into dramatization involving only mild activity. The main objective must always be to give the pupil vigorous muscular activity. There should be only momentary pauses between exercises, the teacher doing most of her talking

Digitized by LaOOQle
89

while the class is active. Running, skipping, galloping, hopping, jumping, and big trunk and leg movements with no formal instruction with regard to a common form of execution should characterize this part of the physical education lesson. When arm movements are introduced, they should be u?ed primarily to assist in obtaining better execution of trunk and leg movement.

It is hardly necessary to say that the successful use of mim-tic games is dependent in large measure on enthusiastic presentation by the teacher. In this connection it should be stated that frequent active participation by the teacher will do more than anything else to bring forth the desired response from the children.

It is suggested that whenever possible a mimetic game be selected which is related to a story which has been read or told in the classroom.

Some Suggestions For Teaching Mimetic Plays

1.	The teacher should say enough at the beginning of each game to give the class some idea of the theme of the story and to get the class into the spirit of the occasion.

2.	The teacher should be sure to use language which the children can understand.

3.	Care should be taken that the group of pupils is not permitted to spread out over too wide an area.

4.	When moving rapidly from a place, such as in running, skipping, etc., it is wise for the teacher or a good pupil leader to head the line or column in order that speed of the movement and the area covered may be carefully controlled. If the class is in circle formation this obviously is not necessary.

5.	It is a serious mistake for the teacher to give explanations while she is moving at the head of the class with her back to the pupils. In such a situation many children will not hear, and the results consequently will be unsatisfactory. Especially is this true out of doors.

6.	Unless the teacher speaks loudly, many pupils will not hear her instruction to change from one activity to another. It may be advisable to use a soft blast from a whistle or some other signal such as hand clapping to indicate the termination of a particular part of the game.

7.	Whenever the game calls for “running across the field”, “running over to the swings”, etc., the running should be done forward and not in one spot.

8.	The teacher should beware of the tendency to include too much running, skipping, galloping, and other similar activities in one lesson without sufficient periodic interruption by relatively less vigorous activity.

9.	Whenever the teacher and pupils are breathing heavily as a result of a vigorous part of the game, it is advisable to pause for a few moments. In this connection the teacher might say to the class, “Let us rest for a minute: we are all tired from running so fast”, or words to that effect.

\
90

10.	It. is important to have much vigorous activity of the trunk in each lesson. If there is an insufficient number of different trunk exercises in a lesson, some or all of those which are included should be repeated in different parts of the lesson.

11.	The teacher should not tell pupils to do things which ordinarily they are told not to do; such as, throwing stones at animals, swinging too high, etc.

12.	The teacher should give thought to the class formations to be used, especially the formation for the start of the game.

13.	The teacher should have the class move into a definite formation at the end of the game.

14.	To subdue all laughter and sounds is to limit the interest and vigorous participation in the activity. On the other hand, to encourage or permit shouting and other boisterous sounds is to invite disorder.

The Snow Frolic

It has been snowing all night and the fields are covered. The boys and girls put on suitable clothing and go out to have fun.

1.	The children run to the field

Grasping partners hands they run to the field through the snow. The snow is very deep so they raise their knees high as they run.

2.	Scoop mow with the hands and throw it up in the air

In a side stride stand, bend the trunk forward and reach backward between the legs with the hands. Scoop up a double handful of snow with a forward movement of the arms, and then continue the arm swing foreupward with raising the trunk, throwing the snow up in the air so it will fall in front of the thrower when it comes down.

3.	The children get warm. They feel cold after picking up the snow.

a.	Jump in place rhythmically a number of times to warm the feet.

b.	Swing the arms sideward and then immediately cross them in front of the chest, each hand slapping the opposite shoulder. These movements are repeated rapidly and rhythmically a number of times to warm the body.

c.	The children are not yet warm enough so they combine the jumping and arm swinging.

4.	Make a large snow man

Each child makes a large snowball by starting with a small snowball and rolling it forward. The children move in a circle, stooping low with their hands near the ground. As the snowball becomes larger the trunk is gradually raised while pushing the ball. When the balls are large, tne children all turn and push them to the center of the circle. Here the balls are placed together to make a big. snow man.] On pupil should now stand in the circle to represent the snow man.]

Digitized by CjOOQle
91

5.	Dance around the snow man

All grasp hands to form a circle around the snow man and gallop first to the left, then to the right. Repeat. Then all skip forward to the snowman and backward, and repeat.

6.	Throw snow balls at the snow man

It is now about time to return home, and the children decide to knock down the snow man with snow balls. They stoop and make snowballs. They throw at the snow man several times until he falls over. [The pupil in the center gradually bends his knees deeply to represent the falling snow man.]

7.	All run home to tell their mothers how much fun they have had.

The Playground

Mothers have told the children they may go to the playground because that is the safest place for play. On account of the fun in store for the children, they run to the playground with their friends. However, in order to avoid accident, they do not run across the streets. Whenever they reach a street crossing they stop, look in both directions, and then walk across.

1.	Running to the playground

Run with partner, inner hands grasped. Now and then stop, look, and then walk across the street.

2.	Jumping rope

In imitation of rope jumping, swing the arms continuously in double arm circles forward, jumping each time the arms approach the downward position.

NOTE: Older pupils usually take two jumps with each circle of the arms, one jump being more pronounced than the other. Many young pupils can also do this and they will want to do so.

3.	The playground swings

In a side stride stand with trunk lowered forward and arms downward, swing the arms vigorously to and fro from side to side with trunk twisting.

4.	The see-saw

In couple formation with partners facing each other and grasping both hands, one partner bends the knees deeply while the other partner rises high on the toes. The partners then change, the one who was bending the knees rises on toes and vice versa. The see-saw movement should be continued a number of times.

5.	Stunts

a.	In a side stride stand, bend the knees and place the arms between the legs and grasp the ankles from the outside. Then walk forward.

b.	Hop several times on the light foot while clasping the knee of the raised left 1% with both hands. Repeat but hop on left foot and raise right knee.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
92

c.	Forward dip. Raise the left leg backward and the arms forward. Lower trunk forward and touch the finger tips to the floor and return. Repeat with right leg raised.

6.	The dance

All grasp hands and form a single circle facing the center. Skip forward to the center, then skip backward immediately retaining grasp of neighbor’s hands. Repeat skipping forward and backward several times. Then gallop left sideward in circle formation followed by galloping right sideward.

ELF DANCE FOR OLDER GIRLS

Translation from German by Wm. A. Nicolai, Philadelphia Central High School

Music: “Traumideale” [Dream Ideals] by Fusik.

The Waltz is played omitting the Introduction, the waltzes No. 3 and 4, and the Coda. Waltzes No. 1 and 2 are repeated. The numerals used in the description denote waltz measures [i. e., 1-8 denotes 8 waltz measures—24 counts]. Moderate waltz rhythm.

Participants: 8 older girls in loose flowing white or aquamarine colored raiment.

Abbreviations used: 1. [left]; r. [right]; fw. ]forward]; bw. [backward]; upw. [upward]; dw. [downward]; sw. [sideward].

[An Introduction of 4 measures]

A.—Waltz No. 1, Part I, played twice—32 measures.

Measures:

1-8 Beginning with the 1st measure, and with each succeeding measure, an elf enters from the r. [or 1.] side of the back-stage with continuous waltz steps fw. so that at end of 8th measure all 8 girls are on the stage. They have formed an open front circle facing inward. Arms, while entering, are swung r. fw. and 1. bw. during the waltz step 1. fw.; opposite during waltz step r. fw.

9-16. 8 waltz steps fw. in a circle r. [r. shoulder toward center], arms alternately swinging fw. and bw. as in 1-8.

17-	. Face r. to closed front circle grasping neighbor’s hands;

step-hop 1. fw., r. heel raised bw., and swinging relaxed arms foreupward.

18-	. Step-hop r. bw. raising 1. knee fw., and bending trunk

fw. with arms swinging dw. and bw.

19-	20. Repeat 17-18.

21-	. Step 1. sw., swinging r. leg in front and to the 1., trunk

bending slightly r., and glancing over r. shoulder.

22-	. As 21, but to the r.

23-	24. Repeat 21 and 22.

25-28. Face 1., release hands, repeat movements of 17-20.

29-32. Repeat 21-24. As r. leg swings fw., both arms swing to the 1.; arms swing r. when 1. leg swings fw.

Digitized by LjOOQle
93

33-34. 6 short running steps fw., relaxed arms raised sw., trunk slightly inclined fw.

35-36. Whole turn r. with 6 steps in place, arms swaying fw. and sw.

37-40. Repeat 33-3 6. On last count of 40th measure, face r. to an open front circle facing inward.

41-	. Step 1. fw., swing r. leg bw., swinging 1. arm foreupward,

and r. arm bw.

42-	. Pause, holding attitude 41.

43- . Step r. bw., raising 1. knee fw., move arms sw.

44- . With a hop in place, close feet [1st position], arms gently

swaying while held sw.

45-	48. Repeat 41-44, but opposite [to r.]

49-	. Glide-waltz-tum 1. sw.

50-	. Glide-waltz-turn r. sw.

51-	52. Repeat 49-50.

53-	. 3 light running steps to center of circle, raising r. heel bw.

on last count, neighboring hands gently grasped and arms swung upw. and looking upw.

54-	. Pause in attitude 53.

55-	56. Slowly kneel r., look upw.

57-58. Slowly arise.

59-60. Waltz-turn r. bw. Arms sre lowered during turn and then raised sw.

61-	. Face 1. [r. shoulder toward center of circle], and waltz-

turn 1. fw., swinging r. arm fw., 1. arm bw. [relaxed], and trunk moderately bent fw.

62-	. Waltz step r. bw., reverse position of arms.

63-	64. Repeat 61-62, returning to starting point. On last

count, form front couples [r. shoulders to center]

B—Waltz No. 1, Part II—32 measures.

1-	. Now in front couples, step fw. with outer feet, swing

inner legs fw. and hop [step-swing-hop], gently swaying arms accompany leg movements.

2-	. Repeat 1. with inner feet stepping fw. On last count face

about inward.

3-	4 . Repeat 1-2.

5-8 . Repeat 1-4. On last count of 8th measure, partners face each other and grasp r. hands.

9-10. Balance step 1. sw., r. hands touching; balance step r.

sw., 1. hands touching.

11-12. With waltz-turn 1., complete a whole turn in place;

hands at waist.

13-16. Repeat 9-12 opposite [beginning r. sw.]

17-20. Repeat 17-20 of A—Waltz No. 1, Part I, but this time in couples, hands touching upw. on 17.

21-24. Repeat 21-24 of A—Waltz No. 1, Part I, touching hands accompany leg movements.

25-28. In a wheel to the r. [partners r. shoulders adjacent], 4 waltz steps fw., inner hands touching, outer arms gently accompany leg movements.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
94

29-32. Repeat 25-28, but opposite direction [1. wheel]. On last count every 4 girls form an open front circle facing inward [2 circles of 4 girls],

C—Waltz No. 1, Part III—32 measures.	'

1-16. Repeat 17-32 of A—Waltz No. 1, Part I.

17-32. Repeat 33-48 of A—Waltz No. 1, Part I.

D—Waltz No. 2, Part I, [twice 16 M]—32 measures.

[An Introduction of 4 measures]

[Waltz balance steps 1., r., 1., r., arms move fw. and sw.

1-12. Repeat 49-60 of A—Waltz No. 1, Part I.

13-16. With waltz-turns, girls move into the large circle again, couples grasping inner hands [r. shoulders toward center]. 17-24. Repeat 1-8 of B—Waltz No. 1, Part II.

25-32. Repeat 9-16 of B—Waltz No. 1, Part II. On last measure, couples wheel to form open front circle facing center of circle.

E—Waltz No. 2, Part II—64 measures.

1-2 . Follow-step [Step-close-step] 1. fw., hop on 1. and raise r. knee fw.; arms swinging upw. and glance upw.

3-4 . Follow-step r. bw., hop r., and raise 1. knee; arms lowering dw. and then raised sw.

5-	. Waltz-turn 1. sw.

6-	. Kick-swing r. leg fw., arms swaying fw. and sw.

7-	12. Repeat 1-6, beginning with follow-step r. fw.

13-	. Take neighbors hands, step 1. sw., close r., step 1., ac-

accompanied with gentle knee bending and graceful fw. circling of the feet.

14-	. Cross-step r. over 1., knees bending and upper trunk

inclining to the r.

15-	16. Repeat 13-14 to the r.

17-	. Face 1., 3 light running steps fw., upper body inclined

fw., arms sw.

18-	. Step r. fw., raise 1. knee fw., incline trunk 1., hop on r.

foot.

19-	20. Repeat 17-18.

21-22. Glide-waltz-tum to 1. side.

23-24. Glide-waltz-tum to r. side.

25-32. Repeat 17-24, but without the 1. facing, continuing the dance along the circle-line of direction. Finish in front couples, r. shoulders toward center of circle.

33-48. Repeat 17-32 in couples with lightly grasped inner hands. The running steps begin with inner feet and the glide-waltz-tum is executed by both partners facing each other and both hands grasped. On last count of 48th measure, again form front couples facing opposite direction. [1. shoulders toward center of circle].

49-64. Repeat 33-48 back to starting point. Then, by means of several pirouette turns and dainty running steps, the elves slip off the stage into the wings.
95

Health Education Notes

V. TEACHING PROCEDURES IN HEALTH EDUCATION. TYPE OF LESSON PLANS: THE DEVELOPMENT

LESSON

Howard L. Conrad.

[Continued from April issue]

All complete lesson plans in which content and method are related step by step owe their existence to the groundwork laid bv Herbart in the first half of the last century. Every student or the history of education remembers his five formal steps;

i.	e., [1] Preparation and Aim, [2] Presentation, [3] Comparison, [4] Generalization, and [5] Application. These formal and rigid steps have, in some cases, been modified and in other instances completely abandoned. Reudiger* says of this, “The so-called progressive methods of today are all free and unsystematic and appear not to fit in very well with Herbartian procedure.” [However] “In spite of its imperfections and faulty application, it cannot be denied that this formulation of teaching procedure has had a far-reaching and beneficial influence on classroom teaching.”

Reducing all lesson plans to their essences we find this in common: [1] That there must be a beginning in which the known is related to the unknown through teacher-pupil exploration; a beginning in which the stage of learning is set. [2] There must be a body of subject matter to be presented, reviewed, or drilled; subject matter which is designed to help bring about the accomplishment of the lesson’s aim. [3] There must be an end to the lesson in which the important is emphasized and “fixed” and the relatively unimportant is subordinated.

Techniques will vary, as they should, but the accomplishment of organized and systematized learning invariably goes through these three phases.

The various types of normal lesson plans usually receive their names from different techniques employed; viz., “The Development Lesson”, “The Skill Lesson”, “The Review Lesson”, “The Appreciation Lesson”, “The Textbook Lesison”, etc. It will be seen that there is a common structure or arrangement of all plans which includes the following:

a.	The topic, grade, and number of lesson periods the plan is designed to cover.

b.	The materials needed to present, to motivate, to illustrate, etc. for which the teacher must make special provision.

c.	Teacher and pupil reference texts.

d.	The aims—general and specific.

•Reudiger, W. C. “Teaching Procedures” pages 55 and 66.

Digitized by floosie
96

e.	The content or subject matter of the unit of learning [topic]. This should be arranged logically, but the psychologic method implies freedom of sequence.

f.	The method steps. These may parallel the subject matter,

or follow it, depending on ease of reference or form expected by the supervisory staff.

g.	Outcomes. This may include a list of the habits, attitudes, skills, and knowledges which have been formed or strengthened, by the lesson. It should, include a list of new words [if any] which should, be added, to the pupils’ vocabulary. This part of the plan is really a check on the accomplishment expectancy and may be modified or added to after the lesson has been taught.

The method steps of the Development Lesson are these:

[1]	Approach. In this step the teacher applies the Law of Readiness through [a] recalling facts already known that are related to the new unit of learning [exploratory phase], [b] creating an atmosphere conducive to interest in the new unit, [c] stating the aim, problem or challenge that the new unit brings. The statement of this aim may preferably be made by the pupils.

[2]	Development. Here will occur the various pivotal or developing questions concerning the new knowledge. Mention also should be made of the illustrative devices and materials used in presenting the subject matter. Reudiger* says of developmental teaching, “the teacher and. pupils attack problems together before they have been studied in the textbook. The teacher is the moderator whose primary function is to direct the mental activity of the pupils, [cf. Socratic Method] leading them to see and appreciate the problem, guiding them in the gathering of data, and. assisting them in the testing of hypotheses. The whole undertaking is a give-and-take procedure which obviously could not take place after the topic has been studied, in a textbook.”

.	[3] Conclusion. In this step the Law of Exercise is applied.

As many varieties for “fixing” the facts, skills, or habits should be employed as are feasible. Reading from textbook, drill questioning, outlining major points on the blackboard, recalling and satisfying aims, and making individual or group assignments all may take place in this final step of the lesson. Sometimes a statement as to the nature of the next problem is necessary also.

The following lesson plan may help in understanding the technique employed in the Development Lesson.

Illustrative Development Lesson Grade 7A

Topic: Muscles—Lesson 3 [Effects of Exercise]

Teachers’ References:

Williams “Personal Hygiene Applied” Chapter VI

Williams “Healthful Living” Chapter IX

Winslow and Williamson “The Laws of Health” Chapter VI

♦Ibid p. 97
97

I.	Aim General

To create an interest in normal muscular development and the health habits that foster it.

Specific

To emphasize the importance of exercise as a factor in the development of the body.

II; Content Exercise

Immediate physiologic effects Breaking down and consumption of cell material Stronger heart beat

Increased breathing—greater aeration of blood in lungs Replenishment of cell material through increased blood flow to cells

Increased elimination [perspiration and carbon dioxide] Effects of exercise on muscles Increased size Increased strength Improved tone Permanent effects on other body parts Better general development Better functioning of internal organs Stronger heart muscle]

Increased lung capacity] cr. Immediate effects Increased digestive secretions Better utilization of digested foods [less fat deposited]

III.	Method Approach [Law of Readiness]

a.	Body grace achieved through exercise

How many have seen a statue of a Greek athlete? [eg. Discobolus]

What appeals to you most in this statue?

How has the sculptor created the effect of strength and graceful motion?

b.	The Greek ideal-----‘the sound mind in the sound body'

How did this ideal reflect in the lives of the ancient Greeks? [eg. Olympic games, splendid posture, worship of beauty, scrupulous care of the body]

What opportunities have we to achieve perfect bodies?

Development

a.	Effects of exercise on muscles

When we exercise, what tissue of the body is directly concerned?

Recall how the sculptor shows the play of muscles in the athlete?

How can you tell which muscles are in action?

Digitized by kjOOQle
98

What do you understand by muscle tone?

How is this recognized?

Explain [teacher] the increased size and strength of the developed muscle.

b.	Other physiologic effects of exercise

What noticeable effect has exercise on the heart? on respiration? on elimination of waste? on thirst? on appetite? How does this aid us to attain health?

c.	Effect of exercise on the cell

How is the individual cell affected by exercise? [develop in simple terms the facts of the loss and replenishment of cell material]

Conclusion

a.	Exercise should be taken regularly

What do you consider sufficient exercise for your needs? Contrast value of indoor exercise and outdoor exercise. What are your favorite outdoor activities?

b.	Project assignment [Laws of Exercise and Satisfaction] ' What plans can we suggest to measure our improvement

in physical development? [Teacher will arrange to have various committees of pupils report at subsequent times on this project]

NOTE: —The questions which have been listed only suggest a continuity of approach and development. It is necessary that the teacher explain and ask supplementary questions so as to be thoroughly assured that the pupils have an adequate understanding of the subject matter in the lesson.

Automatic Light Control Essential*—For many years room heating has been controlled fey automatic thermostatic devices. These instruments have been refined and their service extended so that their specification is no longer questioned in school buildings. Only recently, however, has it been recognized that similar automatic control of lighting is necessary, desirable and possible.

The recent perfection of the photo-electric relay and the illumination meter have made possible for light control what the thermostat and thermometer have done for heat control.

The photo-electric relay turns on and off the lights in a room or group of rooms automatically, using as its operating means the light intensity within the room or the light intensity entering the room from the outside. The intensity at which the relay is set to turn the lights on or off is determined by the use of the illumination meter, which is a highly sensitive type of photometer, using two photo cells for differentiation in readings.

While the photo-electric relay has a capacity large enough to operate the ligfets in an ordinary classroom, the cost of a photo cell for each room is an unnecessary if not a prohibitive expense.

Digitized by t^ooQle
99

By the use of larger relay switches, which can be actuated by the photo-electric relay, any number of-rooms requiring the same range of illumination can be connected to the same relay switch or circuit breaker.—Fred W. Frostic, Superintendent of Schools Wyandotte, Michigan.

Achievement In Prevention Of Blindness. The National Society for the Prevention of Blindness entered its second quarter century in 1933. The span of twenty-five years, of course, permitted more spectacular comparisons than the span of a single year. The first quarter of a century has seen:

A 75 per cent reduction in the number of cases of blindness from babies’ sore eyes ataong children entering schools for the blind.

An increase in the number of sight-saving classes, since their establishment in 1913, to 430 in 1933.

A marked increase in the amount of vision testing among school children.

The development of a method for testing the vision of children as young as two years.

The adoption by safety engineers of methods for preventing eye accidents in industry.

A remarkable improvement in lighting, and the invention of a device for measuring light.

Cross-Eyes.—Orthoptic training as a part of the treatment for cross-eyes is gaining more attention. Ten clinics have already been established in six communities. The Committee on Optics and Visual Physiology of the American Medical Association requested the National Society For The Prevention of Blindness to name a committee to study the possibilities of this type of training; this committee is now engaged in getting the consensus of leading ophthalmologists on the subject.

Ventilation as a Physiological Problem.—Ventilation, derived from the Latin ventilate—“to fan”—means no more than the maintenance of air movement. Nevertheless, the common conception of effective ventilation is that of an adequate supply of fresh and of pure air. The widespread belief in the necessity for freshness and purity of the ventilating air has held until recent times. It is now realized' that the chief function of ventilation is the provision of such'an external environment that the body may, in its turn, maintain the physiological integrity of its internal environment—and that with the minimum of strain.

In a series of experiments, Leonard Hill in 1913 finally disposed of the claim advanced that expired air contains injurious organic matter other than bacteria.

Even when at rest, the human body produces no inconsiderable quantity of heat, and all excess must be got rid of; otherwise

Digitized by Tooele
100

ultimate destruction of the body occurs more surely and more rapidly than with the retention of any other waste product. At least three-fourths of the heat produced in muscular effort is a waste product to be removed; otherwise heat stroke may ensue. The more subtle or premonitory stage of heat-stagnation is less obvious and is also more frequent. The strain is thrown on the cardiovascular system, while warm moist atmospheres also affect the mucous membranes of the respiratory tract.

Clothing aggravates the stagnation of heat. The part which clothing may play in the heat loss of the body is of paramount importance. It is the beneficial effects of air movement which are largely negatived by unsuitable clothing. A human being is able to adjust himself to his surrounding within fairly wide limits and also has power of acclimatizing himself. In still air the sensory nerves of the skin are not stimulated, by which an increased rate of sweat production is brought about in acclimatization.—J’l. Roy San. Inst.

Syphylis, a Thief of Sight.—Unlike the gonorrheal infection, syphilis is a more subtle thief of sight. When the disease is contracted by an adult, unless proper treatment is instituted early and carried on thoroughly, months or years after the first symptoms have disappeared, eye involvements may show themselves under many different guises. A list of possible eye manifestations of syphilis—acute iritis, inflammation of the vitreous body, diffuse keratitis, neuro-retinitis, choroiditis disseminate, gummata in the choroid, optic neuritis, serpiginous choriditis, aquo-capsulitis—is more confusing than impressive to the layman. These eye manifestations, leading to greatly impaired vision and possibly to blindness, are among the commonest results of syphilis.

Immunization Against Measles.—The conquest of measles rests with the development of a method of active immunization similar to that employed in the prevention of diphtheria. However, in recent years, favorable results have been obtained from the use of intramuscular injection's of convalescent immune serum or whole adult blood for passive immunization or for modification of the severity of measles. The former is the more potent in the greater anti-body contest, but owing to the scarcity and difficulty of obtaining sufficient amounts at all times, whole adult blood has been substituted. If sufficient dosage of either be given on or before the fifth day of exposure, 80 to 90 percent, of contacts will be completely protected for a period of at least several weeks, and the few, who are not, will develop a modified attenuated form of measles with no complications or deaths, thereby acquiring a permanent immunity to this disease. If administered after the fifth day, even as late as the eighth or ninth day of exposure, it will usually result in a mild attack with the chances of complications greatly lessened. However, the greatest good to

Digitized by v^.ooQle
101

be attained from the use of eerrum or whole blood is in the modification of the disease and not in its prevention. Dosage depends on age, weight, days after exposure, results desired, virulence of epidemic and preparation used. Ordinarily convalescent or adult serum because of its smaller bulk is more desirable for use in smaller children, and whole adult blood in larger children. In the use of convalescent serum or whole adult blood, we possess the most practical and effective weapon in the control of measles mortality.—H.	Fretz, Assistant Diag-

nostician, Bureau of Health.

Argyria.—The most common infection among all classes of people is the common “cold.” The most common method of treatment is the use of “rose drops.” There are many drugs advertised and many prescriptions written by the physician for this purpose. Among the most popular of these are solutions of the salts of silver. When these silver salts are used over a long period of time there is apt to develop in certain children who are especially susceptible to the absorption of silver an abnormal condition of the skin and mucous membranes known as argyria.

The silver salts are instilled into their nostrils, swallowed, and some taken up by the blood and deposited in the skin and mucous membranes as metallic silver. The result is that if contineud the skin gradually assumes an ashen, gray, ghastly hue, which is more or less permanent.

No possible damage could be done by using silver salts for a brief period of time—for instance, several times daily for a week, or when applied locally by the physician; but it is their prolonged and frequent use and the individual susceptibility of the patient which is responsible for argyria.

The results obtained from this form of medication do not in the least justify their use. As a matter of fact, most upper respiratory infections [head colds] have to run their course, and their duration is not materially influenced by intra-nasal therapy.

The public should know and be warned about the danger of argyria dasued by drugs.— No. Caro. Health Bulletin.

Occupational Diseases In The Wood Industry.—The

most frequent symptoms of poisoning from wood are the various forms of skin disease.

Microbiology of Frozen Foods. VI. The Survival of Pathogenic Microorganisms in Ice Cream—Numerous studies have been made on the longevity of pathogenic micro-organisms in dairy products with the exception of ice cream. This product has no doubt been neglected because freezing was thought to be destructive, to microorganisms. However, numerous epidemics of disease have been traced to ice cream. Since tuberculosis is the most important disease transmitted by dairy products the longevity of these organisms in ice cream was studied. Two members of the salmonella group were also studied.

Digitized by L^ooQle
102

Guinea pigs were injected with 1 c.c. amount of the ice cream samples containing the Brucella and tubercle organisms. All animals remaining alive after 2 months were necropsied. The animals inoculated with the ice cream tubercle bacilli were examined, at the time of death, for characteristic lesions of the spleen and liver and at the point of injection. The paratyphoid and undulant fever organisms were frozen in the ice cream for a period of 36 months and in all cases the organisms were still viable and present in sufficient numbers to be rather easily detected. The different strains of the tubercle bacilli were still viable and potent after 30 months. All produced characteristic lesions in guinea pigs in a comparatively short time.

While the artificially inoculated ice cream contained more organisms than would be encountered in ice cream made from naturally infected raw milk, such data suggest that ice cream should not be considered as a safe food just because it is frozen.— G. I. Wallace and Rhoda Crouch, J. Dairy Sci. 16:315 [July], 1933

Where and How Men Get Hurt—The chance of accident to the man on the street is less than is generally supposed. Out of an aggregate number of 117,477 injuries studied by the Accident and Health Department of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, there were only 9,078, or 7.7 per cent of the total, that happened while walking on streets and highways. The public travel accident hazard is of even less importance; for only 2.2 per cent of the injuries happened on buses, taxicabs, street cars, trains, boats, airplanes and other public conveyances. These figures relate to a group of persons who are employed in non-hazardous occupations and whose ages range between 18 and 65 years.

The vast majority of accidents occur in places which the average man seldom associated with danger—at home, in offices, in stores and in sports and games. Out of more than 117,000 in-

{'uries that were studied, close to 17,000 occurred in homes or on lome premises; another 40,000 occurred within the apparently safe confines of office buildings, hotels, stores, clubs, and other public structures. Altogether, 49 per cent of all the accidents occurred inside of buildings or in private grounds where people might feel that they were comparatively safe from harm. Then, there were nearly 13,000 accidents, or 11 per cent of the total, that occurred in the common games and sports that are indulged in by the average man. These include such supposedly harmless sports as tennis, golf, skating, and even dancing. Over 25,000, injuries, or 21 per cent of the total, occurred to persons riding in privately owned automobiles. The main causes of these automobile accidents were collisions with other cars, skidding, and caring for the automobiles.

A considerable number of injuries were sustained in very ordinary ways. First, missteps and falls caused nearly one-third of the total injuries. These occurred most commonly, on sidewalks

Digitized by LaOOQle
103

on stairs, over rugs and over other objects on floors. Getting in or out of bed is hardly to be considered a dangerous activity ; and yet 76 men fell and were injured in this manner. The ordinary bathtub or shower, which in the past was accused of many casualties, accounted for only 557, or less than one-half of 1 per cent. The second important group of injuries were from broken glass, nails, other sharp instruments, and splinters. These make up 18 per cent of the total. Third in order of importance, with 17 per cent of the total, were injuries by vehicles. In this class the automobile is the chief offender. Together, these three broad classes of injuries accunted for 66 per cent of the total. The remaining 34 per cent were due to being struck by falling or flying objects, to colliding with other persons or objects, to bums or explosions, to being caught in doors and windows and to a variety of other happenings.

Injuries are, for the most part, due to trivial and minor mishaps which can readily be avoided. In the aggregate, however, these preventable accidents cause an immense amount of discomfort, as well as the waste of huge sums of money because of time lost from work and the cost of medical care.f—Met. Life Ins. Co. Stat. Bull. 14:8-10 [July], 1933.

Fatigue in Soldiers Due to Chlorine Losses—Pathological fatigue is no longer solely attributed to the accumulation within the body of waste products of muscular effort. Both bodily and environmental conditions directly contribute to it, and an extensive bibliography has been prepared on industrial fatigue by the Committee on Industrial Fatigue and Allied Subjects of the American Public Health Association as well as a valuable Review on Physiological Effects of Abnormal Temperatures and Humidities, by R. R. Sayers and Sarah J. Davenport of the U. S. Public Health Service.

Conditions surrounding military training or actual warfare are often conducive to gross losses of body fluids due to sweating. [A discussion is devoted to the subject of the chemistry and physiology of perspiration, including the amount of water eliminated under certain conditions; likewise, a section on the changes in chloride constituency of sweat, blood, and cellular tissues associated with sweating.]

Among numerous reports indicating the practicability of replacing chloride losses, following profuse sweating, by the addition of sodium chloride, is an instance in which a group of 14 men working in hot mines, where fatigue and cramps prevailed, obtained gratifying results when given 0.25 per cent of sodium chloride to the gallon of drinking water. Likewise, Oswald, Haldane, Mar-schak and Dukelskaga and others have reported favorably upon the disappearance of symptoms, associated with overheating, through the use of saline solutions. The desire to eat salted meat such as salted red herring among British miners engaged in hot work is undoubtedly a point in illustration. Scores of industries

Digitized by LjOOQle
104

are now supplying salinized drinking water for the propose of replacing unwanted losses of minerals in sweating. It is felt that the rise of tablets of salts for this purpose are potentially dangerous since they may cause stomach irritation.

As sweating is prolonged the percentage of chlorides increases in the sweat, and in an average case the loss from the body of chlorides approximates 20 gm. per day—much more than would normally be replaced in the chlorides of foods and drinks. Obviously, water alone does not alleviate the condition.

A 0.5 per cent solution of sodium chloride in the face of excessive sweating should promote a sense of comfort and well being, avoid cramps in muscle groups and in the intestinal tract, avoid the deprivation of minerals and water in the tissues, and prevent gastric hypoacidity. The use of 0.5 to 1.0 per cent of common salt in drinking water is recommended for military purposes under all conditions conducive to undue chloride losses in personnel. [Bibliography follows.]—Carey P. McCord, Military Surgeon, 69, 6: 608-614 [Dec.], 1932. E. R. H. in Am. Pub. Health.

Patent Medicine:—In the place of the old time street comer “snake oil quack”, we now find that handbills and newspaper advertising confront the people on every hand. Fancy names are given to old drugs which still possess their potent qualities. Old remedies, such as Epsom salts or Glauber salts, are dressed up in fancy packages and labeled with some fancy name, and five cents worth is sold for about a dollar or more under the advertising which is now permitted by law. As a specific example of a success among this type the following little item, in which a combination of salts is dressed up and advertised on front street, may be seen in an item in Eugene Ashcraft’s column in the Monroe No. Carolina, Enquirer, to wit:

“CRAZY WATER”

“Speaking of ‘medicine,’ and one highly advertised just now, is crazy water crystals. Recently a man, maybe a woman, told me he or she had taken the crystals which looked like salts and placed them in water. The concoction then not only looked like salts, tasted like salts, but by gravy, acted like salts. But you can’t purchase as much crazy crystals as you can carry, as is the case of plain old Epsom salts, for a nickel.”

Menorrhagia And Metrorrhagia.—Hemorrhage, irrespective of sex or site, is nothing more or less than a signal of danger. It is almost invariably the first sign of anatomical alteration and, therefore, is always significant of trouble.There is no physical sign more ominous and as a physical sign it must never be complacently or lightly regarded.

It is incumbent to remember that bleeding of whatever origin —from the uterus or elsewhere—is a physical symptom or sign

Digitized by Google
105

and indicative either of deranged function or altered stricture. In short, uterine hemorrhage—in itself— must never be looked upon as a morbid entity, but always as an evidence of disease.

Three common and constant symptoms usually accompany all forms of pelvic trouble, namely, leukorrhea, hemorrhage and pain, and next to leukorrhea, bleeding is the most conspicuous as well as the most significant.

In its etiologic background, there is always a provocative factor.

Generally speaking, then, bleeding of whatever type, or whatever degree, whether announcing itself in the mildest spotting, moderate discharge, or a frank flow, during the intermentsrual interval, is, if anything, still more significant and it never emerges from a uterine body—except in certain cases of endocrine imbalance—that one could regard as structurally sound.

It may be accepted as axiomatic that organs anatomically healthy never give rise to symptoms and they never bleed. Stated in another way, this implies that bleeding of an abnormal type, manifesting itself as a so-called menstrual outburst or as intermenstrual hemorrhage, has its origin in anatomical derangement of some part of the uterus itself—cervix or body—or in the organs most intimately related—the ovaries.—Med. Times & Long Island	Medical J’I.

Diabetic Person Is No Longer Hopeless Victim.—In former years a person suffering from diabetes had a gloomy outlook in life, but today with intelligent care a person with diabetes is not hopeless and can be restored to a state of good health, Dr. Michael G. Wohl says in discussing “Diabetes: A Public Health Problem” in the May Hygeia.

In 1880 the death rate from diabetes in the registration area was 2.8 for each hundred thousand persons. In 1925 the public health statistics indicated an increase to 16.1 for each hundred thousand. This increase, according to Dr. Wohl, may be due to the fact that today the disease is recognized much earlier and is more accurately diagnosed.

In Europe during the World War, the occurrence of diabetes was diminished in countries where the supply of food was lessened and in this country with a decrease of luxuries during the war the death rate from diabetes decreased. From a public health point of view, it would appear logical to assume that a campaign of public education to combat overweight and to curb the habits of overindulgence in carbohydrates would go a long way toward reducing the incidence of diabetes.

It is probable that various infections, frequent grips and colds may injure the pancreas, and after many years of wear and tear, symptoms of diabetes may develop. Such infections, especially of the teeth, should be guarded against.

There is also some clinical evidence that some cases of diabetes have an emotional origin. Worry and mental strain should be avoided by the person who is predisposed to the disease.

Digitized by LjOOQie
106

Dental Defects In Children.—In a survey of dental defects ' conducted in all the public schools of Staten Island by Nils W. Bergquist and Marion L. Walsh, the following conditions were discovered:

a.	Percentage of defective teeth in pupils in rural districts ....59%

b.	Percentage of defective teeth in pupils in semi-rural districts 48%

c.	Percentage of defective teeth in pupils in urban districts ..48%

The higher percentage in rural schools is believed to reflect the poorer economic condition there.

Growth As An Index Of Health.—Teachers of physical and health education should be interested in the following Summary and Conclusion which appeared in an article published by the American Journal of Public Health.

Summary

The extent to which children fail to gain over different periods of time was determined. Weighings would have been somewhat more accurate without shoes. It is probable that because of the more rapid growth at the adolescent period these findings for elementary school children would not apply to those in the junior and senior high school.

Children who have failed to gain for a 3-month period reflect appreciably poorer health habits and definitely lower health status than those who have gained regularly. Nearly 3 times as many in the former group [33:12] have 2 or more important unhygienic habits; serious physical defects are nearly 3 times as numerous among them [44:16]; nearly twice as many [27:14] have such defects; illness is nearly twice as common [9.2:5]. The number of children defective in 2 or all 3 of these respects is over 4 times as great [34:8].

Intermittency in gaining weight does not draw a sharp line between the children who seem to need attention and those who do not; but it is more commonly accompanied by departure from normal health than is regular growth. [Obese children usually gain regularly and too rapidly. This screening is not applicable to them J

There are always differences in the seriousness of the defects recorded and in the vitality of individual children. The relatively few who showed regular gains, although burdened with a combination of unhygienic habits, illness and defects, appear to have had sufficiently good natural vitality or home care to maintain growth in spite of these conditions.

A few children, 4 per cent, showing interinittency for 3 months, exhibited no departure from normal. A somewhat larger group, 18 per cent, showed only minor difficulties. It may be that our studies failed to reveal existing defects, unhygienic habits or departures from normal organic health. It may be that nervous fatigue, worry over school work, or some other unobservable

Digitized by LjOOQle
107

: factor interfered with growth. It may be thatia'few children who are maintaining a reasonably satisfactory state of health show intermittency to this degree.

Conclusion

Since school children are weighed regularly anyway and since children who have failed to grow for a 3-month period show a much poorer condition in respect to habits, illness and physical defects, it seems worthwhile for the teacher, school nurse and school physician to give them individual attention in order that unhygienic living may be discontinued, complete recovery from illness secured, physical defects corrected, and in order that children needing continuing medical care may be referred to the family physician.

News Notes and Comments

College Entrance Credit.—“Regulations Concerning the Acceptance of Health and Physical Education for College Entrance Credit” by Dr. William F. Meredith is a most valuable study. We quote briefly from the summary:—

“Of the eighty-one institutions of higher learning included in this study, eight require sixteen units for entrance; sixty-eight, fifteen units; one, fourteen and one-half units; and four, twelve units from Grades 10, 11 and 12.

“Of the colleges and universities included, fifty-four or approximately sixty-six and two-thirds per cent, accept for entrance credit, either physical education or health education or both. Thirty-three, or forty-one per cent, accept both physical education and health education. Twenty, or twenty-five per cent, accept health education alone. One institution—the University of South Carolina—accepts physical education but no health education. Acceptance of this credit for graduation by the secondary school seems to influence its acceptance for entrance credit by the colleges and universities.”—N.P.EJS.—iV.R.A.

C.W.A. In Recreation.—Philadelphia was one of the first cities to take advantage of Federal funds to increase recreational facilities and activities. Since January 18, 155 teachers have been assigned to the Bureau of Recreation through the C.W.A. This has made it possible to organize a program of activities in 21 recreation centers [without buildings] which were formerly supervised only by caretakers during the winter months, and has resulted in a greatly enriched program in the 18 recreation centers with buildings.

The most worthwhile feature of the entire project is that the teachers appointed have been selected from the group of unemployed. It is interesting to note that a large number of these teachers have special training and many have college degrees.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
108

Not only has'the Bureau taken advantage of the opportunity to enlarge the activities’ program through increased personnel, but it has requested a total of 1197 men for various projects to rehabilitate, recondition, repair, regrade and resurface the 39 recreation centers and 39 swimming pools under its jurisdiction.

347 men have been assigned, which include carpenters, painters, plasterers, plumbers, roofers, electricians, bricklayers and laborers. The work accomplished by these men has already created a general improvement in appearance and condition of a number of the centers.—Minna B. Reichelt, Executive Secretary.

What Physical Education Teachers are Teaching.—The

following table shows what physical education teachers are teaching besides physical education in Missouri this year. It does not mean that there are as many teachers as the summation of all the numbers would indicate because one teacher may be teaching two, three, or four subjects.

Subject	No.	of	Teachers

Social Studies ..........243

Physical Education.......174

General Science ........ 156

English .................145

Algebra ...:...........  118

Geography ............... 70

Biology.................. 66

Hygiene ...............   59

Civics .................. 59

Physiology .............  51

Physics ...............   45

Music ................... 20

Chemistry................ 13

Latin ..................  13

Speech ..................  5

Art ...................... 3

French.................    3

Library................... 2

Plane Geometry ........... 2

Psychology ................2

Vocational Art............ 1

Botany ..................  1

Spanish ................   1

FederalJCold Treatments.	“Time" reports that in order

to keep the government employees on the job during the pressure of work entailed by the New Deal the following treatments have been recommended by the Public Health Service.

Federal Cold Treatment No. 1: [a] one fever-chasing tablet [asperin, phenacetin, or the like] dissolved in a small quantity of warm water; [b] swab throat with a mixture of one part iodin and fivejparts glycerin; [c] spray nostrils with 1% solution

Digitized by Google
109

of ephedrin sulphate, or a diluted solution of atropine sulphate if cold is very severe; [d] castor oil or citrate of magnesia purge;

[e]	saturated solution of baking powder [drink].

Federal Cold Treatment No. 2: two aspirin tablets, a teaspoon of halting soda, a dash of aromatic spirits of ammonia and a few drops of spirits of camphor shaken with two ounces of hot water. Swallow the mixture.

There is nothing new or startling in the various ingredients used in these treatments except perhaps the use of baking powder instead of baking soda in treatment number one as an an acid or alkalinizing agent. All of these have been recommended from time to time as being effective if taken in the early stages of the common cold. _______________________

Eye Beauty—or Eye Poison?—What chances do women— and usually young women—take when they attempt to beautify their eyes with eyelash dyes, eyelash curling fluids, or eye drops? After several reports of damages done by such eye beautifiers, the Board of Medical Examiners of the State of California declares “It is a serious thing for anyone to use a solution of unknown content around the eyes. Some of them contain analine derivatives, and may either cause blindness or serious dermatitis.” The Journal of the American Medical Association has records of at least 16 cases of dermatoconjunctivitis following the use of Lash-Lure, an eyelash dye. One of these cases may progress to blindness.	____________________

Increase In Rehabilitation Of Disabled Report—More disabled men and women were made self-supporting last year through the vocational rehabilitation program carried on under the Federal Vocational Rehabilitation Act than in any earlier ydar, Secretary of the Interior, Harold L. Ickes, under whose direction this program is now administered, reports.

North Carolina is pushing a program to use Federal relief funds for sanitary projects. Malarial swamps are being drained, thousands of privies are being constructed or repaired, school and dairy sanitation are being unproved, and new water and sewerage plants are being built m various parts of the State.

EFFECT OF APPARATUS ACTIVITIES ON POSTURE

A question and an answer We will be pleased to receive from readers information which will be helpful to the writer of the following question which was sent to us. The answer which we gave is appended. We believed the material to be of sufficient interest to all teachers to print it in this issue.

Question

Dear Sir:

I am interested in the effect of apparatus exercises on posture. Could you give me any information on this top ic? Perhaps yo*«could tell me where I could write to Germany for this.	Sincerely yours,

Digitized by LjOOQle
110

Answer

Dear Sir:

I am sorry that I can give you no scientific data concerning the effect of apparatus exercises on posture, nor tell you where you might obtain it.

It has been my observation over a number of years that some of the men who specialized in certain types of apparatus work and who did not participate to any extent in other types of physical activity had “round shoulders” and slightly forward projecting heads due to over-development of anterior muscles. On the other hand, innumerable good performers on apparatus who did take part in other activities had what is commonly considered to be excellent posture.

As we all know, posture depends on so many factors that it is not always easy to determine the exact effect of any one factor on a particular posture, except where overwork of certain muscle groups in particular occupations [or in forms of physical education] has led to overdevelopment of certain muscle groups with consequent change in posture. Nutrition, muscle tone, exercise, fatigue, rest, disease, heredity, clothing, eyesight, hearing, labyrinthine condition, etc. all exert so much influence,—to say nothing of the fact that there is disagreement among the “experts” as to what constitutes good posture—that a person ought to hesitate a long time before making any claims. But it is a fact that countless numbers of people who use apparatus regularly have what is considered to be correct posture. Certainly the thousands of young men and women in Germany who use apparatus are visual evidence that this is true.

Sincerely yours,

BOOK REVIEW

Recreation For Girls and Women* by Ethel Bowers; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1934; clothbound, 6x9”; 425 paiges with illustrations; price $3.00.

This is a splendid book, filled with practical material which is well organized, clearly described, and based on sound philosophy. Be sure to get a copy.

The chapter topics are as follows:

Introduction

Chapter I—Activities For Girls From Birth to Nine Years of Age Chapter II—Activities For Girls Nine Years to Twelve Years of Age

Chapter III—Activities For Girls Twelve Years to Seventeen Years of Age

Chapter IV—Acitvities For Business Girls [17-30 Years] and Industrial Girls [13-30 Years]

Chapter V—Activities For Matrons [25 years Upl Chapter VI—Suggested General Programs For All Ages Chapter VII—The Girls' Recreation Council Chapter VIII—Leadership

Chapter IX—Organization and Administration—General Methods Chapter X—Organization .and Administration—The Physical Activities—General Methods

Digitized by i^ooQle
Ill

Chapter XI—Organization and Administration—Physical Activities—Detailed Methods Chapter XII—Organization and Administration—The Non-Physical Activities

Appendix

Index

Foreign Notes

Yugoslavia Leads In Rural Health Centers. The dedication recently of the ninetieth rural health center in Yugoslavia, named in honor of King Alexander I, draws attention to the remarkably successful work of the peasant cooperative societies in organizing their local medical and public health facilities. The establishment of these health centers, one after another during the last twleve years, is a heroic achievement of reconstruction, which has already provided old Serbian Yugoslavia with a more extensive health organization of the rural masses than can be found in any similar area, except perhaps in Denmark.

Kindergartens are perhaps the most recently active movement in the direction of municipal administration of recreation in Sydney, Australia. In conjunction with the Kindergarten Union, Country Women’s Association, and similar voluntary organizations, the Municipal Councils conjointly provide areas set apart from parks and other public open spaces, for the exclusive use of infants and young children. They further provide all necessary buildings, accommodations and apparatus for indoor as well as outdoor play, exercise and amusement appropriate to the use of infants and young children. Play superintendents are supplied by the Kindergarten Union, while nursing assistance and baby clinics are arranged by the Country Women's Association in conjunction with the State Departments of Health. Emergency nourishment for the children is also available at the discretion of those in charge.

In a letter to The Times [London] this year, Field-Marshal Milne gave it as his opinion that the country stood in urgent need of a properly organised system of Physical Education. He stated that of the young men who offered themselves for recruits for the army in 1932, over 50 per cent, were not up to the required physical standard. Recent War Office figures for 1933 bear out this statement. There were, in this year, 95,270 men who enquired as to enlistment; of these, 24,000 were rejected on sight because of obvious poor physique, of the remaining 71,688, who were medically examined, only 28,481 were passed. One reason for this mav be that the young men examined had been “War Babies,” and were handicapped in their first years by lack of nourishment. -This may be a contributory cause in a good many cases, but

Digitized by CjOOQle
112

poverty and unemployment have had disastrous effects upon the health of the young men and women of the country, especially iu areas like Tyneside and South Wales. Field-Marshal Milne did not forget to mention the effects of unemployment, but the seriousness of his indictment against the npglect of Physical Education is borne out by the facts he-givds, that it is not only the young men from the poorer clashes whose physique is below standard. Speaking of the physical standard of the Army Cadets sent up from the Public Schools, he says that it was possible to pick out almost at sight those who came from schools where Physical Education was properly organised from those in which it was neglected or purely perfunctory. The latter, he states, suffered to an astonishing extent from spinal curvature, round shoulders and general bad posture.

Health of Young Workers in Germany.—Effect of vigorous activity on physical development.—Physical examination of young workers, which is compulsory in many parts of Germany before the issuance of an employment certificate, is also repeated in some cities at a later date. In the city of Kiel one of the public health physicians examined 424 boys before they entered apprenticeship in various trades and examined them again two or more times during their apprenticeship which lasted from 2 to 3 years.

The results of this study prove in the author’s opinion the correctness of the prevailing assumption that the physical development of young workers differs in the various occupations. Although this difference is due in part to constitutional variations and to the fact that stronger boys take up more strenuous work, still, the author finds, the occupation itself produces an effect on the growing body.

The more strenuous occupations seem in general to stimulate growth more than the others. This was particularly noticeable in the outdoor building trades, in which, according to the author, even boys of medium strength showed in the second year excellent progress in their health and physical development, as revealed by a reexamination.

Next followed the metal trades, in which the boys engaged in the more strenuous processes showed a better progress of physical development than those in less strenuous work. Among the woodworkers and book binders, improvement was slower, even when the boys were in good health at the beginning of their employment. Still less favorable was the situation among the clerks in mercantile establishments; often boys in these establishments who in the beginning were strong and well developed remained behind the boys in other occupations. Least satisfactory were the results obtained among the apprentices in the clothing trades and the unskilled workers, among whom the degree of physical development during the time of apprenticeship was below the average.— Arch. f. Sociale Hygiene und Demogra Berlin, 6, 5: 329, 1931.

Digitized by kjOOQle