Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

Wm. Stecher, Secretary of the technical committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, 1830 Papin 8t., St. Louis, Mo. HANS BALLIN, managing editor, southern Illinois State Normal University, CarbonDALE, III.

GRECIAN GYMNASTICS.

By HANS BALLIN, State Normal University, Carbondale, Ills.

GRECIAN gymnastics was closely allied to the sacred plays at which the contests of the different kinds of gymnastics took place. These were the Nenaean, Pythian, Isthmian, and above all the Olympic games. With the birth of the Olympic festivities begins the development of Grecian gymnastics ; at their prime, it had reached its zenith, and at the close of these plays it also came forever to an end. The establishment of the Olympic games is to be traced to the dark ages, and myth names Herakles as the founder of them. He is said to have been victorious in a foot race with his brothers. After a long mythic period, the historic time of the Olympic agonism begins with Iphitos. The panegyric festival which had been celebrated now and then, and which at times was wholly forgotten, received a new impulse through him, and, establishing strict rules, he decreed that these festivals should be held every fifth year (pentaeteris). This was ever after strictly adhered to. The main incentive by which Iphitos accomplished this was the inauguration of the ‘truce of the gods.1 During the month of the festival all hostilities in arms were forbidden. The Elaean heralds announced the beginning of the sacred month in their own land and then in all other Hellenic states, and from the first day of it every Greek could go unmolested to the festival; he need not fear for his personal safety. Having thus fixed the commemoration of the festive games on a solid foundation, they suffered interruption no more. But, the definite historic time begins when the victors in the different contests were rewarded and when Grecian chronology was reckoned from the celebration of the Olympic games. This

Digitizecfby CjOO^Ic
-22-

was at the 28th Olympiad, 108 years after the restoration of the games by Iphitos. In this festival the Elaean Koroibos was the victor, in the year 3938 of the Julian period, 23 years before the founding of Rome, 777 years before Christ. The victors at Olympia were crowned with a wreath of the wild olive tree and besides, as at all sacred games, received a palm-leaf in their hands, the latter, as Plutarch believes, because the palm is the emblem of strength, bent out of its natural position of growth, it always returns to its erect attitude.

The Olympiad in which Koroibos came out victoriously, was again reckoned to be the first, and from then on 286 festive games were regularly celebrated. In 369, after many years had elapsed, Emperor Yalens Augustus, reorganized the Olympic agon. In the sixteenth year of the reign of Theodosius, and 293 Olympiads after the victory of Koroibos, these greatest of all national games went out of existence forever. This was in the year 394 after Christ. Two years later the wild hords of Alarich passed pillaging through the Peloponnes, devastating the country and destroying the magnificent treasures of art, the production of a thousand years of unmolested development in Hellas.

The Olympic sacred games had thus flourished through all Greece, from its mythic beginning to its final demolition, and were not suppressed even during the tidal waves of the migratory movements. Since the restoration of the games through Iphitos 1279 years had elapsed, since the first Olympiad 1171 years. Through these games Grecian power had been developed, by them it has been strengthened and with them it decayed—a pronounced sign of the intimate relation of both and for the worth which a rationally established gymnastics will exercise upon the existence of a nation.

The Olympic games consisted of contests and races of horses. A musical contest was added to the Pythian, Nemsean and Isthmian festivities, but was not found with the Olympic. At times famous orators, like Lysias and Lucianos, read their works to the assembled Hellenes at Olympia, but they did not enter into a contest. The free Greeks only, those who enjoyed all the liberties of a free man, (later also Romans), were admitted to the contests, though barbarians were allowed as visitors. Women were excluded from witnessing these games under severe punishment. Strange though it may appear, maidens were permitted in the audience. The witnessing of these games was in itself an exertion, for in the hottest month of summer the audience was seated bare-headed.

The gymnastic contests were at the beginning of these games of a limited number, but were considerably increased in the course of time. During the time of their restoration through Iphitos, till the beginning of the historic Olympiad, running was the only contest. At the 14th Olympiad the double stadium, twice the length of the track (2X600 Greek feet), was added. At the next festival the running of endurance was taken up. At this time it was also prescribed that the contestants had to practice naked. In the 18th Olympiad wrestling and the pentathlon were introduced, in the 23d Olympiad the combat with the fist, and in the 25th Olympiad the contest of the chariot, drawn by four grown horses, augmented the list of the combat. In the 33d Olympiad the first

Digitized by Google
—23-

pancratiasts appeared and at the same time the races with one horse was adopted. In the 37th Olympiad prizes in running and wrestling were bestowed on boys. In the 41st Olympiad the fist-fight of boys began and in the 65th the running in arms. The span of mules was introduces at the 70th and the race with a mare at the 71st Olympiad. In the 93d Olympiad began the races with two grown horses, in the 96th the heralds and trumpeters contested, in the 99th the races with four colts, in the 131st also with one colt, and in the 145th began the pan-cration of the boys.

The steady growth of the combat necessitated the lengthening of its duration from one day in the beginning to five days. This time, however, was not wholly occupied by the combats, but the sacrifices and processions also took place. Giving a short description of the principal combats, we naturally begin with the oldest of them all.

1.	Running in its different forms. The simple foot race was over a track which at times had a length of 1000 feet. The ordinary length of the stadium measured 600 Greek feet = 625 Roman = 569 Parisian =

C.	180 meter. In the double-running contest this distance was twice this length. The runner, keeping at one side of the stadium, making at the end of it a short circle, returned on the other side to his starting point. Both manners of running were either practiced naked or in arms. The running of endurance consisted, according to agreement, over a number of several simple stadia, and varied from seven to twenty-two stadia. These efforts represented extraordinary feats and frequently resulted in the death of the combatants from complete exhaustion. Those who trained for runners had strong legs, but narrow shoulders. On this account Socrates disliked this exercise, because it did not develop the body all around. Running in arms was at first practiced with shield, helmet and jambes, but later a shield only was in use. In the earlier period the anointment of the naked body was unknown. Homer makes no mention of this practice. But, when at the 15th Olympiad the last raiment, the girdle (perizoma), was abolished, the runners also anointed themselves. At Olympia the boys took part only in the simple stadium running. The quiet promenading was highly recommended for dietetic purposes by the Grecian physicians. In many places of Greece the maidens also participated in an agon of running, but were not permitted at Olympia. Pl^to advised for them until their 13th year the nakedness of body, from then on a decent raiment.

2.	The Jump was not practiced as a separate contest, but formed an essential part of the pentathlon and follows running in a natural order. The Greeks used for jumping an apparatus, the halteres, resembling somewhat our dumb-bells. They were made of lead or iron. One of them taken into each hand they were supposed to assist the body in its motion by swinging the arms forward just at the initial step for the jump and throwing them backward in the next moment. Some phenomenal jumps have been recorded, fifty and more feet should have been sprung without a start. These records have called forth a great deal of discussion and various explanations have been offered. While some claim the jumper was standing on an elevated, elastic standpoint, others claim the jump to have been alike to our step, hop and jump. Neither explanation will account for these immense distances. For the best record of a

Digitized by CaOOQle
-24-

hop, step and jump with a start is not more than 45 feet.—The halteres were also made use of in the palaestra like our dumb-bells for dietetic gymnastics. The Greek physicians (Galen and Antyllus) prescribed their use. Aretaeus recommended besides other gymnastic exercises, the throwing of the halteres for chronic head-ache.

3.	Wrestling. According to a mythic narrative, Palaestra, the daughter of Hermes, is the inventor of wrestling. Homer’s heroes performed the wrestling combat girdled with the perizoma and without anointing their bodies. In the 15th Olympiad the girdle was abolished and the bodies of the wrestlers were anointed and strewed with the sand of the palaestra. The act of anointing was performed by a special employe, the aleiptes. At the same time the wasted scales of the epidermis were scraped off by the strigil, so as to render the skin smooth and soft. Strict laws regulated the wrestling as to allowed and esthetic movements. In standing wrestling the thrown wrestler rose again, and the combat began anew. The one who was thrown three times, was declared conquered. The lying wrestling, the wrestlers were lying on the ground, was fought until one of the contestants admitted his defeat. The latter mode was not taken up in Olympia as a single event, but constituted a part of the pancration. For dietetic reasons a mild form of wrestling was recommended by some physicians, especially as a cure for obesity.

4.	The throwing of the Discus. The discus was a disk of metal, without a handle, of considerable weight. It was thrown right-handed from an elevated standpoint into the air and the place marked where it lighted the first time upon the ground. Who had thrown the discus the farthest, was victor. The discus was never hurled at a fixed target. In this feat also enormous records are reported. The famous Kroton Phaylios is said to have thrown it 95 feet.

5.	The hurling of the Spear. The spear was hurled at a fixed target. This exercise was considered as a preparation for war. It exercised the right arm and sharpened the eye-sight and promoted a noble carriage of the whole body.

6.	The combat of Five. Pentathlon. This combat comprised the five exercises just spoken of. The aim of this composition was found in the desire, to train the body not for any special feat, but all around, so that it combined both strength and agility. Jumping, discus throwing and spear hurling were only practiced in the pentathlon; running and wrestling formed at times separate contests. The running contest of the pentathlon was a single stadium, or its double length without armor. The order of the exercises is not certain, but the description of Bokh seems to be acceptable. This names the jumping as the first, then the running, followed by the throwing of the discus, then came the hurling of the spear, and wrestling was the last of the five exercises. This order of the combat is also found in the old verse of Simonides:

rtodaxGirjr, didxov3 axoara, TtaXrjv “

(Jumping, in running, in the throw, with the spear, and also in wrestling.)

Jumping was accompanied by the strains of the flute. It is not certain whether, to obtain the wreath of victory, it was necessary for one to be victor in all five events, or, whether a modus prevailed, by which the one came out victorious who had won in most events. Aristotle declared the pentathletes as the most beautiful agonists, as they had to attain in an equal measure strength and agility. Also in dietetic consideration the pentathlon was valued.

(To be concluded.)

Digitized by Google
-25-

FATIGUE BY MUSCLE LABOR.

(Concluded.)

III.	Fatigue of the lungs. The same kind of exercises before mentioned, which increase the activity of the heart to exhaustion, may also in a similar manner affect the activity of the lungs. While some exercises of quickness, as running, dancing or bicycling, have apparently a greater effect upon the heart, others seem to exert a stronger influence upon the lungs.

The sudden action of large muscle groups is conducive to a rapid and lively assimilation in the muscle tissues. Especially carbon dioxide is diffusely accumulated. By virtue of the self-regulating process of breathing, the lungs try to rid themselves immediately of this dangerous gas by increasing the number and depth of inhalations. All auxiliary muscles used in breathing are called upon to assist in surmounting the great difficulty of the utmost effort. If the exercise of quickness is within the boundary of the lungs’ ability and the accumulation of carbon dioxide therefor not too excessive, as in running of enduranee, rowing of endurance in moderate time, quiet swimming etc. — then the increased breathing is possible for a long time. It will be able to expel the gases whose volume is increased above normal condition nine times in quick running and twenty times in quick rowing. If the exercise of quickness assumes the character of highest effort, it will soon result in an exhaustion of breathing by an over-excitement of the regulating centers in the medulla oblongata. Breathing becomes panting. As soon as this stage of beginning breathlessness is reached, the cause of it, the exercise of quickness, will naturally be stopped. The interrupted process regains in a few minutes its normal condition. While in natural breathing we reckon 12 to 15 breaths in a minute, this number increases from 30 to 60 breaths. The last figure is about the utmost effort, beyond which comes exhaustion of lung activity, breathlessness.

The appearance of breathlessness in a mild form is a frequent occurrence in the practice of bodily exercises, and for sound lungs of no consequences. Not all exercises of quickness are conducive to the same degree of lung and heart fatigue. Not considering certain individual weaknesses, differences can be observed which are due to the activity of breathing. This is due to the fact that the movements performed by the arms disturb the rhythm of breathing. The muscles of the arms and the shoulders which perform the chief work in rowing cannot at the same time serve as auxiliary muscles in breathing, hence the interference of breathing can well be understood. Different is the effect in running. A position of arms may be taken, so as to obstruct as little as possible in the auxiliary assistance of their muscles. In this exercise the fatigue of the heart is more pronounced. Almost equally exerted are heart and lungs in swimming. We cannot enter into a more detailed enumeration of differences of the exercises. A good deal of observation is still to be made by practical experiences and experiments.

IV.	Fatigue of the brain. In a less pronounced degree than in those forms of fatigue described above, is the effect of bodily exercises on the fatigue of the brain.

i

Digitized by CjOOQle
—26—

When practiced passionately and long continued, foil fencing may be mentioned as an exercise which may cause a temporary nervous relaxation.

Otherwise there occurs fatigue of the brain in the practice of systematic physical training, 1, when the pupils have been mentally overworked for several hours in succession ; 2, when the exercises bear to much the character of mental work.

We reckon in these latter exercises : a) exercises of dexterity. With them it is less exertion of the muscles, than great difficulty in surmounting complicated co-ordinated movements. Exercises of quickness at the apparatus are in a less degree difficult, as they allow previous thinking during the pauses and thus make co-ordination easier. The nerves are burdened to a greater extent by exercises which call for quick co-ordination and which tax the memory : the compounded free-exercises, lor instance. Above all others are to be mentioned : b) the exercises of attention. These require less a knack of co-ordinating ability, as to the contrary smoothly executed movements under a constant strain of attention, these exercises to be performed b}r command or in rhythm and are to be done quickly and accurately. To these exercises we reckon the tactic exercises which ask for very little muscular exertion, but a continuous strain is exercised upon nerve and brain ; also roundels, if they ask for memory work, as also simple free-exercises which are practiced in the quickest possible succession with greatest accuracy.

The mental fatigue of these exercises becomes evident, whenever the attention slackens and the performance of the exercises becomes faulty in spite of vigorously given commands. The pupils show carelessness and indifference. The greatest severity and utmost effort of the teacher is unable to compass this indifference of the pupils and to force them to accurate and exemplary execution. The gymnasts have relaxed : their over-taxed brain is not capable of a strong will-impulse, all mental effort is absent for the time being.

The practical lesson lies near by. Such exercises as demand continuous mental effort can only be asked from pupils who have not been mentally over-worked and not from those who have had a good deal of mental strain in their previous instruction. A method of gymnastics which does not adapt itself to the surrounding conditions and merely follows a set formula of exercises, is to be condemned from a hygienic point of view.

V.	General fatigue (exhaustion). Exercises of endurance which can be performed for hours of continuous work, represent an enormous sum of actual labor. They do not show any over-fatigue of one or more muscles, or of the heart, or of the lungs, or of the brain. Still, by exercises of endurance the actual mechanical labor exels greatly that which is accomplished by other forms of exercise, the exercises of strength or quickness. These cannot be practiced for the same length of time, for fatigue will set an early end.

Labor which may be continued for hours, this being accomplished by its distribution over large muscle districts, is not without effect upon the body, but will show, if taken too long, severe and more prolonged signs of fatigue than those described heretofore. Let us take as an

Digitized by CjOOQle
- 27-

example a inarch of 6 to 8 hours duration. The men carrying knapsack and arms. The road has become muddy and impassable by rains. Every step is taken under difficulty. The limbs become heavy, the steps smaller and drag along. The continuous labor decreases the efficiency of the muscles of the legs whose irratability is lessened. The latter circumstance demands greater will impulse for the continuation of the march. The brain must do more work and also fatigues. On this acconnt the spirits of the men are low; mirth has left them and no song, no joke will be resorted to. The most beautiful scenery does not attract their attention, the setting sun and the bright stars have no charm for them. They are blunt for things, otherwise cherished. At the end of the march all long for immediate rest and no other desire prevails. Hunger and thirst do not exite them, though they have abstained from it for hours. We feel the pulse which is weak and beats from 100 to 120 times a minute; the temperature is from 39 to 40 degrees C., /. e. fever temperature. Slumber does not come to the fatigued and a restless night is spent. The next morning the fever has passed off, but the whole body feels as if it had been beaten. The urine has a heavy sediment. Slowly comes back the desire for eating and drinking. The second night the desired sleep is found and the next day a normal condition is regained.

Such general fatigue passes by more or less rapidly, as the afflicted are used or not to the hardships. They are more liable to occur with children and boys and with adults who are inclined to obesity than with person of lean corporal constitution and well developed muscles.

As mentioned above, exercises of unusual duration, are liable to result in the described appearances of fatigue, as very long marches, rowing or swimming over long distances etc.

A special form of fatigue is marked by a continuous nervous weakness, resulting in a deranged nutrition insufficient blood and a falling off in weight. This condition of being worn out’, of being ‘overworked’ may appear, when for a time extraordinary bodily and muscular demands are made upon a person. The preparations for special feats at contests, especially the professional training for athletics, is conducive to elicit such conditions, as will reduce for weeks and months all bodily energies.

VI.	Theory of fatigue. An entirely satisfactory explanation of all appearances of fatigue is not yet attained. The question of the nature of the processes in the active nerves and muscles, of the more minute chemical changes which occur in muscle labor, of the materials secreted by it and of the effect which these have upon the muscle tissues, of the scources of force which are used of the muscle and of their replacement, all this is not yet satisfactorily answered. All of this is in the domain of physiology which offers the most trying tasks.

Beyond a doubt is fatigue a sort of regulator of bodily labor; it announces an approaching danger of the organism and the signs of fatigue are all the more peremptory, the greater the danger becomes through the excess of labor. But what causes the danger? The decomposed products which act like a poison in the body. Thus fatigue is the sequel of self-poisoning of the body through the waste-material of

/

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-28-

labor. That waste material which most directly causes the most severe appearances of fatigue, is carbon dioxide which by its plentiful accumulation through the highest efforts of exercises of quickness, effects the most violent accelleration and depths of breaths, resulting in exhaustion of breathing. A doubt of the condition of cause and effect is here excluded.

On the other hand there is uncertainty regarding the other real materials of fatigue and the extent of their poisonous effect. Though it seems almost evident that the reduction of the irratability of the muscle, and principally the morbid appearances after exercises of endurance, are due to these poisonous waste materials.

In local exertions of muscles through exercises of strength are to be reckoned as causes of fatigue, mainly in regard to the pain of muscles, the stretching, extensions, laceration and contusion of the tissues of the muscle.

Regarding the grave effects of exercises of long duration, and especially the disburtances to nutrition after over-work (over-training), another circumstance is to be considered that for the muscle labor not only the reserve fund of the body is used, but finally also real living tissue.

In general the different appearances of fatigue may be classified as local-fatigue of muscle after an exercise of strength, fatigue of brain—or general— exhaustion after an exercise of endurance. The fatigue of heart and lungs are to be classed in the latter.

They also may be classified in regard to direct appearances of fatigue —breathlessness, accelleration of pulse, lameness of muscle, loss of mental effort and will impulse,—and after effects: lameness and stiffness of muscles, tired limbs, sleeplessness etc.

The importance of the study of the appearances of fatigue for the knowledge of the effects of bodily exercises, becomes self-evident from what has been said in the foregoing.

MOSSO ON TURNER

MR. JAKOB BOLIN bespeaks in the last number of “Physical Education” Mosso’s “Die korperliche Erziehung der Jugend.” Last year we reviewed this book in the “Amerikanische Turnzeitung.” In this criticism we chiefly endeavored to point to the fact that the tendency of some of our foremost specialists to generalize by means of their specific research is to be lamented. We did not underrate the magnificent work of Mosso, but we charge him with having tresspassed on ground foreign to him. The division of labor in the realm of science was made in the modest acknowledgment of one man’s limited ability to cover the vast field. If every specialist were called upon to generalize from what he has found, we would soon have a chaos of opinions to which the confusion at the building of the tower of Babel would be small matter. Now, the same charge must be made against all those who from physiological research, no matter how profound they may be in all its detail, draw general conclusions for all of the educational science, or any

Digitized by U.ooQle
-29-

part of it, the science of gymnastics, for instance. In this we have at all times seen the greatest objections to Swedish gymnastics. There is no one, even the most ardent disciple of Ling, who is willing to defend the physiology of the founder of Swedish gymnastics. Then, it seems ludicrous, to say the least, when Mr. Jakob Bolin asserts, “These words (of Mosso) have a different sound and meaning than the oft heralded phase of the young and inexperienced du Bois-Reymond.” Reymond is the follower of Johannes Mueller in the chair of physiology in the Berlin University since 1858, is the life-long secretary of the Academy of Science, and should he have been at the age of forty-four so young and inexperienced, as not to be as sound in his judgment of physiology as the enthusiast and poet Pehr Henrik Ling?! Can it furthermore be proven that Emil du Bois-Reymond has changed his views since he has made his name so closely allied to the physiological science ? Dr. Rosenthal, Professor of Physiology in the University of Erlangen, dedicated his work “Muscles and Nerves” to his master Emil du Bois-Reymond and remarkes in the preface of this book “it would not be right to omit occasional mention of the names of the chief founders of this branch of knowledge, Ed. Weber, E. du Bois-Reymond, and H. Helmholtz.” And, still this scientist’s words shall have such different sound and meaning, when it comes to judge the physiology of Ling, the poet. Reymond has proven himself to be a careful and accurate scientist, one of the many illustrious men of the German school who do not believe in wild assertions, but who have advanced step by step in patient and painstaking work. This paragraph from his famous criticism of Swedish gymnastics reads as well to-day, as it did thirty years ago :

“It may seem strange for a physiologist to consider his own science of less practical importance than those who are not proficient therein and that he should oppose any appeal to the same. But a more profound knowledge, if I may be permitted to use this expression, often makes one modest, whereas he who has a smattering only, is puffed up with conceit ; and that which is revered as of the greatest value, we most dislike to see abused for the purpose of giving a weak cause the appearance of solidity, and of imparting to empty statements an air of seriousness.”

We, no doubt, are fast removing from the empirical art of gymnastics and begin to stand on more solid scientific ground Swedish gymnastics, however, was not the emanation of a close empiric observation, but of a physiological-philosophical cob-web which our own Dr. Edward Mussey Hartwell pleased to call ‘mystical and fantastical.’ German gymnastics was at its founding certainly not based upon modern scientific physiological research. But it was based upon the most ingenious empirical observation by the most gifted and inspired teachers of youth—GutsMuths, Jahn, Pestalozzi. Spiess. No four men can be named in one breath of their renown. Swedish gymnastics was at the outset an iron-cast mould, designed by the physiology of the patriot and poet Ling. If Mosso now claims that German gymnastics owes its popularity to the belief that it was considered scientific, he grossly misunderstands the evolution of the science of education. The latter was empirical and is developing to a science within our own days. So was

Digitized by CjOOQle
—80—

and is German gymnastics. GutsMuths in his famous work “Gymnastics for our Youth,’’ which he wrote a hundred years ago, lamented his lack of physiology and , the fact that he had to base his art on empiricism. Ling, his contemporary, based it on the science of physiology! Swedish gymnastics, pure and simple, and rather the latter, still embraces all the mistakes of this primitive physiology. We do not claim by any means that it has not investigated modern pedagogical demands. But where the Swedes have done thus, they have made scientific research of empirical truths and then endeavored to conform it to the “mystical and fantastical” physiology, whether it could adapt itself to it, or not. Du Bois-Reymond, Virchow, Frerichs, Casper, Lehnert, Juengken, Horn, Housselle and Martin, all men whose names are mentioned with veneration by the scientific world, had given their verdict regarding Swedish gymnastics thirty years ago. If Mr. Jakob Bolin wishes to charge them with ‘youthfulness and inexperience,’ he cannot bring proof that these men have remorse over the rashness of their youthful days. Reymond wrote his “Die Uebung” a decade ago, in which he maintains most decidedly his views on Swedish gymnastics. In a personal letter to us a year ago he points with good reason to the fact that the expounders of Swedish gymnastics still overbearingly claim to possess the true scientific system. This is surely evident to all who have heard and read its advocates in this country.

The second reason for the popularity and extension of Turnen given by Mosso is, “that it would be of use for the soldiers, as both these fallacious opinions have fallen for the scrutiny of science, educators and physiologists, who have until lately been content with maintaining that the German Turnen is useless and tedious, begin now to assert that it is injurious.” This is ample proof, how little Mosso knows of the close alliance of Turnen with the education of youth in Germany and if it is made use of in the army, will the system he recommends be of less service to the soldier ? And does he not know that the controversy of German educators and physicians was against the introduction of Swedish gymnastics by Major Rothstein, the enthusiastic disciple of this school who at the head of the training department for the education of military instructors of gymnastics advocated this system as adapted to the army ? And were it not his immediate successors, Dr. Euler and Eckler, who established by their influence a Normal for teachers of the common schools and separated it from the military branch ? His criticism of German gymnastics is founded on observations of the same as introduced by Obermann into Italy. All through the book, which is in its whole disposition not to the credit of a scientist, we find no mention of any German gymnastic literature read, and no reference to any gymnastic instruction in Germany studied or observed. He is well acquainted with the French literature and schools. On page 69, to demonstrate how logical he is in all his arguments, he says, “Though in France men of the greatest scientific importance conducted the movement of remodeling gymnastics, it spread less rapidly than in Germany. Several reasons account for this, the most important is to be sought in the too military character of French gymnastics.” In France the military spirit prevented the popularity of gvm-

Digitized by

Google
—31—

nasties, in Germany it fostered it !—That German gymnastics was condemned by phj'siologists and educators may be true of some who were as well acquainted with it, as Mosso. If he says it is tedious, the history of the past and present belies this statement. How can he account for the hundreds of thousands of school children, young men and women, who flock into the Tumhalle after having received their daily instructions in the schools ? The gymnastic schools of two large cities of our Union, Chicago and St. Louis, have increased two and three-fold its numbers since the instruction of Turaen has been introduced into the public schools. They are not compelled to go, but it is their free will in most cases. And would they do so, if Turnen had been so tedious to them in their schools ? Can it on the other hand be claimed that children, young men or women have shown the same desire to practice any other system of gymnastics of their free accord ? There are no Swedish gymnastic societies and to entice children to participate in Del-sarte “physical culture” needs the artificial incentive of a theatrical show before a public audience. That German gymnastics should be injurious is such a monstrous statement that it is absolutely unnecessary to show its monstrosity. Is it to be believed that for these many years conscientious physicians and educators should have been blind-folded to such a fact ? Or, is it a vain delusion, when we are told of the decided superiorty of bodily vigor and beauty of German gymnasts who gather by the thousands at their national festivals ? No matter how great a “giant” as a physiologist Angelo Mosso may be, his voice will not be powerful enough to convince, and this book of his will not add to his fame, as did Mercurialis’ “De arte gymnastica.” “Read the book,” advises Mr. Bolin. We could enumerate a long list of books by eminent writers who have given their opinion on Swedish gymnastics, but we have some compassion for our readers.	H.	B.

JOHANN JAKOB HAPPEL’S LATEST WORK.

AGAIN the productive and able mind of Johann Jakob Happel has enriched gymnastic literature with a new production which promises to be, when complete, the crowning effort of a busy and fruitful life devoted to the promotion of physical training. We are in receipt of his ^‘La Grammaire de la Gymnastique,” Vol. I (“The Principles of Gymnastics”).* A second volume will appear during the present year which will thus embrace all of the gymnastic art. The present volume, containing 4000 illustrations, is one of those books on the subject of physical training which no teacher should fail to have in his library. It is so full of material and suggestions that we do not hesitate to pronounce it ohe of the most valuable and serviceable books which has ever Leen written. Those, somewhat familiar with French will find no difficulty in reading the book, especially since Mr. Happel has given us an almost complete gymnastic terminology, not only corresponding to the French, but also to the English, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Skandinavian,

* Orders for this book will be received by the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis. Price: $4.25.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
-32-

Dutch and German languages. The main exercises show their development by the most speaking drawings, and for this the work also deserves the highest praise, for this alone is unquestionably ol greatest use to every one somewhat familiar with physical training. We regret that space does not permit us to enter upon a detailed review of the work, well deserving as it may be. The enumeration of the different topics treated in the book gives only a faint idea of the thoroughness with which Mr. Happel treats physical culture. These different topics are : Construction and dimensions of gymnasiums, arrangement of the hall and placing of apparatus, the selection of apparatus, usefulness of apparatus, classification of instruments, invention, introduction and perfection of apparatus, development of systems and methods, free-gym-nastics and exercises with apparatus, exercises at apparatus, terminology, dictionary in eight languages, exercises of the body, classification of gymnastic exercises, grading of exercises, dynamometer, agilometer, physiological effect of exercises, muscular ability, respiration and circulation, action on nerves and brain, composition of exercises, members of body, the different parts of the body which exercise, the proper carriage and movement of each part of body, the carriage of the body, the movement of the body, directions, the time of a movement, repetitions of exercises, manner of execution, composition of a theme of exercises, rule of grading, rules for fundamental position, rules for a harmonious development of the body, rules for kinds of exercises, the succession of exercises, the combination of different themes in a series, composition of a lesson, the lesson, measurement of strength and agility, statistics of strength agility.

J. J. Happel was born November 15th, 1833, in Maintz, Germany. He is a pupil of Ravenstein and Spiess. In 1855—1857 he visited the principal gymnasiums of Germany, Switzerland, France, England, Denmark and Sweden and became teacher of a private institute in Antwerp in 1857. He was instrumental in founding the Antwerp gymnastic society in 1857 and for seventeen years lent his services to it gratuitously. He also helped in the organizing of the Belgian union, Federation des Societes Beiges de Gymnastique, and the first society for women. He has given much attention to the improvement of apparatus and has succeeded in making many improvements in apparatus by ingenious devices. He was editor of “Le Gymnaste Beige” from 1865—1875. Since 1862 a number of books have made his name well known as a writer and he has proved himself to be a master on every subject he treated. In 1886 appeared his “The gymnastics of the healthy man for both sexes and every age,” illustrated by 5000 drawings.

Happel has been an ardent diciple of the theory of Adolf Spiess, his teacher. He defended German gymnastics against the Swedish twenty years ago when the exponents of this system endeavored to gain a foothold in Belgium. He is to-day the director of the Normal School of Gymnastics.

The annual meeting of the A. A. A. P. E. will be held in New York, April 25th to April 28th. On the evening of April 26th a grand exhibition of the German Turners will be given in one of the armories of the city.



Digitized by CjOOQle
—33—

MIND i AND f BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Twffl 1 -waukee,	‘WlsconBln.

Subscription Price, s $	$1.00	per	Year.

4®“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

At seventy-five pulsations per minute nine pounds of blood is sucked in and out of the heart; every hour, 540 pounds; every day 12,960 pounds; every year, 4,730,-400 pounds; every hundred year, 473,040,000 pounds.

The district of Missouri Valley, Rocky Mountains, Upper Missouri, Kansas, aud Nebraska contemplate a circuit gymnastic tournament in Kansas City, Mo., July 1st to July 3rd. The societies of St. Louis will also take part in this festival.

The districts of Erie, Central Michigan and Ohio will have their circuit gymnastic tournament at Columbus, 0., June 22nd to June 24th. Mr. Anton Leibold, supervisor of physical training in the public schools of Columbus, will be the technical director.

We print in another place a report about the organization of the ‘‘Ohio Association for Physical Education.” We heartily greet this movement. This association considers itself a part of the A. A. A. P. E. It is to be hoped that in other states

physical culturists will follow the example of those of the Buckeye state.

The National Council of Women recently convened in Washington. Dress reform was one of the themes of discussion. The gymnasium suit, as adopted now by most women active in physical exercises, is the practical lesson for a sensible reform of dress. A girl who has experienced the comfort of a gymnasium suit, must feel like an oyster in its shells, when arrayed again in her fashionable attire.

Before the present legislature of Illinois are two bills for the erections of additional buildings for the State Normals of Normal and Carbondale. These are to •contain each a gymnasium. The bills wrere favorably recommended by the visiting committee and it is to be hoped will find the approval of the law makers. The Turners of the district of Chicago have taken an active part in pushing the matter to a successful end.

One of the interesting features ot the world’s fair of 1900 is to be an international exhibition of child life under differing social conditions, from the earliest times to the present. All kinds of homes, mothers and nurses, playhouses and toys will form a part of the display and children in the kindergarten, in factories, on farms and in the streets will be a part of the great series of living pictures. The amusements of boys and girls of all countries will also be represented.

For many years past the societies of California have endeavored to have a national convention or a national festival in one of their

Digitized by
hospitable cities. In vain had been their demand — the great distance forbade the national conventions to comply with their wish. At the last convention at Denver the request was renewed with the same result —a denial. But it was suggested and heartily greeted that all who could should visit the circuit festival at Los Angeles, Cal. This is to be held June 22nd to June 26th.

The faculty of the Summer School for Physical Training, of which Carl Betz, Supervisor of Physical Training in Kansas City, is director, is not yet complete. The following well known teachers have thus far accepted: Geo. Wittich, Supervisor of Physical Training in St. Louis, Mo.; Karl Kroh. from the Cook County Normal School; Dr. Karl Zapp, from the Germania Turn Ver-ein, Cleveland, 0.; Dr. Franz Pfister, from the Socialer Turn Verein, Cleveland, 0.; H. Suder, Supervisor of Physical Training in Chicago, 111.; Hans Ballin, from State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.; Geo. Brosius, from the North American Gymnastic Union Normal School, Milwaukee, Wis.; Emil Dapprich, from the National German-American Teacher Seminary, Milwaukee, Wis.; Dr. R. Teschan, from the North American Gymnastic Union Normal School, Milwaukee, Wis.; George Heintz, Sr., U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.; George Heintz, Jr., Chicago Turngemeinde. The course is to be held from July 1st to Aug. 10th.

This is what Professor Felix Adler has to say about a bill in the New York assembly providing for military drill in public schools:

“It is said the military drill would create a high degree of patriotism. But would it? I think not. It

would simply feed the children’s vanity, give them a desire for outward show and display, make them ambitious for sham and tinsel^ and create a false idea of war and hide the terrible side of the picture with its horrors and butchery. There would be aroused in the children a strong spirit of self-love. They would want to see themselves with flags and banners, strutting with dangling swords and called captains or colonels.”

The bill in question is the outcome of an agitation begun by some well-meaning and blood-guiltless gentlemen in New York. In time of peace prepare to provoke war is their motto. With this end in view they are intent upon cultivating the homicidal instincts of the race before they have suffered deterioration by means of education. They would turn out a jolly little lot of savages with a pretty little taste for the “damn’d saltpeter” and a pretty little lust for the blood of their kind. Of such are the kingdom of heaven?

In our article on “Gymnastics of Breathing” we made mention of the importance of breathing exercises for stutterers. We expressed the hope that our American schools would also pay as much attention to the many suffering unfortunates, as do many schools of Germany. Since the glorious results of Dr. Berkhan, of Brunswick, became known, a large number of cities have delegated teachers to receive special instruction in the cure of stuttering. It has been very gratifying to notice the large procentage of those who were absolutely cured by the treatment they subsequently received from these teachers. Most cases were successfully treated. Strange it seems therefore, when we read in Dr. E. M. Hartwell’s report

\

Digitized by CjOOQle
—35—

to the Board of Education, Boston, in his chapter on stuttering and stammering: ,,But I do not suppose that any radical abatement of the number of stutterers can be looked for unless recourse be had to forms of drill which are so special and technical that they do not and ought not to constitute a part of the curriculum of any school devoted to the training of teachers of gymnastics.” This seems to us to make a thing appear so absolutely beyond the grasp of ordinary minds that it is not worth a while to grapple with it. When German school teachers are capable of acquiring sufficient knowledge for the practical treatment of stuttering, we cannot see any good reason why some of our American public school teachers should not do the same. That pupils of gymnastic training schools should not be taught this art, we cannot comprehend.

In several cities of the Union strong efforts are being made for the introduction of physical training into their schools. Pennsylvania is far behind any of her sister states, although her legislature has twice passed a law making physical training a compulsory instruction in all common schools. Twice this law has been vetoed by Gov. Patt-ison. At present a new bill has good chances of being adopted and it is to be hoped will find no narrow-minded executive officer to obstruct its becoming a law.—The school board of McKeesport, Pa., has adopted this resolution,

“Resolved, that the president of the board appoint a committee of five members, whose duty it shall be to submit to the board a report, first, of the advisability of introducing physical culture into the public schools; second, probable

cost of apparatus and instruction; third, an arrangement to make the subject effective and conform to the course of study.”

It is to be hoped that this will be the inaugural step for the final adoption of physical training in the schools of this city. In Allegheny a movement has been on foot for similar aim. The Turners of Reading, Pa., also come to the front and want a hearing. We hope they all will have good success in their noble endeavors.

The Maryland “Medical Journal” gives a synopsis of a paper on the “Overtaxed Heart of Athletes,” recently *read before a meeting of the Academie de Medicine at Lyons, ' France, by M. Teissier. On examining ten runners who had reached the goal, M. Teissier says: “The apex of the heart appeared to have deviated to the right from two to three centimeters; in one man affected with aortic insufficiency, who came in second without fatigue, the apex was lowered, and, as a consequence of this deviation, the base remaining fixed, a notable increase of the praecordial dullness was observed. This increase was evidently connected with a dilation of the right cavities, as was shown by the deviatipn of the apex and by the results of auscultation. The cardiographic outlines collected showed the brevity of the systole and its sharpness; the characteristics of the beating of the forced heart described by M. Pitres were found. Among all the men the arterial pressure was lowered at least six centimeters. The mechanism of this phenomenon, says M. Teissier, seems to relate to overtaxing, to general fatigue and to secreted toxic products. There is a certain degree of muscular overexcitability

Digitized by tjOOQle
—36—

which appears to be due to toxic products accumulated in the blood* There is a slight but constant diminution of faradic excitability and an increase of galvanic contractility ; the patellar reflex always disappears. In two-thirds of the subjects examined there was appreciable albuminuria, with an increase of the proportion of urea. These results, says M. Teissier, seem to establish the fact that athletic exercises are not free from danger when carried to the extreme.”

From this it may be seen that scientific men are settling in a thorough way the question as to the bad results from excessive athletic exercises. In language freed from technical terms M. Teissier found that runners suffered in consequence of their exercises from heart displacement; that one runner who had a small artery leading from the heart, had the right cavities of

the heart enlarged; the instrument for measuring the beats of the heart showed the peculiar and undesirable features which had previously been observed in similar cases by other observers. Arterial pressure was lowered in all the runners, and M. Teissier ascribes this to overexertion, general fatigue, and to the accumulation of poisonous products in the blood as a result.— From the time of Theagenes it is a well known fact that professional athletes do not become old. Most have died from an intemperate mode of living and from a non-proportion-ed development of the vital organs as compared with the skeleton muscles. The former being neglected in their growth at the expense of the latter, or, at least, are not powerful enough to do the work for tKe muscles, will be weakened and refvtee normal action in later years. \

interesting data may be found in the following table which is an e: 3F from the monthly records of some of the pupils of the Normal School of nasties in Milwaukee. These data are of the months of September and Jani showing the increase attained in five months of some measurements taken.

tract

jyra-

							0		0		<«		" 1	wi ip £ bo S
		W)				IS	M		S		•O  c	5	is	
Name and height.	bp  *  '5  <2	High jumpin	Far jumping		I Hand over	E  0  ■§  a  X	J:  bO'  G  3  Ph	J2  W)  ■c	4)  ’S'  f  (2		Lifting the welghi 75 pou	1 .  &s  .si  0.  5	Pull-up on horizontal t	Raising both forward, han on horizonjflfl
	lb	inch.	ft. in.		ft.	in	ft.	in.	ft.	in.	Times	Times	Times	Times
Heinrich Vorsheim, 5 feet 10 inches	|	160  173	57  60	15  17	5	15  32		20  22	8	18  20	8	20  29	12  21	10  i5	3  35
Theodor Toepel, 5 feet 7 6J8 inches	|	165  165	54.  53	15  14	3  10	20  28	5  6	23  24	1	20  x9	6  2	23  3°	15  18	10  12	14  28
Franz Gerlich, 5 feet 4 5^8 inches......... |	135  137	48  49	12  12	5  11	29  33	6  4	l6  l6	6  4	15  15	4	7  12	17  18	11  14	20  28
Otto Dreisel, 5 feet 6 5J8 inches	^	140  H3^	56  59	13  i5	11  9	16  21	1  1	20  20	8  10	18  17	8	11  29	18  21	11  13	26  30
Karl Ross, 5 feet 6 4J8 inches		|	153  153	53  52	13  H	2  5	21  22	2  5	l8  21	6  5	13  18	8	33  35	18  20	9  11	7  19
Fritz Kuettner, 5 feet 6 inches	|	125  139	55  5o	x4  15	2  3	28  26	3  6	l8  *9	6  10	16  16	10	15  24	14  17	13  15	H  32
Heinrich Luther, 5 feet 5 6J8 inches	^	135  143	48  5i	x3  14		14  19	9  3	18  17	4  6	15  16	6  3	10  1 20	11  14	10  14	25  32
Otto Mauthe, 5 feet 5 2^8 inches	^	139  149	52  53	12  15	4  5	32  34	5  3	21  21	6  1	17  18	7  2	i 13  1 21	18  23	17	23  38
Rudolph Braun, 5 feet 5 2J8 inches	^	149  160	49  49	14  14	2	16  19	8  10	:i	6  3	15  16	10  11	1 12 | 26	18  24	12  16	25  35
Guido Werner, 5 feet 4 inches	^	127  132	5i  54	15  J7	10  6	33  33	10  10	20  20	10  10	x7  18	2  4	10  ' 21	*7  25	12  15	12  21
Franz Weege, 5 feet 3 1J8 inches	^	124  *3i	49  50	x4  i14	3  8	26  ,26	11  5	17  17	10  6	12  x5	8  1	10  21	16  23	16  20	26  36

Digitized by
—37—

flGAMES WD PLAYS.t*

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Nos. 34—35.

Hare and Hounds.

The players, consisting of the stronger boys of the tipper grades, first map ont a course to be run and select the swiftest runners to act as hares. Boys, appointed for the purpose by the starter of the hounds, in the meanwhile tear up the scent to be cast by the hares at intervals, to mark their trail. The scent, bits of papers, (tom-up newspapers etc.,) is placed in suitable canvas sacks or bags, to be hung over the shoulders, and given to the hares, who have a ten minutes start over the route, which may take any form within the limits of the distance to be covered (3—10 or more miles, according to the caliber of the participants,) numerous deviations from the direct course being observed by the crafty hares.

The hounds, who should not be dressed too heavily, on emerging into an open field, which the hares are known to have crossed, scatter to find the first trail of the scent. The boy who first hits the trail announces the fact and the whole pack make for that spot, and follow up the scent until it is lost again, when another scattering takes place.

Every pack of hounds has its leader, a boy who is a strong runner and acquainted with the tricks of the hares. This is an important point, for a pack of hounds will lose much time by following a doubled trail — the aim of every hound being to be in at the finish, and that of the hares to run the course in the shortest time possible, without being overtaken. This, of course, necessitates fast running, and what is still more exhausting, jumping fences, ditches, hedges, and plodding through fields.

This is the season of the year for this game — Saturday afternoons — when the air is keen and bracing, The bright, sparkling eyes and ruddy cheeks after a prolonged and rapid run across the country portend such health as no amount of gymnasium work could give.

Hockey.

‘Hockey’, played in a lively way, is one of the very best open-air winter games. The spirit of the game is pretty much the same as that of football, the object being to strike a ball through a goal, marked by two uprights, as in foot-ball, the principal difference being, that the instrument of propulsion is a light, hooked stick, or ‘hockey’, (of some tough wood, as ash, and about the length of a cane,) instead of the foot, and that the ball is a solid India rubber ball, about two and a half inches in diameter. A twine ball, or cloth ball, is preferred by some players. A field about 75 to 100 yards long and about 30 to 40 yards wide, marked by goals at the ends, as in foot-ball, and by flags at the sides, will accommodate about twelve players on each side without dangerous crowding during play. Good players drive the ball along by a succession of taps and quide it in and out between the opposing groups of hockeys by mere play of the wrist, scarcely ever lifting or swinging the hockey above the shoulders.

The following rules govern the game :

1.	The choice of goals shall be decided by tossing, and the side winning the toss shall start the ball from a spot ten yards in front of their goal.

2.	The ball shall be played with the hockey; it shall, however, be lawful to stop the ball with the body or legs, but not with the hands.

3.	A goal is gained when the ball is played through between the posts and under the cord by the opposing party, or in any way passed through by the side owning the goal.

4.	No player shall strike the ball back-handed; in every case the player must play facing the opponent’s goal.

5.	A player is not permitted to loiter near the adversary’s goal, but may be required to retire, while not playing the ball, to a distance of at least twenty-five yards.

The game of ‘ice-hockey’ is played by designating a ‘home’ some fifty feet square, in which one party of players strives to keep the ball, or any other similar object (with flattened sides, if possible,) while the other party of players strives to drive the object as far away as possible from the home, to a distance agreed upon, or to another ‘home’. Or, the skating surface may be divided by a centre line, with additional lines 10 or 15 yards from each side of

Digitized by v^ooQle

r
—38—

the centre line. The toss of a coin decides on which side the ball is to be dropped by the resp. leaders. In beginning the game the players of both parties form a circle around the ball (players of both sides alternating.) When all is ready the command to ‘start’ is given by the leader of the party having the ball on its side. Goals are fixed at a distance of from 30—60 yards from the centre line.

Ohio Physical Education Association.

N the 22d of February, 1895, a number of teachers of physical culture met at Mansfield, Ohio, to consider the advisability of forming an association to promote the interest of physical culture and to secure better legislation in this branch of education.

After electing Mrs. F. W. Lei ter as temporary chairman and Miss Minnie Snow as secretary pro tern., a general discussion followed. All agreed that a general conference was necessary, hence all teachers of physical culture and such persons who were known to take active interest in the cause were asked to meet at Columbus, Ohio, on the 29th of March. A committee was appointed to see that physical culture be given several numbers on the program at the state teachers’ conference which will be held at Sandusky in the near future.

From all parts of Ohio delegates were sent to Columbus; at 10 o’clock a. m. some 75 persons were assembled in the large meeting room of the Board of Education.

Mrs. Leiter occupied the chair as temporary chairman and Miss Snow as secretary. A few introductory remarks by the chairman, stating the object of the meet, and a short history of the work thus far progressed, were followed by an address of welcome by Prof. Anton * Leibold of Columbus. Prof. Irish, a local pedagogue, made a few remarks on the necessity of physical training. The president of the Columbus Turnverein, Mr. H. B. Hofman, was next introduced, and in an able address pointed out the necessity of placing physical and mental training on an equal basis.

The committee on constitution made its report, which was accepted with a few alterations. Said constitution is in conformity with that of the A.A.A.P.B.

This ended the morning’s program and the meeting adjourned till 1:30 o’clock

p. M.

At the afternoon session the minutes taken in the morning were read ; then followed the election of officers, which proved to be very interesting, as each office had from four to six candidates, save that of president who was elected by acclamation. Following is the result: President, Dr. F. E. Leonard, Ober-lin, 0.; 1st Yice-Presedent, Prof. Carl Ziegler, Cincinnati; 2d Vice-President, Miss Jessie Foster, Sandusky; Secretary, Miss Minnie Snow, Mansfield; Treasurer, Mr. Hy. Olnhausen, Columbus; Associate Members: Miss Anna Morris, Cleveland, and Mr. Alfred Herholz, Cincinnati.

The committee on program for the State Teachers’ Conference at Sandusky reported : Papers by Dr. Karl Zapp of Cleveland, by Dr. F. E. Leonard of Oberlin, by Miss Minnie B. Snow of Mansfield, and a gymnastic exhibition under the direction of Miss Jessie Foster of Sandusky. The reading of the papers is to be followed by a general discussion.

As the A. A. A. P. E. intends to divide its large organization into districts, similar to that of our great “Turner-bund,” but limited to states, the “Ohio Physical Education Association” will become the Ohio division as soon as the change is made.

After many points of local interest were settled, the meeting adjourned sine die.

The invitation to visit an exhibition of Public School Gymnastics was gladly accepted by most of the members. Pupils of all the grades showed their skill in physical culture under the direction of the superintendent, Prof. Anton Leibold. The boys and girls did nobly ; executing every movement on time and with such vigor that they were well and often applauded. This is another proof that the German system of gymnastics is the one best adapted for public school work.

Among the many who answered the call, the following well-known persons were noticed : Dr. Franz Pfister, Cleveland ; Dr. F. E. Leonard, Oberlin ; H. E. Bartsch, Canton; M. J. Hagen, Miss Anna Morris, Cleveland; Miss Minnie Snow, Mansfield ; Miss Jessie Foster, Sandusky; Miss Mabel Bray, Toledo; Carl Ziegler, Gustav Eckstein, W. A. Ocker, Robt. George, Eckert Keller, Alfred Herholz, Cincinnati; Anton Leibold, Hy. Olnhausen, H. B. Hofman, Columbus.	W.	A.	Ocker.

Digitized by Google
—39—

ATHLETICS * AND i SPORTS.

An indoor meeting of the Chicago High School took place in the First Regiment Armory. The South Division High School won first honors.

Australia has a wonderful swimmer who will make a sensation when he visits this country. Walter Gormly is his name, and his capacity may be best gathered from a glance at his records. These are : 100 yards in 1:02 2-5, 300 yards 3:59, one mile 27:03V2. He is quite as fast at long as at short distances, and if his future development keep pace with that of the past he will be a phenomenon. Gormly’s physique is like that of an ordinary man, but he has good chest, shoulders and leg development. He is passionately fond of swimming, and spends most of his time in the Sydney natatorium knocking off lap after lap. He rigidly adheres to his self-imposed training restrictions, and his work is play for him, as he thoroughly enjoys the water.

Most amazing, indeed, is his style of propelling himself through • the water. He swims on the right side, and in drawing his legs back for a stroke sends the top one clear above the water, bringing it down with a loud splash. This peculiar motion is not considered much of a check on his speed, but it certainly does not contribute to it. Some experts who have studied him claim it does retard him a little.

A meeting of the representatives of a number of colleges was recently held in Chicago to adopt new rules for the football game. Present were: Gillen of Wisconsin, Baird of Michigan, Professor W. Williams of Lake Forest, Captain Allen of Chicago University, A. T. Larson of the University of Minnesota, W.H. Hink-ley of Beloit, J. P. Van Doozer of Northwestern and Captain J. R. Richards of the University of Wisconsin.

After much discussion had taken place the following rules were agreed upon:

1.	That there be two umpires and one referee controlling the'game and that the referee be empowered to call a foul in case of violation of rules.

2.	That the side making a fair catch be rewarded with five yards, and from that place the side making the fair catch shall have the option of a free kick or a down, provided that such fair

catch is not made within twenty-five yards of the opponets’ goal. The player attempting such fair catch shall call out “fair catch,” and if interfered with or tackled while making the attempt shall be given twenty-five yards.

3.	That a substitute from each team act as linesman and they shall use a line five yards long with a stake at each end.

4.	That the side missing a goal shall have the option of taking the ball or giving it to the other side.

5.	Whenever a side has tried a drop kick at the goal upon the first down inside the twenty-five yard line and the result has been a touchback the line of kickout shall be the fifteen-yard line.

The delegates set themselves to defending the game against the attacks made upon it from almost every direction. They expressed themselves in the following resolution:

Whereas, We sincerely regret that the unwarranted roughness of a few football teams last fall gave occasion for the serious agitation in several colleges in regard to the advisability of abolishing the game of football from the college campus; and while we also regret that to some extent football is regarded as a brutal game by the general public, therefore, be it

Resolved, That we sincerely believe the game of football to be an excellent form of physical exercise which legitimately belongs to the college campus.

Resolved, That we do not believe that brutality is a necessary incident to the game, but is due to lack of- proper discipline.

Resolved, That we believe the style of play depends in a great measure upon the captains and coaches of the different teams; and that it is the unanimous sentiment of this conference that all kinds of intentional roughness and brutality be strongly condemned and discountenanced on our respective' college grounds.

Resolved, That the practice of playing coaches and non-bona-fide students, or students of an inferior grade of scholarship, be entirely discontinued, and that we call upon the assistance of our respective college faculties and student bodies to execute these resolutions.

Athletic folks in all parts of the country are much interested in the visit



Digitized by CjOOQle
—40—

which will be paid this country this season by a team of crack men representing the London Athletic Club. The purpose of this visit is a match with the best men that can be secured by the New York Athletic Club, and in that competition the talent of both countries will be on exhibition. The Chicago Athletic Club and its members will be vastly taken with the tournament and of course will sympathize with their friends (or rivals) in New York. The local organization is too young to have yet developed talent of a very high order in the field athletic line which will be the motive of this tournament. But even if the Chicago Athletic Association were as strong as its older sister in New York the C. A. A.’s are sufficiently patriotic to bet on the American side, and of course will do so. It is by no means certain, however, that the New York Athletic Club is booked to beat the English. Open-air sport and especially field sport has been England’s strong point in the past, and if the Americans divide honors with the Londoners they will do well. The London club has already picked out ten men to represent it in the games here. This number will be increased before the date fixed for sailing, and when the games start, on Sept. 15th, a noble team of British athletes will line up for work.

Foremost among the foreigners is C. B. Fry, and he will no doubt attract most of the attention of all the visitors. Fry was the captain of the Oxford team that met the team which Yale sent over the water last year. Fry sprinted well against sheldon, of Yale, and the Americans are counting on Sheldon to uphold yankee supremacy in the coming match, and the meeting between this pair will be full of interest. Fry is not the champion of England even in that line at which he is most proficient, namely, the broad jump, but he is a man of whom England need not be ashamed. He once held the English record at 23 feet 5 inches, the record for Europe, in fact, which he made in 1891, and has seldom been beaten since that performance. In 1893 he equaled Reber’s jump of 23 feet 6Y2 inches. Fry is in every respect an able man and will create vast interest during his stay in America. C. A. Bradley, A. Ovendon and A. R. Downer are a splendid trio of Englishmen. The first named is a gallant sprinter. He has been English champion for three years and in that time has

won all his races. At 100 yards he is a ten-second man, and no praise has been considered too high for him in the old country. At .120 and 150 yards he is a fast man and will give a strong race to any American matching him. T. J. Lee, who will be his competitor, has done his hundred in even time also, and will make a close companion for the Briton.

In the 220 Ovendon and Downer will give their man a hard race. Ovendon is a 220 man at his best. He has been a member of the London club since 1892 and has won trophies at innumerable meetings. Downer’s qualities are not well known. His probable work will be more or less in the dark until he comes to the scratch. He has been the Scottish champion at 100, 220 and 440 yards. In the 440-yard run the London Club will submit another English champion. This is E. C. Bredin, an “old one,” but a strong one just the same. A trifle over thirty years old, Bredin is the fleetest man for the distance that England can send over. If he had trains up to his best form he will make a fainting race for the man who holds him in the September games. He has the world’s record for 600 yards at 1 minute 11 2-5 Seconds. This record is also held by Lon Myers and W. C. Downes, former champion of America. Kilpatrick will be his opposite for the quarter, and no fear is expressed that the American will not do his share of the work.

W.	E. Luytens will be the interesting personage who will go after the mile-run. Luytens was easily first in all England at this game until F. E. Bacon beat him in the championships. Luytens is a Cambridge man, only twenty-two years old, but of extreme precocity on the path. He will face Orton in the American champion and a longstride race will be the inevitable result. For the long distance events England will offer F. S. Horan, of Cambridge. He is twenty-five years old and Horan entered Cambridge in 1892 and leaped at once to the front in distance racing. The quarter, half and mile were his for the running. He has a three-mile performance of 14: 45 4-5 and other work on a par. He will undoubtedly carry off the victory here. Godfrey Shaw is their hurdle man and while a good jumper will not win from Chase. A. R. Williams is their best high jumper. These are the men so far selected. Others will be added to fill up the programme.

Digitized by Google