Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, Chicago normal school, Chicago, III.

WM.STECHER, SEC'r. OF THE Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, cor. 3rd a Chestnut 8t*8, St.LOUIS,Mo. F. PFISTER, M. D., managing eoitor, 760 third 8t., Milwaukee, Wi8.

TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

Washington University, St. Louis, Mo., October 28. 1897. Mr. C. G. Rathmann, Nord-Atnerikanischer Turnerbund, 100^4 North 4th St., St. Louis, Mo.

Dear Sir In answer to your letter of October 27, I have to state that while the time I was at your 27th Gymnastic Tournament was much less than I had hoped to give to it, yet I was able to see something of the different kinds of work of your organization. I spent one day at the Fair Grounds and was very highly pleased with the gymnastic exercises which I saw there. The excellent order, the thorough discipline, and the general appearance of the members were all highly satisfactory. I was struck with the enthusiasm shown in reference to many of the exercises in which, while there was competition, there was no show of bodily contest. Another feature worthy of notice seemed to be the wide distribution of the ages of those who were participating in the exercises.

I spent some time in visiting the quarters of some of the organizations and wish to testify to the excellent order and the careful arrangements which had been made for providing them with comfortable places to eat and sleep.

I spent one evening at Music Hall and was very highly pleased with the exercises there. I congratulate the organization on its success in maintaining literary competitions of a very high order. There are few educational institutions in the United States where better work could

Digitized by Google


be shown than appeared on the stage in Music Hall. I shall have to leave minute and technical criticism to those who have had more training and experience in this direction than I have.

Yours truly,

W. S. Chaplin, Chancellor.

Reprinted from The Gymnast and Athletic Review.

PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT.

A Paper Read before the Exeter Wesley Guild by RANSOM PICKARD, M. D., F. R. C. S., on Feb. 8, ’97.

(Concluded.)

STfrerttou*	By nervous energy I mean that quality by which an

energetic person is distinguished from a lazy one, which will enable a comparatively weak person to do work largely in excess of that which ordinary people do. It is a quality which improves in the using, and is really capable of great training, and you cannot have a better example than that of a well-crained boat’s crew, in which, starting with very unequal amounts of energy, they can be trained to act as one man.

But what I wish to especially draw your attention to is the relationship between the action of the muscles, heart, and lungs.

j&&U0culav mutton.—If a muscle is put into action the immediate result, as far as the body is concerned, is to drive the blood contained in its veins onward to the heart. Thus more blood comes to the heart than before, and it has to act more quickly in order to pass it on to the lungs. When the increased amount of blood passes to the lungs, they have to act more quickly in order to provide sufficient air to purify the blood presented to their action, which blood is not only larger in amount than usual but more impure than usual because of the action of the muscles. Thus as the result of the muscular action, we have the heart and lungs acting more quickly. Then the purified blood passes back to the heart and is distributed over the body, particularly to those muscles which are acting and require more blood than if they were at rest, just as an engine would require more fuel when doing work than if the steam were being merely kept up. Thus you can see how many results there are from the action of the muscles of any part of the body, and you can also see how the musele grows from the result of its exercise, since it is by this means provided with more blood, that is, it is provided with more food.

<Beneval iBffect*—Ifatigue.—But the quickened action of the heart also causes more blood to be circulated throughout the whole body, which is thus benefited by the exercise of a part. So the brain shares in this good, and you can understand how exercise refreshes both the mind and the body. You will also see that the increased circulation will carry off more effectually those impurities that are being constantly formed, whether we are at rest or not, and understand more clearly what I have already pointed out to you, that exercise may sometimes actually remove fatigue which is caused by the accumulation of these impurities during rest.

fiction.—Now let us see what happens if the muscular action is great and lasts a long time, or if it lasts a short time, but is very excessive. The demand upon the heart and lungs will be very great, and they may not be able to respond. Then we get a state in which there is breathlessness with shallow panting breathing, and perhaps palpitation and irregular action of the heart. If the action is still continued, and the heart and lungs can ultimately respond to the needs of the muscles, the breathing becomes slower and deeper, and the heart beats steadily with good force, we have got what athletes call the “second wind,” or, to put it in more scientific terms, in which there is an adjustment between the needs of the body and the circulation and respiration.

$armott)3 between ffrectvt,	attfc	3$tu»cle«.—We have now reached

a very important conclusion, that it is of the utmost importance that the development of the heart, lungs, and muscles should be harmonious, that is. in the right proportion to each other; and we see the uselessness of developing a

Digitized by LiOOQle
-147-

large muscular system if the heart and lungs are not cultivated in the same proportion. Any standard by which we judge development should above all things test this point.

Utumroetru.—The next point of importance is that symmetry should be obtained between the two halves of the body. Owing to convention and convenience we most of us use the right side of the body more than the left, and from this and other causes deformities may arise which could be prevented if symmetry existed. Fortunately this danger has been well recognized in modern systems of physical education and well provided against.

There are some details in connection with the growth of the chest we may now deal with. If the chest were stripped of its muscles it would be seen to be of a roughly conical shape with the base of the cone downwards. Below it is bounded by the diaphragm, which is a thin sheet of muscle curved in shape with the convexity upwards. In the chest are the two lungs and the heart. Air is drawn into the chest by its expansion, and the act is called inspiration, and expelled by the contraction of the chest, which is called expiration. Inspiration is accomplished by the contraction of the muscles drawing out the chest walls and by the contraction of the diaphragm, which is itself a muscle. Now, it will be obvious to you at a glance that the part of the chest which will give most room by expansion is the lower part of the chest, while you will also see the great influence the position of the diaphragm will have upon its capacity. The point I have led up to is this, that the development of the chest must be in accordance with the teaching of anatomy, that we should learn to use the lower rather than the upper part. The difference between the two ways of breathing that in which the upper part of the chest and that in which the lower part is mainly used, will be apparent if you watch two singers, one trained and the other untrained, taking a high note or holding on to a note for some time. The case with which the trained singer does these is due to the use of the lower part of the chest, while in the untrained singer the straining of the \ muscles of the neck and the stiff position of the head will show that the lower part of the chest is being neglected and an attempt made to throw the work on the upper part.

iUflTerence, re#tittg anb full	You	all	know very well that the

usual method by which chests are compared is by measuring their girth by a tape when the chest is expanded. This is fairly correct in the majority of cases, but it neglects a very important point. What is wanted is the capacity for drawing in air, and this should be estimated either by actually measuring the amount drawn in, or by measuring the difference in girth of the chest when fully expanded and when emptied as much as is possible, which in a young man is about two inches.

—It would be very difficult to explain to you the action of the heart and the bearing upon our subject, but the conclusions may be thus summed up: The heart may be brought to bear a great deal of strain if care is taken, but it does not develope this power so quickly as either the lungs or the muscles. The meaning of this is simple, that in entering upon any sport or other class of violent exertion it is exceedingly necessary to gradually work up to the required effort by graduated exercises, by which the heart is trained for the harder and more fatiguing work involved in such sports as football and cross-country running.

grmwwtctvjj*—To sum up our conclusions, we have found that symmetry between the two sides of the body and equality between the development of the different parts of the body are necessary, particular^ that increase in the power of the muscles should be accompanied by increase in the power of the heart and chest, that increase in the lower part of the chest is much more important than increase in the upper part, but that the most important thing as regards respiration is to secure the greatest possible difference in the size of the chest between inspiration and expiration, and lastly that the slow response of the heart to exercise renders it most important that work should be carefully graduated, leading by degrees from easy to difficult exercises.

KUgleci.—It is in consequence of the neglect of these points, particularly of insufficient breathing space and of sudden exertion in untrained subjects, that we hear of so many breakdowns in those whom we have regarded as strong.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-148-

because we measure strength by muscle and neglect the lungs and heart. I hope that enough has been said to you to show how great is the importance of attending to our physical development, and of doing so in a systematic manner, with due regard to the laws regulating the different parts of the body and between the brain and the body.

dBbucaiitm of QDJtflbven.—I want now to say a few words upon the education of children. The cares and worries of child life are of course not to be compared with those of adults, vet we must also remember that their resistance power is far inferior to that of adults. When one sees the importance of maintaining the balance between the mind and body, and then turns to the methods in vogue in most schools, one cannot help being struck with the almost utter absence of any training for the body. There is much talk about examinations and, in the case of some schools, of grants, but of provision for the maintenance of healthy bodies, without which intellectual success is but as the fruit which turns to dust in the mouth, we hear nothing or next to nothing. Here I must, at the risk of bringing in questions of social reform, allude to some of the reasons for this indifference. In the first place there is a profound ignorance on the part of the public as to the importance of the subject, nor is there any provision worth mentioning in the educationai code. The position of a teacher is in no way bettered but rather made worse if he does attempt to train himself so that he can teach the children, for in so doing he takes up time which he might employ in those subjects which do count in the estimation of school managers and the government officials. There should be a proper course of physical education given to the teachers, and they should be well grounded in the principles involved so that they may intelligently hand down their knowledge to the children given them to train, and proficiency in this should count equally with proficiency in other branches of knowledge towards their positions as teachers. Then physical instruction should be given regularly to children and included in the school curriculum. It may be urged that alreadv the children have too much to learn, but against that I would say that if the introduction of this means the exclusion of some other branch of study, by all means let that other branch be excluded. I feel sure, however, that it would be found that the result would be a raising of the intellectual standard and not a lowering of it. That this is no lanciful idea is shown by the fact that in Germany such instruction is given, and no one who has had a chance of seeing the results there would for a moment maintain that attention to physical needs has caused intellectual wants to suffer.

If expense be urged as a reason for not introducing this work, it will only be made by those who are ignorant of the subject, for if the teacher be properly trained in the fundamental principles he can easily give a good physical education without special apparatus at all, though of course apparatus makes the work easier for the teacher and more pleasant for the pupil.

I may appropriately recall to you the fact that in ancient Greece the first two years of a child’s education were given up solely to physical training, and when you remember the tremendous intellectual advances made by the Greeks, 3'ou will have an additional reason for wishing to see a combination both of the physical and mental in the school life of this country.

Do not mis-understand my point, I am not advocating a system for the training of infant Hercules, but merely that there should be a due propoition between the physical and mental in a child’s life, that in that period of life while th$v are yet capable of being moulded and of having their defects removed, their education should not be one-sided but harmonious in all its parts.

£}outb« ctnfc	Nor	is it less important that training should be

continued after school life—a large proportion of the growth is completed after school life—that is, when the strain upon the health, whether mental or physical, suddenly becomes much greater than it has previously been, yet when the muscular system is frequently far outrun by the growth in height. Yet how few seek systematically to remedy this want of proportion, even if they become aware of it. It is fortunate that in this country we have an inherited love of sport such as no other nation, except the other English speaking communities, has, and this largely compensates for the lack of interest in physical education properly so-called, but there are very few sports which do not require supple*

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
-149-

menting, and there are still a very large proportion of people who practically never take exercise outside their vocations.

Of late years there has undoubtedly been a great advance in these matters in England. Thus in London twenty years ago there was hardly a good gymnasium, now you could easily count up a score of good ones, some of which are very good.

It is particularly in the matter of good instructors that we are deficient. Of course, there are good English instructors, but there has been far too much of the retired drill-sergeant type about the English instructors, and until the last few years systematic gymnastic instruction in the army has been almost unknown.

There is much to be learnt from Germany in these things. There no one is allowed to teach gymnastics till he has gone through systematic training and passed a government examination in the theor\" and practice of gymnastics. Again, their gymnasia put ours to shame, both for size and completeness of apparatus, while their international competitions can only be admired at respectful distance. It must not be imagined that these competitions are limited to a few pieces of apparatus such as we are familiar with in most English ' competitions. While the principal work in the competition is done on the horizontal bar, parallel bars and horse, yet it also includes high jumping, long jumping, pole jumping, running, weight-lifting and climbing—a fairly comprehensive programme. There are in addition special competitions for marching and extension exercises in squads. When this is compared with the competitions for the Shield given by the National Physical Recreation Society, in which only three tests are employed and onty one of which may be taken from the parallels, horizontal bar, and horse, .you will see how backward we are in these things.

I think that the effect of our sports upon us as a nation is to give to the individuals a far greater power of initiating work in new grooves, but for plodding systematic work the Continental systems hold their own. Our aim should be to supplement our sports by systematic physical education, so that the weak points might be fortified while the beneficial effect of sports upon the body and mind would be preserved.

In conclusion 1 would state that the object of this paper has only been to point out a few of the principles w)iich should guide us in our physical education ; want of time has prevented an application of them to the details of actual work.

(From “The Child Study Monthly.”;

MOTOR AND SENSE TRAINING.

By LUELLA HEINROTH, Schiller School, Chicago.

(Concluded.)

THE GYMNASIUM.

The exercises of the gymnasium, though aiming chiefly at physical development, result in the same mental vigor and flexibility as these games.

In our school, where the once unused and desolate halls are now filled with troops of happy children whose eager faces show no reluctance, we find the gymnasium the ideal training-ground for legitimate training, a meeting-place for teacher and pupil, where the pupil entirely approves., I might have made the same observation of games, by the way. The fact that the teacher (who may never have seemed so sympathetic elsewhere) co-operates with the child in something that he so emphatically approves, makes possible a kindlier relation between teacher and taught, and pronounces the gymnasium a great leveler and harmonizer.

PLAY.

There are two other kinds of play that I must speak of. The principal aim of the first is the exercise of memory and imagination, and these may Le

Digitized by C.ooQLe
•150-

saddled with much content, the amount depending on the subject about which each is made to center. For illustration 1 will describe the use of the animalguessing game. In this the children accept everything supplementary for the sake of the game.

Pictures are distributed. One child has all the lions, portrayed in various activities and environments; the next has all the deer. There are enough such sets to supply every child m the room. The children are permitted each to look at his own set whenever they have leisure. Then the pictures are passed along to the next and the next. Each child, in this way, sees all the sets in the course of time.

After this stage of pleasurable seeing, the children ask questions of the teacher, who has fortified herself in the meantime with information. Then comes a time when the teacher asks questions intended to give a geographic bent to the exercise. Through their interest in animals the children are led to a fair idea of extra-human geographic conditions, locations, directions, land and water, climates, vegetations, fauna.

Now they are ready for the “Jungle Book” and the game. “I’m thinking of a two-legged wild animal; what is it ?” It is gratifying to know that the children, as they guess, “Is it a pelican ?*’ “A bittern ?’’ “A flamingo ?” “A quail ?” have pictures of these birds in their minds and not symbols. The game may be varied by adding descriptions.

The chief aim of the other kind of play is initiative. This requires special conditions and time. I must content myself with referring you to Dr. G. Stanley Hall’s account of a summer spent by several boys on a sand-hill-It is well worth reading. The field work which will come later under sense, training offers another opportunity for the initiative in play.

SENSE-TRAINING.

Oh, the world is so full of a number of things,

I’m sure we ought all to be happy as kings.

—Robert L. Stevenson.

Years ago I had a school of six rooms in a rented building. The door of one room led directly into the next. One day a man came and nailed a number on the door leading out of the lowest room. The little beginners were working away with their pencils, tongues assisting, in dead earnest. While the man was pounding away one little fellow solemnly rose and announced, “I loik that noise! ’ and sat down to his scratching as if nothing had happened.

Again, one morning we found the window frosted with paint. Silence when 1 entered. Up rose, in the same strious manner, peculiar to beginners, another child, to make the announcement: “It looks like there was snow on the window.” Could you ask for more spontaneous or more authoritative evidence that there is a vacant place for sense-training? The physiologist says that the cells of the sense organs need discharge as well as other cells. The child says the same thing when he says he likes to hear sound, he likes to. see white.

It is my professed business to enlarge the powers of the child. Now, I know that the modern world has a larger range of color-perception than the ancient; therefore, this color-perception is capable of development. Color plays a conspicuous part in the professions, sciences, and industries. Ask the astronomer who detects an ingredient element by the color of the flame; ask the railroad examiner who yearly turns away an incredible number of

Digitized by
-151-

applicants because of color-blindness which psychologists say is not congenital, but an atrophy through lack of use. Here, then, there is a call for training, and a corresponding readiness on the part of the next generation to receive the training. And so one might go on to cite equally cogent reasons for training the less intellectual senses, hearing, touch, and muscular sense, as well as sight for other color-perceptions. It is obvious that this is not the end of sense-training. Besides evolving power, this kind of training must open the door to storehouses of data ana experiences.

The element of sense-training may not always be evident in what follows, but it is there, nevertheless, in full force; it may be lost sight of in the growing complexity of the subject as we advance. Literature is the repository of all modes of thinking, doing, locked up in symbols. We have been giving to juveniles these locked-up results of experience, and are surprised that by merely chanting the symbols they cannot unlock their meaning, and are unfit for dealing with first-hand experiences of their own after eight years of juggling with symbols. Our best literature presupposes a sympathetic acquaintance with nature. Its messages are conveyed in pictures ; its medium is the language of sense. And the reader is able to arrive at the master's meaning locked up in the pictures only as these have previously come within the range of his experiences. I called at the high school a few weeks ago. The physiography teacher there had his problem. He was required to teach the principles of his subject, and the pupils were utterly unprepared with the necessary data. Natural phenomena should be perceived - and perceived in relation—long before the student meets with allusions to them in text-books or literature. For they are the means by which a writer arrives at the commanding thought which makes the books worthy of study. And the student should not be hampered by lack of familiarity with the steps by which he climbs to that thought.

One day last spring the sod in a certain lot felt the tread of many little feet. Here the silver poplar leaf was not merely a leaf that was dark green on the upper side and white on the under. It was one of myriads on a silvery parent stem, surrounded by a numerous progeny growing about in the same field. The stilly repose of the warm grass; the protective blue of the sky; the cheerful note of the yellow warbler in the high tree-top; the hurrying flight of the bee; the odor of blossoms, of leaves, of earth; the feel and the sound of the breeze; all these, and more—little fancies; “premonitions of the unseen”; analogies—these were carried back to the books from an hour in the field.

In this out-door work-play, slight but definite guidance is sufficient to fix the hungry senses and start the play of spontaneous imagination and inference about a center. There is a tremendous reason for keeping each new generation close to nature with wide-open senses. We cannot get away from society. Society represents strong authority. Its degenerate tendencies must be corrected by those that come from the healthy out-door influence of nature as distinguished from that corralling of nature into human society which has all the disadvantages as well as the private benefits of a close corporation. Let us educate a race of Antaeuses to keep us sound and parallel with the inexorable laws of the universe.

The advocates of motor and sense-training do not assert that what has been done by them is more than a step, but they believe that one to be the step in the right direction. “A second step would enhance immensely the first step.”

Digitized by Google
-152-

MUiP ftND body. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

2J3il-weu-uJcee, *WL«coaaalxx.

Published Monthly.

BY

Sabiicription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THE WAR AND MILITARY TRAINING.

ONLY a few years ago a move was started from certain quarters to substitute military tactics for physical training and this move seemed to receive support even from educators that had not had sufficient opportunities to compare the effects of the two. It was fortunate that the majority of those interested in education did not look favorably upon the proposed change and some of the most noted and capable men and women of the county protested against such a revolution in the educational plan.

A reaction followed the enthusiasm and it appears that only a few schools have really been influenced by the movement.

Since that time a number of schools have declared themselves against military and in favor of physical training, the students usually showing a dislike for the former and insisting on work which would be less monotonous and more active.

Teachers and pupils alike are willing to concede the superiority of scientific physical training over the usual military drill, as far as educational value and physical benefits are concerned.

We publish in to-day’s issue an article on military training in the high schools, bringing up the old question anew. Apparently the war spirit has re-opened it and is now the strongest argument of the “drill-party.,, A similar occurence could be witnessed in France after her war with Germany, when it was thought that soldiers must already be trained in the public schools. France did not need a long time to discover the error and to follow Germany in the theory that for defensive purposes in all respects a physically well-developed young man is better than a prematurely evolved toy-soldier.

Did not our own war prove that the American boy is just about right, provided the command and the management be not faulty ? Do we want to abandon the most important educational principles for the sake of discipline ? Do we want to out-do over-disciplined Germany in this respect ? Or is it necessary to foist the curse of militarism upon our free United States ? Give us the best of schools for military officers for all emergencies and the necessary administrative preparations, and our country, with a physically well-developed army of young men, will be safe for all times to come.

But do not cripple the educational curriculum in one of its most important branches. We trust in the good common sense of our people and in the convincing arguments of our leading educators.

Digitized by

Google
-153-

MILITARY TRAINING IN THE HIGH SCHOOL.

A RECENT issue of “The New England Journal of Education” contains a symposium on this subject, in which twenty-two school men give their opinions. In numbers they are about equally divided. In respect to force ot argument these two are fairly typical of the two sides. A. A. Upham of Whitewater, Wis., says:

“I am in favor of teaching military tactics to young men in high schools. The improbability of any war has, in the past, led me to disregard the importance of military teaching or military preparation. The rude awakening by our war with Spain has caused a complete revulsion of sentiment on this subject.”

C. W. Bardeen of Syracuse, N. Y., says :

“I am positively opposed to the introduction of military training into high schools.

“1. Because the high schools have quite enough to do now without adding another study to the curriculum.

“2. Because to teach military tactics well would require military training on the part of the instructor, which is in most cases impracticable.

”3. Because I do not believe in the military spirit except as a necessity. Its fundamental principle is subordination. What troubled me in the army more than long marches and short rations was being under the domination of little men made big by a chevron or a shoulder strap.

”4. So far as it serves to take the place of exercise, I should consider it a calamity. The exercise needed is outdoor sport, football, baseball, tennis, hide-and-seek if you like, but something with the inspiration of a game that will set your blood tingling.

”5. So far as it fosters a military spirit, I consider it deplorable. We do not want a military spirit. We should all be ready tg serve our country as she needs us most, and that is more likely to be in a score of ways than as soldiers. If she needs us as soldiers, the tactics can be soon acquired, and a high school boy who has been thoroughly trained in a first-class curriculum will have a mind disciplined to grasp and master the details of tactics without appreciable loss of time.”— Western Teacher.

CORRESPONDENCE.

George9Schoening—Your letter had been mislaid. Mr. H. Metzner, 212 East 83rd St., New York City, will give you all the information.

E. B.t Camden, N. J.—Any publishing firm for medical books in Philadelphia will forward to you a list of books on Massage. The one you have seen in Milwaukee was Dr. J. H. Kellog’s book on the subject. You can order it through the Freidenker Publ. Co.

A. O. H.—Your article should have been sent to the “Illust. Police News”, or similar sheets of so-called “sports,” but not to us.

Dr. P.-We found it after the letter was written. If the correction is not sufficient, we would ask you to specify just what you want. Best regards. We hear congratulations are in order. Accept ours!

Digitized by v^oogLe
-154-

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Journal of Physical Culture. This is a new monthly in the line of physical education, edited by Dr. W. R. Rothwell. The first issue contains a number of interesting articles and items. The front page is embellished by a good picture of Adolph Spiess, the man who adapted physical training for its instruction in our public schools ; there is also a review of his labor and published works.

—It is to the introduction of baseball as a national pastime, in fact, the growth of athletic sports in general in popularity is largely due ; and the game has pointed out to the mercantile community of our large cities that “all work and no play” is the most costly policy they can pursue, both in regard to the advantages to their own health and in the improvement in the work of their employees ; the combination of work and play yielding results in better work and more satisfactory service than was possible under the old rule.

—The new out-door gymnasium and playground in West Park, one of the public parks in the city of Milwaukee, has formally been opened on September 11. The active members of the Milwaukee turning societies gave an exhibition and took part in some athletic contests. To show that the public takes interest in this new popular move we mention the fact that about 8000 people were present at the little festivity. The park commissioners have promised to consider the establishment of similar gymnasia in other parks of the city.

—Municipal bath-houses have been opened in Boston where children of both sexes between the ages of 9 and 16 are taught to swim. Equal hours are allowed both boys and girls, and the latter are, if anything, given more careful attention. Bathing suits are supplied free of charge, and are disinfected after each using. The idea is taking hold strongly, and is doing a great deal toward teaching children the value and the attractiveness of being clean. Numerous attendants look after the comfort and the conduct of the small habitues, who have shown a decided duck’s preference for the scheme.

—Physical qualifications, as well as mental, may in the future be required of applicants for admission to the Cook County Normal School. The question recently came before the normal school committee' when the case of a young woman came up for consideration. Principal Parker asked for permission to drop her from the roll, since the state of her health retarded her progress and that of her pupils. Chairman Pettibone declared that an examination as to physical ability*to do the work of the teacher should be given to the men and women who apply for admission to the institution. Two other trustees agreed with the chairman, and action may be taken at a future meeting of the committee which will make some physical test a feature of the entrance examination.

—At the recent meeting of the American Climatological Association Dr. E. Fletcher Ingalls of Chicago presented a paper on “The Value of Systematic Physical Training in the Prevention and Cure of Consump-

Digitized by l^ooQle
-155-

tion.” In considering this subject he called attention to the fact that one of the most common observations made by medical men is that the long, narrow, flat-chested person is the one most liable to the development of tuberculosis, and that in persons presenting this form of chest the chances for recovery are reduced to a minimum. He thought the observance of systematic. physical training in aiding to develop the respiratory muscles, thoracic walls, and pulmonary capacity would be of much service in preventing tuberculosis and also in curing it in its early stages. Since collapsed air-cells furnish a most favorable nidus for the development of tuberculosis, he urged that measures should be adopted to expand the lungs and speedily bring the air-cells into the best possible working condition. He believed it probable that the lungs are rendered more susceptible to the tubercle bacilli and their toxins by an early tubercular localized anemia which diminishes the nutrition. Of the eighty per cent, of the human family said to be affected by tuberculosis the majority recover, and the mortality is not more than twelve per cent. If, as has been stated, the presence of the disease had only been found at autopsy, after death from other causes, and in those who had recovered it had made but little progress, he thought it a duty to recommend measures which would strengthen the resisting power of the lungs. As a means of prophylaxis his first measure would be to instruct the patient in deep breathing. He attached the greatest importance to careful physical training, believing that the long, narrow, flat chest might be materially improved in form and circumference, and Nature given a greater chance to throw up barriers against the disease.

GAMES.

By W. C. SCHAEFER.

XIV.

F) GAMES WITH THE USE OF A LARGE BALL *

64.	BOX BALL.

The players form in two straight lines about twenty feet apart. Between them are placed several boxes on which are placed large balls. The players on each side are numbered. The first one on one of the sides throws a ball at the ball on the nearest box. If successful in hitting in, the first on the other side picks up the ball and throws it. This continues till some one misses the ball, when the leader (number One) of the opposite side has the privilege of choosing any player from the missing side, who then crosses to the other side. This continues till all the players of one side have gone over to the other.

65.	ROLL BALL.

Players form in a circle with hands grasped. A starter stands in the centre and tries to kick the ball so that it will roll but not leave the ground and pass through between two members of the circle. These roll it back. This continues till the ball goes through, when the player on whose right side it passed exchanges places with the centre player.

* Many of the games already given for the use of a small ball may be used quite as advantageously with a large ball.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—156—

66.	BOUNDARY BALL.

The players are arranged as shown in the figure. The length of the space is about thirty paces, a, a being the outer boundaries and b a

center line. The two parties stand at a given distance, say ten paces, from the center line. A member of the first party throws the ball. The members of the second party catch it, or stop it if rolling. All members of the second party then advance or retreat so that the line shall cross the spot on which the ball was caught or stopped. The catcher then throws the ball back to the first party. This continues till either party succeeds in passing the ball across the outer boundary of the other party.

67.	GROUND BALL.

The players form in two lines. The members of each side are numbered. Number one on one side throws the ball down at such an angle that it can be caught by number one of the opposite side when it rebounds. This is kept up in a zigzag till the ball has reached the end of the line.

68.	TREE BALL.

This is similar to “Pussy Wants a Corner” (see game No. 1), but is especially adapted to be played in the woods. Trees are chosen for all players but one. Each player being beside the tree chosen, the one left over kicks a football so that it shall strike one of the players at the trees. These may move around the trees, but must not get beyond arm’s reach of them. If a player is struck, places are exchanged with the former kicker. The kicker may at any time shout “Change places,” when each player must exchange with some other. The kicker tries to gain one of these places. If successful, the one losing a place becomes kicker.

69.	HANG BASE BALL.

This is played like baseball, with the difference that a football is used. The player “at the bat” hangs by his hands from the branch of a tree or horizontal bar and kicks the ball instead of striking it with a bat as in ordinary baseball. Otherwise the rules of baseball apply.

70.	HURL BALL.

This game has many advantages. It allows perfect freedom of movement and is practiced in the open air. The number that may take part in this game is practically unlimited. It allows the weaker and less muscular to participate and it is not limited to the “heavy weight” element of the class.

Many games lose much of their usefulness for school purposes, because they are adaptable to but a limited number of pupils of the same

a )	b ( a
)	(
)	(
FIRST )	( SECOND
PARTY. ) )	( PARTY.  (•
)  )	(  I

- >

Digitized by C^ooQle
-157-

size and strength. In this game the sport is often much heightened by the participation of all grades, or practically so.

It is played with a leather covered ball weighing from five to ten pounds. It has a rolled hand strap attached to it. (Medicine balls with hand straps are just the thing.) Those sixteen or over should play with a seven or eight pound ball. For boys below this age five pounds will suffice.

A field (A, B, C, D) from one hundred to one hundred twenty yards long by fifty yards wide is quite sufficient, and it may be played upon a smaller field than this.

Stakes are driven some fifteen feet on either side of the center (E, E') to mark the starting points. At the extreme ends of the grounds are

placed high stakes (F, F') with flags attached, between which the ball must come to score. When the players are divided, they take their stands near the center between the starting marks (E, E'). The ball is given by lot to one side for beginning and that side chooses the man they wish to run from any point on his side to the starting line • (E, E'). When the ball is caught, before it alights, the ground by the opposition, the catcher is allowed to take three steps toward the goal at his front. But, if the ball alights the ground, it must be thrown from where it is picked up and by the one who picks it up. Since there is an immense advantage in having a short run over standing and throwing, it puts each side “on its mettle” to do good catching. Now it must be understood that three steps are to be taken, no more, no less. This will prove an interesting and value-able feature. The struggle is to force the ball by good catching and throwing beyond the opposition to alight the ground between the goals (F, F') and beyond, and no score can be made until the ball alights, it must not roll through the goal. If one side has covered one point in doing so, it is well to change sides and begin the game anew. A time may be fixed for the duration of the game which is to be regulated by the teacher beforehand who is prompted by the strength and age of the pupils and the weather prevailing.

The catching is done in the arms rather than in the hands. The game is made more difficult by lengthening the field or by placing the goals, between which the ball must pass, closer together, or by doing

Digitized by L,ooQle
-158-

both. In a recent match game, when forty men were playing, twenty on a side, the arrangement of men on one side was about as follows : eight men formed the front, placed about equal distances apart. Back of these and between were the next eight men ; and still back of these, for the long shots, were the four remaining.

It is a nice piece of work to place each man where he can play best and next the one with whom he can play best. A great advantage is gained when the men learn to move in a body and keep the same relative positions. If a strong play is made to one side or back by the opposition, and the whole body moves together and quickly, it is by this good position of the whole body to resist the maneuvers and skill of the enemy. When a ball goes to a field that could be covered by two or more players equally well, it should be the business of the captain to call the man that is to catch it. It prevents collisions and puts up a stronger game.

There is any amount of opportunity offered for quick, decisive mind action. A mental exercise of no mean importance. It will be interesting to note that this game includes most of the good properties of football, without the objectional features.. We have played it at this school frequently and not the slightest injury was done, while on the other hand the mother boy has taken a part, has taken an interest, and will be quite a man when he gets home.

THEORY OF FENCING IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

By GEO. HEINTZ, Sr.

(All rights reserved.)

(Continued.)

PLASTRON LESSONS.

(Individual Lessons.)

Plastron Lessons are lessons in which the instructor has to deal, with a single pupil.

When instructing the position of defence, the advance and retreat, the extend, the lunge and resume guard from the lunge the instructor will place himself at the pupil’s side in order to be enabled to correct the slightest mistake, which he can not do so well when standing in front of the pupil.

If a mistake becomes a habit, it is difficult to overcome it; therefore it should be continually impressed upon the pupil that the position, the extend, and the lunge are the main points in fencing, and that after they have been properly executed it requires nothing more than to develope the sword hand of the pupil.

When giving plastron lessons it is not necessary for the instructor to take the position of “On Guard.”

He will take an easy position with extended legs, feet at right angle and about one foot apart, the left shoulder not so far to the rear as in the position of defence, and the left hand to be held in front of the body, so that he can guide the direction of attack by beginners with hand and blade.



Digitized by C.ooQLe
—159—

II the pupil is well posted in all preliminary methods of attack and defence, the instructor will permit him to touch without guiding his point with the left hand; thereby giving the pupil self-control in handling his weapon.

In regard to the position of the sword-hand the instructor must impress upon the pupil never to attack with a low hand, but always keep a good elevation and opposition.

Whenever the pupil attacks with his hand low and without being covered, the instructor should time in the exposed line in order to correct the error.

All parries which the pupil should deceive must be executed correctly and never should the foil be held in such a manner that none of the lines are covered.

In all the lessons in which return attacks are made, the instructor will see that the pupil make a full lunge, and that the first attack is well finished.

It is often the case that the pupil’s mind, in fear of being hit, is more fixed upon the parry which he is supposed to take after the attack, than on the attack itself.

In such case the instructor may expose his whole body without being touched.

All the lessons which are laid down in Class Instruction can also be given on the plastron.

The following lessons of which the principal points are the return thrust, with or without lunge, add a good deal of variety.

The instructor can select such lessons which he thinks most beneficial to the pupil in hand.

FIRST LESSON.

Remark.—The instructor may at first let the pupil return without touch and

than lunge after the pupil has well control over his body and blade and he

will let the pupil touch without lunge at every return.

1.	Quarte Engage: Extend and lunge; resume guard and parry tierce, and return.

2.	Tierce Engage: Extend and lunge: resume guard and parry quarte, and return.

3.	Quarte Engage: On the pressure disengage and lunge; resume guard and parry tierce, and return.

4.	Tierce Engage: On the pressure disengage and lunge; resume guard and parry quarte, and return.

5.	Quarte Engage: On the pressure mark 1—2 and lunge; resume guard and parry tierce, and return.

6.	Tierce Engage: On the pressure mark 1—2 and lunge; resume guard and parry quarte, and return.

7.	Quarte Engage: On the pressure mark 1—2—3 and lunge; resume guard and parry tierce, and return. •

8.	Tierce Engage: On the pressure mark 1—2—3 and lunge; resume guard and parry quarte, and return.

9.	Quarte Engage: On the pressure double and lunge; resume guard and parry tierce, and return.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-160-

10.	Tierce Engage: On the pressure double and lunge; resume guard and parry quarte, and return.

11.	Quarte Engage: On the pressure double and disengage, and lunge; resume guard and parry tierce, and return.

12.	Tierce Engage: On the pressure double and disengage, and lunge; resume guard and parry quarte, and return.

13.	Quarte Engage: On the pressure mark 1—2 and deceive counter tierce, and lunge; resume guard and parry tierce, and return.

14.	Tierce Engage: On the pressure mark 1—2 and deceive counter quarte, and lunge; resume guard and parry quarte, and return.

15.	Quarte Engage: On the pressure double and re-double, and lunge; resume guard and parry tierce, and return.

16.	Tierce Engage: On the pressure double and re-double, and lunge; resume guard and parry quarte. and return.

Remark.—By the 1st, 3d, 5th, 7th, 9th, 11th, 13th, and 15th attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of quarte, and by the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th, 12th, 14th, and 16th attack in line of tierce, and while the pupil resume guard the instructor attack by “Disengage.”

SECOND LESSON.

1.	Quarte Engage : Extend and lunge; resume guard and parry counter quarte, and return.

2.	Tierce Engage: Extend and lunge; resume guard and parry counter tierce, and return.

3.	Quarte Engage: On the engagement of tierce disengage and lunge; resume guard and parry counter quarte, and return.

4.	Tierce Engage: On the engagement of quarte disengage and lunge; resume guard and parry counter tierce, and return.

.5. Quarte Engage: On the engagement of tierce mark 1—2 and lunge; resume guard and parry counter quarte, and return.

6.	Tierce Engage: On the engagement of quarte mark 1—2 and lunge; resume guard and parry counter tierce, and return.

7.	Quarte Engage: On the engagement of tierce mark 1—2—3 and lunge; resume guard and parry counter quarte, and return.

8.	Tierce Engage: On the engagement of quarte mark 1—2—3 and lunge; resume guard and parry counter tierce, and return.

9.	Quarte Engage: On the engagement of tierce double and lunge; resume guard and parry counter quarte, and return.

10.	Quart Engage: On the engagement of quarte double and lunge; resume guard and parry counter tierce, and return.

11.	Quarte Engage:	On	the	engagement of tierce double and dis-

engage, and lunge; resume guard and parry counter quarte, and return.

12.	Tierce Engage: On the engagement of quarte double and disengage, and lunge; resume guard and parry counter tierce, and return.

13.	Quarte Engage: On the engagement of tierce mark 1—2 and deceive counter quarte, and lunge; resume guard and parry counter quarte, and return.

14.	Tierce Engage: On the engagement of quarte mark 1—2 and deceive counter tierce, and lunge; resume guard and parry counter tierce, and return.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-161-

15.	Quarte Engage: On the engagement of tierce double and re-double, and lunge ; resume guard and parry counter quarte, and return.

16.	Tierce Engage: On the engagement of quarte double and re-double, and lunge; resume guard and parry counter tierce, and return.

Remark.—By the 1st, 3d, 5th, 7th, 9th, 11th, 13th, and 15th attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of quarte, and by the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th, 12th, 14th, and 16th attack in line of tierce, and while the pupil resume guard the instructor attack by “Disengage.”

(To be continued.)

(From “The Gymnast and Athletic Review.”)

COMPETITION EXERCISES,

PUBLISHED FOR THE IX. GERMAN GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL, HELD AT HAMBURG, ON JULY 23-27, 1898.

Abbreviations: R= Right; L=Left; Cr. = Croup; N=Neck; S— Saddle.

HORIZONTAL BAR.

1.	—Quick.—Hang with ordinary grasp, and back-up to free front rest; short circle to the hang, and with a V^turn in the front swing, back-up to momentary front rest on the other side of the bar; change grasp to ordinary grasp and short upstart, forward roll and flank vault to ground.

2.	—Slow.—Hang with combined grasp (L reversed grasp), and rise to front lever; squat back, and with a %tum come to side lever on R arm and bend L arm; press up with L arm (releasing and then replacing the R hand) to front rest on other side of bar; roll over forward slowly to hang; pull up slowly with straight body to rest; change grasp to reversed grasp; press up to free lever above the bar, and front vault off.

.PARALLEL BARS.

1.	—Quick.—From the outside sidestand, rear vault into cross rest; swing back; roll forward and upstart to rest; drop to upper arm hang on the back swing; and on the following back swing back-up to elbow lever on one arm; short upstart to indicate riding rest in front of R hand; L circle of R leg over L bar (/. e., from front to rear); L circle of both legs over R bar (/. e., from rear to front),' and rear vault over L bar to ground.

2.	—Slow.—From end facing the ends of bars, jump to the cross rest; swing forward and back to handstand; walk forward in handstand to centre of bars; sink to free front lever (for three or four beats); place both shoulders on bars, the body to be in a horizontal position at height of bars for three or four beats; sink to upper arm hang (releasing grasp of hands) and roll back to rest with legs in Vfe-lever; release grasp of both hands and drop to crossed arm hang below the bars with legs in H-lever; make a *4-tum to inside side hang on one bar with ordinary grasp (/. e., the turn is made around the arm which is nearest to the body while in the cross arm hang); circle up to the front leaning rest across both bars; rise to handstand with hands on the front bar; squat off to ground.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-162-

HORSE.

With Pommels.—From the sidestand jump to front rest; V6-R circle of L leg; V2-L circle of R leg; %-L circle of both legs; %-L circle of R leg and Va-R circle of L leg to free balance rest astride L arm; V2-R circle of R leg to double feint over N; L circle of both legs to front rest; Y2-L circle of R leg and front shears over N pommel: Yi-L circle of R leg to free balance rest astride R arm; Vfe-L circle of L leg and rear vault over Cr.

Lengthways.—With a run, jump and back shears over Horse to ground.

MEDICAL GYMNASTICS IN CHINA.

ACCORDING to a medical contemporary the Chinese are ardent advocates of medical gymnastics, chiefly with a view to preventing illness, rather than of curing it. Their theory is that life is chiefly dependent on the presence in the body of a “celestial” current of air. To regulate the circulation of this current of air is the object of all their medical gymnastic exercises. The preparation for the real muscular exercises occupies nearly a whole year. The commencement of the course of exercise falls on the day of a new moon, on the morning of which day (between 4 and 5 a. m.) the sunny morning air must be inhaled seven times. At the full moon, or not more than three days later, night air must be inhaled seven times at 8 p. m., while the moon shines. In performing these breathing exercises care must be taken that the air is not expelled through the nose. A course of massage commences at the same time ; two persons are employed to massage the patient three times a day for one hour at a time. Later, when a certain amount of air has accumulated in the stomach, the patient must belabor his stomach and ribs with pebbles, wood, &c., until the muscles become firm. During the second half of the course, from the 5th to the 8th month, the back is treated in like manner. While this training—if it may be so called—continues, the patient has to lead a strictly abstemious life. The course winds up with vigorous exercise for the muscles, somewhat similar to our free or extension exercise, which includes exercises for the whole body—eyes and tongue even included. The Chinese maintain that in order to benefit by this treatment the mind must have absolute rest.—From the Gymnast Athletic Review.

ATHLETIC FEATS ON THE MOON.

DID you ever get to thinking that you would enjoy a sudden translation from the earth to the moon ? If you have, did you ever figure on the wonderful feats of muscular strength with which you could astonish our luminary neighbors, providing gravitation would have no more effect accordingly there than here ?

Let us figure : The moon only weighs one-eightieth part as much as the earth. Gravitation must, therefore, be correspondingly less. If therefore, a man weighed 140 pounds on this earth, he would weigh

Digitized by Tooele
-163-

but a fraction over 20 pounds according to the scales used on the moon. If, however, his muscles and frame remained the same as they were before being transferred to our silvery sister world, he could “astonish the natives’’ with his astounding athletic and muscular feats. He would be able to shoulder an elephant of the regulation size and to yank a small mountain out by the roots. The buoyancy of his body would be so great that athletic feats would be easily accomplished. He could run a mile in something less than two seconds, or could by a single bound leap over a wall 24 feet high without greater exertion than would be required here in clearing one only 2 feet in height.

CHANGES MUST BE MADE.

IT is growing more evident every day that radical changes must be made in football rules if the popular college sport is to be saved from the tide of public indignation which is rising against the brutalities of the game. An effort was made in this direction, but the past season has demonstrated beyond a doubt that the changes made were not sufficient to eradicate the objectionable features of the game, and the tone of public sentiment is growing so hostile to the sport that it seems certain that another season with results similar to those of the past two years may easily lead to legislation in many states which will put football in the same category with pri^e fighting and cocking mains.

The record of casualties would be a disgrace to any game. It would result in making any other sport a felony in short order. The class of people who have upheld football is the only thing which has protected it in its barbarous career. But when college graduates, university faculties, society, and, most of all, fashionable and cultured women, have given the game the sanction of their support and presence, it has held back the storm of disapproval which has been gathering volume and force among decent people.

It is useless for the supporters of the game to say that such accidents are needless, and result from the ignorance and inexperience of players. Many of the most serious accidents have occurred in teams of experienced players, who were supposed to know the game thoroughly.

As a well-known authority on athletic sports once declared, the tendency of athletic contests, where men are pitted against each other, is toward roughness, and this tendencv has to be overcome by rules which shall compel skill and eliminate the features of any game which tend to endanger the safety of the players.

In football the danger of injury which arose from mass plays was the object of attack in the changes of last year. The difficulty was not obviated because the modifications of the rules did not go far enough. What is needed is some change which will scatter the players, will foster that scientific feature of the game, punting, and will prevent the game becoming merely a test of brute strength.

The old association game of football was not nearly so rough and brutal as the present game, and the prevailing sentiment is in favor of a return toward the old association game.

But whatever is done, must be done promptly. The objections to football must be heeded and the brutal features of the game done away with.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-164-

MEETING OF THE BOHEMIAN “SOKOLS.”

Dr. F. Pfister, Editor of “Mind and Body.”

Dear Sir :—At the Omaha Exposition, August 26, 27, 28, there was a Tumfest of the Western District of Bohemian Gymnastic Societies, Sokols, which proved to be a great success, morally and financially. All the jumps were won by the Sokols from Omaha. Pole-vault was 9 feet

3 inches, high jump (without board) 5 feet 3 inches, broad jump 19 feet

4 inches, shot-put (16 lbs.) 38 feet, climbing 45 feet. Some of the apparatus work of the highest degree was executed excellently. Western Sokols are becoming formidable rivals of their eastern brethren.

After the contest there was a convention and the most important thing was the passage of a resolution to establish a Normal School for Teachers, not on such a great scale as the Turnerbund has; but, if it proves a success, it will be kept up and improved every year. The students who will attend the school next year will organize on their return home the same in different districts, so that the organization will have a number of good instructors in a couple of years. After that the main school will be attended only by those who have successfully passed the district schools. All the field sports were added to the system and the Sokols will have a chance to bring their running abilities into play.

The uniform of the actives was changed, 'the gray pants being substituted by dark blue, as they were in use years ago. The National Turnfest will be in Cleveland in 1900.

Yours respectfully,

Jos. Cermack.

BATTLEDORE AND SHUTTLECOCK IN JAPAN.

Miss Ida Tigner Hodnett tells of the pastimes of Japanese boys and girls in the “St. Nicholas.” She says :

“Playing ball and battledore and shuttlecock, as well as kite-flying, belong especially to the first of the year. The balls for little girls are made of cotton and covered with strands of bright-colored silk, and the children become very skillful in making these balls themselves. Sometimes the ball is merely bounded by the child as she kneels before it ; sometimes she stands, and, striking it to the ground, whirls quickly around in time to strike it again as it rises. Battledore and shuttlecock is played in the streets not only by girls in twos and threes and in circles, but also by a whole family. Father, mother, sisters, and brothers all join in the game, knocking the shuttlecock from one to another; and if one fails to hit it in time to keep it from the ground all the other players rush to give that one a light blow with the bat. Sometimes the punishment for failure is having a circle drawn round the eyes, or the face otherwise marked. The bat is of wood, with one side plain, the other ornamented with the picture of some well-known character of history or romance, or of a singing-girl. The shuttlecock consists of a small, round center-piece, painted or gilded, stuck round with feathers, as petals are ranged round the center of a flower.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
-165-

GAMES FOR ARDENT CYCLISTS.

A cycle game that requires considerable skill in riding and is said to be very exciting, is called “royal.” It requires two teams, of nine riders each, two judges, a time-keeper, a score-keeper, and a referee. The area upon which it is played is divided and chalked into a right and a left field, and, from the division line between the two fields, alleyways are formed on each side by cables. On the division line are other cables, forming a narrow alley, and up and down which the “play wheel” rolls, to be driven back and forth by the players. The play wheel is a single twenty-eight-inch bicycle rim, with a four and one-half inch pneumatic tire.

The idea of the game is to drive the play wheel through the attacks of opponents to a goal at the end of the middle alley. Players ride in single file, and always circle to the left, the two teams thus constantly meeting and passing in opposite directions on opposite sides of the alleyway. A specially constructed stick is used in driving the play wheel.

Another diversion for wheelmen is an adaptation ot the game of croquet to the bicycle. In general, the game is played under the same rules as ordinarily, with the exception that the rider may push the ball with the front wheel. The mallet handles are a little longer than for the regular game, but otherwise the implements are the same. The distance between the hoops is generally increased considerably. To hit the wrong ball forfeits a play, and if a contestant dismounts before the game is finished he must start again at the first wicket.

SEASONABLE CLOTHING.

SEPTEMBER and October are especially trying upon children, the aged, and 3r the infirm. The cool, almost cold evenings and mornings with the heat of mid-day, because of the changes produced in the bodily temperature, are especially productive of pneumonia, rheumatism and severe colds. Children frequently become affected with serious and protracted diarrhoea and often with dysentery.

Because of the heat during the greater part of the day, especially if the sun js shining, there is a continuation of the summer clothing. As a result in the morning and evening the extremities are cold—the circulation is feeble, and the organs of the chest and abdomen are more or less congested and overtaxed by the blood that has been driven from the extremities.

The lesson to be heeded is simple. Light flannels should be donned with the first of September and heavier outer garments, and the feet should especially be kept dry and warm.

Many of these fall diseases could be effectually prevented by proper, seasonable clothing, combined with proper food. The clothing should be so Varied with the changing seasons that those invested by it could go out of doors freely in all kinds of weather without discomfort and without danger of “taking cold.” There is no mode of life so healthful, and that gives surer promise of longer life and greater pleasure than life spent as much as possible in the open air; but to have the full benefit of such out-door life the clothing must be adapted to the temperature.—Health Bulletin.

CORRECTION TO DR. POOS’ “CAPTAIN BALL GAME.”

(In Vol. 5, No. 54.)

1.	Between the two halves there is a neutral space of two feet in width in order to prevent any pulling or pushing on the part of the opponents.

2.	Guards are never allowed to overstep the center line.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
SPORT ON SHIPBOARD.

HERE is a general impression that it is only when Jack Tar gets

shore leave that he has any relaxation. Nothing is farther from the truth, for the jolly sailor lad can always make fun, no matter where he is. One of the chief pleasures of the German war ship now at Manila with Rear Admiral Dewey of the United States navy is the ceremony of baptism. One might suppose from this that the German seaman is especially pious, but it is only necessary to see the ceremony to observe that there is more fun than piety in it. After every long voyage it is the custom to “baptize” the sailor who has been the “best” during the trip—that is, who has saved the most money and drunk the least grog. If this honor was intended to promote decorum and sobriety it is a most dismal failure. It has just the contrary effect, for every sailor, to avoid the inevitable ducking, spends his earnings and lets no schnapps escape. One object of this custom is to encourage liberality and a hail-fellow-well-met spirit among the crew.

The ceremony of Baptism is very interesting. Every officer of the American fleet at Manila attended it if he were lucky enough to get an invitation. A throne is rigged up for Father Neptune, and an immense tub is improvised out of a sail or tarpaulin on the deck. This is filled with water, and around the edges stand variously dressed people in all sorts of disguises, mostly like those worn by calithumpian paraders in the United States. At a given signal, .the, monitor is ordered by Neptune to read a list of the offender’s crimes, which usually consist of undue frugality and sobriety. Neptune waves his trident and issues a stern order which is executed by his grotesque minions, who catch the luckless wight, all dressed, by the neck and pitch him head foremost into the big basin, where he is allowed to flounder around till thoroughly soaked.

The most interesting athletic game aboard ship is the Obstacle Race. The chief task is to get through life preservers swung from a rope and oscillating with every lurch of the ship. It is exceedingly difficult for even a trained athlete to get through one, if the sea is at all nasty, without making some ludicrous failures.

“Slinging the Monkey” is a name given to a performance that justifies its peculiar name. The legs of the “monkey”—usually a careful, methodical man—are first of all slung up by means of ropes and pulleys. Then the victim is given a piece of chalk, and with this he is expected to lean forward and write dictated love letters on the ship’s deck. Or he may be called upon to show his skill as an artist. At the same time you can’t expect fine technique and firmness of outline, considering the circumstances; for one thing, the draughtsman hasn’t a free hand. The knowing “monkey” will probably wait until the ship has lurched one way, then he will attempt a little lightning sketching before she has time to right herself. Occasionally it is not the chalk but the artist’s nose which scrapes the deck.

DOUSING A TAR.

Digitized by

Google
-167-

AIDED BY THE LURCH OF THE SHIP.

A delightful uncertainty always attends any function at sea—athletic or otherwise—for the lurch of the ship will give peculiar force to the adage that the “best laid schemes o’ mice an’ men gang aft agley.” This gives a peculiar zest to the Egg-and-Spoon Race. The starters are placed in a row and each is provided with an egg w’hich is to be carried in a spoon held at arm’s length. The one reaching the winning post first with egg intact is declared the winner. Needless to say, this race is not necessarily to be swift; rather it is to be adroit and strategic. It is very funny to watch the competitors. One will hold the spoon low* down, so that if the egg does fall out it won’.t get broken; another will make a frantic dash, trusting to luck and the ship’s steadiness, while a third will perhaps deposit the egg in some one’s lap, greatly to his disgust.

The Wheelbarrow Race on board ship is ten times as amusing as it is at a country fair. The barrows are in this instance seamen who do not fear a rush of “brains to the head” and do not mind getting down on their hands while their legs are held high in air and used to propel the owner toward the goal. The rolling of the vessel pitches wheelbarrow and pusher together in a heap, convulsing the onlookers with laughter.

SCHOOL PLAYGROUNDS.

Last season an experiment was made in Philadelphia by the Board of Education in opening twelve children’s playgrounds. The press of that city, in commenting upon the results of the experiment, said : ‘The good produced is considered of inestimable value. The nearly 2000 children who have been daily visiting the yards will enter the school this fall stronger, healthier and brighter than ever before.”

THE REDEMPTION OF ATHLETICS.

adARON PIERRE DE COUBERTIN, writing in the “Century Magazine,” gives C? his reasons for reviving the Olympic Games. Much that he says might well be taken to heart by the average modern athlete. We, therefore, print the article at length:—

“On the world at large the Olympic Games have, of course, exerted no influence as yet; but I am profoundly convinced that they will do so. May I be permitted to say that this was my reason for founding them? Modem athletics need to be unified and purified. Those who have followed the renaissance of physical sports in this century know that discord reigns supreme from one end of them to the other. Every country has its own rules; it is not possible even to come to an agreement as to who is an amateur, and who is not. All over the world there is one perpetual dispute which is further led by innumerable weekly, and even daily, newspapers. In this deplorable state of things professionalism tends to grow apace. Men give up their whole existence to one particular sport, grow rich by practicing it, and thus deprive it of all nobility, and destroy the just equilibrium of man by making the muscle preponderate over the mind. It is my belief that no education, particularly in democratic times, can be good and complete without the aid of athletics; but athletics, in order to play their proper educational r61e, must be based on perfect disinterestedness and the sentiment of honor. If we are to guard them against these threatening evils, we must put an end to the quarrels of amateurs, that they may be united among themselves, and willing to measure their skill in frequent international

Digitized by CjOOQLC
-168-

encounters. But what country is to impose its rules and its habits on the others? The Swedes will not yield to the Germans, nor the French to the English. Nothing better than the international Olympic games could therefore be devised. Each country will take its turn in organizing them. When they come tb meet every four years in these contests, further ennobled by the memories of the past, athletes all over the world will learn to know one another better, to make mutual concessions, and to seek no other reward in the competition than the honor of the victory. One may be filled with the desire to see the colors of one’s club or college triumph in a national meeting; but how much stronger is the feeling when the colors of one’s country are at stake! I am well assured that the victors in the Stadion at Athens wished for no other recompense when they heard the people cheer the flag of their country in honor of their achievement. It was with these thoughts in mind that I sought to revive the Olympic Games. I have succeeded after many efforts. Should the institution prosper—as I am persuaded, all civilized nations aiding, that it will—it may be a potent, if discreet, factor in securing universal peace. Wars break out because nations misunderstand each other. We shall not have peace until the prejudices which now separate the different races shall have been outlived. To attain this end, what better means than to bring the youth of all countries periodically together for amicable trials of muscular strength and agility ? The Olympic Games, with the Ancients, controlled athletics and promoted peace. It is not visionary to look to them for similar benefactions in the future.”—From the “T. G. A. R.”

WORLD S BEST RECORDS.

(Compiled from the Clipper Annual.)

RUNNING.

xoo Yds.—94-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, J. H. Hempton, H. Bethune. *94-5 sec.: J. Owen, Jr., C. W. Stage, W. T. McPherson, B. 1. Wefers, J. V. Crum, J. H. Maybury.

220 Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins. *21 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48# sec.: R. Buttery. *47^ sec.: W. Baker.

880 Yds.—1’53% min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. J. Kilpatrick.—C. H. Kelatuck.

One Mile—4:12^ min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein;

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. Kraenzlein.

WEIGHT THROWING.

12 lb Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thos. Carrol. *164 ft. 2 in.: W. L. Coudon.

16 lb Hammer Throw—159 ft. 3^ in.: T. D. Carroll. *158 ft. 4 in.: J. Flanagan.

12 lb Shot Put—*55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray. 50 ft. 1 ^ in.: J. McPherson.

*16 lb Shot Put—47 ft.: G. R. Gray.

*Discus Throwing—118 ft. 9 in.: C. Heneman.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft. 8^ in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. 3^ in.: R. C. Ewery. Running High Jump—6 ft. 6% in.: R. W. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney. Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. 5% in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft.: R. C. Ewery. Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft.: J. Chandler. Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. % in.: J. F. Hartnet. *33 ft. 8in.; J. Wall. Hop-Step-jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. 2j£ in.: W. MacManus. Running Broad Jump—23 ft.	C.	H.	Biggar.	*24	ft.	6^ in.: W. Newburn.

Pole Vault—11 ft. 10% in.: R. G. Clepp.

NATATION.	ROWING.

*50 Yd. Swim—31 4-5 sec.: W. B. Izard.

*100 Yd. Swim—1 min.: T. Meadham.

220 Yd. Swim—2:38 4:5 sec.: *J. H. Tyers. 2:41^ min : J. Nuttall.

440 Yd. Swim—5:43 1-5 min.: *J. H. Tyers. 5:49^ min.; J, Nuttall.

880 Yd. Swim—12:7^ min.: J. Nuttall. *12:45 3-5 min.: P. Cavill.

One Mile Swim—26:08 min.: J. Nuttall. *26:46% min.: J. H. Tyers.

Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. *104 yds.: T. W. Reilley.

*Plunging—80 ft. 8% in : W. Allason.

*J^-Mile—57 seconds: E. Hedley.

*^-Mile—3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hedley.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stansbury.

*Two Miles—9:19)6 mm.: Yale Freshman Crew. Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

SKATING.

*100 Yds.—9 sec : H. Davidson.

*220 Yds.—17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson.

*440 Yds.—31)^ sec.: J. S. Johnson.

*880 Yds.—1:22 2-5 min.: A. Norseng, K. Pander. *One Mile—2:45 min.; J. S. Johnson.

* Amateur.



Digitized by C.ooQle