MIND AND BODY

Vol. 16.

NOVEMBER, 1909.

No. 183

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa,

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wia,

THE DEVELOPMENT IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN GERMANY,

By Albert Siebert, Ph. D., Berlin, Germany.

During the time I have been in this country to study physical education at American schools, American teachers have been most obliging in giving me information concerning gymnastics, sports, games and athletics. I therefore fully appreciate the kindness of the editors of “Mind and Body,” as also of Dr. Sargent and Mr. Schrader in giving me an opportunity to present to American teachers a short sketch of physical education in modern Germany.

This sketch forms a part of an address given the class of *09 of Dr. Sargent’s Normal School of Gymnastics at their commencement exercises.

America offers as many interesting points to a German studying its schools and educational methods, as, Germany does to American students. This may he said of educational work in general, and especially of physical education. Of all the great countries of the world none spend so much time and money for schools as Germany and America, none is so eager to give boys and girls an all-around mental, moral and physical education as America and Germany. The interest of American as well as German teachers is concentrated in the creation of a new system of physical education adapted to the needs of their countries. So you will find the same questions discussed on both sides of the Atlantic.— How can we help our boys and girls develop their best mental and physical qualities? This is the “question of the day”—to speak \yith the late German chancelor—in Germany as well as in the United States. —

Studying the educational system of another country is making the best use of one’s time. If competition is the soul of business, a noble competition is also the soul of progress in mankind. But competition is not possible without studying foreign institutions and foreign methods.

It is one of the most interesting facts of modern history that the two most vigorous countries of the world, the United States and Ger-

Digitized by booQ le
-250-

many, have so many parallels; they struggled for their liberty a hundred years ago, they struggled for the union of their states in the decade between 1860 and 1870, they developed their industries and commerce in the last third of the nineteenth century, they are developing at the end of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth centuries a new educational system. Americans have preceded Germans in sports and athletics, and I personally think there are points where Germans can learn from Americans; on the other side Germany has preceded America in developing a system of modern national physical education; so there are points where Americans can learn from Germans.

Germany has developed its own peculiar system of moral and scientific as well as of physical education; it has organized a universal system cf physical training which includes girls as well as boys, the grown up as well as the children, grammar schools and high schools as well as evening schools, and last, but not least, the military service. We must not forget that the two years’ military service in the army—1 embracing all eligible young men between 19 and 21—forms a part of this physical training. This system of physical education is unparalleled in the history of the great modern nations.

The unique and valuable characteristic in the German educational system is that it exercises its influence over the masses, invites all the parts of the nation to active work, giving opportunity to the weak as well as to the strong.

This system finds its expression in’ the competitive performances, whose chief aims are not the breaking of a record or the scoring of points. The object of the great German festivals is to have the multitude as performers, comparatively few remaining spectators. It is a remarkable fact that in the last German National Turnfestival at Frankfurt last year, approximately 40,000 Turners did practical work either in gymnastics, or in sports and games, free hand-exercises, fencing, swimming, wrestling, rowing. It is indeed an inspiring sight to see both sexes and all ages represented and doing their best to show physical accomplishments in strength and skill.—These modem German festivals come in some way nearer the ideal of the ancient Greeks of an all-around physical education than the recently revived international Olympic games.

German gymnastics as originated about a hundred years ago by Gutsmuths and Jahn, were intended by their founders as a means for the upbuilding of national and educational purposes—Gutsmuths introducing them on account of their hverienic and physiological value for education, —and Friedrich Ludwig Jahn consciously using them as a means to regenerate the German people for their struggle against Napoleon, the common enemy of the independence of European nations.

From these two points of view, gymnastics were introduced into German schools in the second half of the nineteenth century. During thia time. a thorough and necessary work was done in physical education ns indeed it was done in many a line of interior German life. The “rumen”, the gymnastics were made compulsory not only in the high schools hut also in the grammar schools for boys as well as for girls.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-251-

Two, and later on, three hours per week were assigned for gymnastic work, including games. Gymnasiums were built, so that since that time every or nearly every high school and grammar-school has its gymnasium and its spacious school-yard. At this period’was developed the type of equipment and methods which you find in the books published about 1860, 1870, 1880.

After that time, a complete change took place. The last part of the nineteenth century has witnessed the growth of the modern German Empire. After national safety had been secured, and the nation had given itself a new legislature, had solved the most important social problems of the working classes, it found time to discuss and solve on a larger scale its educational problems.

A new impetus was given by the great changes in the social conditions of modern society. In Germany the population concentrated in the great cities, their homes taking the places needed for play and bodily exercise. More and more thousands, or hundreds of thousands of men and women do not work in the open air, but in closed factories, or in the offices as clerks or as teachers, working with their brains, neglecting their body. They forget that exercise in the open air supplemented by gymnasium work during bad weather is necessary for their health. As their nerves are under constant strain, many of them are in danger of breaking down, mentally as well as physically. This is a real danger not only for the individual but also for the whole society. The Government, communities and teachers saw this danger; they created conditions to counteract these bad influences; they originated a system of gymnasiums, playgrounds, parks and recreation grounds oh hygienic and social principles. Their aim being to give to the coming generations not only strength and ability, but also health and capacity of resistance.

From this short sketch of historical development you may easily see that the aims of modem German gymnastics or physical training are not only national and educational, but also social and hygienic.

The principal characteristics of this modem German movement are these: it is a complete system of physical training, comprising a harmonious development of the body. It is not thought of first importance to develop muscles or break records, but it is thought of first importance to develop and maintain health of body and of mind, develop manly strength as well as promote the activity of the heart and the lungs and tci give steady nerves. It demands exercise in the open air, it tries to reduce the formality to a minnimum. Its aim is to influence the whole mass of the people.

it must be understood that the modem German system does not mean only apparatus work, or gymnastics done in a gymnasium, this being only a part; it means a system of activities which in its totality helps to develop to the highest possible standard the physical as well as the moral and intellectual qualities of the whole nation. Its ideal is not to train for records or team performances or for show; hut to make the masses more able for work, to create a system which not only influences the muscles, but promotes the vitality of the whole body, and increases individuality.

Digitized by v^ooQie
-252-

So Germany has developed a modern educational system of its own which comprises apparatus work, marching-exercises and free hand gymnastics as well as rowing, games and such track and field events as running, jumping and throwing.

It is not my task to speak of Swedish gymnastics which I admire, and which I think is well adapted to the genius of the country in which it was developed. 1 only wish to say that the genius of our country is different. Our boys, like the American boys, wish to do their own work, and their teachers appreciate initiative as it can only be acquired by games, track and field work in summer, and apparatus work in winter.

Marching and free hand exercises are excellent for lessons in deportment, for corrective work and discipline, but they will never develop the manly virtues of courage and endurance, nor give initiative, quickness of perception, self-control, loyalty to leaders.

The question has often been discussed in Germany: are out-door games superior to in-door gymnastics? Now the question is settled: all forms of good out-door work are superior to in-door work. But for our educational purpose we need gymnastics as well as games. Sports and athletics alone are not sufficient for physical education, as soon as you consider the whole body of the school, as soon as your work is also meant for discipline and self-control.

One of the greatest questions of methods in physical education is how to master masses, how to interest large classes, 50 or more boys or girls, how to make them do good work, especially in winter, during rainy weather when work must be done in the gymnasium. We have found that by means of tactics, free-gymnastics and especially through appar-atuswork we can give the largest benefits to the largest number, make every one feel himself as a part of a larger body, and give appropriate exercises to the weak as wrell as to the strong.

Among the measures of physical education there is a typically German institution; namely the trips or tours of the schools (“tramping”). As far as I know, only in Germany teachers undertake tramp-ings (“wander-trips”) into the country with their boys and girls, either for one day or—at least with the older boys—for three, eight, or fourteen days, promoting not only health and endurance, but also natural and scientific interest and knowledge.

This sketch would be incomplete if I forgot to mention, that besides the weekly three (or two) hours assigned for gymnastics and games, there are a great number of boys’ gymnastic and rowing clubs, special hours for training boys in leading gymnastic squads (“Vorturner-Stunden”) etc. Last, but not least, schools have arranged games on an additional afternoon every week, many of them even making the attendance of the boys compulsory.

I was often asked if German boys have games? They have, and they are much interested in them. The favorite games beside football are “Prisoners Base” and “Batball”, Fistball” and “Hurlball”, three ball-games. To give you only one instance of the work done under the auspices of the schools:	Every year there is in Berlin an .interscholastic

Prisoners Basegame for teams of the high schools of Greater-Berlin.

Digitized by LjOOQie
Last year there were forty teams competing, each composed of fifteen boys, all teams playing at the same time.

It is not possible to enumerate the children’s games, nor to give even a sketch of the playground work in Germany, or its development during the last twenty years. Many of the little folks’ games and their popular songs have, through the medium of German-American teachers, found a new home on this side of the Atlantic, helping to form the stock of American school-games. In Kindergartens, school-games, and playground movement Germany has been leading for years owing to a natural educational tendency of Germans. Municipalities are beginning to take more care of the physical and psychological development of the child as a moral and social factor in the preservation of the commonwealth. It is not possible to give even a sketch of the work done by the government, municipalities, schools, and private organizations. Be it sufficient to say that they work together to create playgrounds, recreation centers, gymnasiums, school-yards, swimming pools, skating rinks, rowing-houses. They also include the Summer- and Forest-colonies for the very weakest children among the legitimate means of caring for youth. In the last year, 30,000 children, the very poorest, have been sent for some weeks

in summer, to the mountains, forests, or to the sea-shore.-----There

is practically no city in Germany where there is not a well organized playground movement for school-children, such cities as Berlin and its suburbs, Charlottenburg, Kiel, Dresden, Braunschweig, Hanover and the Silesian cities being foremost. Modern Germany has exercised a very great and good influence in the playground movement of the world, being the first great nation to recognize the moral and social needs of the mass of the people, and taking care of the mass of the children not enjoying the benefits of well-to-do families. There is no country from which a teacher organizing playgrounds or working in the playground movement could learn so much as from Germany.

The same social spirit pervades in the great private organizations for gymnastics, swimming and tramping, having approximately a million members, which help in the educational work done by government and municipalities. These organizations are not only designed to give its adult members an opportunity for physical activity; but inspired by a noble enthusiasm for education, give in junior sections to hundreds of thousands of boys physical training. It is a rather remarkable fact that the gymnastic associations of Germany have more practising active members than all other countries of Europe together.

The facts presented in this sketch may give an idea how Germany has originated a national system of modern physical education. It is only just to say that American educators have made a good start to provide their country with a physical education adapted to its peculiar needs, in addition to their traditional sports and games. But real progress in education,—as all progress in mankind is not attained only by the work done by this or that nation, but also by the willingness and the ability to learn from other nations.

fg73 ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by AjOOQie
-254-

ELEMENTS OF STRENGTH AND WEAKNESS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION AS TAUGHT IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By George Wittich,

Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.

To determine what may be either strong or weak points in physical training, we must ascertain first the condition of the average schoolchild and then the influences which this condition and the child’s environment exercise upon its psychical and physical faculties. After that we can determine the postulates which they impose on education in general and on physical training in particular; lastly we shall see whether all that is presented as physical training meets these demands or does not.

THE CHILD.—During the five and a half hours which the child spends at school on each of the two hundred days of the school-year it must remain in the sitting posture more than three-fourths of the time. The results of this extended and regularly recurring physical inactivity during that period of life when the child needs motion to enhance growth and general vigor, more than in any other period of life, are retarded blood-circulation and insufficient respiration. If this posture is continued for years, anaemia and a certain degree of muscular degeneration are very often found developing and the inborn desire for motion is being blunted.

Since the so-called “correct sitting postures for reading and writing” will soon become tiresome, the child will seek relief in every imaginable sitting posture during the long school-hours. Experience and research have taught us that long sitting, faulty sitting, and unhygienic seats and desks have largely produced our present round-shouldered, gaunt-necked, flat-chested, and awkward schoolchild. The various positions of the feet which the child assumes in its endeavors to seek relief from tiresome sitting postures certainly do not improve the walking step of the child.

The mind, too, suffers through this uninterrupted mental strain. The studious child will, in the course of time, acquire a mood of earnestness and sedateness which is not at all in accordance with its age, while other children become indifferent and languid. Such children have been robbed of their youthful elasticity and happiness; their education did not include the essential features of a happy and auspicious childhood and adult life.

Let us determine now the forms of physical exercises that will counteract these evil factors and are practicable in classroom, corridor, assembly-hall, and yard.

The growing schoolchild first of all needs stimulation to growth and improvement of the tonicity of the muscular tissue. This can best be achieved through exercises of quickness involving mainly the muscles of the thighs, pelvis, and trunk. The continued and often faulty sitting necessitates repeated corrective exercises; physical inactivity produces awkwardness, and therefore dancing-steps and marching, as well as other forms of leg-exercises, are valuable to improve the skill of the legs, as

Digitized by L^ooQie
-255-

Will club-swinging and certain other forms of arm exercises strengthen and improve the skill of the arms. Exercises at the desk in the classroom, running, jumping, vaulting, and combative games in the hall or yard will improve the general skill, agility, and strength of the whole body. Combative and running gomes, and certain games with the large ball tend to develop physical power and endurance together with those psychical qualities that are of such great value in this present age: quickness of reaction, resoluteness, alertness, courage, and perseverance.

What are now the elements of weakness in physical training? They are either unnecessary forms of exercises, or forms which are one-sided in their effects when used exclusively as physical training. Under the former class, fall: motion-songs and the dramatizations of activities of animals, persons, etc. Under the second class, the one-sided forms come: first, formal exercises—tactics, folk-dances, Gilbert-dancing, Delsarte, calisthenics, dumbbell, barbell, wand- and club-drills, club-swinging, and corrective exercises; second, less formal exercises—games (play), field-and track-work, and exercises on fixed play-apparatus.

When the child has advanced from the kindergarten or from the unrestrained freedom of the home, into the first grade of school, it should have carefully designed and arranged wholesome and vigorous exercises at regular intervals for the purpose of counteracting the detrimental influences of its new environment.

The exercises must bring into play the larger muscles and must he of the simplest and most natural kind. The play-feature should be brought in whenever feasible in order to make the transition from unrestrained freedom to formal school-life easier and more agreeable.

MOTION SONGS.—The mild forms of physical exercises usually applied in motion-songs cannot be substitutes for physical training because they do not bring out that degree of vigorous, rhythmical, muscular contraction which is so very necessary to physical welfare. They are valuable features of the kindergarten curriculum, it is true, but they will not suffice in the grades above, since the conditions are vastly different. The same can be said of the dramatizations of the activities of persons and animals, and in consequence these forms may be considered elements of weakness in physical training.

FORMS ONE-SIDED IN EFFECT.—Forms of exercises that are more effective but whose effects are more or less one-sided.

DRILLS.—The drill is a sequence of exercises which the pupils must memorize and mechanize. The act of mechanization, that is, the period m which the pupils learn to execute and memorize a drill, is a mental effort. If this is performed between other lessons or immediately after them, the mind is being burdened instead of relieved. * The more complicate and intricate the exercises and combinations are, the greater is the mental effort of the pupils during the mechanization of the same. After, however, the drill is once mechanized it is executed more or less automatically, i. e., without mental effort. The controlling work has then been transferred mainly to the spinal cord. In order to produce a reasonably exact and physiologically beneficial mechanical execution

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—250—

of the drill on the part of the pupils, the exercises must be practiced with utmost exactness in the beginning and as long as the mind is the controlling factor. For when once faulty movements have become mechanized it requires great will-power to correct them.

There is of course some physiological value in every well-balanced drill. The well executed marching-drill or military tactics has a good influence on the general posture of the pupils. The firm marching step imparts strength to the muscles of the legs. In addition to this, exercises of the individual, if properly applied, will promote quickness of response—but that is about all.

The effect of marching-drills on the psychical faculties and respiration and on circulation is small because the movements are simple and uninteresting and the muscular activity is half automatic.

The physiological value of all well-arranged calisthenics and dancing-drills is ouch greater, but since drills usually have an even rhythm throughout, and especially so dancing-drills, the corrective influence is small. Great corrective results are furthermore excluded in drills because that degree of muscular traction, which is so often necessary to bring about, corrective results, is not well obtainable in rhythmical work.

Psychologically, calisthenic drills are worthless because they are a bore, and as such detested or executed in an indifferent manner by the pupils, whereas the dancing-drills, especially the simple forms, exercise a somewhat better influence on the minds of the girls. The girls’ desire for all forms of dancing is great, and they will take up these exercises more readily than the more strenuous forms. But I cannot conceive of a boy, a true boy, between twelve and fifteen years of age, taking any kind of dancing readily; this type of exercises is so very contrary to his character and his make-up, that it seems an injustice to this part of our school population to bring up boys in this effeminate manner.

The folk-dance is a transient fad and will disappear and make room for another fad in the course of time, like many others gone before, such as the Delsarte system. It is absurd to present to the American boy and girl the clumsy dances of the awkward European farmer as physical training.

Since there is nothing in the drill that will interest the child for any length of time, nothing for the child to strive for, no matter how often we may call its attention to the beneficial effects of this or that exercise, nothing that will create joy and happiness, it is decidedly an element of weakness in physical training.	(To	be	concluded.)

—A MOST ADMIRABLE AND UP-TO-DATE ESSAY from the pen of Dr. Max Haudek of Vienna, on “Progress in the Treatment of Skoliosis”, appears in the July issue 1909 of the Monatsschrift fuer die Physikalisch-diaetetischen Heilmethoden, published by J. F. Lehmann, Muenchen. The article is lengthy and to bring an abstract would so cripple it that it must be read in its entirety. We therefore recommend it to our readers who are versed in German.

Digitized by
-257-

PHYSICIAN’S CERTIFICATES EXCUSING PUBLIC SCHOOL PUPILS FROM GYMNASTICS.

Bv D. M. Fkrd. Krogh, M. D , G. G., Philadelphia.

Gymnastics, wherever introduced, whether in colleges or other schools, occasionally meets with obstacles, especially at the beginning. One of these obstacles is that some students or pupils who dislike the exercises would prefer to be permitted to be at ease. Teachers at times take a verbal excuse from those of sedentary habits, or they will be satisfied with a mother’s written request to excuse her son or daughter from physical exercise, no matter how beneficial the exercises may be for him ■or her.

Some of these poor weaklings or patients deserve and must be excused, others, however, should be compelled to take part in the lesson, being more in need of physical exercise, perhaps, than any of the other students or pupils.

It becomes necessary, then, that something be done in order to draw the line and come to a correct conclusion concerning each particular case.

In colleges, high schools and other institutions of higher learning a physical examination may be made by the physical director. Every student may be, and possibly should be examined in these institutions. But in the public schools the conditions are somewhat different. A thorough physical examination of every pupil would take too long and particularly in large cities would be quite an expensive procedure, although this would be the ideal plan. As it is, the next best thing is to have every pupil asking to be excused, examined and a medical certificate turned in to the department of physical education. This will suffice for the general daily lesson. On the other hand older pupils who wish to enter field-sports or participate in games requiring a great deal of physical exertion and endurance, such as foot-ball, basket-ball, base-ball, etc., should be examined as to their physical fitness for the task.

This is about what is being done in Philadelphia. The department of physical education furnishes the following blank to the principal, which, after being dulv filled out and signed, is returned to the department for approval. The certificate is self-explanatory.

PHYSICIAN’S CERTIFICATE.

REQUESTING AN EXCUSE FROM GYMNASTICS.

Principals may tempcrarily excuse a pupil from gymnastics. No permanent excuse, however, mav be given until the Physician’s Certificate has been approved. Principals will be advised of the disposition of each case requiring more than a temporary excuse.

Philadelphia,...........................19	....

Name of Pupil............................ School	.........................

Age..........Grade................Teacher’s	Name..........................

(Principals will please fill in the foregoing dataV

It is advisable that this pupil be excused temporarily—permanently from the following forms of gymnastics :	(Strike	«ut	the	one	not	wanted.)

a. Running. b. Jumping. c. Free Exercises. d. Apparatus Work, c. Gymnastic Games.	f.	Team	Games.

Digitized by ooQle
Please give a short diagnosis of the case, constitutional or organic defects, and if the excuse is temporary, state the approximate length of time............

Signed..........

Address.

.M. D.

Office I Received................... Principal	notified..................

Records) By whom.......................... Special Teacher...............

During the school term of 1908-1909 fifty-six pupils were excused, some temporarily and others permanently. This is a very small number, being only 0.036 per cent, of the total number of pupils enrolled in the eight grades.

The percentage in each grade of the total number excused is:—

Grade.	No. excused.	Per cent.
1.	5	8.93
2.	2	3.57
3.	12	21.43
4.	5	8 93
5.	12	21.43
6.	4	7.14
7.	9	16.07
8.	6	10.71
?	1	1.79
	56	100 00

According to this table it will be seen that this percentage gives the following order per grade: the highest percentage is found in the third and fifth grades, next comes the seventh grade, third the eighth grade, fourth the first and fourth grades, fifth the sixth grade, and sixth tire second grade.

But if we consider the percentage of the number of pupils enrolled in the respective grade to the relative number excused, the order of rotation is quite different:—

Grade. No. enrolled.	No. excused.	Per cent.
1. 34515	5	0.014
2. 29465	2	0.007
3. 25132	12	0.048
4. 21466	5	0.023
5. 19028	12	0 063
6. 12987	4	0.031
7. 8440	9	0 107
8. 5526	6	0.109
?	1	
rotation by percentage now	is:—	
8th grade = No. 1.	6th grade	= No. 5.
7th grade = No. 2.	4th grade	= No. 6.
5th grade = No. 3.	1st grade	= No. 7.
3rd grade = No. 4.	2nd grade	= No. 8.

It is obvious according to this table that the greatest relative proportion of excuses comes from the upper and the least from the lower grades. In classifying these we find the following data:—

Digitized by (oOOQ le
-259-TABLE OF EXCUSES.

No. excused.	Cause for excuse.	Excused from all exercises	Excused from several ex.	Excused  perma-  nently.	Tern-! por-i arilv !	Not  classed.	Total
5	t Appendicitis f $ (operation) $	8	2	1	4		5
							
4	S Chorea St. \ \ Vitus Dance. $	1	3		4		4
							
22	Heart disease.	14	8	16	6		22
4	$ Hernia I ( (Rupture) )	3	1	4			4
							
2	i Scoliosis ) s (Spinal Cur- ? * vature) '		2			2	2
							
2	$ Tuberculosis ) \ (of lungs) 5		2		2		2
							
4	) Tuberculosis ( f (of spine) >	4		3	1		4
							
2	^Typhoid Fever £ ) (convalescents) $	2			2		2
							
n	Unclassified	7	4	6	4	1	11
56		34	22	30	23	3	56

This table shows that thirty-four of the fifty-six eases were excused from all forms of exercises, the remaining twenty-two being permitted free exercises. While thirty were permanently excused, twenty-three were excused temporarily and in three cases the physician made no classification.

It may here be stated that some of the certificates seem to be filled out hastily and are, therefore, inaccurate. It would be well if the special teacher, upon leaving a certificate with the teacher or principal, would explain what is wanted. In Ibis manner mistakes and incongruities would, perhaps, be avoided.

In other words, the subject of Physicians Certificates for Excuses should be more svstematized and given the importance it deserves.

It is of interest to examine the various excuses a little closer. The first class, the cases of operation after appendicitis, need very little comment save to say that we must be cautious after abdominal operations as the scar may be weak, and undue exertion and stretching of the abdominal wall may produce abdominal hernia. I would suggest that one year elapse before the patient again engages in severe exercises, particularly in exercises that involve a stretching of the abdominal wall, such as is the case in some apparatus exercises and in bending the trunk backward, and in turning the trunk.

* The second set of cases, those of Chorea or St. Vitus Dance, must

Digitized by CjOOQle
-260-

exercise only on the advice of the physician. The nervous system is a delicate structure and must be taken care of. When once put of order it is difficult to completely repair it. Some cases of Chorea need treatment with rest in bed, others may be treated in a quiet place indoors, while still others may be treated out-of-doors, and, again, another class of cases may be permitted to go to school but should probably not take part in the exercises, nor the games, while mild exercises may be # given with massage treatment at home. It is only in the mild forms of Chorea or where convalescence is well advanced that physical exercise should be participated in conjointly with the rest of the pupils.

The twenty-two cases of Heart Disease contain only two cases of a dangerous character, they are cases of Aortic Regurgitation. For brevity’s sake I will not dwell on this group of cases but would call attention • to my article “The Relation of Exercise to Heart Disease” published in “Mind and Body,” May, 1909. If a child gets purplish or blue in the face let such a child sit down immediately, preferably near an open window. I have had instances where the pupil would get pale and the lips turn slightly purple. In such instances stop the child from exercising at once, for some children are really affiicted with heart lesions without knowing it, nor do their parents know it. But the fact that a child has a valvular lesion of the heart is not an indication in itself that the child must necessarily.be excused from the regular physical exercises in the school.

It is rather peculiar that the physicians excuse all four of the cases of Rupture that are reported. Rupture in children is curable by strengthening the abdominal muscles. The only precaution needed is that the patient wears a perfectly fitting truss. Of course, no teacher of physical education would advise such pupils to practice jumping.

It is very significant that only two cases of Scoliosis are reported. One physisian advises that a girl of eleven years be excused from running and jumping and adds “please cut out the school gymnastics.” The other advises that a girl of ten years be excused from running. Both may have made a mistake in filling out the blank, but the fact is, that lateral curvature is amenable to treatment at this age and especially when correct free-exercises are employed. The swinging rings are also of great value in these cases. Such children should be given exercises of all kinds to increase the mobility of the spine and to strengthen the muscles, especially the erector spinae mass. For young children cast thr* brace away, it will do more good among scrap iron. Only in advanced cases, when the child is thirteen years of age or more, the brace aids as a support when the muscles are weak, but exercises must be taken regularly without the wearing of the brace, even if for no other reason than to stay the process of deformity.

It is also significant that only two cases are reported to have "Pulmonary Tuberculosis. Are there reallv only tiro cases of Tuberculosis in the public schools of Philadelphia? I wish there were none, for a ehild who has phthisis does not belong in the school among other children. One of these cases is reported still to contain tubercle bacilli

Digitized by L.ooQle
—2<>1 —

in the sputum, while the other is reported cured after haying had a hemorrhage. Advice in this case is given not to be allowed to exercise within a year. But are we sure that at the end of this time the patient is in a condition to exercise, that some latent tubercle bacilli may not have stirred up a slow, unnoticable process of inflammation? Care should be taken in such cases and they should be examined at intervals.

In tubercular disease of the spine, of which four cases are reported it is perfectly correct, nay, absolutely essential that no exercise be allowed lest the nests of the tubercle bacilli be again stirred up to renewed activity. In one of these cases advice is given that she may lie excused temporarily. I do not think it advisable for a child who has been afflicted with Pott’s disease to be allowed to exercise at all for a number of years after the inflammation has subsided, and then only with tho utmost care. A very good index in such cases is the clinical thermometer. If there is any increase in the temperature above the normal, exercises are contraindicated.

It is self-evident that the two children reported as convalescents from typhoid fever should be excused until they feel strong enough to participate.

Now let us study the unclassified cases. Some of these are interesting, some amusing.

Case 1.—Girl of Fourteen years. Articular Bheumatism.

It is my belief that any case of Acute- Articular Bheumatism should be at home in bed, no#matter how slight the attack may be. I would give this advice, particularly if the patient be a child. Very often slight attacks are followed by heart disease.

Case 2.—Boy of Eight years. Lymphadenitis of Groin.

Here we have a case of inflammation of the lympathic glands of the groin due to an infected knee which had been operated on. This is another case which should be terated with rest, .as all inflammations get well quickest by rest.

Case 3.—Girl of Thirteen years. Albuminuria.

If albumin is found in the urine there is a reason for it, and, if it is due to kidney trouble the child should be at home for a week or ten days to he cured. In fact, no matter for what cause, it would be best if the child were at home for treatment. This, however, is beyond the scope of the department; but the diagnosis seems peculiar and leaves room for doubt.

Case 4.—Girl of Seven years. Ossifying Myositis.

This case came under my personal observation. It is as interesting a case as it is peculiar an,d of rare occurrence. A little girl of seven years of age, an Italian by birth, has evidently had a rheumatic attack of the muscles. Her shoulder and elbow joints are almost immovable. The joints show a marked degree of ankylosis and the muscles around the joints are practically ossifying, that is, getting hard like bone. Her condition is gradually getting worse, and a total stiffness of the joints will finally occur making it impossible for the child to move her arms.

Case 5.—Girl of Twelve years. Epistaxis.

Digitized by t^ooQie
No more is stated. Epistaxis, or nose bleeding, may be due to a number of causes. 1. It may be due to Catarrh of the nasal mucous membrane. 2. To polypi in the nose. 3. Possibly a forerunner to typhoid fever. 4. Or the most probable in this case, it may be a forerunner of the beginning of adolescence.

She should certainly be excused from the exercises, especially if she does not feel well.

Case 6.—Girl of Twelve. Injured.

This girl was injured four months before the excuse was issued, the injury resulting in a permanent injury to the intercostal ligaments and the muscles of the left side.

Case 7.—Girl of Fourteen. Visceral Weakness.

Perhaps some form of exercise and massage would do this case good.

Case 8.—Boy of Eight. Ankylosis of Knee.

This boy takes part in all forms of exercise that the condition of his knee will permit.

Case 9.—Boy of Thirteen. Contraction of Muscles.

The muscles of one leg are contracted as the result of Scarlet Fever. This boy takes part in the free-exercises.

Case 10.—Girl of Seven. Nervousness.

This gives us very little information. The free-exercises, steps and games would perhaps, cure this young ladv of her nervousness.

Case 11.—Boy of Thirteen. Henry has only one leg.

This is the doctor's diagnosis and that's why Henry is asked to be excused from all forms of exercises, but, in spite of this, the fact is, that Henry wants to, and does exercise in the school room with his “stump” on the desk.

CONCLUSIONS.

1.	No excuse should be allowed without the physicians consent, except where such excuse is for the day, or in the girls’ grammar grades, particularly in the eighth grades, for a few days only. In such cases the teacher should be permitted to excuse the pupil. This is also per-missible when pupils temporarily feel bad, having a headache, or when the digestion is temporarily out of order. But it must also be remembered that a pupil will frequently feel better after exercising, the 'exercises actually curing the ill feeling.

2.	If a pupil gets pale, showing fatigue, or from ill health, or, if any discoloration of the lips sets in during the exercises the pupil should be ordered to sit down.

3.	The special teacher of physical training furnishing the blank certificate should instruct the teacher or principal how the certificate should he filled out, especially which of the branches of gymnastics should be striken from the list, and also see that a statement relating to the length of time a child is to be excused is given.

4.	The special teacher should return inaccurate, insufficient and unclear certificates for corrections and the required additional information.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
- 2G3-

5.	Cases of infections diseases, such as tuberculosis of the lungs or bones should be reported to the Board of Health. In bone tuberculosis we may find a running sinus with a poorly applied dressing, or the bandage may be loose thus affording the tubercular material a chance to escape.

Vigilance on our part will insure better results. The Department of Health and Charities is with us, and it is up to us to make this part of our function a success.

Should Physical Training be a Sub-department under School

Hygiene ?

Remarks made during the debate at the Denver meeting of the N. E. A. by Mrs.

Frances Waite Letter, Supt. Physical Education Department, National Womens Christian Temperance Union.

According to reliable medical and other authority, hygiene is defined as the “science and art of preserving health by appropriate care and nourishment of the body and proper regulation of surroundings.”

If promoting health were the whole object of physical education, we might correctly claim that it should be a sub-department under hygiene. This, however, is not the case.

If the health of children were continuously normal, and there existed no necessity for building and protecting against the strain and confinement of school life (which of course is not the case), there would yet remain the great need of bodily development and character training, which is the primary object of physical education in the schools, and through which health does result.

The prevailing low vitality of the people leads many to think that all effort must bear in the direction of restoring the same to normal; and that promoting health is the end and aim of all service for the body of the child.

In bills which were introduced in a number of states last winter, to secure laws making bodily development and discipline compulsory in all schools under publip control, physical education was defined as the “development and training of the hodv and the promotion of health, through systematic physical exercise and practical knowledge of the laws of hygiene”.	^

If twenty-five per cent of school children were, to-day, mental defectives of such character as could he overcome by hygienic measures, thereby securing to the brain normal conditions, would this necessity be reason per se for placing mental education under hvgiene in the public school curriculum?

It is my belief that in the dim future, when some fads and fancies have run their course, and when the serious problem of the present low vital condition of the people is well in hand, there will be established beyond question three distinct departments in the curriculum of education, namely—physical, mental and moral; and the physical department will include all that pertains to the well being, advancement, and culture

Digitized by v^ooQle
—264—

of the body, such as anatomy, physiology and hygiene; domestic science and art work; industrial training so far as it obtains in the public schools; voice culture, reading, oratory, music; direct education of the eye and the ear; while, underlying all as the legitimate outgrowth of bodily development and training through systematic exercise, and towards which every part of the body will contribute, will be the highest possible physical and functional conditions; or, in other words the priceless boon of health.

Physical education then, is not primarily to secure health, but to promote the greatest possible efficiency of the individual, in which health is an important factor. It will perhaps always be necessary to attach some kind of hospital facilities to the public schools for the benefit of the “undertones”; but, the thing itself—the school—should not be considered a hospital.

With such premises as these, physical education in the public schools can not consistently be considered a sub-department under hygiene; but, a department which, in its aims and results, embodies hygiene.

INDIANAPOLIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL TRAINING and SCHOOL HYGIENE.

Special Exercises for Gymnastic Exhibitions.

ARRANGED BY

Third Grade.....................................

Fourth Grade....................................

Fifth Grade.....................................

Sixth, Seventh and eighth Grades ................

EXPLANATORY NOTES.

The exercises are arranged in three groups. The double count is to he used, namely, two counts for each movement. All exercises are to be executed left, right, and repeat left and right. Between each group a sixteen count period of rest takes place.

Music—For Grades Three to Seven, a march or two-step, 2-4 time.

For th#Eighth Grades, a waltz, % time.

Starting Positions—For the ring exercises, the ring is carried in the left hand.

For the reed exercises, reeds vertically upward, arms bent, hands before shoulders.

Wands, dumb-bells and clubs, the usual starting position.

Rings can be purchased at any department store. Ordinary towel rings are used.

Reeds should be 8 feet long, and cost about 5 cents each.

Rings and wands are best trimmed with ribbon streamers.

The reeds can be trimmed with white, red and blue cheese cloth, or with paper flowers.

The pupils stand in ranks of four, two girls and two boys, as follows: Girh boy, girl, boy.

....Mr. Allen.

....Mr. Toll.

Mr. Rut her. Dr. Fischer.

Digitized by Google
-265-

Dumb-bell Exercises for the Seventh Grades.

GROUP. I

Exercise 1. a. Step left forward, raise bells for-

ward 1—2.

b.	Bend left knee, raise left bell obliquely forward upward, right bell obliquely backward downward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 8—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Step left sideward, raise bells sideward 1—2.

b.	Bend left knee, raise left bell obliquely sideward upward, right bell behind back 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

GROUP

Exercise 1.

Exercise 3.

a.	Step left backward, raise bells

forward upward 1—2.

b.	Bend left knee, swing bells obliquely sideward downward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16. .

Exercise 4.

a.	Step left forward, raise bells sideward over shoulders 1—2.

b.	One-half turn right, bend right knee, bells sideward 3—4.

e.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

II.

a.	Step left forward, raise bells forward 1—2.

b.	Kneel on right knee, raise bells obliquely sideward upward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Step left sideward, raise bells sideward over shoulders 1—2.

b.	Follow with the right foot, bend knees, bells sideward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Step left backward, raise bells forward upward 1—2.

b.	One-half turn left, kneel on right knee, swing bells downward and backward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Step left sideward, raise bells left sideward 1—2.

b.	Follow with the right foot, bend knees, swing right bell upward

and to the right 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

GROUP

Exercise 1.

a.	Charge left forward, raise bells forward 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk forward, lower bells b. downward 3—4.

c.	Return to position a 5—6.	c.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. d. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

III.

Exercise 2.

Charge left sideward, raise bells sideward over shoulders 1—2. Bend trunk left sideward, extend bells sideward 3—4.

Return to position a 5—6. Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Digitized by

Google
-266-

Exercise 3.

a.	Charge left backward, raise bells sideward 1—2.

b.	Bend trunk backward, raise bells upward 3—4.

c.	Return ta position a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

a.	Charge left forward, raise bells forward upward 1—2.

b.	One-half turn right, bend right knee, bend trunk forward, bells sideward 3—4.

c.	Return to position, a 5—6.

d.	Return to starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 1—16.

POSE.

Boys : Rise on toes raise arms obliquely sideward upward 1—8. Girls : Kneel on right knee, raise bells sideward 1—8.

Indian Club Exercises for the Eight Grades.

GROUP 1,

Exercise 1.

a.	Two follow steps forward, two 4rm circles outward, each to the starting position 1—4.

b.	Three arm circles outward 5—8.

c.	Extend clubs forward 9.

d.	Swing clubs sideward 10.

e.	Clubs forward 11.

f.	Starting position 12.

13—16, repeat 9—12.

Repeat 1—16 marching backward. Exercise 2.

a.	Two follow steps left sideward, two double arm circles left/sideward, each to the starting position 1—4.

b.	Three double arm circles outward 5—8.

c.	Extend clubs forward 9.

d.	Swing clubs sideward 10.

e.	Clubs forward 11.

f.	Starting position 12.

13-*16. Repeat 9—12.

Repeat 1—16, marching right sideward.

Exercise 3.

a.	Two follow steps backward, two arm circles inward, each to the starting position 1—4.

b.	Three arm circles inward 5—8.

c.	Extend clubs sideward 9.

d.	Cross clubs overhead 10.

e.	Extend clubs sideward 11.

f.	Starting position 12.

13-16. Repeat 9-12.

Repeat 1—16, marching forward.

Exercise 4.

Repeat the second exercise beginning to the right.

GROUP II.

Exercise 1.

a.	Three-fourths arm circle outward, dip clubs in front of body 1-2.

b.	Seven-eights arm circle inward, cross clubs overhead 3—4.

c.	Seven-eights arm circle outward, dip clubs in front of body 5—6.

d.	Three-fourths arm circle inward

to starting position 7—8.

e.	Extend clubs forward 9.

f.	Swing clubs sideward and bend knees 10.

g.	Straighten knees and clubs forward 11.

h.	Starting position 12.

13—16. Repeat 9—12.

Repeat 1—16.

Digitized by Google
-267-

Exercise 2.

a.	Three-fourths double arm circle to the left and dip clubs in the horizontal position right 1—2.

b.	One-half double arm circle and dip clubs in horizontal position left sideward 3—4.

c.	One-half double arm circle and dip clubs in horizontal position right sideward 5—6.

d.	Three-fourths double arm circle to starting position 7—8.

e.	Charge left sideward and extend clubs left sideward 9.

f.	Bend alternate knee, swing right club upward to horizontal position right 10.

g.	Return to position ell.

h.	Starting position 12.

13—1G. Repeat 9-12.

Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Three-fourths arm circle inward, dip clubs in the horizontal position sideward 1—2.

b.	Seven-eights arm circle outward, clubs obliquely sideward upward 3-4.

c.	Seven-eights arm circle inward, dip clubs in the hori2ontal position sideward 5—6.

d.	Three-fourths arm circle outward to starting position 7—8.

e.	Extend clubs sideward 9.

f.	Rise on toes and cross clubs overhead 10.

g.	Return to position ell.

h.	Return to starting position 12. 13—16. Repeat 9—12.

Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

Repeat Exercise 2 to the right.

GROUP III.

Exercise 1.

a.	Arm circle outward, hand circles back of shoulders 1—8.

b.	Charge left forward, extend clubs obliquely forward upward 9.

c.	Bend trunk forward, swing clubs sideward 10.

d.	Return to position b 11.

e.	Return to starting position 12. 13—16. Repeat 9—12.

Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 2.

a.	Double arm circle left, hand circles back of shoulders 1—8.

b.	Charge left sideward, cross clubs overhead 9.

c.	Bend trunk sideward left, extend clubs upward 10.

d.	Return to position b 11.

e.	Return to starting position 12. 13—16. Repeat 9—12.

Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 3.

a.	Arm circle inward, hand circles back of shoulders 1—8.

b.	Charge left backward, swing clubs downward and backward 9.

c.	Bend trunk backward, swing clubs obliquely sideward upward 10.

d.	Return to position b 11.

e.	Return to starting position 12. 13—16 Repeat 9-12.

Repeat 1—16.

Exercise 4.

Repeat the second exercise beginning right.

Pose—Boys: Charge forward, bend trunk forward, clubs sideward 1—8. Girls: Cross point step, cross clubs 1—8.

— I wish to state that “MIND AND BODY” is one of the most practical magazines that I have ever taken, and find it most helpful in my work as supervisor of physical training in public school work. I wish that it were in the hands of every superintendent, principal and sincerely hope that every physical director is its reader.	Herbert	T.	Niece,	Elwood, Ind.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
Map ftND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

axgll-ttraciaJEoe, Wlacon ibIp. .

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W.s Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

— THE NEXT MEETING of the American Physical Education Association will be held on March 1st, 2nd and 3rd in Indianapolis, Ind. It will be a meeting held conjointly with the Department of Superintendents of the N. E. A. and with the Am. School Hygiene Association. This will be the first meeting held in the middle states for a long time, and it is hoped that many teachers of physical training of these states will be present.

— AMONG THE DECLARATIONS adopted at the Denver meeting of the N. E. A. was the following :

“The increased tendency to congestion of population in cities makes necessary greater and more systematic attention to the physical development of our children. No vigorous race of people has long maintained a high state of civilization under conditions that did not take into consideration the physical as well as the mental and moral development of its youth. The Association recommends that provision be made by the United States Bureau of Education for effective promotion of physical education through the diffusion of scientific information on this subject.”

We are glad to welcome this help, but we wonder if the gentlemen who wrote this resolution know of the vast amount of scientific information that is monthly being placed before all teachers who want to grow, by the many journals devoted to scientific physical training ? Looking upon the results obtained in-cities and towns where there is no efficient supervision of physical training it seems that if the TJ. S. Bureau of Education could impress upon the heads of most city, county and state	normal	schools a proper

appreciation of	what is already	offered to them and

get these men and women to read and apply th^ information at their command there would be an immediate clearing up of much fog as to what physical training is and what constitutes the legitimate field for school gymnastics. The trouble, so far, is that very few superintendents are heart and soul with us. They are submerged in administrative problems. Most of them do not see clearly the educational value of gymnastics although they may feel that it has hygienic value. And so long as the educational value of physical training is not brought out strongest by us, and so long as our fight is not based mainly on this effect of our work, so long will we have to be satisfied with the halfhearted support given us in a few cities in this enormous country of

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Digitized by

Google
—269“

ours. We welcome, therefore, the educational campaign the Bureau of Education is asked to open.

— WE WONDER if we have been dreaming ? It seems to 11s that there was a time when every one of us who did not swear by compe-tetive athletics was considered hopelessly incompetent, one who had not as yet awakened to what our American boys and girls needed. It was, therefore, with great astonishment that in the last Review we read the following by Dr. Luther H. Gulick. “We have had a great deal of competetive athletics during the last few years, that is, the development of the best individuals of the school and class, and the training of them to the highest pitch of efficiency for athletic competition. I believe thoroughly in athletics, but athletics do not rest on a hygienic basis. They are not done for the sake of the students who compete. I do not think it is open to dispute that so far as health is concerned our whole student body would be just as well off, and very likely better off, if there were no intercollegiate or interschool athletics:	The	great	benefits	to

be gained from athletics do not come to those who already excel in physique and heredity and who are trained to the extreme. We rued

also forms of athletics that will include the great mass.............”

We subcribe to all the above with a grateful heart and hope that a healthful reaction will soon set in and allow the sober second thought to gain the upper hand in our teachers of physical training. No, we do not need athletics as the daily bread for even college and highschool boys and girls. Gymnastics is so broad and varied, and can be made so interesting that all forms of athletics ought to be used only on special occasions and festivals, to give the best among the students a legitimate chance to meet others in friendly contests.

GUTSMUTHS’ TEN COMMANDMENTS.

Translated by Knrl J. Kroh.

THE TENTH COMMANDMENT.

Thou shalt not train thv body at the expense of thy mind, nor to the neglect of thy duties, so as to develop physically in strength and remain deficient in mind, as one who boasts of mere brute strength. The mind is the mirror of man, and superior, contrasted with mere physical development. Therefore thou shouldst not curtail the time to be devoted to the mind‘s training by the training of the body. Thou shalt do what is right and use thy time wisely,—allot it profitably and neglect not thy duties.

—The copies of “Mind and Body” are always full of information, and all articles are well worth the time to read a second time. The practical articles are just what a man needs to see what others are doing. I have not been able to afford to do without it for the past 10 years or more.

F. E. MILLER, Mobile, Ala.

Digitized by L-OOQle
-270-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

RELATION OF PLAYGROUNDS TO JUVENILE DELINQUENCY.

By Allen T. Burns, Dean, Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy.

(Concluded.)

SMALL PLAYGROUNDS.

The small playgrounds are those conducted by the Special Park Commission and which are generally without the facilities for such athletic games as are most attractive to the boys of the age of those who come into the juvenile court. While twelve of such playgrounds are maintained, only seven can be considered in the study of the increase or decrease of delinquency between the years 1900 and 1904 because of the varying dates of their establishment.- And only six, some included in the above seven and some not, can be considered m the study of the period from 1900 to 1907 for the reason given above, and for the additional reason that three of these playgrounds are so close to the new small parks as not to have a separately distinguishable influence. It is hard to determine the territory over which these playgrounds should be expected to have an influence. Theodore A. Gross, supervisor of these playgrounds, estimates that seventy-one per cejit of the children using them reside within one-quarter of a mile and ninety per cent within one-half of a mile. Taking each of these radii of efficiency what answer is given to the question as to the effect of these playgrounds on delinquency? It is necessary to consider all these playground areas together, as to take one single area of half a mile diameter gives too small a territory for statistical purposes.

Between the years 1900 and 1904 there was a decrease in juvenile delinquency for the whole city of twenty-nine per cent. Within the one-quarter mile radii of efficiency of the seven playgrounds established within this period there was a decrease of only nine per cent. Taking the one-half mile radii the decrease was only eight per cent. Apparently there was twenty per cent less decrease near the playgrounds than throughout the city. But it is unfair to draw conclusions as to the relation of the playgrounds to delinquency from a comparison of the year 1899-1900 with the year 1903-4, for the practices of the court changed so much during the first years of this period, as to account for this unfavorable showing in the playground neighborhoods. To draw fair conclusions it would be necessary to compare a plot of the delinquency cases for the year following this change of court practice, w hich wras the year immediately preceding the introduction of playgrounds, with, the year 1903-4. But the maps as prepared did not make this possible. It is estimated that if a comparison between the years 1900-1901 and 1903-4 could have been made for the whole city and for the playgrounds, the decrease in each case would have been about nine per cent. This would indicate that these playgrounds have had at least no appreciable immediate effect upon the juvenile delinquency within their possible radii of efficiency.

Digitized by uooq le
Let us now consider the playgrounds which enter into the situation in the period from 1900 to 1907. The city as a whole showed a decrease of eighteen per cent between these two years. The playgrounds show a decrease of twenty-four per cent when their radius of efficiency is taken as a quarter of a mile, but where the radius is taken as half a mile, they show an increase of delinquency in these areas of ten per cent over against the general decrease in the city of eighteen per cent, evidently the playgrounds’ efficiency is less than one-half mile.

Now as to the relation of these playgrounds to successful cases. Recall that the city as a whole shows thirty-nine per cent of the coses to be successful. JWithin the one-quarter mile radii of these playgrounds only twenty-nine per cent of the cases are successful and within the half mile radii only thirty-two per cent.

What conclusion as to the relation of this small type of playground to juvenile delinquency can he drawn? With one exception the statistics show that these playgrounds have had no apparent effect either in reducing juvenile delinquency or in contributing to the successful care of the delinquent. This is not surprising in view of their equipment, and the fact that they attract largely younger hoys than those who come into the juvenile court. Yet it might be expected that in the long run the children having in their younger years the opportunity of these playgrounds would have greater chance to develop without becoming juvenile delinquents. This is borne out by the fact that when we take into consideration the long period from 1900 to 1907 and the smaller area in which these playgrounds are possibly effective, it appears that juvenile delinquency has decreased twenty-four per cent, while delinquency for the whole city has decreased only eighteen per cent. This seems to be the one point in which there is a relation between the small playgrpunds and the decrease of delinquency.

RECREATION CENTERS.

The small parks of Chicago’s south side are of especial interest in this discussion, both because they have become such objects of general knowledge and interest, and because they were projected into the juvenile delinquency problem at a time when juvenile delinquency had been under careful observation for several years, and the methods of treatment had become fairly fixed and uniform. In other words, in so far as these small park? entered as the only variant into situations where conditions were practically stable, any great variation in the juvenile delinquency could be more closely connected with the establishment of the small parks. One drawback in studying this connection, is that the majority of these small parks were established in neighborhoods where the population has changed and increased greatly since the opening of these centers and the court has given additional attention. This is not true for all these small park neighborhoods, however. Another difficulty is that it is hard to determine over how large an area these small parks can be expected to exert an influence. The South park authorities are working upon an exact radius of efficiency, upon the completion of which further figures as to the relation of these parks to delinquency

Digitized by LjOOQie
-272-

will have to be compiled. These officials agree, however, that if these parks have any influence at all, it must be shown by taking a one-half mile radius of efficiency.

Before considering the comparatively small neighborhoods within such a radius, there are interesting figures for a much larger area. For the first five years of the juvenile court, the South Side furnished a practically uniform percentage of all the juvenile delinquents in the city. At the same time and for the succeeding three years of the court, the population of the South Side maintained a constant proportion to that of the whole city, and was given a constantly proportionate amount of attention by the juvenile court and its officers. It is then most significant that while in the first year of the court and still in the fifth^ year, the South Side furnished approximately forty per cent of all the delinquents in the city, two years after the opening of the small parks and at the end of the eighth year of the court's work, the South Side furnished only thirty-four per cent of the city's juvenile offenders. To put it in another way:	After	the	small parks had been operating for

two years the South ^ide alone showed a decrease in delinquency of seventeen per cent relative to the delinquency of the whole city, while the rest of the city had increased its delinquency twelve per cent, showing in favor of the South Side a difference of twenty-nme per cent, upon the supposition that without the small parks the South Side would have continued to furnish its due quota of court wards as compared with the rest of the city.

But to consider somewhat more restricted areas and ask where this decrease occurred. The South Side 'is divided into eleven probation districts over ’each of which a probation officer is placed. Within reach of the children of each of four districts, numbers two and one-half, six, eight, nine, at least two small parks have been established and these districts may be said now to have somewhere nearly adequate play facilities. District nine has a rapidly increasing population in a part of it farthest away from the small parks, yet this district shows a decrease in delinquency of twenty-eight per cent during the period when the delinquency for the whole city increased eleven per cent. Districts six and eight may be taken together as a common neighborhood into which three small parks have been projected; here, too, the population has been, rapidly increasing and yet, for the period under consideration, these districts show a decrease of thirty-three and one-third per cent. District two and one-half may be said to be one in which conditions have remained the most nearly uniform and shows a decrease in delinquency of seventy per cent. All of these districts lie around the stock yards, a part of Chicago supposed to be the hardest to improve, but the part of Chicago and of the South Side which has been most adequately supplied with play facilities. Taken as a whole, it shows a decrease of forty-four per cent during the period in which the small parks have been opened, and the delinquency for the whole city increased eleven per cent.

As suggested above, only three of these small parks are located so

Digitized by LjOOQle
-273-

tliat the area within a one-half mile radius can be said to furnish such continuously uniform conditions that it is fair to estimate the effect of these paries upon juvenile delinquency. Taking these three areas together they show a decrease of twenty-eight and one-half per cent. It is interesting to note that two of these areas overlap very largely three of the playground areas, the effect of which upon juvenile delinquency between the years 1904 and 1907, it has been said, CQuld not be measured because of such overlapping. Giving these playgrounds a one-quarter mile radius of efficiency, they show in this alliance with the small parks a decrease of fifty^ per cent from the year 1900 to 1907, and given a cue-half mile radius, a decrease of thirty-nine per cent.

To turn now to the relation of these small parks to the successful care of wards by the court. We can here consider the eleven small parks within a one-half mile radius of which the maps show cases of juvenile delinquency to have occurred. These areas show a proportion of successful cases varying from thirty-three per cent to one hundred per cent. For the areas taken together, the proportion of successful cases is forty-six per cent as compared with thirty-nine per cent, the proportion or the whole city, a showing of seven per cent in favor of the districts within one-half mile of the small parks. The South ^ide, taken as a whole, does not have any advantage over the rest of the city in its percentage of successful cases. It holds its own.

To sum up the case for the small parks, the playgrounds and the large parks as well:	A	small	park neighborhood recreation center such

as those on the South Side of Chicago, can be expected to be co-incident with a twenty-eight and one-half per cent decrease of delinqmncy within a radius of one-half mile, conditions of the neighborhood in other respects remaining stable. To provide a probation district with adequate play facilities is co-incident with a reduction in delinquency of from twenty-eight per cent to seventy per cent, or forty-four per cent as an average. In addition, over a much larger area the small parks have a tendency to decrease delinquency seventeen per cent. Remembering that the small park areas made only a seven per cent better showing in the matter of successful cases thaii the rest of the city, it may be said that the small parks have been a greater factor in the prevention than in the reformation of the juvenile delinquent. For the small playgrounds, the only indication of a helpful influence is the fact that in the long run and in the neighborhood very close to the playground, children seem to be so developed that a decrease of delinquency results; a decrease of twenty-four per cent for such neighborhoods as compared with eighteen per cent for the whole eitv. There was no way of measuring the effect of the large parks upon the decrease of delinquency. They did show’ a helpful influence in the successful treatment of delinquents, there being forty-six per cent of successful cases wdthin a radius of one mile. This is the same favorable showing of seven per cent as made by the small parks in a half mile radius. TTpon these figures is rested the case for the thesis that the presence of parks and playgrounds in a neighborhood is co-incident writh a decrease of cases of juvenile delinquency and with an increase in the proportion of cases successfully cared for by the court.

Digitized by L^OOQie
-274-

Last spring I was walking through a neighborhood one and one-half miles from any playground. It was Saturday afternoon and the big boys home from work were playing ball and so had driven the youngsters from the only vacant lot left for pla\ space in the district. The “kids” had betaken themselves to the street and one of them in his sport had his back to an approaching team. The driver, thinking his confines also had been trespassed upon, warned the boy and punished him at the same time by a cut from the lash of a long whip. The lad’s cry of rage and resentment told of a very conscious sense of wrong an3 disinheritance which would be discharged with the energy imprisoned by the loss of play opportunity. It was not hard to imagine that this combination would take slight account of whether its expression transgressed the law. It wras typical of the situations from which juvenile delinquency results so far as caused by lack of playgrounds. Again on the twenty-seventh of last May I stood in the juvenile court of Manhattan and saw a boy arraigned for the enormity of making use of the public streets for a game of “cat,” consisting of seeing howr far he could knock a small stick pointed at both ends. For this offense the judge charged the boy with being as dangerous to society as are tigers and lions at large and warned him that for a repetition he wrould receive the same treatment as these beasts. I submit that these two boys were more sinned against than sinning and that they are typical of the juvenile delinquents wdiose wants have been adequately met, either by prevention or reformation through the establishment of suitable playgrounds and we all prefer this kind of treatment rather than that for tigers and lions.

But there are citizens wdm will think of the cost of the small park, $220,000 to establish and $29,000 a year to maintain. The cost is $1.70 for establishment and twenty-three cents a year for maintenance to the property holder of $10,000. Ten times these amounts have been spent f6r the South Side of Chicago. And this thoughtful citizen may add that the South Side’s twenty-nine percent favorable showing represents only about 100 bad boys saved. As a problem in “efficient democracy,” I suggest that such patriots of the exchequer be referred to the cost to the public treasury of handling each case of juvenile delinquency. I hoped to be able to make such a comparison for Chicago, but the accounts of the county wrere not so kept as to make this practicable within the available time. I do not presume, however, that the cost of caring for delinquents would equal that of preventing them through the establishment of small parks The approach of the former to the latter expense might be some solace to those wTho must make money the first consideration.

There is another point of viewr which maintains that no matter how great the cost, the value of the saved boy is inestimably beyond it. This point of view is suggested by the Master of practical life, who knew full well the value of money, even of the widow’s mite. For what shall it profit a city if it gain the whole wrorld and lose the souls of its children?	“Charities.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
-275-

Team Game Tournament in the Playgrounds of Baltimore.

By W. E. Meanwell, Supervisor E’ublic Athletic League ol' Baltimore.

The Team Game Tournament which the Public Athletic League of Baltimore conducted during the months of August and September, has aroused such intense interest among great numbers of boys attending the playground fields and out-door gymnasia that it may be of interest to review the methods employed so successfully:—

PARKS—The League has conducted since May 1st, activities of a physical nature in seven city parks, six of which were open throughout the day from 9 A. M. to 10 P. M., and in each of these parks two physical directors were employed.

DISTRICTS—These stations were divided for convenience into two districts, namely, the Eastern which comprised Clifton, Latrobe and Patterson Parks, and the Western District including Carroll Park, Public Athletic Field and West Park.

EVENTS—The events for competition were all Team Games, being Long Ball, Volley Ball, Playground Ball, Dodge Ball and Relay Races.

CLASSES—Contestants were classed as Seniors if they were over 16 years of age on May 1st and as Juniors if under that age at that time. Juniors were still further subdivided according to their weight, into an “80 lb. and under”, an “95 and under” and an “Unlimited Weight Class”. This gave a total of four classes which with their respective events were:—

80 lb Class

Long: Bell Volley Ball Dodge Ball Relav Races

95 lb Class

Playground Ball Volley Ball Dodge Ball Relay Races

Jr. Unlimited.

Playground Bill Volley Ball Dodge Ball R^lnv Race*

Seniors.

Playground Ball Volley Ball Dodge Ball RHnv Races

ELIGIBILITY—-Membership on the teams was open to all boys who had registered with the League on or before August fitli. This rule was adopted with the view of keeping out “Ringers” as the Tournament progressed.

SCHEDULES—A schedule Was adopted for each district, the arrangement being such that the representative teams of a Park visited the other two members of its district, once each, and plaved on its visit a series of four games in each of the four classes or Id games in all. Thus a total of four contests were played bv a park, two at home and two away.

DISTRICT CHAMPIONSHIPS—These preliminary games determined the championship team for a particular event in each district.

CITY CHAMPIONSHIPS—On September the 4th. the final games were held and on this day the Championship teams from each district in a particular event, met and played off to determine the championship of the League.

TROPHIES—To the Winning Teams, pennants significant of the championship were awarded. To the members comprising the Long,

Digitized by v^ooQle
the Playground and the Volley Ball Teams, P. A. L. die medals were given. Those on the Dodge and the Relay Teams received celluloid buttons. This latter plan was adopted as a matter of economy, these teams being each eligible to play twenty men.

TEAMS—Twelve men including substitutes comprised a team in Long Ball or in Playground Ball. Eight men formed a Volley Ball Team. The Dodge Ball and the Relay Teams of each class were formed by the union of the two major teams i. e. the combined Long and Volley Ball Teams formed the Dodge and Relay Teams in the 80 lb. Class. In the other classes the Playground Ball and Volley Ball Teams com-bined. No one could play on both a Playground and Volley or Long and Volley Ball Team. An entirely new group of boys could be entered in the Dodge and Relays at the discretion of the Director.

SCORING—Points were awarded to winners in each game as follows—20 points each for Long Ball, 20 points each for Playground Ball and 20 points for Volley Ball. 10 points each for the Dodge Ball and the Relays.

CONDUCT—In addition to those earned- in the games, 10 points were added to the total score of a park after each day play, if the conduct of its representatives had been satisfactory as determined by the supervisor. Home teams were held responsible for the conduct of the spectators.

FORFEITS—Ten points were deducted from its total score for each game a park lost by forfeit. At least 50 per cent, of the players on ft team had to be present to play or to claim a forfeit.

DOUBLE SCORES—The points for each game and also for conduct were doubled on the final day. These with the points won during the preliminary games were credited towards the All Round Championship, all the activities promoted during the summer such as the Badge Test, the Track and Field Meet etc., being rated proportionately.

ADVERSE CONDITIONS—Our parks are situated in widely separated sections of the city. It was possible for but two groups to reach each other on foot thus necessitating an expenditure for carfare that proved to be one of the greatest handicaps. The League endeavored to bear in part the expense the boys themselves standing half.

LOST TIME—On an average 45 minutes was required by the visiting teams to reach their destination, and in some cases more. This meant with the very full program a late supper frequently, though very little time was lost after the games began, the entire program being completed repeatedly in two hours and fifteen minutes, two hours being the record time.

WEATHER—During the entire tourney the heat was very great and facilities for protection from the sun were inadequate.

NEW GAMES—The games were practically unknown m the playground fields prior to this season. Dodge and Playground Ball had been played in but two parks, while the Volley Ball game was new. The directors themselves in several instances failed to appreciate the Volley

Digitized by v^ooQle
Ball Game properly, though it finally won for itself a deserved popularity.	i

As opposed to these retarding circumstances may be mentioned:— DIRECTORS—The League is fortunate in having in its employ a corps of professional directors of physical training, and to these men much credit is due for the efficient service rendered.

PRESS—The City Press aided us very materially in keeping the doings of the various teams constantly before the public.

TROPHIES—Though this feature was given no undue prominence, yet the generous provision made in this connection had much to do with the stimulation of competition.

EVENTS AND METHODS—Above all, the selection of games, team games, full of action and interest, as the events for competition assured the success of the tourney and rendered it an easy matter to secure the enthusiastic participation of 751 different boys in these contests. It has been my privilege to have seen in different years especial emphasis laid in the order given, on gymnastics, athletics and games in the outdoor gymnasia and playground fields of this city, and as a result I hold that while the promotion of all forms of physical training is desirable, yet there can be no question of the superiority over all other forms of Playground activities, of games as factors in the education of the child morally and ethically as well as physically.

Report upon the Summer Playgrounds

Conducted by the Board of Public Education, Philadelphia, Pa., during the

Summer of 1009.

Si*ty playgrounds were opened on July 1st. On account of insufficient attendance, two of these were closed during August.

In all grounds, a record was kept of the number of children attending mornings, as well as afternoons. During previous years, it has been customary to add the morning and the afternoon attendance and report -this sum as the total number of children who visited the playgrounds. Figured in this manner, the total number of visits to the playgrounds of the Board was 950,051.

In most cases* however, the same children visit the playgrounds both morning and afternoon. The total secured in the above manner ought not, therefore, be taken in arriving at the cost per child for the playground season. This has, this year, been secured by adding 20 per cent, to the greatest number visiting each playground in either the morning or the afternoon session. In this report, the cost per child has been figured on this basis, i. e. during 52 days on a grand total of 617,-248 children.

For the first time, this year we took a regular census report of all children who visited the playgrounds. This report gives us the name, age, and sex of the child, its nationality, grade in school and how far it lives from the playground, if it is a regular attendant and lastly, if it has charge of any smaller children.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—278—

On these census sheets, we have the names of 45,325 children, 21,725 boys and 23,599 girls. 35,147 of these, i. e. 80 per cent., were regular attendants, the balance attending irregularly.

The average daily attendance in all pb^grounds was 11,870 children, who during the two months made a grand total of 950,051 visits to the grounds.

The cost for salaries was $19,810.35 and for supplies $5,600.00, making a total cost of $25,410.35.

The cost per child per day of 9 hours was 4 1-9 cents, and the cost per child for the whole season, July and August, was $2.14.

The total attendance in the largest playground (Waterview) was 26,723, with an average daily attendance of 514 children, while the smallest playground (Keystone) had a total of 2,967, with a daily average of 56 children.

Looking up the radius of efficiency of school playgrounds, we find that 11 per cent, of children live within V2 square of the ground;

31 per cent. Cv.me 1 square;	24	per	cent,	come	2	squares	;

<<	it	ii	3	**	q	*«	li	«»	4.	«<

5	“	“	5	“	2	“	“	“	6

2	“	“	11	7	“	1	“	41	“	8	“	anH	over.

Th:s shows that, so far as our school playgrounds are concerned, the great mass of children, 66 per cent., do not come from a greater distance then 2 squares, and that 90 per cent, live within 4 squares of the playgrounds.

Coming now to the ages of visitors, we find that 15 per cent, are under 3 years of age,

3 per cent, are 3 years ;	3	per	cent,	are	4	years	;

5 “ “	“ 5	
8 “ “	“ 7	“
10 “ “	“ 9	
9 “	“11	“
f> “	“ 13	<1

7 “ “	“ 6	
q << n	“ 8	“
10 “ “	“ 10	“
9 “	“ 12	• i
4 “ “	“ 14	<{

while 2 per cent, are over 14 years. These figures show that 33 per cent, of the children in our playgrounds are six years or under; that 98 per cent, are 14 years and under, while only 2 per cent, are over 14 years of age. Inquiring into the effect (beside a large daily attendance) which a large and well equipped playground, has, we find the following: Water-view park, about 5 acres in extent, takes the place of a number of neighboring schoolyards. Besides a full play equipment it has one large and two small baseball diamonds, two tennis courts, a swimming bath and a small garden. Our report shows that on an average but one per cent, of frequenters come 8 squares or over. Waterview has 19 per cent, coming 8 squares or over. And again, while in the schoolyards only 2 per cent, of the visitors are over 14 years in Waterview 17 per cent. i. e. nearly 1-6 of its visitors are over i4 years of age. This indicates clearly that a larger yard or field allowing the playing of highly organized games, and having bathing facilities brings a much greater per cent, of older children.

When we come to the question of nationality, we find that 28,753 (of whom 1652 were Negroes)are reported as Americans. This is 63 per

Digitized by L^ooQie
-279-

cent, of the total. Next we have 4.244 children, about 1 per cent., classed as Hebrews, although no nationality is given. Then come 3,289 Russians, 2,545 Italians, 2,440 Germans, 2,454 Irish, 527 English, 411 Poles, and so on through 28 nationalities, down to 2 Chinese, 1 Greek and 1 Cuban.

These are interesting figures, but it would not be correct to assume that the proportions would be the same were the Board to establish more playgrounds in other parts of the city.

The census brings forward another interesting fact, and that is that 12,063 very young children are often brought into the playgrounds by older two sisters and brothers, where they are kept while the mothers are working to support the family.

Reporting on the work as a whole, I can say that through the greater stability given to the playgrounds by appointing a principal, who had full control of each ground, much of the friction of former years has disappeared and the results, therefore, have been more gratifying.

Respectfullv,

W. A. STECHER,

Director Physical Education.

WAND DRILL

Edith Scot Paschali., Willimatitic, Conn.

Use “Golden Sunset” waltz. Class in circle facing out; even number in class required for 5th exercise. Class march to places in circle. Lower wands for work and face out on last 2 counts of march music.

I.	Raise both arms forward, shoulder high ; place left foot forward

(touching tip toe only)—1.

Raise both arms upward, place left foot backward —2.

Lower both arms to shoulder height in front, place 1. foot forw.—3. Lower both arms, replace foot—4. Use alternate feet;

Do exercise for 28 measures.

(Use last 4 measures making 32 in all to change wands so that wands will be between members of class,—held by left hand of one and right hand of neighbor on the left.)

To change wands.

Raise arms shoulder high in front—1.

Let go right end of wand permitting it to swing down and to the left-2.

Neighbor on the left grasp free end of wand in right hand—3. Lower arms—4.

(1st exercise and wand changing uses 32 measures.)

II.	Raise arms forward, place left foot forward—1.

Bend arms, hands at arm pit, bend knee forward upward—2. Straighten arms and knee—3. Lower arms, replace foot—4.

Digitized by LjOOQ le
-280-

Use alternate feet. Do exercise for 28 measures. Change wands in 4 measures.

To change wands.

Raise arms forward—1. Let go of wand with left hand—2.

Swing wand held by right, in front graping with left—3.

Lower arms—4.

(In changing wands in this way the wand progresses from r. to 1.)

III.	Raise arms forward, place left foot forward—1.

Carry arms to left, bending right elbow shoulder high, step to left leaving right foot touching tip toe on floor—2.

Carry arms forward, place right foot forward—3.

Lower arms and replace foot—4.

(Use 32 measures circle moving thus 8 steps to left in circular direction. Take same exercise to right for 28 measures. Change wands in 4 measures. Exercise III and change of wand requires 64 measures.)

IV.	Place left foot backward—1. Kneel on left knee—2.

Kneel on right knee—3. Bend arms hands at arm pits—4.

Bend forward down ward—1-2. Straighten forward upward—3—4.

Bend backward—1-2. Straighten upward—3—4.

Do bending forward 7 times, alternating with bending backward which may be done 6 times.

Place left food forward—1. Place right foot forward and stand—2

Straighten arms forward—3. Lower arms—4.

Change wands—4 measures.

Kneeling, bending forward and backward, standing and changing wands use 64 measures.

Y. Even numbered children raise arms left—1. Bend trunk right—2.

Straighten trunk—3. Lower arms—4.

Odd numbered children do the exercise in opposite directions.

Use 32 measures.

Even numbered children do exercise which odd numbered ones have just done, and odd numbered children do exercise which even numbered one did.

Use 32 measures, change to under grasp on last count.

VI. Raise both arms forward and place left foot forward—1.

Wind wand obliquely left upward with left hand and place left foot in toward center of circle turning whole body to left, looking up to end of wand—2.

Unwind and return facing out—3. Lower arms and replace foot-4.

Use 32 measures.

Change to right side.

Use 28 measures, use 4 measures to hold posture. 64 measures in all.

This drill is very effective with alternate wands wound with red and white, used by class in dark suits.

Classes above the 6th grade execute all parts of drill admirably.

Digitized by CjOOQie
-281-

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—E. PAPELLIER, Bathing and Hygienic Customs of the Japanese. Ifuench. Med. Wochenschrift, 1909, No. 19.

“Every Japanese bathes at least every other day. Those who do not bathe every day are compelled to allow a day to intervene on account of pecuniary circumstances. The temperature of their bath is from 48-46° C. Japan has many hot springs where baths are taken up to a temperature of 53° C. While these baths are customarily used and have become elementary institutions, they are never used for therapeutic purposes. The bather pours the hot water over his body before he enters the bath proper and then remains seated in it for 20 minutes, when he leaves, drying and rubbing the skin with a cotton cloth. The water is now heated to a higher temperature and the bather reenters leaving the water quickly to again dry the skin. They do not rinse the body with cold water before drying themselves. Every small village has a public bath. The price paid for the bath in these is 1 cent. There are about 200 natural hot springs in Japan, most of them sulphothermal. The one at Kusatsu is the mbst widely known and is especially indicated in cases of rheumatism and allied afflictions. The water of this spring contains principally large amounts of sulphuric acid, alum, iron and arsenic. The temperature of the water is 71° C. For bathing purposes the temperature of the water is lowered to 45-53° C.

(J. Marcuse in Monatschr. f .d. physikal. u. diaetetischen Heilmethoden.)

“THERE has been a growing tendency in this country for some time to study the effects of the mind on the body, rather than the body on the mind.

I have a very strong belief that the pendulum is slowly but surely swinging the other way, and that the next decade will show a very healthy reaction against this mental movement.

We will, as a race, consider more the problems of prevention among our growing children and undeveloped members of our communities, rather than accept certain conditions as inevitable and seek only a visionary and intangible cure.

The increased interest public and private schools are taking in physical training, the wide influence of the Y. M. C. A. establishing well equipped gymnasia, etc., throughout the world, and the results of certain teachers along these lines are all having their effect in making the public realize that another important field of medicine has forced itself into prominence and must be considered in the betterment of existing conditions.

Like mind healing, physical training has suffered through the ignorance and charlatanry of its exponents and crude teachers. We

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-282-

have just as much need to-day for the scientific study of physical methods as we have of mental methods. The scientific, well educated man, in order to develop properly the benefits in each, must replace the rough trainer or weight lifter.”

Dr. Clement A. Penrose in the Dietetic and Hyg. Gaz.

—“Education is a complete failure which hinders the complete physical unfolding of the child, and especially of the child which is mentally sensitive, and any methods that not only hinder physical unfolding but upsets any of the physical processes, is more than a failure,*”

Editor, Dietetic and Hyg. Gaz.

—AN ESCAPED LUNATIC. Edward Payson Weston has seen his three score and ten drift pleasantly and gracefully enough into the Ewigkeit. Most men with such a past to their credit would be content to put their feet into easy slippers, to enjoy the well-earned comfort of a generously proportional armchair, and to view life, as portrayed in the newspapers, through presbyopic spectacles. Otium cum dignitate at three score and ten, but not for Weston. He is instead now doing a little stunt in the way of a walk from the East to San Francisco. In pursuance of this recreation he recently came by night to the sleepy little town of Brooklyn—no, this was in Missouri. Here his appearance eo mystified a zealous negro policeman that the latter “gathered him in,” despite the veteran pedestrian’s explanations and rather pepperly protests. “How do I know,” declared the Ethiopian in blue, “that you are not an escaped lunatic?”

Yet the attitude of this amazingly busy functionary was not unusual. Many a ruralite looks in much the same light upon the man walking through the country for recreation. Yet there is no saner exercise than walking—none withal cheaper and more fraught with wholesome enjoyment. To leave town but for a day or a Saturday afternoon to do a week’s end turn of ten miles, is to lay in a stock of health that will make the brain clear, the digestion good, the temper superb for the six other days. And a two weeks’ jaunt—such as they are prone to in England—will change the aspect of the cosmos for many a man. It is an old fashioned habit, this of walking; Blaikie, Hazlitt, Johnson—what great store such men as these laid by it. How their minds were thus clarified; how splendidly they Avrote thereafter. “Give me,” rhapsodized Hazlitt, “the clear blue skv over my head, and the green turf beneath my feet, a winding road before me, and a three hours* march; and then to thinking.” Whereat Stephenson: “and he must have a winding road, the epicure.” Poor consumptive Robert Louis, who could enjoy such things only in fancy.

Lee the enthusiast organize a walking club—all congenial spirits; no treating; everybody responsible for his own expenditures; no dues; no initiation fee; no treasury; no minutes (as in the famous X-culb of Spencer and Darwin); nothing bothersome. No paraphernalia is required for walking trips—nothing but a stick and a normal pair of legs.

Digitized

i by Google
-2*3-

Let no “records” be attempted. If the inexperienced man goes for a fortnight’s trip he should cover but five miles the first day and not a step more; ten the next, fifteen the third and fourth; at the end of a week he will not tire if he walk from sunrise to sundown. The muscles must first be got accustomed to the exercise. If one goes for but a day a dozen miles may be covered; after this a warm bath followed by a cold sponge; and then one may snap his fingers in the face of fate.

Diet, and Hyg. Gaz.

—EDUCATION ANCIENT AND MODERN. It would seem that the Athenian management of children was essentially that which our foremost workers in the development of the child are to-day advocating. At seven the Athenian lad entered the palestra, which was practically a playground. All the first and better half of the day was spent in gymnastics, dancing, games and play. In the afternoon there was singing, some writing, some reading—all in the open air; and then came a long period of play again. Such was the schooling of the Greek boy up to the tenth or eleventh year; and it did not differ essentially thence to the age of sixteen, except in the severity of the exercises. And yet the world has ever marvelled at the results of Greek education. It produced the superbest type of man, physically and intellectually, that has ever been known. Galton believed this type to be as far in advance of the modem Englishman as the latter is in advance of the native African. In physical beauty, courage and patriotism, in philosophy', literature, architecture and art, the Greeks have been the unexcelled models of the ages; and to-day they remain the inspiration of our schools.

In our schools to-day much the same spirit is manifest. It is aimed to cultivate first health, strength and energy (we are conforming to the scheme of La Fetra). And to this end physical examinations are made; for the elimination of adenoids and hypertrophied tonsils; for the correction of errors of refraction, of defective teeth, of malnutrition, of pulmonary, or lymphatic or cardiac affections, of orthopedic lesions.

There should then come the development of honesty, courage and patriotism; and then the ability to speak, read and write one's own language, together with a knowledge of arithmetic. Upon such foundation all else may be built.

The school-room is made the most important part of any school, whether public, private or boarding. Well lighted it should be, with abundant air-space for each pupil; the ventilation ample; a gymnasium, a good shower bath, if possible a swimming tank, a large playground; the sleeping rooms sunlit throughout the day. There should be individual lockers, so that parasitic diseases and possible infections may not he communicated by the clothing. La Fetra would have the ideal location for a school building “on some commanding knoll, with a grove at one side, and sufficient ground for games and athletics.” Thus woul^ also the aesthetic instinct and love of the beautiful in

Digitized by L^ooQie
-284-

nature be fostered. City schools should, if possible, face a park or a small plot of ground; their roofs should be arranged for playgrounds. €<Many of the problems in moral and intellectual training must be referred for their solution to the playground."

Thus, as among the ancients, we are now aiming for the development, during childhood and youth, of sound physiques; sound minds are pretty sure to develop thereupon as a matter of course. We are realizing more than ever Huxley's ideal:	That	man,	I	think, has a

liberal education, whose body has been so trained in youth that it is the ready seryant of his will, and does with ease and pleasure all that as a mechanism it is capable of; whose intellect is a clear, cold, logic engine, with all its parts of equal strength and in smooth running order, ready, like a steam engine, to be turned to any kind of work and to spin the gossamers as well as to forge the anchors of the mind; whose mind is stored with the knowledge of the great fundamental truths of nature and the laws of her operation; one who, no stunted ascetic, is full of life and fire, but whose passions have been trained to come to heel by a vigorous will, the servant of a tender conscience; one who has learned to love all beauty, whether of nature or art, to hate all vileness, and to esteem others as himself.

Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette.

—IN AN ORIGINAL ARTICLE in the “Monatsschrift fuer die Physiaiisch-diaetetischen Heilmethoden" Dr. A. Strasser, Wien, calls attention to a new form of applying massage for occupation neuroses and similar afflictions by the simultaneous application of the cold, warm or hot water douche and massage. The attendant applying the shower-douche while the patients hand or forearm is being massaged.

The water should be used at 50° C. in most cases. The massage lasts from 5-12 minutes, after which the part treated is wrapped in flan-nell and given absolute rest for half an hour.

This form of applying massage, termed by Strasser douche-massage, has given good results in cases of writer's cramp, piano-player's cramp, seemstresses' cramp and cigarmaker's neuritis.

— DR. WOLLENBERG, in the “Zeitschrift f. aerztliche Fortbil-dung 1909, No. 2", makes the following statements regarding lateral curvature of the spine:	“An early diagnosis is best, but prevention is

still better. An early diagnosis is made easy by observing the “habitual" posture of the child and attention must be paid to the following points:

1.	The relative position of the trunk to the pelvis. 2. The position of the neck and head. 3. The position of the shoulderblades. 4. The relative position of corresponding parts of the trunk. 5. The direction of the line of the spinous processes.

He advises the use of the dermatograph to mark off the various points of the bones, in order to secure a general idea of the assymmetry. The family physician and the schooldoctor should be on the alert for early cases and never use the maxim of olden times, “the child will outgrow that".

Digitized by C * 3gle
—28o—

The treatment in general is: good nourishment, breathing exercises in pure air, proper exercise with the required amount of rest, correct desk, correct posture at manual or handwork, correct clothing, etc. When the scoliosis is established he applies massage and prescribes gymnastics with or without apparatus; also crawling practiced as an exercise, as Klapp has recommended.

Exercising must not be continued until tiredness sets in, for a muscle contracted until it gets tired will weaken.

(From “Monatsschrift f. d. Physik.-diaetetischen Heilmethoden”,)

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

—Charles Daniels, the world’s greatest swimmer, recently lowered his own record for the mile swim by clipping 22 1-5 seconds from the former record. His time was 26 minutes 19 3-5 seconds.

—Robert Gardner, age 18, captain and crack pole vaulter of the Yale freshmen track team, recently defeated H. Chandler Egan, twice holder of the national amateur golf championship, by 4 up and 2 to play in the final round for the title in the tournament at Wheaton, 111.

—Boston leads the country in its equipment of municipal baths and gymnasiums. It is expected that before the end of October there will be five new gyms, with baths attached, nearing completion. Boston will then have:

6 All-the-year-round baths—baths open on every day in the year except Christmas; 10 Gymnasiums and baths; 2 Indoor Swimming pools; 1 Outdoor Swimming pool; 7 Beach baths; 3 Floating baths.

Thus far Boston holds the following municipal records:

The first city in the country to establish a free indoor gymnasium.

The first city in the country to establish a free outdoor gymnasium.

The first city in the country to establish a free outdoor bathing beach.

The second city in the country to establish a free swimming pool.

The first city in the United States to establish free indoor baths independent of swimming pools.

The supervision of the public baths and gyms entails a great deal of care and intelligence which is performed by a board of trustees who serve the city without pay.

—Foreign athletes are beginning to make things lively for the natives. Hardly has the season for the Marathon Runs closed when here comes another son of Sunny Italy and after becoming acclimated starts in with smashing records that have stood on the books for years. This spinter, Emilio Lunghi of Genoa, smashed C. H. Kilpatrick’s world’s Tecord of 1.53 2-5 for the half mile by 3-5 seconds. The old mark had stood on the books since the Kew York A. C.—London A. C. dual meet in 1895.

Digitized by Google
-286-

—Following is the record of another Gymnast who has participated at many gymnastic contests with glory:

Philip Kassel of the Philadelphia Turngemeinde.

1897. 27th National Gymnastic Festival at St. Louis.

1900. 28th	“	“	“	at Philadelphia.	/

1903.	10th German Gymnastic Festival at Nuernberg, Germany. 35th prize in

Sextuple contest; 44th prize in Triple contest.

1904.	Olympic Games at St. Louis. 11th prize in Individual and Team contest.

1905.	29th National Gymnastic Meet at Indianapolis. 15th prize in Individual

contest; also took part in the Team contest.

1908.	llth German Gvmnastic Meet at Frankfurt, Germany. Prize in Sextuple

contest; 50th prize in Quintuple contest.

1909.	30th National Gymnastic Meet at Cincinnati. 18th prize in Individual

contest; also took part in the Team contest.

Besides these National Meets Kassel has also taken part in the following :

1898.	18th District Gymnastic Meet at Philadelphia. 1st prize, 2nd Group.

1899.	3rd Gymnastic Meet, Holyoke, Mass. 9th prize, 3rd Group.

1902. Gymnastic Meet at Munich, Germany. 3rd prize, 2nd Group.

1902. Gymnastic Meet at Munich, Germany. 18th prize in Triple contest.

1904. 20th District Gymnastic Meet at Philadelphia. 1st prize, 3rd Group.

1907. 20th District Gymnastic Meet at Brooklyn, N. Y. 5th prize.

Mr. Kassel is 34 years of age and has been a member of the NorER American Gymnastic Union for many years. He claims he feels young enough to take part in Gymnastic Meets for many years to come.

BOOK REVIEW.

—REPRODUCTION AND SEXUAL HYGIENE by Dr. Winfield

S.	Hall, eighth Edition by Wynnewood Publishing Co., Chicago. 149 pages, 5x7% inches. Price, postpaid, $1.00.

The fact that this little booklet has reached its eighth edition in not quite three years is proof of the demand existing for a book giving brief but accurate information on the subject of Reproduction and also on the Hygiene of the reproductive organs. While our own experiences and those of others do not in all instances boar out the conclusions arrived at, the fact that Dr. Hall received both his Ph. D. as well as his

M.	D. in Leipzig is proof that his statements are the results of deep study. The book is warmly recommended not only to all teachers, but to all young men who desire enlightenment and information on subjects which until recently were entirely ignored and where formerly ignorance was believed to be purity. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herolcl Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis*

—FROM YOUTH INTO MANHOOD by Dr. Winfield S. Hall, published 1909 by the Young Men’s Christian Association Press, New York, 106 pages, 4%x7 inches. Price, postpaid, 60 cents.

Digitized by C^ooQie
- 287

In the introduction Dr. George J. Fisher states that this book is the result of the request of a number of men who are working with boys, principally in the Young Men’s Christian Association, and who desired a book that could be placed into the hands of preadolescent boys.

The book, by the same author as the one spoken of above, is warmly recommended to all parents who have boys from eleven to fifteen years of age who are just about to enter the adolescent period. It is written in a popular, easily understood style, and it should do an enormous amount of good in giving to a boy a scientific explanation of the great changes he undergoes in these years. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—MAT EXERCISES, progressively arranged by Elmer Schreiner. Published by Elmer Schreiner, Akron, Ohio. 24 pages, 5%xSy2 inches. Price, 25 cents.

In case a teacher of gymnastics thoroughly understands the free exercises here grouped under the name of exercises upon the mat or tumbling he can make good use of them in his gymnasium. If the cultivation of skill is one of the objects of gymnastic instruction it surely is as profitable to get this skill upon the floor as to get it on the different forms of apparatus. In this pamphlet the simpler as well as the more complicated forms of such exercises have been arranged in a systematic and progressive form making it easy for a teacher to take them up in regular classwork. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—EXERCISE IN EDUCATION AND MEDICINE by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D., published by W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia; 408 pages, 6x9 inches; price, $3.50 net.

The book is a full and detailed treatise on the application of systematized exercise in the development of the normal body and in the correction of certain diseased conditions in which gymnastics have proved of value. Massage is given unusual attention, including clear descriptions of the various lever and pulley and friction machines, the Zander apparatus and vibration. A careful review is given of the German arid Swedish systems, the Japanese method, and the work of Delsarte. A chapter is devoted to the classification of games from a physiologic standpoint with the modifications required for age, sex, and occupation. The evidences of city life and the necessity of playgrounds, with descriptions, plans and photographs of three types are given. Exercises for schools and colleges are fully described and illustrated, as well as the modifications necessary for teaching the blind, deaf mutes, and mental and moral defectives. The second part of the work takes up the appli* cation of exercise to medical and surgical conditions, Postural defects, including flat-foot, round back, and lateral curvature are fully described, and prescriptions of exercises given, with illustrations and case reports. Chapters are devoted to the role of exercise in the causation of diseases

Digitized by L^OOQle
-288—

of the heart and arteries, and in the treatment of heart conditions. There are articles on the treatment of obesity, diabetes, gout, rheumatism, gastritis, constipation, infantile paralysis, occupation neuroses and locomotor ataxia. The illustrations throughout are strikingly practical. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—THE PEOPLE AT PLAY by Rollin Lynde Hartt, published by Houghton, Mifflin Co., Boston. 317 pages, 5%x7% inches; price, postpaid, $1.65.

This is one of the most unique contributions to the field of play or rather recreation that has been offered recently. The author shows up and analyses the amusements of the masses, speaking in succession of the burlesque show, the amusement park, the dime museum, the moving picture show, the melodrama, and lastly the great national game, baseball. Treating of the amusements of the masses in a novel, sympathetic and illuminating manner the book which is embellished by artistic drawings by the author is certain to be not only entertaining but especially helpful to most of us in understanding the recreations of the back street. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee.

—TUBERCULOSIS: A PREVENTABLE AND CURABLE DISEASE by S. Adolphus Knopf, M. D., published by Moffat, Yard & Co., New York. 394 pages, 5%x8 inches. Mailing price, $2.20.

Dr. Knopf has in this book brought together much information that ^s scattered through many books, pamphlets and journals. Written in a clear, easily understood style the book will be of especial value to all laymen who want to acquaint themselves with the results of the most recent researches in all fields relating to the prevention and cure of the disease. To the consumptives themselves and to their relatives the chapters on the cure of the disease will be most encouraging. Its 115 illustrations add much to the value of the book. To be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

JUST PUBLISHED !

Folk-Dances I Singing Games

TWENTYSIX FOLK-DANCES

—OF—

Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Russia, Bohemia, Hungary, Italy, England, Scotland and Ireland

With the Music, Full Directions for Performance, and Numerous Illustrations

Airanged and Edited by

ELIZABETH BURCHENAL

Chairman Folk-Dance Committee of Playground Association of America, Inspector of Girls’ Athletics, Public Schools Athletic League of the City of New York.

PRICE, $1.50 NET.

6. SCHIRMER, 35 Union Square, NEW YORK.

Digitized by L^OOQie