MIND AND BODY

Vol. 18.	APRIL,	1911.	No.	198

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

DR. ROBERT FISCHER, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

AN INQUIRY INTO THE PROBLEM OF DESKS FOR SCHOOL

CHILDREN/

By William A. Stkcher, Director Fhysical Education,

Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

During the month of April of last year my assistants undertook the measurement of a large number of pupils in the public schools of Philadelphia in order to secure definite information based upon which it would be possible to improve one of the school-room conditions that was detrimental to the physical well-being of pupils. I refer to improper seating. Daily observation showed that many pupils were seated in desks either too large or too small for them. Besides, adversely affecting the physical health of the pupils, improper seating directly produces restlessness and inattention, which in turn increase the difficulties of teaching.

An investigation conducted in 1908 showed that there were 13922 pupils; i. e., nine per cent of the total number enrolled in the Philadelphia schools whose desks were* too large for them. An inquiry into the causes of this improper seating showed that there were a number of contributing factors. One of the facts brought out was that there seemed to be no standard, based upon accurate measurements, by which a principal or superintendent, who for instance, wanted to equip a classroom with desks suitable for a 5A class, could order desks and be reasonably certain that the desks would fit the 5A pupils. What was lacking was a table showing the sizes of pupils in every grade, and the percentage of different sized desks needed for each grade.

In the following table No. 1, a schedule is presented showing the different sizes of desks and seats, with the memoranda for the benefit of a principal' who wants to order school furniture. The figures presented are taken from the catalogues of different manufacturers of school furniture. In order not to present too many sizes and measurements the six sizes and numbers used in Philadelphia and in most large cities have been taken. When a manufacturer’s numbers differed (as some begin by numbering the smallest desks No. 1) they were transposed to conform to the Philadelphia usage.____________

• Read as the Annual meeting of the American School Hygiene Association New York, February 2nd, 1911.

Digitized by UooQle
-42-

TABLE NO. i.

School Furniture as listed-in the catalbgues of different manufacturers.

Suited for the	Height	of	seat	Height	of	desk

Desk. Age of Pupils.	following	grades.	in	inches.	in	inches.

No. 6. No. 5. No. 4. No. 3. No. 2. No. 1.

4 to 6 Second Primary Grade, 11 and 11% also Extra Primary.

7 to 9 Fourth Primary Grade, 12% and 12% also Primary.

10 to la Second Intermediate Grade, 13% and 13% also Secondary.

13 to 16 Fourth Intermediate Grade, 14% and 14% also Intermediate.

17 to 20 Second Grammar Grade, 16 and 16l/s also Grammar.

Adults Normal Schools,	17%	and	17%

and High Schools.

20%, 21 and 21% 22%, 22% and 23 24, 24i/2 and 24% 25%, 26 and 26% 27%, 27%, 28% 29%, 29%, 30

It cart readily be seen that a principal looking for desks for his “Five A” pupils would get little definite information from the above table. With a view to furnishing this information ten of my assistants undertook a series of measurements covering grades I to VIII, both A and B grades. When the results of the first measurements were compiled and discussed it was found that while we had the sitting height, or rather, the correct height the seat should have, we could not show accurately what height of desk should go with this. A second measurement was, therefore, taken. Guided by the experience of the first undertaking, the results of the second, more accurate, measurements of five thousand pupils are presented below.

The measurements sought were (1) the length of the leg. This was secured by seating the pupil' upon a flat-top table. A book was then held under the foot of the child and the measurement of the leg was taken from the sole of the foot (i. e. from the top of the book) to the underside of the thigh (i. e. to the top of the table). Then, (2) the height <pf the elbow was measured from the book to the underside of the horizontal forearm, the upper arm being held closely to the side of the body. This gave us the two measurements needed, i. e., the greatest height the seat should have and the lowest height the desk should have for each child measured.

5676 children were measured, 2981 girls and 2697 boys. _ The pupils were from grades iA to 8B inclusive. Every child in each selected school class was measured. The schools selected were in different sections of the city. The number measured in each grade is shown in table No. 2.

TABLE NO. 2.

Showing the number of pupils measured in each grade.

Grade. Boys. Girls.

1A	168	143
IB	187	187
3A	161	176
3B	189	186
5A	179	200
5B	194	222
7A	140	194
7B	108	214

Grade. Boys. Girls.

2A	191	159
2B	165	1744
4A	167	155
4B	191	190
6A	188	228
6B	189	198
8A	132	170
8B	153	18J

Digitized by Google
-43-

Th©- Measurements taken were in inches and eights. In grouping the measurements of these pupils the following procedure was adopted. It was decided that only whole, inches were to be tabulated. In the leg measurements, the fractions were dropped. The reason for this was that a child with a 16^ in. leg measurement could comfortably sit on a sixteen inch seat, but on a seventeen inch seat its feet would be	of an inch from ;

the floor. In case of a fraction in the elbow measurement, the number was raised to the next higher whole number. A child who, for instance, me as- ; ured 25y2 in. could easily raise his arms upward yi in. to a 26 iru desk, but would be forced to bend forward slightly on a 25 in. desk.

The next step in the classification was to use the leg measurement as a basis and to see what the elbow measurements of these pupils were, and in which grades those were who had the same leg measurement.

The following table No. 3 shows the pupils grouped according to the hg measurements, showing their sex and their school grades:—

TABLE NO. 3.

Leg Meas.	Boys.	Girls.	Grades.	Leg Meas.	Boys.	Girls.	Grades.
9 inches	2	3	1A	16 inches	480	560	2B to 8B
10 “	37	21	1A to 2A	17 44	323	431	2B to 8B
11 44	162	142	1A to 4A	18 44	175	232	3B to SB
12 44	248	280	1A to 6A	19 44	61	54	4A to 8B
13 44	365	346	1A to 8A	20 44	21	8	6A to 8B
14 44	370	413	1A to 8B	21 44	3	2	7A to 8B
15 44	450	498	1A to 8B	22 44	0	1	8B

In order to show the great difference in leg and elbow height among the pupils of any one particular grade, the following table No. 4 is submitted showing the conditions in the 5A grades. Other grades show the same great difference.

TABLE NO. 4.

Height  Leg.	in inches. Elbow.	Boys.	Girls.
	19	0	* 1
12	20	1	1
	21	0	0
	22	0	1
	20	21	3
13	21	3	3
	22	2	2
	23	1	2
	19	2	0
	20	3	4
	21	3	8
14	22	14	9
	23	7	12
	24	2	4
	25	1	2
	21	' 2	4
	22	7	9
15	23	14	13
	24	9 .	16
	25	7	5
—f		26	3	3

Height  Leg.	in inches. Elbow.	Boys.	Girls.
	21	0	1
	22	2	2
	23	15	13
16	24	16	15
	25	15	12
	26	6	7
	27	2	23
	28	3	0
	23	0	1
	24	3	8
	25	6	12
17	26	7	5
	27	1	2
	28	3	4
	29	2	1
	30	0	1
	25	3	0
	26	3	3
18	27	3	4
	28	1	2
	29	i	1
	30	2	0
19	28	0	i

/

Digitized by
This table shows that in the fifth grades we have children whose leg lengths, when the children are seated, vary from 12 to 19 inches. Then, taking any one of the leg lengths as a basis, we see that with children demanding a seat of the same height, the correct desk height should vary from four to eight inches. Variations of this range occur in practically all grades.

The natural inference to be drawn from these figures would be that all desks in a room ought to be adjustable. It can be stated, however, that as a rule the adjustable desks after they have once been adjusted are seldom thereafter changed to meet the needs of the next child. With the prevailing tendency to extend the departmental work this will be increasingly so, as no one can tell the size of the child who will occupy a particular desk at any time during the day.

Then, again, the average adjustable desk cannot be adjusted quickly enough; a mechanic usually is needed to change the desk. The result is that in most cases the desks are not adjusted properly. As a fact, I know that in a school equipped throughout with adjustable desks, at a former investigation the feet of more than 50 per cent of the children did not touch the floor. From reliable information received during several years I have good reason to believe that this	same condition prevails	in most cities.	It

can be said, therefore, that the	present adjustable desk	does	not meet	the

situation. What is needed is a desk and seat that by the child itself can at once be adjusted to its immediate needs. There is a great field ready for a desk of this type.

We have several hundred thousand desks in use in Philadelphia, and the problem was how to use these to fit our needs. Our question, therefore, resolVed itself into an inquiry that would tell us what sizes of desks were needed for the children in	every one of the sixteen	half	grades in	our

elementary schools. As it is at	present practically impossible	to get a desk

to fit each individual child, and as the children are continually growing taller, we decided to see if it were possible to select three sizes of non^ad-justable desks to fit the-greatest number of pupils in each room, and then find what percentage of adjustable desks were needed to take care of those who were either above or belbw the three sizes selected for each grade.

In arranging these percentage groups, the procedure already outlined above was followed; i. e., the dropping of fractions, thus putting a greater number of children into a group that could use a desk and seat as now supplied by the different manufacturers of school furniture and already in use in our schools. This plan worked out well, and the following table No. 5, is presented, showing what percentage of stationery and of adjustable desk*: should go into each half grade.

TABLE NO. 5.

Percentage of desk-sizes for each half grade.

Number of Desk	1A	IB	2A	2B	3A	CO  00	4A	4B	5A	5B	6A	6B	7A	7B	8A	8B	Measurements in inches	
	°lo	°Id	°lc	°lo	°lo	°lo	°lo	°l  lo	C|o	°lo	°lo	°u	°lo	°L	°lo	•°lo	Leg.	Elbow.
No. 6	31	14															10	18
No. 5	47	40	33	20													11	19
No. 4	J12	33	40	44	41	26	22	11									12	21
No. 3			14	18	37	48	47	26	40	38	33	27	21	15	12	8	14	23
No. 2					8	13	16	25	42	48	45	51	54	54	57	5t	16	25
No. L									7	7	11	14	16	20	16	27	18	27
Adjust.	10	13	13	18	14	13	15	8	11	7	17	8	9	10	15	14		

Digitized by CjOOQle
-45-

TABLE NO. 6.

Shows the percentage of desk-sizes for each full grade.

Number of Desk	1st  Grade	2nd  Grade	3rd  Grade	4th  Grade	5th  Grade	6th  Grade	7th  Grade	8th  Grade	Measurement in inches.	
No. 6	°l  22.5	■A.	°k	°!?„.	V,	°l  V 1° ,	,.°u,	°u		Elbow  18
No. 5	43.5	26.5							11	19
No. 4	22.5	42.0	33.5	16.5					12	21
No. 3		16.0	42.5	51.5	39	30.0	18.0	10.5	14	23
No. 2			10.5	20.5	45	48.0	54.0	54.0	16	25
No. 1					7	12.5	18.5	21.5	18	27
Adjust.	11.5	15.5	13.5	11.5	9	12.5	9.5	, 14.5		

The figures in the foregoing tables are the averages of measurements taken in all parts of the city. In sections of the city inhabited by people of more than ordinary means the measurements taken were slightly higher than those in the tables, while the reverse is true in sections inhabited by the poorer classes. In preparihg for the seating of a school the adjustment necessitated by the location of a school can, therefore, easily be made by slightly raising or decreasing the percentages given above.

Based uporf the foregoing it is recommended:—

1.	That wherever practicable the present seating be rearranged according

to the above tables.

2.	That where a rearrangement is impracticable and where the seats are

too high, temporary footrests be furnished to all whose feet (heels and toes) when the pupils are sitting back in their seats, do not reach the floor.

3.	That where the desks are too high the pupils be allowed to sit on straw

mats or cushions of sufficient thickness.

4.	That where the seats and desks are too low, these be placed upon nar-

row strips of wood of sufficient thickness to give them the required height. (These strips to be screwed to the floor and to be no longer than the depth of the desk or seat).

5.	That for future use new desks and seats be sought having the following

features:—

(a)	Six sizes as determined by the foregoing tables.

(b)	Quick adjustibility in height, or, if not of the adjustable type, with a footrest which can be used when the pupil sits back in ihe seat.

(c)	The bench to support the small of the back, if possible by an adjustable back rest.

(d)	For the upper grades a desk top of great depth, as many poor positions in writing and drawing are the result of cramped space.

6.	As a preventive measure children should frequently be made to rise

from thejr seats for recitations so as temporarily to relieve any abnormal strain upon their musculature. In addition to this great stress should continuously be placed upon such exercises as strengthen the muscles of the back.

Gentlemen:—“Mind and Body’* is all that it claims to be, a journal of up-to-date matter that each physical director cannot afford to be without. May you continue your good work, and may the oldest paper that

Digitized by
has been the physical director’s friend all along the line be supported as it should be by each man who is interested in physical' training work.—Frank

E.	“Miller.

PROFESSIONALISM AND THE AMATEUR.

By Carl Ludwig Schrader, Harvard University.

When we differentiate between “amateur” and “professional,” whether in art, such as painting, music, the drama; or in sport, like yachting, billiards, hunting, mountain climbing, swimming, base ball, foot ball, running, jumping, throwing, etc., we apply the accepted line of demarcation, namely, that an amateur carries on his art or sport during leisure hours merely for the sake of self satisfaction and pleasure, many times at a great . expense to himself, while the professional adopts his chosen art or sport for the maintenance of his livelihood, so that the pursuit of it becomes a necessity rather than a pleasure, though it need not be void of the latter. There is never occasion for dispute in determining an amateur in art, as it matters little how the artist is classified. In sport this is not so simple a matter, which fact is made manifest periodically in the newspapers, when the standing of athletes is being disputed. There always are many athletes, it seems, who can not be properly classified. This difficulty and uncertainty arises wholly from among the “want-to-be-amateurs.” The professional groups are well known. The interested public is familiar with the professional ball players, wrestlers, boxers, runners, jumpers, weight lifters, swimmers, etc., who either receive a fixed salary, or else compete for a large purse of money. The professionals, then, we know, and the press introduces to us every new comer as such. None of this class ever give rise to any controversy as to their standing in the sporting world; their status is a fixed one. We took upon them as performers who entertain us; ‘ we pay our price, they perform. The cause for the ever pending controversy then, as to amateur and professional, is to be sought in the ranks of the amateurs,—and here again not so much with the athlete himself as in the system which made him. It is not my purpose to dwell upon the evil conditions existing in the Amateur Athletic Union, which are responsible for the low estimate of American sport in the old world. My object is rather to give a broader interpretation and meaning to the word “professional1.” Annually we hear of the problem of summer ball playing by ooL-lege men. The controversy is still on and is as far from being satisfactorily solved as ever. Many men have lost their chance to play on their respective college teams because of their summer playing, or rather because of their being “professional.” A few years ago Dartmouth college Efid to disband its nine because most of the men on the team were found guilty of this offense. Just what is this offense? A fellow is a good ball player, Ee has the opportunity of spending a delightful summer at some resort by playing ball' with a lot of other good fellows similarly fortunate. This privilege he could not enjoy otherwise, because of the expense involved. Who would not rather play ball for his keeping than wait on a table? Why should any objection be raised to this means of self support over any other, so long as the public demands such summer entertainment? I am satisfied that few, if any, of the summer ball players recruited largely from

Digitized by LjOOQle
—47—

among college men would be admitted to the ranks of the real professional players. No more so would the college man who plays a musical instrument at a resort be considered qualified to play in a professional symphony orchestra. We all know that summer-resort base ball is usually a very tame affair compared with college or league games. The college teams would profit very little from this summer practice of individual men, especially since practically seven months lie between the summer season and f the opening of college training for base ball. It may seem .as though this were written solely for the protection of the summer ball player, but the point I wish to make is to show the folly of considering the fact o£ his having received remuneration for his playing the only deciding measure in determining his athletic standing. The men who figure most prominently in this continual controversy are the pitchers and catchers, whose tracks are followed closely every summer. The other offenders, men playing minor positions, are less dangerous, but necessarily must come under the same ruling. I hold that the college pitcher or catcher does not becopie a professional by playing summer base ball1, but that he is so already, because his pitching or catching ability has been acquired through a “professional” pursuit. That is, constant and long practice has taught him to perfect this one single phase, and he thereby becomes known on the market for summer ball plavers as a desirable man. It rests with him whether he wants to work in his profession or not. The pitcher is the hero of the ball nine, and that goal is really the one object the young man holds out before himself to .make the daily drudge of performing one and the same thing seem worth doing. The fact that he is a poor batter, or a poor base runner, or perhaps both* matters little so long as he pitches a winning game. The amateur pleasure is entirely lacking in such professional pursuit of just one single phase of a sport. It is a fact well known that a game of base ball is a battle merely between the two batteries, and that a “no score game,” which means that perhaps none of the other players got their hands on the ball', is the highest type of a game. In his report to the president of Harvard College, Dean Briggs speaks urgently for reform in base ball. He might well have added to the evils he enumerated this gross specialization of pitcher and catcher. They are the ones upon whom the illegitimate cheering and jeering is let loose. This is not the place to suggest definite steps for reform, but the temptation is great to suggest a radical cure. Make every player on the team pitch an inning, and our game of base ball would look different; and moreover, it would be a game of greater national significance from a physical point of view.

What is true of base ball is true of other sports. There appeared an article in McClure’s a number of months ago by Bill ’Reed, ex-foot ball coach of Harvard, in which he took occasion to point out the perseverance of Kennard, who kicked that famous field goal for Harvard on the Yale gridiron two years ago. He states that Kennard for months spent twenty minutes a day practicing the place kick. No one will deny that this was an excellent example of faithful pursuit; but is there any one who believes that it was a pleasurable pursuit, an amateur’s pastime? No, Kennard by this concentrated and prolonged practice made a profession out of play. It is again the system and not the man which is at fault. Is not foot ball as a whole, though played entirely by'amateurs, carried on like a profession

Digitized by

Google
with conditions openly dishonest and unsportsmanlike ? Why the secrecy in practice? Because of the universal fear of-eavesdroppers who would otherwise steal the* plays for the purpose of having their team invent the necessary defensive tactics to break them up. For what other reason are representative expert men sent to see the big rival teams play, if it is not to keep close watch over the tactics employed, in order to report them at home, and meet the offensive with definite defense? This is so universally practiced, that the general public accepts it as perfectly proper, whereas it can not be named anything but dishonest and unsportsmanlike. Every athletic game may be measured by its physical and ethical value. Foot ball undoubtedly possesses these qualities in a high degree, and it is therefore to be deplored that the very method and system of procedure violate the innate sporting ethics, the loss of which is not repaired by the mere customary hand shake of the individual players before the game, nor by the “rah, rah, rah” of the teams after the game. What is our opinion of a card player, who during a game, looks into the hand of his opponent? Is his conduct subject to a more severe criticism than that of a foot ball management which details men to look into the hand of a rival' team? It is just this sort of professional trend which is dragging sport from its real worth, and which deprives the mass of the real pleasure which should result from playing any game, foot ball included. Many a foot bail man has admitted that there is very little real fun in the drudgery of training, and that their pleasure is found mainly in going away on the trips. Coach Crane of Harvard a few years ago had his men play a great many more scrimmages and practice games with scrub teams than is usually the case, %for he believed, as he said openly, that the men should have a good time playing, which in this case thev did. Less time was spent on detail or in other words, the game was being practiced in too amateur a manner, as a consequence of which Harvard’s machine did not work as accurately as it would under the ordinary system, and thus suffered a series of bad defeats. It takes from ten to twenty coaches to bring out a perfect working amateur foot ball team. The cost for training the foot ball squad of thirty at Harvard last year was, in round figures, $iOO© per man for'the time of eight weeks. A professional team could not possibly put in more time for training, receive more individual training and coaching nor spend more money, than do these amateur foot ball teams. The annual' changes in the foot ball rules are of little consequence, in-as-much as they are only intended to eliminate the physical danger, which is not nearly as great as alarmists like to paint it. It is the code of honor which needs revision. A physical injury causes suffering and distress only to the individual, and in most cases is healed in a short time, while an injured or lost honor and self-respect is a disease which spreads rapidly and infects the race,—a disease from which it may take a generation to recover. Lawlessness, disregard for the rights of others, and public interference in decisions of officials in a game, as manifested frequently in the ball parks, are evidences of a long practiced “win-at-any-cost” spirit and system. The present status of sport is certainly leading us away from culture, if by culture we understand physical and mental vigor guided by deeply rooted and experienced ethical principles.

There exist rather arbitrary differences in the conducting of the vari-

Digitized by
—. v

ous games. In the track games, for example, the coaches and trainers are not permitted on the field, thereby preventing any interference on their; part with the contestants. Just what sort of important information a coach > or trainer might impart to his men a second before a race, I have always; failed to see. However I favor the absence of these men from the games. But why the presence of foot ball coaches on the field, who openly field- • marshal the entire game? They retire men, send in others with important news to the captain,^ put in a man kept in reserve for the performance of a certain specialty when the situation is ripe, ,and send their signals to the captain for certain plays to be used. Off the field with these coaches, as in the track meet! Let the teams at least play the competitive games without this professional interference!

Track and field sports suffer from the same tendencies, with this additional evil. Specialization here means actual physical injury caused by the overtraining of some, and utter neglect of the other parts of the body. Here again it is the system which invites to specialization, instead of generalization, and this specialization is nothing else but professionalism, if we are willing to accept this broader interpretation. What influence does this system of creating record breakers have upon the racial development? The fact that we can boast of world’s records in special events has not given rise to any national physical superiority. If it were possible to create by this system a standard, say, of the average American being able to jump higher or run faster than any other nation what would we have achieved? Professor Mosso of Italy in expressing his opinion of the value of the Marathon race after the last Olympic games said, “It is as unreasonable to strive to create a race capable of running the Marathon distance, especially in the time made at these games, as it would be unreasonable to aim to breed a race seven feet tall.” Athletic sport as carried on to-day is not what we Pike to believe it to be, a means of strengthening our nation physically, intellectually, morally and, last but not lease, culturally. In order to record a nationally raised physical standard, it is essential that the entire growing generation partake in a physical education which aims at the whole man. Instead, human material fit mainly for competition is selected, sorted according to the special physical gifts which nature provides, these natural gifts being developed still further to the detriment of the rest of the human body. No sooner does the boy land in high school* than he is induced to work on one particular phase of sport like a “profession.” It is this system which drives away from the athletic field the bulk of yoting men and sends them to the bleachers. If a fellow does not give hope of excelling in at least one event, he is soon dropped, and this being dropped, or in other words, being given to understand that he does not amount to anything, most men do not care to experience and therefore stay away. A man who is fair in a number of varied events, white a much better specimen of man and of greater value to society, is absolutely worthless in the present estimate of athletic ability, which demands professional devotion to one feature, and point winning if not record breaking possibilities in this particular feature. So long as athletics promote specialization rather than generalization, so long will they remain a dead factor in the struggle for the physical suoremacv of America. It is also rn this professional pursuit that we must look to for the origin of the trickery for which the American athlete is

Digitized by
—50—

knoWn abroad. When the limit of performance has been reached, then the mind of the specialist turns to scheming, wherein he is ably assisted by the professional coach. He practices stealing on the pistol; he in league with others, lays a trap for an outside competitor by “pocketing” him; he practices how, apparently by accident, he can trip the base runner; and contrives other equally unsportsmanlike schemes. With shame be it said that our glory at the last Olympic games is overshadowed by the guilt of having practiced such tricks against other competitors, whose sense of honor would not permit such procedure. Although our side of the story was told in the most kindly light, it .can be clearly seen now, that our professional attitude and habit caused the unpleasant scenes in London that summer. The extent to which morals and ethics have become diseased in our sport, chiefly because of this professional system, may plainly be seen in the necessity which gave rise to the various rulings which exist in the colleges. The freshman rule as well as the graduate rule is the result of these professional tendencies, but instead of legislating against the system of specialization, whereby a man is induced to make himself a purchasable article, the legislation is aimed at the individual, and as a consequence forces him to retire from active participation when he enters the graduate school. At this, point the man is suddenly expected to pursue sport for pleasure’s sake; but having been trained for other purposes he is at a loss and finds really nothing to do, resigns himself to the rooters stand and rapidly gets old and stiff. Those few who will resort to the gymnasium while the desire to do something is still keen, do so with great effort, because they have been taught to look upon such work as a huge joke. What can our thoughts be when we read of our Rhodes scholars competing in athletics at Oxford? Evidently there are no graduate rules at Oxford, nor rules which necessitate a year’s enrollment before competing. The English system evidently does not raise athletes who become marketable, so that protective measures are unnecessary. Such evils as ours can only be cured by radical means. It necessitates a courageous surgeon to apply the surgical knife and cut deep into the diseased flesh, in order to promote a healthy growth of sound flesh. The preparatory school has learned its evil lesson from the college, and must get its reform from the same source. In the track meets the events'should be grouped so that a contestant would be obliged to prepare himself in, say, three different forms of track and field work; a running event, a jump and a weight event. A competition of this kind would force a man to1 practice in an event in which he is exceedingly weak, for his specialty wguld not net him enough points to permit of an utter failure in one of the other two events. Thus the leg specialist would be made to develop arms, chest and shoulders, while the weight man would be forced to get his legs in condition. Umder such rules a man able to run a hundred yards in eleven seconds, jump five feet in height, and put the shot thirty-eight feet woul'd be a more valuable man for his college than the man who runs the hundred in nine and two-fifths seconds, jumps about four feet, and throws the shot twenty-eight feet, or the man throwing the shot forty-five feet, running the hundred in twelve or thirteen seconds and jumping less than four feet high. The physiological significance of such competition needs no comment. Whether such meets would 'attract the young men might seem doubtful to some, and still we have evidence from abroad and at home that such meets

Digitized by
^ -51-

bring together larger numbers of competitors than do our present meets of specialists. During the fsame summer when nine hundred specialists gathered in London for competition, there were assembled in ’Frankfort, several thousand athletes, also representing many countries, who had to work for a point average in five and six events respectively in order to be victors. These figures then, would not suggest that the demand for all-around ability in competition detracts from the interest and desire. There is however another significant difference besides numbers which is in point here, namely, that practically every entry for the Olympic games was investigated as to the amateur standing of the respective athlete, while in the other and by far larger meet in Frankfort that suspicion was entirely absent, simply because this system of generalization does not even suggest, much less demand, professional pursuit. The spectacle in London told the story of individuals, the one in Frankfort that of races. Physical education must be represented in school life in its entirety. Every boy must become practically acquainted with every phase of that training, he must swim, vault, run, jump, climb, put the shot, must have played all the games and have used all the various apparatus in the gymnasium. Thus equipped the freshman in college may intelligently decide upon his own voluntary pursuit of sport, and whatever his choice, even if carried to the point of specialization it will be carried on in the spirit of an amateur. Being able to choose from among so vast a variety of familiar activities, there will remain but few students who do not follow at l'east one form of sport, which they have learned to like during their early physical education. These changes are not aimed at, nor would they result in a lessening of sport; but on the contrary, there would be a decided increase in sport activities. Neither would they tend 'towards curtailing competition, but towards having more competitors. If education is to promote culture, then we must free ourselves of these hindrances which have side-tracked us. May a courageous surgeon soon come to the front from among the college presidents and apply the knife to the sore in his institution, thus opening the way for a radical change and turn this invaluable means of education into the channel toward real culture.

FANCY DIVING.

ONE LITTLE-UNDERSTOOD BRANCH OF PHYSICAL TRAINING-

By C. L. Drake, Swimming Instructor, Muegge Institute, and F. C. E. Schneider, M.D., Muegge Institute, St. Louis, Mo.

Of late, the great increase in the number of swimming schools and nat-atoriums is bringing aquatics in all its branches more and more prominently into the physical training field. Urban populations are becoming enthused with water sport, and the number of expert swimmers is being constantly augmented. This is as it should be, for there is no one thing mentionable of all the subjects comprising physical or mental education that gives a larger share of interest, vigor and health to its students, or that requires a more pleasureable devotion of their activities in attaining proficiency therein, than water sports. Water sport is the life-long sport; age brings -no curtailment of the average experts abilities; it heightens them, usually, and

Digitized by CjOOQle
—52-

grants newer and better things to his performance. That physical training instructor neglecting to prepare himself in aquatics is not only sadly deficient in general knowledge, he is also missing a subject that proves of surpassing entertainment to the teacher.

Hand-in-hand with the development of the old speed stroke, the English side-stroke, into that modern distance-gainer, the Australian Crawl, has come, of recent years, a similar development of the old-time “head-firster” into fancy diving. This new and pleasing art promises to take a firmer hold upon the affections of the lovers of the spectacular. Always a favorite with the swimming members of the human family, heretofore small because of the lack of practicing facilities in the centers of population, this sport is now winning appreciation everywhere, even amongst nonswimmers. It therefore behooves the up-to-the-minute instructor and the ambitious water lover to become familiar with the principles governing correct form, as this has come to be understood by the experts who have developed it and are practicing it. Fancy Diving Competitions are being held regularly by many organizations maintaining swimming pools for the benefit of their members; and these with a frequency that is not only providing a fine incentive to further develop this art by the athletes themselves, it is also educating the public-at-l'arge in the finer points of this beautiful branch of aquatics. Diving feats are becoming more and more daring, and are furnishing real thrills to those persons fortunate enough to witness such contests by experts.

Diving contests are held both indoors and out-of-doors and the rules governing in either case are practically the same. But the out-of-doors event gives a much larger field for the exercise of skill and ingenuity of the contestants; height, added to the complications of a dive, lends the charm that always wins the respect of his audience for the performer; and its only limit there seems to be the blue dome of the sky. Most of the preparing for these events is conducted indoors, however, and all' winter season contests1 in our climate are held in covered pools.

A brief description of what may occur at a future diving meet is, perhaps, the best way of illustrating the ends sought by the contestants and of explaining the methods by which those ends are attained.

There is nowhere to be found a prettier or more animated picture than a small lake where such a contest is being waged. If the water is still, shining in the sunshine, and reflecting as a mirror the scenes about the shore, if the grass is green to the water’s edge and the forest trees approach the bank, a few willows .growing in the water, no grander frame for a view of action is imaginabta Late in the afternoon of a warm, summers’ day is the ideal time to begin; for then the cooling shadows lengthen out to protect the spectators lining the terraced water-front; while the performers, high up in the diving tower, remain in the hot, revealing rays of the sun. The glassy water, the tower rising high above it, the waving flags of the competing organizations; the contestants in their multi-colored suits and bath-robes, the clear sky overhead, form a never-to-be-forgotten scene.

In this contest, the construction of the tower, the events—the different dives,—and the method of scoring results, should be governed by the regulations of the A. A. U. These provide that the tower is to be thirty feet in height ; it is to be furnished with a springboard at a height of ten feet above the water surface; with a diving platform, stillboard, at the height

Digitized by v^ooQle
-53-

of twenty feet; and another stillboard at the thirty foot height. In scoring results, a perfect dive from the spring-board, ten-foot height, is given a minimum perfect score; one from the twenty-foot still-board an additional point; one from the thirty-foot height, two additional points. By this method the most accomplished diver, i. e., one clever enough to add greater height to the other difficulties of any particular dive, is given adequate credit for the performance.

The difference in “take-off” serves also to exhibit the versatility of the performers, as the dives from the still-board are very unlike those from the spring-board. Still-board diving is usually and best accomplished from a standing take-off, spring-board diving from a running take-off.

In scoring a dive, the judges are instructed by rules, both written and unwritten, to observe certain essentials, the presence of which enter into the make-up of the perfect dive, and the absence of which altogether detract from its appearance as a feat of beauty and skill, leaving it a mere tumbling into the water. The first essential of a perfect dive is the “entry” of the diver’s body into the water. This should occur without splash, silently, almost inaudibly, a listener ten feet off hears only a slight swish as the body passes into the water during a perfect dive. * It is possible for a diver to enter the water silently after accomplishing a rolling two-and-one-half somersault from the thirty-foot height, raising, perhaps, a few drops or handfuls of the water above the surface, which merely “boils up” after him. So important is “entry into the water” considered that five points are awarded to perfection in it, while only one point is allowed for each of other particulars. This is by reason of that idea surviving from barbarous times when a swimmer able to silently enter the water, in the near vicinity of an enemy, was best able to protect himself in emergency, and was referred to by his fellows as a most accomplished warrior. Good “position on the board,” into which that intangible something that gives recognizable assurance and magnetism to the performer, enters, is allowed one point. Good “position in the air” which means grace and certainty of bodily control combined with a formal attitude while falling to the water, is given one point. Each “hal'f-roll” and “half sumersaulting turn” are also given one point. Originality in a dive is allowed one point at thej option of the judges. This allows a contestant scope to invent new figures and be given score credit for his cleverness, if he carries it into the contest.

Each contest consists of five obligatory and at least three voluntary dives. A greater number of voluntary dives may be agreed upon before the contest by the competing organizations; but no repetition of an “obligatory” is given score credit. The obligatory dives are set and are the same in every meet. These are named and are allowed maximum scores, if perfectly performed, as follows:—	>'

No. I. Plain Front Dive—io ft. height, 7 points; 20 ft. height, 8 points; 30 ft. height, 9 points.

No. 2. Plain Back Dive—7 on the 10 ft.; 8 on the 20; 9 on 30 ft.

No. 3. Front Jack-knife—Scoring same as Nos. 1 and 2.

No. 4.- Back Jack-knife—Scoring same as Nos. 1 and 2.

No. 5. Somersault and one-half—9 points from the 10 ft. height; 10 points from the 20 ft. and 11 points from the 30.

The events are always contested in the order given in this table. A contestant may win any number of points up to the maximum allowed for

Digitized by
-54-

these five dives, accordingly as his form and execution agrfce with the ideal set by the scoring standard. For instance:—A contestant executing one of these dives, say from the 20 ft. still-board, may display a beautiful position '“on ‘the board,” which may consist in his confident bearing in a formal attitude, this with a graceful ease of manner; for which he is immediately given one point by each judge. (Another may not be so fortunate.) His position “in the air” may be equally good, he having launched himself into it by a powerful1 and prettily performed movement, guiding his falling body upwards and then downwards with an apparent deliberate precision; and he is given a second point. As often happens, though, his “entry into the water” is not perfect. His body may not attain the proper angle of inclination for a splashless dive and yet it may not hit at an angle giving the greatest,amount of splash either; say in the opinions of the judges, it was “half-a-splash;” each judge promptly gives him two and one-half points for “entry.” Adding one point for “height” gives a total of five and one-half points of a possible eight, if it were a “plain obligatory” dive. A similarly executed dive from “the 30” counts six and one-half points, while one from “the 10” counts but four and one-half points.

It often, nay usually, happens that the contestants complete the obligatory work with scores so nearly the same that the voluntary offertory decides the winner. Hence during the last part of the contest the competition is keener, the interest of the spectators greater, with the dives becoming more and more daring and complicated, “statue,” “imitatory” and “acrobatic” dives succeeding each other rapidly and cleanly, with the laurel for the brow of that man most closely calculating the scoring value of the work finished by each contestant and choosing his own “voluntaries” with an eye to effect upon the final result. For the most daring work from “the 30,” say a.rolling two-and-one-half somersault, ending with a poor entry into the water, may not receive as much score credit as a simpler dive from the same or even a lower height, say a “swan flight,” in which the entry is perfect.

This contest may begin with the information* shouted through a megaphone to the spectators, that the first dive, the “Plain Front” will be dived by so-and-so of such-and-such a club or society. The order of precedence amongst the contestants is determined by lot, and this order is to be followed throughout the eight (or more) dives. The first man may take a quick look around and up the tower and then select the twenty foot still-board as his “take-off.” Climbing to that height, he may hastily slouch to the end of the platform, spring nervously headforemost into the air, and strike a beautiful “position in the air,”—Swan dive illustrated. The straight-front requires described position of arms, see Fig. No. 1—arms in front, straight, hands flat with the thumbs underneath, locking each other, legs back, straight, pressed lightly together, toes pointing well back, and body bent forwards slightly from the hips; approaching the water a doubt may assail him, and, in trying to improve an almost perfect, position, he may lose balance, roll sideways and hit the water nearly flat on his back. He may be a novice, or an expert “off his form.” No matter, each judge enters the score on individual cards alike:	For	position on board, o; for

position in the air, 1; for entry into the water, o. A total of one point for the dive.

A second man, apprehensive of such a misfortune, may select the

Digitized by CjOOQle
Swan Dive from “the thirty.’’

spring-board for his trial. Posing a few seconds at the inner end of the board “for position,” he takes a few short running steps to the outward end of the board; from a point, say four or five feet from its end, he springs up, high as he can, and lands upon its very end, where the spring is, silently but with all his weight; as the board reaches the limit of its downwards bend-

Digitized by GoOglC
-56-

ing under this force, he bends and then quickly restraightens his legs, pushing down strongly on the board, “springing it;” the recoil1 of the tough oak fibres sdruds him soaring like a bird seven or more feet up into the air; describing a graceful arc, his body, in perfect position, seems to float towards the water, which he “hits clean,” the feet passing through the identical spot his finger-tips first touched,—if a barrel-hoop had floated there Tie might passed through it without touching it. Score—On board, I; in air, I; entry, 5. Total, 7 points.

A third man, say an experienced diver who may have won championships at this sport, intent on securing every possible point for his score, knowing of worthy antagonists to follow himself in these events, may have been climbing high up to the thirty foot height during this performance. Waiting but for the announcer to shout his name and organization, he advances cautiously but confidently to the diving edge of the platform. Projecting his feet beyond the edge a little, so that he may lightly grasp the board with his toes, the better to secure, the diving balance, he swiftly assumes the military attitude, (See Fig. No. 2) body straight, leaning swiftly forward, weight on the balls of the feet, arms at the sides, thumbs at the s'des of the thighs, head up and eves front,—never once does he look at the water. Four or five seconds he poses thus: his figure, silhouetted against a passing cloud, is statuesque. Inexperienced ladies of the crowd, noticing for the first time that he is above the tr^-tops, may give little feminine gasps of dismay. Holding the position, he slowly leans forward, the slower this is done the more effective it is; as one movement then, his knees bend slightly and the hands raise to the breast, thumbs locking underneath ; a second movement straightens legs and arms simultaneously to the position in the air, and for two seconds, with an indescribable ease and grace, he flies towards the water, striking it cleanly. A slight mist arises from where he disappears, and the water “boils-up” after him. Score:—9 points.

Perhaps three others score “the limit” in this first dive. One unfortunate, pushing too strongly from the thirty-foot take-off, travels at first nicely; then his legs begin to move faster than his body; faster and faster they go while he squirms to regain the lost balance; tis of no use, once lost, diving balance cannot be regained. Making a one-quarter revolution, his body strikes flat, with a sound like a pistol shot. He might have made a dean entry by quickly altering the plain “front” into some other dive, but this is an obligatory dive, and he deserves credit for trying to dive the plain front to the last, although the scorers will give him none. Several swimmers will instantly spring to his assistance, for a man may be knocked senseless, or at least breathless, by a fall from this height. Not so in this case, perhaps; as an exceptionally strong man, he may be “black-and-blue” only from head to foot tomorrow. No matter; his only concern will be the one point he has scored, for position “01, board,” as against the nine points of the leading competitors. However, he may recoup in the succeeding events.

Before each next dive the contest pauses until the judges megaphone their findings to the score-keepers up in the tower, who mark these on the score-board for the information of those present, particularly the contestants themselves, toho consult this frequently during the remainder of the contest. A remarkable fact testifying to the efficiency of the scoring method once came under the writer’s notice. In one such contest, three judges,

Digitized by L.ooQle
-57-

stationed apart in different sections of the scene as usual, and judging eighteen contestants through eight events, caught the best three with a difference of only four points between the minimum and maximum individual scores given; and in the case of the winner, absolutely agreed. As good diving may bring the totals for eight events well up to the one hundred point mark, this system is positive assurance of full credit to each contestant.

The second event, the Plain Back dive, is one of the most difficult in which to secure perfect position in the air and clean entry into the water. It is always begun from the standing take-off. Taking his place at the edge of the board, the still-board is best in this dive, the diver assumes the military attitude described in the front dive but facing towards the tower, back to the water. Without at once changing this position, and remaining erect, the diver leans backwards towards the space below—(those readers who patronize scenic railways, loop-the-l'oops “and sich” for the sensations afforded are recommended to try this from the thirty-foot board for a real, •unadtaltetrated thrill) ; as he begins to fall past the line of full pressure against the board, his knees and elbows bend as one movement, the hands join at the breast, thumbs locking as usual; just as he feels that he is about to leave the board, he slowly straightens both arms and legs, swinging the arms above his head and giving the gentlest possible push on the board with his toes; as the drop through the air begins, face upwards, the back is

Formal position on board for standing take-off.

Leaning front take-off.

Digitized by v^ooQie
-58-

hollowed and the body bends back in a position just opposite to that taken in the front dive. Of all the contestants,s probably only one man may have “the nerve” to trv this from the “thirty.” Not from any fear of consequences to themselves, however, but dreading the effect of a miss upon the score. Most of them prefer to be sure of a five or six from the ten-foot board for this event, and trust to the remaining events to “pull-up” on the man winning his nine points “off the thirty.”

Next in the regular order, the Front Jack-knife differs from the Plain Front in the cpurse the diver’s body takes in the air and the point of its entry into the water. In the plain dives the flight of the diver’s body is in an arc through the air with the palm of best appearance going to that dive covering the greatest distance out from the take-off, subject to good position in the air. In the “jacks” the course of the flight is limited to one straight-up and straight-down. The ^irc-curve is eliminated. No dive the entry from which is beyond certain distances out from a point directly under the take-off is considered. These distances are:—six feet out from the ten-foot height, eight from the twenty, and ten from the thirty. To attain this result, the diver resorts to a peculiar action of the body while in the air, from which the odd nomenclature has been derived. Correctly performed, this movement limits his flight to the dictated course, and he falls close to the board; for the palm of best appearance goes to that dive the entry from which is directly beneath the take-off. In the “Front-jack,” while at the extreme height of his flight, a quick reversal of the body from head-up to head-down, does the trick. From a stand on the edge of the board, the diver springs straight-up, with the arms hanging at the sides. At the height of the spring he bends forward, stretching his hands to his toes and, with a quick jerk, reverses, the legs flying up behind exactly as the blade of a pocket-knife flies open from that point at which its spring takes hold when opening it, and he passes, in a perfect dive, within an inch or so of the take-off. A spring-board take-off gives the best appearance, but height wins the points. A common mistake here,—most novices lose points beyond recovery in the “jacks,” is to leave the board or hit the spring-board “leaning forwards.” Diving flight is always in the direction of a line continuing the long axis of the body at the moment of the application of momentum. (See Fig. No. 3.) Many a diver, although correctly performing “the motions” in the air, fails because of this false “leaning front” take-off. The spring-board expert hits the end of the board “leaning back,’, and his flight is never beyond the set limit. Most novices labor under a misconception of the object of the dive; they understand the “jacking-up” process as the end to be attained, instead of merely using this as a means to an end, as it should be.

The Back Jack-knife differs slightly in its modus operandi from the Front. Taking a stand exactly as for the plain back, the diver poses a moment; then remaining erect he leans backward towards the water until his body is inclined about five degrees from the perpendicular; springing straight-up from this position, not away from the board, the common mistake, he stretches hands to toes; keeping the legs straight, he “jacks/em up” and passes within a few inches of the board in falling. Success lies in leaning back and springing straight-up instead of standing straight and

Digitized by YjOOQle
-59-

springing away from the board. (See Fig. No. 4.) This looks best from a height; and properly executed, is not at all difficult.

TheFifth Obligatory,” the somersault-and-one-half, is a most difficult one from which to secure clean entry into the water, although the evolution® are comparatively simple of performance, especially from the springboard, when correctly understood. Any one who can “do a front flip” (somersault) from the spring-board can quickly elaborate this into the “one-and-a-half” by following these directions:—Take-off almost exactly as in the “front jack;” drop on the end of the board, after the run, “leaning back,” but with the arms raised (instead of hanging to the sides,) elbows bent and held forward, hands clenched and held above the shoulders; at the moment the greatest height is reached, and just as the body naturally begins to revolve forward, bring the arms and head down smartly, the arms passing outside the legs while the head is held close to the thighs; do not “hang back” then, but loosen up the body so that it will revolve in the direction given by this force. 'Everything after this “does itself.*’ This is

Leaning back take-off.	Position	on	board	for one-and

two-and-one-half somersaults.

much more difficult from a still-board as there it must be done from a stand, and the springing start must be given wholly by the muscles of the legs. (See Figs. 5 and 6).

The “one-and-a-half” finishes the obligatory work. At this stage of

Digitized by L^ooQie
-60-

Position in air for one-and two-and-one-half somersaults.

the contest there may be a difference of only nine or ten points between the scores of the highest and the lowest man. It is still “anybody’s contest.”

(To be concluded.)	»

—“Mind and Body” is really the best magazine of physical education that I have read. It is both practical and theoretical and is therefore of great value to the teacher of physical training. I strongly recommend it to all persons who are at all interested in developing a “souncf mind in a sound body.”—J. C. Kimball.

*( G 6.

Digitized by Google
—61—

A STUDY OF FUNCTIONAL EXERCISES IN SOME NERVOUS

DISEASES/

By WILLIAM BURDICK, M.D., Philadelphia

As in medicine the nervous system is a comparatively unexplored country, so in physical education exercise in relation to nervous diseases is a dark continent. Dr. Hartwell in a monograph in 1898 described the vast extent of the land and brought back some of its fruits, but the world largely preferred to accept the stories of the difficulties and started on a forty years’ wandering in the wilderness. Fortunately, this attitude is changing. All' scientists are studying the relation of nerve and muscle. You may recall Professor Ludwig’s advice to Dr. G. Stanley Hall to study the gastrocnemius muscle of the frog, with the result that he says he is still studying it. Textbooks are devoting perhaps twenty per cent, of their space to this subject. 'Students are trying to learn more about it, and spend a quarter of their laboratory time in studying its workings. The medical world is realizing more and more its need of physical training in its therapeutics. Nowhere is this more needed than in the treatment of some nervous diseases. But, alas, even empirical knowledge of this is scanty. Many new and complicated series of exercises are being devised for the strong, and wisely; but pathological' conditions also ought to be considered. The published work of Dr. H. S. Frenkel has started much activity, but think of the rich ground lying fallow for the plows.

Definitions of a few terms are necessary in the consideration of the subject. By “functional exercises” I mean the accomplishment of acts that are done by a normal individual in his daily life. These would differ somewhat for each individual according to his occupation; for example, I would be satisfied to teach a middle aged woman to walk again, but would aim to teach the carpenter to walk on inclined surfaces so that he could eventually earn a partial living. Such exercises take the place of the artificial ones usual in gymnasia but are performed regularly and systematically as any gymnastic series. The idea is always that the patient shall regain or keep up functional activity and be able to make co-ordinated movements. These latter are movements in which “all muscles come into no greater or less activity than is necessary; where each individual muscle works its own part only, when all Involved muscles contract in their proper order.” This lack of loss of coordinated motion can be greatly helped by persistent, patient practising of the whole or of analyzed parts of a normal act. Many are unable to walk in a normal manner, not that they have not the power but because they have ataxia. I use the term ataxia to mean the inability to perform the ordinary movements made by a normal individual in the normal manner because he does not know how to do so. That is, ataxia is incoordination.- The first time we try a new game, such as billiards, we are painfully aware of our ataxia. It is not that we do not possess the power but that our nerves and muscles are not properly trained. Thiis we see *

* Reprinted from the New York Medical Journal. Copyright, 1910, by A. R. Elliott Publishing Co.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-62-

ataxia is a relative term, as is the word “normal.” It is fair to apply “normal” to the acts performed by the mass of mankind whom we meet and study, and not to the acts of any one individual. This study must be along the lines of the work done by Marey, Duchenne, and others, and must be supplemented by a knowledge of bodily mechanics and applied anatomy. For example, in running, many an individual will turn out his feet whereas we know from the mechanics of the act that he loses several inches at each step. From such knowledge we can correct not only a man’s ataxia but also add to his functions for we economize his efforts.

One does- not realize how much he uses his eyes even in the fundamental standing position; let him stand in Romberg’s position and then attempt quickly to raise one foot and stand on the other. It is usually rather difficult, but practice, of course, will soon make it easy. Take for instance the case of a woman with hysteria and multiple sclerosis, who, when I started with her, could not even sit in a chair without support. I had to reduce movement to its lowest terms. Unable at first to lift one arm from her side without falling in the opposite direction, her first exercises were merely arm abductions. Next she had head rotations; later the two were combined. It took months of constructive work before she could stand. She recovered and later was well enough to marry.

All exercises must be purposive, there must be a definite goal to be reached and the patient must be conscious of having reached it, In fact, the ataxic acts of the tabetic are purposeful from the point of, view of his knowledge. The reflex arcs being destroyed by the disease he actually does not know how to do things better. His way seems the only sure and safe way open to him. He kept stubbing his toe as he swung the leg forward as a pendulum because he did not realize that the knee ought to flex. Then he tried to bring the foot forward in an abducted position. By throwing the leg he made up the time lost and thought no more of it. As a result his adductors weakened and he walked worse and worse. Hyperextension of the joints and many other faults of the ataxic can be explained on mechanical grounds. If an attempt is made to teach the brain and nerves how to act by frequently repeated exercises the patient eventually makes each act a new habit. The hope is that by strict attention the act may soon become unconscious so that more difficult things can be learned.

As in all education,. we appeal to all the senses; eye, ear, touch, and tfnuscle sense, trying all the time to lessen the former and leave the work to the fundamental tactile and muscle sense, For example, the frequency of diplopia in tabes may be partly due to strain of the eye muscles. I have seen this clear up as the patient gained motor control. One tabetic, in fact, was able to walk blindfolded after six months’ practice. To bring about 'this effect the eyes were cut out of action as soon as possible by having the •patient stop watching his feet and look at the things round about him as •he walked. I doubt not that music would be of value in its suggestion to •the ear as to when the foot should be advanced. In one case of paralysis •agitans I found that walking was easier for the patient when I gave him the rhythm by walking with him.

The exercises should start with those acts that are diagnostic of ataxia, as the way to arise from a chair or how to sit down without falling into the seat. Here we explain the mechanisms in order to make clear the diffi-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-63-

culties- In a lesson or two he understands his mistakes and corrects them. Because we do there things unconsciously, we deem them of no value. These patients, however, will soon prove to you the value of the commonplace. Teach a few things such as how to pick up things from the floor without falling, and the psychic effect upon your future efforts will be immense. The man who learns to move the hitherto stiff neck by being told to look at a spot you see on the ceiling will be grateful, but if he thereby learns to drink water because thus his oesophagus is straightened he will be a far more efficient pupil. Tell him to watch his fingers, and he may deceive the next one who tries his coordination by this test.

The greatest danger is of causing fatigue of the nerves. The amount of dosage is different in every case and even must vary with the same person according to his condition. The exercise must stop short of fatigue or you defeat your own ends. The latter must be eternally watched for. The layman has no right to teach these things without constant consultation with the physician—for conditions of heart and vessels may contraindicate such treatment. The pulse and respiration are indices of this fatigue. The effort should be to get the maximum of response to the minimum of stimulus, especially where the trouble is sensory in origin. Failure to get results is due to disregard of this point. That, in addition to the l’ack of definite goal for each act, is the reason that Swedish exercises are not adapted for most nervous affections.

Successful results, will, of course, depend upon the perseverance, intelligence, and condition of the patient. Still the personality of the teacher is of prime importance. He must constantly note slight improvement and explain it to the patient. The exercises selected must be varied and above all must not be too difficult. Especially care must be taken that the patient feels safe and is free from the fear of falling. To best accomplish all this requires that the teacher knows some psychology and especially applied anatomy; besides he should have some theories as to the underlying pathological conditions.

No physician thinks of treating a case without considering the physiology and pathology of the trouble, so no teacher will intelligently use functional' exercises without regarding the probable lesion. The theory upon which I work is that the frequently repeated exercises done voluntarily teach the cortex of the brain to control and direct the act. In tabes we use the few sensory nerves that are left as the fuse to set off the explosion. Consequently the earlier we treat a case the better it will be for the patient. Although later we can do wonderful things for him, the one wire can never do the work of the cable. In cases in which the lesion is of the motor origin we succeed probably by getting some of the smaller nonfunctionating cells to do the work of the diseased ones. In other cases where the reflexes are either not inhibited or are uncontrolled, as in combined sclerosis, we teach other cells to do the work of those that have ceased working. When the reflexes are lost and the connections in the brain are nonexisting or are temporarily nonfunctionating, we probably make new paths for the activity, as in multiple neuritis. With the great number of cells in the nervous system which seem to be small and non functionating it does not appear to be extravagant to believe that we may get some of these working for us as a result of functional demand.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—64—

* We hasten to watch and direct the daily life and drug the fatal1 heart case but allow these far more favorable cases of nervous destruction to go from bad to worse without practically any attempt to “ease their latter days.” It takes an immense amount of time and patience to treat such a case but in pr6ductiveness and ability to do for themselves these cases are well worth more of our attention. Dr. James J. Putnam, of Harvard Medical School, says: “I am encouraged to recommend suitable gymnastic treatment when no marked incoordination is present. The restoration of functional activity is the end to be sought at all hazards.” The surgeon does not hesitate to operate upon incurable patients to prolong l'ife and make it more easy. Yet the tendency has been to say, The patient has an incurable malady and let him go from bad to worse.

Aside from the value to the patient this brings its reward to the worker. The study of these abnormal movements has the same value as that of microscopical pathology. We really must analyze all of our daily acts and be able also to synthesize them. It requires an accurate and an almost unceasing regard for mechanical laws and anatomical arrangements. All things help in the solution, whether it is biology telling us to expect the return of function to the thenar muscles of the hand last, or psychology admonishing us to keep the attention fixed upon a desired end. From this study we will learn, too, the physiological way of doing things and will start a “circle,” not vicious, but extremely useful in the treatment of future cases. As byproducts I have found some very suggestive things,—vasomotor changes, as perspiration returning to parts after relaxation of muscles was regained by nervous control; areas of anaesthesia disappearing from other parts of the body apparently not related to the parts exercised (this seems connected with the useless contortions of the face in intense exertion) ; better sleep following motor control; and so forth.

This general type of treatment by exercise has been used by me in twenty cases, which include seven of tabetic ataxia, three of paralysis agitans, two of combined sclerosis, one of multiple sclerosis, two of hemiplegia, two of anterior poliomyelitis, one of multiple neuritis, one of diffuse degeneration of the spinal cord, and two of spinal cord lesions undiagnosticated. My experience leads me to the following conclusions as to the value and use of them:	First, in no case has there been a failure to better

the difficulties of movement. Though the betterment may have been only slight, yet it was such as to make me believe more and more in the possibilities of exercise. Among the possibilities open I have succeeded in restoring $ lost functions. A tabetic with the usual degree of difficulty has regained the power of locomotion so well as to have been able to walk the stringers of the third story of a building in course of construction for which he was the contractor. By teaching the proper mechanical relations of knee, ankle, and foot, I have overcome the toe drop in multiple neuritis within a month. Second, better coordination can be secured. A case of Parkinson’s disease changed from the festinating gait to one in which the patient walked upon the soles of his feet. Third, exercise will, if unable to overcome the effects of the lesion, be able to teach other muscles to do the work vicariously. One young man who had lost control of the peroneal group is teaching the calf muscles to do their work. Fourth, they apparently retard further progress of the disease. I have in mind one case of tabes which, though the

Digitized by L^OOQLe
-65-

patient persistently overworked his remaining nerves, personally framed and built nine houses in one year.

1 want, in conclusion, to give you the result of three cases.

Case I. The patient was a man, thirty-five years old, a contractor and builder. He had begun to stay in the house because locomotion was difficult. At the end of four months he shaved himself standing up before the glass. Whereas before he was in a state of 'tonic contraction, he could relax all the muscles of his body and only occasionally had any anaesthesia. His locomotion became steady; he could walk across the stringers two inches wide, sixteen inches apart, upon the third floor of a new building with no fear ait all. When we started this method of exercising, if his leg fell ou.t of bed, he never knew it to be outside, now, standing he can tell the exact relations as to direction and position of both feet. The pupils dilate and double vision has largely disappeared, and, what is apparently unusual, the dark has little effect upon his movements, for he joined the Masons, where he had to be blindfolded for one half hour or more.

Case II. Another case is a captain of yachts, N. P., thirty-two years old. He had been confined to oed with vertigo, had fallen several times, and walked with characteristic swinging, shuffling gait. Almost all of the time he used a cane and even then he could hardly progress. The case was not very far advanced and I suppose some might say he had not yet became tabetic as the patellar reflex was present. Still all the symptoms of anaesthesia, in feet and legs, ulnar sides, of hands and weak knees, were present. Also the pupils had not become fixed, but vertigo and double vision were present. The Romberg symptom was plainly evident and already all muscular coordinations were disturbed; e. g., getting out of chair, walking up a curbing, upon plank walks, etc. Six months later the attending physician said, I need not continue the instruction. The patient walked normally even with his eyes closed. His endurance was shown by a five mite walk. The symptoms of progress has ceased, though six years later he died from syphilitic sequelae.

Case III. G. K., forty-six years, iron worker, recently operated upon for spasticity by a resection of the posterior nerve roots. At the end of three months’ practice he had learned to walk six inch steps unsupported and unassisted. He could stand alone though this was impossible since the accident six years before. And, at present he is walking up and down stairs with the assistance of a cane and the railing.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

The University of Wisconsin will this year have a very much enlarged summer course for teachers, play leaders, supervisors, coaches and directors. The course will consist of the theory and practice of play and physical education, and will be given from June 26 to August 4th. The faculty is composed of Mr. George Ehler as director, Mr. Clark W. Hetherington, Dr. W. E. Meanwell, Mr. Zednek Nespor, Miss Blanche M. Frilling and Mr. Charles H. Wilson. Full particulars concerning the summer courses can be secured by addressing the Registrar or the Director of the Department of Physical Education, the University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.

Digitized by

Google
-66-

SUMMER SESSION OF THE NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS. IND.

The second summer session to be conducted by the Normal College will be held at Indianapolis, Ind., and not as stated in last months “Mind and Body,” at Culver.

Negotiations are under way to secure opportunities for out-door gymnastic work, as well as for swimming and rowing, which will enable summer students to take a large part of the work in die open air.

The course, which is to last four weeks and to take place during July, will1 comprise work in all the classes of Educational Gymnastics (including Field and Track work), Esthetic Dancing, Folk Dances, Fencing, Hygiene, and Applied Anatomy. Other subjects will be added if a sufficient number of students request them. A special course in Play and Playground Management, to be conducted by Mr1. W. A. Stecher, Superintendent of Physical Education in the Public Schools of Philadelphia and secretary of the Philadelphia Playground Association, will be arranged. Mr. Stecher is intimately connected with the playground movement of America, thoroughly acquainted with its needs, and by virtue of his long experience most adequately qualified to take charge of this special course.

The session will offer teachers of physical training post-graduate work, while public school teachers may acquaint themselves more thoroughly with this special subject of education, which, at the present time, they are expected to teach in the great majority of schools throughout the country.

THE CHILD, A HABIT FORMING ANIMAL.*

By Prof. G. R. Dayibs, State Normal School, Valley City, N. D.

After eighteen, says the late Prof. Wm. James of Harvard, the eminent psychologist, the brain begins to set like plaster. Nsuabsolutely new and uncolored ideas are received by the brain after this. All ideas are modified by the body of ideas which receives them. The personal habits are nearly all formed at eighteen. Personal cleanliness, bathing, manner of dress, table manners, habits of speecTT|~the walk, gestures and postures are nearly always fastened on for “good and all” by eighteen. Npt that there is any magic about the age eighteen; for some it is seventeen, for others nineteen or twenty; but quite close to these years for most people, the tissues of the body and brain begin to harden; the paths of nervous discharge along the muscles have nearly all been fixed. As Kipling would say:— “The ship has found herself” and the habits of a lifetime have settled down to mark their permanent grooves in the nervous structure.

Youth is the Golden Age for implanting life’s best habits. Habits are both good and bad—useful and harmful. ItLis the business of society—of parents—of schools, to see to it that the profitable habits are started during this Golden Age, and that the unprofitable ones are not, allowed* to form. Bain cells are plastic and yield to persistent impressions from ten to twenty. They^are of course plastic much earlier than this, but less liable to persist in error. Bjefqzz ten in most children the personality submits more to the control of superior personalities as parents and teachers. Between ten and

* Child Culture Series. Edited by Prof. A. P. Hollis.

Digitized by Google
-67-

twenty—the dangerous, swiftly changing adolescent period—the youth assumes new dignities and new emotions* Youth and manhood meet' in tumultuous struggle and manhood emerges from the storm and stress, wrecked or triumphant.

If there are any good habits that should be fixed for life, pleads Professor James, let all the forces of human society concentrate on their formation during early youth. It is not sufficient to drive out bad habits; good

ones must be implanted in their place. ......

Ha^ita, favorable to the growing organisms are, regular bathing, a reasonable degree of personal neatness, such as combing the hair, wearing clean linen; pleasant home evenings, erect carriage, clean enunciation and good English, memorizing short selections of literature, attendance at religious service appropriate to the age of the child, outdoor tramps and exercises, handiwork with toil's and machines, singing, the practice of kindness, generosity to others, sa^ng.

Habits unfavorable to the growing organisms are smoking, drinking and all forms of nerv/e deadening, slouchy carriage and dress, avoidance of healthy play and spofts, cheap shows, excitable literature, buying things instead of making thjngs. In fthe boy's habits lies his destiny, for they will rise up and think fpr hirti in the emergencies of life.

Professor Bain lays down two rules for habit forming that have become classic among t^e psychologists and should be household words in every home; they are;

1.	In acquisition of a new habit or the leaving off an old one, launch yourself with gs strong and decided a start as possible.

2.	Ney/tr suffer an exception to occur until the new habit is established.

PETER PAN SCHOTTISCHE.

By Emil Rath, Indianapolis, Ind.

The /oliowing couple dance is intended for gymnasium classes, but may alfp be used as a social dance. Any Schottische music will do as accompaniment. The dance should be executed very lightly.

FORMATION: Column of front couples, numbered one and two ; number two standing left of number one (when used as a social dance the gentleman is number two). The right hands are grasped over number one’s right shoulder, number two’s arm being in rear of number one. The left hands are grasped in front of the body. Both partners begin with the left foot.

PART I.

Two slow steps forward................................... 1 measure

Four running steps in the line of march with facing right about on the first step (the left hand is now over the

•left shoulder)...................................... 1 measure

Two slow steps backward.................................. 1 measure

Four running steps in line of march with facing left about

on the first running step.......................... 1 measure

PART II.

Step of the left and hop, swinging the right leg forward; the

same beginning right................................ 1 measure

Three running steps obliquely left forward and hop swinging

the right leg forward............................... 1 measure

The same beginning right (measures 1 and 2).............. 2 measures

Digitized by Google
—ft8—

Mind and body. ^

,™™r Publmbed Monthly.

IY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

SiMptlfi Prict, fl.tftper Year.	Ifll-wa-ok—.	Wlaooute.

«T A8m aU biuinetw letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg, lffihmuke«, Wm MInh all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnson St., Germantown Phi., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

The Turnerbund is in the midst of historic reminiscences. During this month of April it is fifty years since President Lincoln issued his call for volunteers to support the government of the United States in its effort to preserve the Union. The Turners of the East and of the West were among the first to respond to the call and to rally to the support of the flag. The result was that during the following four years the gymnasiums of most societies were closed, as all able-bodied men were in the field. Many rolls of honor in the hall's of these societies carry the names of those who never returned. All honor to them and to the survivors. We send our heartiest greetings to the veterans. They may rest assured that should the occasion again arise to defend the Union there will be many thousands of young gymnasts in societies and associations who will show the effects of their gymnastic training by being like their fathers and grandfathers, among the first to respond to the call for volunteers.

Our attention has several times been called to that part of Mr. Allen’s otherwise admirable book “Civics and Health” in whih he expresses his views on the value of gymnastics. He practically says that most of it is a waste of time; that what is needed are plays and games. In this respect Mr. Allen appears to be like Professor Mosso who, when he studied in Leipzig visited a Tumverein, and, later, based part of his criticism of German gymnastics upon what he saw there. But gymnastics is like an egg. One cannot well judge its good or poor qualities by looking at it. Then, again, there is as much difference between a thoroughly trained, efficient teacher and one who has picked up a limited knowledge of the art, as there is between a physiologist of the type of Mosso and a so-called “nature-physician.” Both the trained and the untrained instruct or may teach gymnastics , and both may be thoroughly honest, yet the results obtained will be as different as the results obtained by the two types of physicians mentioned.

It has always appeared to us that our good friends who criticise gymnastics either have never been on the floor of a gymnasium or have had the misfortune to have had as teachers persons who were incompetent. It is not true that gymnastics as such, is dry, uninteresting, a great mental strain, a drudgery, etc. Persons who say so have never been under the command of a real teacher of gymnastics; they have never felt the exhilerating effects of exercise, they have never felt the warm blood rtishing through their veins as an effect of exercises performed in unison. Neither have they felt the thrill of satisfaction when a specially difficult exercise upon a piece of fixed apparatus was accomplished. Let us quote from J. C. Lion who says:—

Digitized by t^ooQle
-69-

“Gymnastic art is physical poetry. As the mind soars joyfully in the realms of poetry, so do we never feel better and happier, physically, than when the activity and beauty of the body is developed by the free use'of the iimbs. But one can not speak of this to persons who have not experienced this feeling, just as one, whose nature is unpoetical, cannot understand the poetical emotions of a great mind. Nevertheless it is a fact, that as truly as poetry enables poetic minds to forget for the time being all troubles and trials of this world, so truly does gymnastics help us temporarily to leave our sorrows behind us, and to be happy and contented. I have in dark hours when anger and fear and want sorely oppressed my heart, when it seemed as if I must succumb, gone to. the gymnasium and there forgot, for a short time at least my troubles and sorrows; yes, even enjoyed a few, hours of peace and rest which gold could not have bought.” Ergo: when ybu feel blue, go to a good gymnasium, and when you want to write on the effects of gymnastics do likewise.

Sunday Play. We desire to call especial attention to Mr. Joseph Lee’s presentation of the Sunday play problem read at the Rochester playground congress and printed in this issue. The paper should be read with great deliberation. If the playground movement is to grow not merely in extent, but also in depth, an intelligent conception of what play really is, is absolutely necessary. Many, at present, may not agree with Mr. Lee’s conclusions as to the necessity of play on Sunday, but the more one studies play, what play means for old and young, the more one becomes convinced of its powerful influence in shaping not only the physical life of its participants, but chiefly their moral actions. If, then, rightly conducted play is a moral1 agent of the highest and most effective type what valid argument can be brought against its use on Sunday? Some clear thinking, unbiased by our inherited views on Sunday activities will be needed before the Sunday play question is solved in all localities. In the meantime many cities are not only allowing, but encouraging Sunday play. We invite a free discussion of the problem; also reports upon the success or non-success of the movement in different localities.

Professionalism and the Amateur. Following Mr. Lee, we are glad to present to our readers a courageous article by another New Englander. We refer to Mr. Carl Schrader’s article on Professionalism and the Amateur printed in this issue. At two meetings of the Athletic Research Society we had the honor to represent the Turners, and to state that they really had no problem of amateurism. Having no prizes of intrinsic worth (merely diplomas with laural wreaths for the first winners) and having only competition in group events there is l'ittle if any chance for professionalism to develop. If there were any chance for a tendency toward specialization or professionalism to develop under its policy the Turnerbund with its history of over sixty years would surely have had a chance to study it. As Mr. Schrader says it is the “system” of physical training, or sports, or games, or athletics, whatever you wish to call it, that is at fault. Our whole conception of amateurism is based upon the idea that to accept money makes one a professional, but that to accept gold medals or watches, annuities or scholarship®, etc., does not make one a professional. In sum-

Digitized by

Google
-70-

rtiing up a number of cases Mr. Clark W. Hetherington recently stated that it was the motive that made the professional. If this is true then the man who practices one particular event, or play, for hours every day in order to become proficient in this particular event or play surely is a professional. Mr. Schrader’s article will help to clear the atmosphere. We wish to call attention to the fact that in many gymnasiums and playgrounds all over the country successful group competitions have been carried on during the last year, the only prizes being an honorable mention or a diploma. Group competition, with the pot hunter after medals, cups, watches, etc., eliminated, will soon give us amateurism in track and field athletics. If, added to this, colleges should allow any bona fide student to play on any team, and should then place greatest weight upon getting all their men to play on one or more teams, dropping all intercollegiate competition for a few years, the evils now being legislated against would disappear. All that any normal boy or girl, man or woman, wrants is a chance to play. If our energies during the next years are directed toward getting enough places for all our students to play, and toward securing well prepared teachers for our gymnasiums and playgrounds, then the outlook for a sturdier race will be much brighter than it now is.

Don t forget the meeting of the American Physical Education Association at Boston, Mass., April nth to 14th. The program guarantees an interesting and instructive meeting.

The time for' preparing for camps is close at hand. We are glad to be able to present in this issue an account of a modest camp by a gentleman who has been successful as a camp director and as a teacher in a public school. While there are many opportunities for the children of well-to-do parents to enjoy the delights of camp life, there are few chances for the great mass of the middle class; for boys and for girls who can pay from five to six dollars per week. Here the experience of Mr. Rieger, and his admirable, minute details of camp, life will be a help to such of our readers as contemplate organizing a camp. Life in the open should be encouraged, and every school should try to have its own camp on a nearby stream. The Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia has decided to have at least two large camps on the Delaware river this summer, one for 60 to 75 boys; another for the same number of girls. The campers are to be from 12 to 16 years of age. The camps will* be conducted for ten weeks. The association regards the promotion of this form of out-door recreation as a legitimate part of its work. We hope that this custom will become general during the next years.

“THE PATRIOTS.”

A scheme has been inaugurated to promote physical drill among men between the ages of eighteen and fifty. Unlike other European countries, where conscription is in force and national gymnastic societies appreciated, iit the British Isles physical training for adults is at a discount.

This new organization will cariy on the similar work for boys of brigades and scouts, without any class distinction or any subscription except as regards the small necessary expenses.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—71—

An excellent opportunity is afforded for this scheme by the Army authorities’ permission for civilians to receive instruction in military gymnasia upon certain conditions. Consequently, in every garrison town, honorary local! secretaries are desired, who will organize classes. Members are to be called “The Patriots,” and will wear a red, white and blue belt with their drill attire. At first the training will probably be limited to one hour a week, though two hours might be arranged later; no class is to exceed thirty members, in order to secure adequate supervision.

The drill will be as in the Army, without any gymnastic apparatus or even dumb-bells. Members must provide themselves with rubber shoes, flannel trousers, and sleeveless vests. The instructors’ fee is fixed at 7s. 6d. an hour; if thirty members are secured the individual cost will therefore be only three-pence per week, which must be paid quarterly in advance. Several! classes could of course be formed and the actual hour would be decided by local arrangement, but probably eight o’clock in the evening would be the most convenient time. It is also suggested that members perform light dumb-bell exercise every day at home, while each is requested to propagate the work by enlisting others. It is hoped to affiliate each centre with the National Physical Recreation Society.

Experience would soon prove the invigorating advantages of muscular development, and if eventually adopted on a national scale, this new movement should entail widespread benefit to our race—mens sana in corpore sano. Although unconnected with any denomination, the Patriots will adopt as their motto the Pebrine precept, “Fear God; Honour the King,” and are expected to fulfill it in their personal1 conduct.

GYMNASTICS VERSUS ATHLETICS/

By Louis M. Kittlaus, Physical Instructor of Central High School, St. Louis

Perhaps nothing will so much hasten the time when body and mind will both be adequately cared for, as the diffusion of the idea that the preservation of health is a “duty.”

The man with a thoroughly healthy and efficient nervous system seldom goes far wrong. No man’s morals can be much better than his nerves. Mental and muscular training must go together in the discipline and development of the nervous system.

Few seem conscious that there is such a thing as physical morality. When this is generally appreciated, then, and not till then, will the physical training of the young receive all the attention it deserves. The increasing emphasis which modern psychology and pedagogy place upon *the significance of the body, ought to make it possible in the not distant future to give to the training of the body that place which it deserves in the general scheme of education.

It is still a lamentable fact that the culture of the body is not generally put on a level with other educational instruction, and that gymnastics are treated only as a pleasant recreation. In high schools and colleges, physical training occupies a somewhat more conspicuous place in the life of the in-

# Address before the Department of Physical Education. Missourri State Teachers* Convention. #

Digitized by
—72-

stitution, but is usually still jnore obviously outside of the curriculum, than in the case of the grade schools.

In high schools it is usually a question of athletics and sport only. Even in- those institutions which maintain a well equipped physical department, and have required gymnasium work, it is ordinarily considered as somewhat apart from the real curriculum. At present, speaking in general, physical training is not in the curriculum at all, whereas it should be a fundamental necessity, and ought to be given a place in the life of the school, for reasons which I have already stated.

It is generally admitted that children need physical development, but, they say that they get enough of it outside of school hours. It is true that the average boy gets considerable physical exercise in an incidental way, and it is just as true that he seldom gets enough; and besides, not the right kind, not in proper relation to other elements and activities. Therefore, he has no understanding of the morals and significance of clfean, strong, and perfect manhood. Exercises obtained outside of school hours are as inadequate to proper development as the thinking and learning outside of school hours are to the personality on the mental side.

The motto, “A sound mind in a sound body,” is not only a good one, but a true one. The mind cannot be wholly sound unless it is connected with a sound body.

If it is the business of education to take a person where he is, and lead him, step by step, to where he ought to be, then the department of physical training has an open door before it.

I	find from an article > written by Captain Hermann Koehler, Physical Instructor at the Military Academy, 3Vest Point, N. Y., that that institution is credited with being the first school in America to take the physical welfare of its student body into consideration, and the last of the important ones to venture into the field of intercollegiate athletics. These are facts not generally known. The reasons are numerous, but the main restrictions are as follows:

1.	The aim of the academy has been the development of the very highest possible standard of general excellence of the mass of its students, irather than that of a few, and such a standard is obtainable only by special ■etffiorts directed towards those of average ability, and those of less than average ability, rather than towards those of superior endowment. It is not at all remarkable that an institution with the traditions of this, should be slow to incorporate any elements in its methods of training that are diametrically "opposed to the principles of these methods as competitive athletics are, when winning is made their chief object.

2.	The value of athletics when shorn of their objectionable features, and when indulged in by large numbers for the sake of the benefits that result from them, rather than for the mere sake of winning at any cost, was freely acknowledged.

3.	Under existing conditions the value of intercollegiate competitions, from an educational standpoint, was, however, seriously questioned.

Constant urging on the part of the young element amongst the officers stationed at the academy; the oft-expressed desire of the cadets to be permitted to spend their hours of recreation in indulgence in various forms of competitive intercollegiate contests, and the growing interest attached to

Digitized by LaOOQle
-73-

such athletics at other usually conservative institutions, finally persuaded the Academic Board to recede from its position, and by way of experiment to sanction the. introduction of this form of athletics in very modest and restricted form.

This experiment was keenly and critically observed by the custodians of the academy and the Academic Boards and the deduction drawn from it may be summed up as follows*

1.	That whereas much importance is attached to the physical training of the individual student by means of a compulsory course in gymnastics, etc., as there is in the Academy, athletics may b& safely indulged in.

2.	That they may be made a valuable adjunct to this training by bringing out qualities in the individual that even he himself was not aware of, and that under ordinary circumstances might never have been disclosed.

3.	That under proper direction they instill a desire for regulated, wholesome sport and pastime, the success of which is dependent upon physical fitness ; thus providing themselves a splendid incentive to clean hygienic living.

President E. W. Garrison, of New Mexico College of Agriculture and Mechanic Art, in his address before the department of Physical Training, at the National Educational Association, Denver, July 3, 1909, said, “It is to be admitted freely that many of the defects of college life are connected more or less directly with athletics, but it can scarcely be said that they are due to the overwhelming zeal for training for bodily perfection. This being true, I repeat the suggestion that we need to have both in school and college, not less, but more emphasis upon the physical side.

Prof. C. M. Woodward, in his address on “Manly Sports” before the Washington University Association, speaks of Gymnastics in comparison with Athletics, as follows:

“I find it necessary to make a distinction between manly sports and gymnastics. They agree generally in affording athletic culture, but they differ in the order of importance they attach to exercise and to sport. f Gymnastic training makes the exercise the main thing, while the pleas-( ure and passion for competition and victory are secondary. v It is just the other way with athletic games; with them the game is foremost, while the physical and moral benefits are incidental.

I “Athletics begin there where gymnastics leave off.” There is no antagonism between them; the one supplements the other. Every participant /in field sports should bring to his game a body well developed, by judicious [gymnastic training. On the.other hand, the trained gymnast is entitled to Ithe peculiar delight and reward of athletic games.

^ After many years of practical experience in the line of athletics and gymnastics among the various turnvereins and Central High of St. Louis, I find the above quotations in which Captain Koehler, of West Point; Prof. Garrison, of New Mexico, and Prof. C. M. Woodward, of St. Louis, hayp expressed themselves so justly, to be not only practical, but theoretically correct.

There is not the slightest doubt in my mind, that for the welfare and physical protection of all who enter into athletics for the mere sake of winning, the athlete should be put through a thorough course of gymnastics in! order that his physical condition may meet the strain of the hard practice he is forced to undergo.

Digitized by Google
—74—

The athlete, unlike the Turner, generally enters into one event only, causing the physical development to be very one-sided; often over-taxing one part of the body at the expense of another. Speaking from a physical standpoint, I find that the worst years of a boys life,, are at the time when he is in the High School. During the period exuberant growth takes place, causing him to be exceedingly lazy or sluggish. To exercise the muscles in order to make them useful members of the body means “Work,” therefore I find that our athletes do not partake of the advantages offered them in the gymnasium.

It is for this reason that we so often find the members of the faculty go before the entire assembly, and with untiring efforts urge the boys to go out on the field and enter into the game as a boy of his school ought to do. I haven’t the slightest doubt that all the boys possess the proper school spirit, but venture to say not the right physical, spirit. Many of our boys, know t little or nothing of the real meaning of the word “Work” having little desire for anything else than that which they fancy.

The boys ought to be taught to work hard while in the gymnasium, and this accomplished with proper credits, there ought to be no trouble in selecting the best material for interscholastic meets. The physical instructor ought to know best who are the most capable ones, and if selected by him they ought to consider it an honor to be privileged to represent their school. It is without a doubt the honorable duty of every boy. to meet the requirements of the school, and not that of constant urging on the part of the faculty upon those of superior endowment.

Gymnastics properly taught and adjusted to the individual will not only dispense with the many physical' evils and defects which have been brought forth on the athletic field, but will induce many to enter into this wholesome sport. A gymnasium for boys and girls ought to be connected with every school; also a public playground near by to be used by them after school, and by the young men after working hours, x— An opportunity ought to be offered all young men and women to enter -the gymnasium after working hours in such schools as are open evenings , under the direction of the Board of Education. We find by close observa-/ tion of our American people that the combination of nervous diseases and \ all complaints arising from excessive brain work, owing to the lack of \ physical exercise, is degenerating our nation, and therefore systematic gym-I nasties and athletic games for the preservation of health and invigoration of lour minds become a duty.

Confidences. Talks with a young girl concerning herself, by Edith B. Lowry, M. D. 96 pages 4^2 by 7 inches, published by Forbes and Company, Chicago. Mailing price 55 cents.

A book explaining the origin and development of life in language intelligible to young girls. The author, who is a physician of wide experience and a pleasing writer, has very delicately and adequately treated this important subject. The future health and happiness of every girl demands that she receive when approaching adolescence an intelligent presentation of the vital life processes, and this book will be an invaluable aid to parents and teachers in attaining that object. The book is warmly recommended. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Digitized by

Google
I	-75-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

SUNDAY PLAY/

By Joseph Lee, Boston, Mass., President Playground Association of America.

I believe our Sunday laws forbidding play and sport are in the main an evil'. I believe that they do much harm and prevent a great deal of good. I believe that games and play on Sunday, under proper restrictions as to time,, place and noise, should be not only permitted but encouraged. I believe that the provision in our game laws forbidding fishing and shooting on Sunday .is wrong. It is a rich man's law. It would be better to forbid these forms of sport on any day except Sunday, so as to reserve the game for the one day in the week when the average citizen can go after it.

That Sunday is to a great extent, for city children at least, a day of lawlessness and demoralization cannot, I think, be successfully disputed. There are, so far as I am aware, no statistics upon the point, but I have gathered a considerable amount of testimony from social workers to the effect that Sunday is at present the especial day for the planning and carrying out of mischief and raw-breaking in various forms, and that in particular it is, among city boys, very largely devoted to gambling. Whatever the explanation may be, Sunday is as a matter of fact, for great numbers, if not for the majority of our children, a radiating center of evil tendencies for the entire week.

And that Sunday should have a demoralizing effect would seem to be the inevitable result of our present Sunday laws. If its influence were not in great measure an evil one it would not be for the omission.on our part of the sort of measure best calculated to make it so. We rightly prohibit work on Sunday so far as practicable. Our laws to that effect are essential to the existence of Sunday and constitute a most beneficent. piece of legislation. But by forbidding play also, we have done our best to make the day, for our young people at least, a day* of idleness; and the distinction between enjoining idleness and promoting evil is one hardly worth insisting on.

It is true that we do permit some forms of play.

Reading, gossip, paying visits, are lawful, as are also riding, yachting, automobiling and aviation. Walking also is permitted; but so far as games suited to young people and not requiring an independent fortune are concerned, wre make our prohibition fairly general.

It is true, also, that we foster and support the church; and going to church represents for many, even of our young people, a most valuable part of what Sunday means and ought to mean. But we cannot spend all the waking hours in church, even if the hours we spend there are all waking hours. When church is over, there is still a long day left to .be filled up, and sedentary pursuits would never wholly fill it for the young. It would seem as though we had entered into a certain sort of partnership, more common during the Middle Ages than it is to-day,—our contribution being to find the idle hands while the party of the other part, a reputed expert in that line, agrees to do the rest.

* Address delivered at Fourth Annual Congress of the Playground Association of America.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—76—

You know what happens when you make a dam across a brook. It backs up onto people’s lawns and orchards, floods their cellars, carries off their apples ancj other movable possessiorfs/tears their shrubs and flowers, and drowns their hens. In short, it trespasses generally on their property and their good nature, to the detriment of both. Whose fault is it in that case that these depredations occur? Who is in reality the creator of such area of devastation? In the analogous case now under consideration we have hitherto blamed the brook. I think it is time that we traced the evil a little nearer home.

Our present Sunday laws are like that unwise sort of factory legislation which forbids children to work without requiring them to go to school; except that our Sunday legislation goes a step further in forbidding play as well- It thus holds the first place as an example of legislation enjoining idleness and producing crime.

What has got us into this position is the fact that our Sunday laws are a survival, a shell left on the sea shore, from which the living creature has departed, the negative side of an institution that no longer lives. The Puritan law was a positive, not a negative, enactment. The Sunday it prescribed was not a day of idleness but of observance. Going to church was mandatory, and church was carried on for several hours twice during the day. It must have been a torture to the young people, but at least it occupied them instead of merely cutting off all natural occupation and, except for an hour in the morning, leaving nothing in its place. We retain the restrictions after the conception of the Sabbath for which they stood has been abandoned. The fortress has become a prison. What was once armor against Satan and his wiles survives as an incumbrance that delivers us more helpless into his hands. It is as though we went down to business each morning rigged out in the breast plate and buff coat of some Puritan ancestor, carrying a flintlock along with us by way of walking stick, merely because these accessories were once useful as protection against Indian attacks.

There is already evidence of a practical and increasing recognition of the true cause of Sunday lawlessness. In New York the park board has opened Central Park for tennis and baseball on Sunday afternoons. Similar Sunday opportunities are furnished in Chicago and elsewhere. In Boston we have learned to permit certain kinds of sport such as swimming, skating and tobogganing (not all at the same time of year) ; but anything in which a ball is used is still anathema. I believe that such exceptions to our Sunday law will grow until our whole public provision in the matter of Sunday play has been radically modified, and that the sooner such a change is brought about the better will k be for us. Exactly what modification should be made is a matter that must be worked out by experience and that will always be dealt with somewhat differently in different communities. In general, I believe that all kinds of games and sports that are permissible at any time, including ball games, should be allowed on Sunday, under proper restrictions as to time, place and noise. I do not believe that such modification will take from Sunday any of the attributes that have endeared it to us and that make it one of the most important of our institutions. On the contrary it is in the interest of Sunday, of its fuller realization, that we shall remove the fetters we have placed upon it.

But the great evil of our Sunday laws is not in the harm they do but

Digitized by
—77-

in the good that they prevent. Their great sin is against Sunday itself. Their revision is called for not merely because they have pushed poor human nature to the wall and forced it into lawbreaking in self-defence, but more especially because they have deprived this most beneficent institution of half its proper service to mankind.

What we need first of all to understand in looking at this question is that a day of idleness is not a day of rest. Our Sunday laws in prescribing idleness do not safeguard the Sabbath; they forbid its true observance. Rest for the young, for the healthy of any age, for anybody who is still, in any sense alive, does not consist exclusively in lying down. What rests a man is not the attempt to stop the machinery of life, but the turning of the vital force into refreshing channels. The inevitable futile attempt to do nothing has the same effect on the human mechanism that is produced on a steamboat in a head sea when the screw comes out of water. The machine keeps on whirling just the same, only it racks the ship instead of sending her ahead. A boy will be more tired at the end of a day spent in idling about than after ten hours of some vigorous pursuit in the open air. We cannot too deeply take to heart the fact that for the human spirit loafing is not repose, but a source of fatigue and even of disease. Enforcement of Sunday idleness is, for a great proportion of the community at least, including all of the healthy young, the prohibition of Sunday rest.

And Sunday is not for rest alone. Its true service is a positive, not a negative one. It is not like the night, simply for sleep—a blank space between one working period and another. It is, on the contrary, a time set apart for the most important action of the week. It should be our fullest day and not our emptiest.

The churches have been right in this; and they have themselves supplied what is to most people an essential part of the re-creative experience for which Sunday stands. No Sunday legislation will be wise or adequate which fails to give them its protection and support. Church services should, for instance, be protected against the making of unnecessary noise in their neighborhood.

But Sunday is older than the church, and its purposes are wider than those that the church fulfills. The month and its division into weeks, if Darwin's hypothesis is correct, is older than man himself. Stamped in the physiology of all the mammals, and dating back to the time when the lives of our amphibious ancestors were governed by the period of the spring tides, the ancient sovereignty of the week seemingly justifies a generalization of FalstafFs sagacious boast that we are ruled as the tide is by our noble and chaste mistress the moon. At all events, whatever its physiological or historical foundation, the need of Sunday lies deep in human nature and would still be there even if there were no church, and has other expressions than church going, important as that is.

There is, however, another use of Sunday, analagous to church going, and usually a part of it; namely, recollection, in the sense of the Italian word racogliaTnento, the re-collection or re-assembling of the soul. In every stream there should be now and then a pool in which tITe hurry and the noisje ceases and we can see into the depths. Sunday is the day to allow the dust to settle and look around, to pull ourselves together, observe our bearings on our more universal relations, note the variations of the compass,

Digitized by CjOOQle
-78-

and l'ay out our course anew. Such a periodic re-assembling is necessary to the integrity and permanence of life, to the cumulative value of character. And for this purpose as well as fqr church going, wanton and unnecessary noise on the Sunday should be suppressed. Match games, for instance, at which crowds are permitted to assemble, should be relegated, so far as feasible, to the remoter portions of the town]

But not even for the spiritual advantages of Sunday quiet must sounds incidental to other and positive uses of the day be too strictly suppressed. People must still be allowed to play the organ and to sing hymns, even though it disturbs your meditation, and the same is true of other useful and profitable observances.

Another use of Sunday is as family day. It is the day on which the father Js at home, the day for playing the new piece on the piano, for sing-irig hymns and songs, seeing the baby’s new tooth and making the old man himself show what he can do in reading aloud, or any other stunts he thinks he knows. It is the day for going to the beach, country excursions and trolley rides, for visiting museums and parks. I believe it should be a condition on violation of which the charter of any well-mounted museum should be forfeited, that it should be open on Sunday afternoons.

In this connection the question of professional baseball and other public entertainments might logically be discussed. But these form a separate question and one apart from my present subject. In general my own belief is that professional entertainments, including baseball, involving as they do Sunday work, should be prohibited except where, as in the case of municipal concerts, they are incidental to the use of some park or other desirable place of public recreation and enhance its value.

But besides rest, religion and recreation—the three R’s of Sabbatarian observance—and its use as family day, Sunday fulfills another more essential1 service, a service which embodies, indeed, the aboriginal and inclusive purpose for the sake of which such an institution exists. Sunday is the day of compensation, the day of fulfillment to those essential purposes of life for which the weekday has left no room. It is the day for completing the pattern, for weaving into the texture of our lives those main strands of being which would otherwise be left out, and without which we are not quite dive.

A young man has spent the week bending over the columns of a ledger. A young woman has passed the working days standing at a machine making a few simple motions of the hand. The golden hours of strength and youth, the morning hours in which the vital current is at its height, which mould life and destiny in their image according to the use we make of them, have gone in such employments as these. Obviously some special provision must be made, some compensatory activity supplied, if life worthy of the name is to be preserved for these. The same is true of many lives of workers in our mills and factories. It is true to some extent of any life under the system of industrial specialization. For hardly any employment is so broad and catholic, so pervious to the motions of the human spirit and so inclusive of them, as wholly to convey the soul of any man.

It is true that the greatest good fortune of our modern world lies perhaps in the fact that we have outlived the notion that useful work can be degrading. But it is time we came to recognize the truth that l'ay behind that superstition. It should be at least a sobering thought that the

Digitized by
-79-

great majority of us are living, and that our young people are growing and taking form, under conditions that the vast majority of mankind have looked upon as involving a disgrace. ’ Has a sentiment universally admitted until within a comparatively insignificant period of time been so devoid of truth as we now suppose ? Is the Indian so wholly wrong when he refuses to surrender the free life of the plains to become the drudge of the factory and the dweller in a city tenement? Was the chivalric ideal of devotion to •love and war so wholly mistaken that the life of a mill operative can be accepted as in all respects an advantageous substitute? Was the opinion of the ancient philosophers that virtue and industrial occupation were incompatible so far astray that we can accept industrial occupation of the narrower sort as morally sufficient in itself?

Specialization is a great industrial principle and a chief means of modern civilization. And specialization may be also a means of spiritual success where it enabl!es a man to carry some one art to the point of mastery, so cencentrating his power that he may break through at some one point into a higher circle of expression and of life. But even in such a case, where specialization is in some art capable of being the vehicle of the human spirit, there is need of supplementary activity. No man is quite all singer, sculptor, scientist. Even in the case of these, some overflow, some supplementary activity, is necessary. There is some observance still due to that part of the bounteous human nature in them that even their art could not convey.

But specialization as we see it in our modern industry is not specialization upon an art nor according to the laws of art. It is not even specialization upon a service, upon a whole achievement of any sort. It is specialization within the task, carried often to so extreme a point, leaving to each worker so minute a contribution to the result, that nothing of significance is left. It is like the division of a fabric into pieces so small that neither form nor color is any longer visible. There is nothing either in the sort of activity or in the relation to results produced that can become to any important degree a channel for the human soul.

A man, it is true, can so add up his column of figures that they shall become columns of strength and beauty in his life. He can so devote himself to any task as to make it an expression of moral1 worth. But he cannot through every task liberate the creative principle, utter the word that nature has intrusted to him. A man, if he has a hero’s soul, can die heroically under any circumstances. But social conditions under which death and renunciation are the best opportunity offered cannot be considered a success. It is the business of society to offer to its members a way of life, not merely the liberty to die. As industrial civilization advances, and with it specialization becomes more extreme, the need of some other outlet ,of some overflow for the part of human nature that industry leaves unexpressed, becomes intensified.

The truth behind the ancient feeling that menial labor is degrading, behind our instinct that the life of the factory drudge is not a life, is that man power is not like steam power a mere matter of foot tons. Man’s strength does not consist of simple undifferentiated capacity for muscular contraction or nervous effort. It is, on the contrary, a power in great part prescribed, committed, billeted to certain ends. It exists only toward its
-80-

predestined tasks and withers or ceases altogether except as it finds a way to them.

Man is the creature of certain kinds of acts and exists only as he embodies them—a fact that can be verified by anyone who will watch a growing child. There the process of his construction is laid before the eyes of anyone who will take the trouble to observe. From the time when the baby finds his hands, wields his rattle or his spoon, you can trace the growth through achievement of the achieving animal, the self-action of this creature who becomes himself through the doing of things that are to him significant. Through action are then visibly wound the main fibres of his being. You can see man the creator fashioning himself through the making of block houses and mud pies; man the maturer, growing through the care of dolls and pets and plants; man the poet evolved in the rhythmic plays; man the scientist in plays of imitation, of collecting, dissecting, classifying; man the fighter, wrought in the hundred games of contest; man the hunter in the chasing games; and man the citizen through team play.

There in children’s play you can see going on before your eyes, in a series of acts clear and unmistakable, the process that makes man what he is. •And the essential' point to observe is that, through all his life, it is by obedience to these constituting activities that first created him that he keeps himself alive.

Man is the incarnation of his leading instincts—not primarily of the mere appetites of hungers, which control the subordinate, physiological manifestations of his being, but more wholly and pervasively by the great forth-putting instincts, the creative, the assertive, the instincts of achievement. In the deepest sense he is these instincts. They are the ultimate fact about him, giving his true form and law, constituting the final and irreducible substance of which he is composed. His body is their tool. His mind and heart are emanations of them. Man is a process. His law is a law of action. Matter passes through him as through a wave in a rapid, and takes the shape which the law of his action gives it, as it obeys the laws of gravitation and momentum in the wave. He is not the material' but the law, or rather the fulfillment of it, and exists as he embodies it.

In proportion as he is a maker, a fighter, a hunter, a nurturer, an investigator, a citizen, an artist—achievement set to rhythm—the man is really there. Uninformed by these constituent purposes he is a scarecrow, a derelict, the left-off clothes of a soul that has abdicated. These purposes create the man in the play and apprenticeship of his long infancy. In maturity their fulfillment still constitutes his life. When they cease to operate, the flame goes out.

That life is in these master instincts is a fact -not opposed to or inconsistent with morality. Whatever the governing or selecting principle may be—an instinct of instincts, pure reason, conscience, over-soul, however it may be named, the bearer of ultimate authority enforced by the power of life and death—the master instincts constitute the substance with which this selecting principle has to deal. They form the realm of which volition is the king.

Moreover, it is important to note that obedience to the achieving instincts is never self-indulgence but always self-surrender. Their prescription states itself ever in the form of an extra-personal ideal, inexorable, independent of the subject’s will. The true fighter, artist, nurturer, citizen,.
-81-

is such through subordination to the impersonal' end, often to the sacrifice of life itself.

Man as his active nature has thus created him finds himself to a great extent a stranger in the modern world. It is no longer the world for which nature designed him, to which his great constituent instincts accurately relate. It is no longer a world of war and hunting, and it is for many of its people becoming a world in which even the building, creating instinct finds but a meagre satisfaction. Man the. hunter, the nurturer, the creator, finds himself set down for the best hours of his day, during all the working years of life, to tasks so dessicated of all meaning, so barren of power to convey the expression of a human soul, that the soul is well-nigh starved out of him. » That store of vital energy which should have gone to fighting him out a way of utterance has run to spiritual waste and left him dumb, imprisoned. This is the tragedy of civilization—that the end of all our labor and our sacrifice has been, for so many men and women, the defeat of that inner life which it was our whole object to preserve.

Mr. Roosevelt’s insistence on the moral value of war or of the warlike virtues indicates a sound instinct for spiritual values. William James, in his search for peaceful substitutes for war, is a pioneer in a program of conservation of spiritual values in our industrial society that will before long constitute an essential feature of the policy of all progressive communities. But fighting is only one of the vital instincts left unfulfilled in modem industry. The cause of civilization is the substitution of processes that effectively secure a living for more ancient ones which, though less efficient to that end, had the inestimable virtue that they also expressed a life. The cure is, in part, to re-charge these processes with the power of expression.

Such is our weekday problem—as Ruskin so well saw and said—to find the artist in the artisan, to restore man the creator in the present slave to the making of useful things. Our Sunday problem is supplementary— to find room for that part of each man’s life which his daily industry has shown itself unable to contain.

And this problem is not a hopeless one. If civilization has for a great proportion of mankind sterilized the working day2 it has provided compensation in its enhancement of the possibilities of leisure. What it has taken from industry it has more than given back in art. Music, poetry and literature are more satisfying embodiments of life than nature ever gave. But for those who are denied participation in its leisure, whose loss in industry is not returned in art, civilization has been a loss almost unrelieved. It is to the opportunities of leisure as provided by a shorter working day, and above all to those afforded by Sunday, in which there is not merely leisure but strength and daylight and the morning hours, that civilized man must look for compensation. Sunday is the people’s university, the day of liberal education, devoted to universal interests. It is the day for cultivating those things that belong to us not as industrial implements but as men.

I will return to the hills whence is my strength. Sunday is renewal, a rejoining of the primal sources of our life. In the island of Capri they have a pretty custom, a survival such as one finds in all South Italy of the Greek processional religion, in accordance with which the Madonna goes every spring for a week to revisit her former home down by the seashore where the church used to stand. There is an important symbolism in this old ceremony, and one in harmony with our present theme. Sunday is the

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-82-

day for revisiting the ancient shrines, for going back to the fountains of our strength, back in our racial past, for excursions to our ancient abode by stream and wood and seashore, for the revival of the joy of war, of the chase, and of intense membership as found in the great team games.

The true Sunday will be partly different for different men. Each to his natural habitat as Mother Nature calls. The artist condemned to office work will turn to his carving, the musician to his violin. The born teacher will spend his Sunday with the children—and all of us, I hope, are teachers to some extent. The Nimrod will Jo the woods, the poet to the hills, the soldier to sopie athletic contest. That which he should have been, and is not in his daily work, each man will diligently seek on the day given him for this very purpose, that he should keep his soul alive.

The forbidding of such pious pilgrimage on that one day of the week consecrated by nature, and by the wiser portions of our law, to the end that such pilgrimage may be made, is truly a Sunday law, for a law to the effect that Sunday shall not exist.

Even those whose good fortune has placed them among the expressive trades, the lawyer, the doctor, the business man, require some avocation to keep them fully human and alive. To the clerk, the factory hand, whose weekday life is within the covers of a ledger or in the making of a simple muscular contraction—to these Sunday is their one chance of life, their day of standing erect, of resuming the form and stature of a man.

Sunday is the day of the lost talents, of unfulfilled possibilities, the day for keeping alive some little fragment of the original gift that nature made. And this one Jay our Sunday laws take from us,, or at least greatly impair.

For the young the need of Sunday is especially vital, the loss of it especially severe. The master instincts of our lives are not all equally present at all periods. Youth is the reign of some of those whose fulfillment cannot be packed into the narrow confines of a sedentary or meaningless occupation. Our industrial wx>rld differs most markedly from that of which nature is still dreaming in everv growing boy and girl. The young man is still in his heart a viking, a soldier, a mighty hunter before the Lord. His soul is not fulfilled by adding figures or watching a machine.

And to the young especially the matter is one of life and death. Obedience to the great expressive instincts is during infancy, even up to the full age of twenty-one, a matter not merely of preserving life but of attaining it. With young people the question is not of survival merely but of whether they shall ever live at all. To our boys and girls from fourteen to twenty-one years old, of whom a large and increasing proportion of our factory population now consists, our Sunday laws are the denial of life, the permanent dwarfing, through starvation, of the growing soul.

The whole purpose of Sunday is a chance to grow and live. It . is the one day consecrated and set aside, by nature and by man, to such fulfillment of our humanity as the necessities of our week-day labor cannot afford. When, on the top of long hours of sterilizing work, we impose this Sunday law to rob the mature worker and the growing youth of this one day in which nature might have had her in them, to make them strong and beautiful and happy, we have sinned against nature and the spirit of Sunday, the brightest and happiest of our institutions.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.
v	—83-

Vacation Camps of the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia.*

Boys and Girls:—

Roto would you like to camp in a real camp—canvas tents, fishing, swimming, tennis, basketball, etc. No studies, just fun ! There will be long tramps through quiet woods, over brooks and along river paths, picnics to attractive places; in fact everything that a healthy active boy or girl most desires when the city becomes hot and oppressive.

An opportunity to join such a camp is offered to the boys and girls of Philadelphia, who range in age from twelve to sixteen years.

The Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia will establish two camps at two of the most delightful places along the Delaware River Jbetween Easton and Trenton.

These camps will be quite a distance apart, one for boys, one for girls, and they will be open during the entire school vacation.

A charge of four dollars per week for each boy or girl will be made. Begin at once to save your money, and arrange with the director of the camp for the exact week or weeks that you would like to come.

This is not a mone}r-making venture, in fact, the Association expects to pay any deficit which may arise on account of the low weekly rate.

Parents need have no concern as to the safety and happiness of their children, as the camps will be carefully supervised by men and women chosen from the Philadelphia schools.

Young men proficient in outdoor sports will act as counsellors and associates of the boys. Young women of strong physique, with a knowledge of swimming and a love for nature, will counsel and be companions of the girls.

A director in conjunction with his wife will manage and govern £ach camp, while the health will be looked after by a trained nurse.

For additional information, address

Henry S. Moore, (Director of Boys’ Camp), Northeast Manual Training High School,

8th Street and Lehigh Avenue, Philadelphia. Ernest W. Sipple, (Director of Girls’ Camp), Northeast Manual Training High School,

8th Street and Lehigh Avenue, Philadelphia.

CAMP “THOMAS POTTER”.

By George W. Rieger Jr., Philadelphia, Pa.**

Several' years ago, about 1905, Robert M. Gailey, then a grade teacher in one of Philadelphia’s public school’s, secured the use of a camping outfit belonging to the Boys Brotherhood of Philadelphia. The outfit had been used several times and was kept stored at Island Heights, N. J. With a party of about twenty or thirty boys, chiefly graduates or pupils of Potter

* This circular has been sent to all the schools in Philadelphia. Should there he a demand for more camps the Board of Directors of the Playground Association which is extending its propaganda of wellfare work has declared its willingness to establish at least two more.

** Photographs by the author.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-Si-

Grammar School, of Philadelphia, Mr. Gailey organized “Camp Cogge-shall” on Island Bay, an arm 6f Bkrnegat Bay, ashort distance from Island Heights. He selected the writer as an assistant, presumably on account of his previous camping experience. This camp was repeated in 1906 and 1907 as “Camp Potter.”

The expenses the. first year were about three and one-half dollars per boy per week with an additional half dollar for the use of the camp boats. In 1908, however, the writer purchased a very complete camping outfit and continued “Camp Potter” in a mountain located at Tumbling Run, near Pottsville, Pa., where the camp has been conducted successfully on a modest scale ever since.

The original idea of ■'*'Capip Potter” was to afford to the boys of Potter School and others of good character the opportunity, at a minimum expense, to get a vacation of one or more weeks out of doors and free from the usual conventionalities of city life. The younger boys were required to “turn in” at a reasonable hour so as to get refreshing sleep after a strenuous day spent in boating,- swimming, crabbing, baseball, tramping, etc.

The camps of 1908, 1909 and 1910 were made up of boys older than those of earlier camps, the youngest of 1910 being about eighteen. In several cases the same boys, now employed in offices and factories, have continued to attend the camp from year to year. Conditions having changed through having older boys, more privileges were granted but profanity, smoking, and late hours have been carefully discouraged from the beginning.

It has been the idea of the camp to give the young men, for such they are now, an opportunity to enjoy themselves as far as possible free from the restrictions of city life. The boys, as we call them, are taught to swim if they are unable; baseball games are arranged whenever a sufficient party is willing to play; tramps over the mountains are encouraged and directed; the camp boat is never idle; quoits and sometimes cards are played in camp. The location of the camp necessitates walking for water and provisions and also to the trolley for town. Members are encouraged to sleep with the tent flaps open so as to get fresh air continually. Food is so selected as to supply the necessities of the body for the season,—meats and pastry other than bread are used sparingly. In other words much attention is paid to the physical side of the campers. The educational side is enhanced by trips to the nearby collieries and to places where beautiful mountain scenery is found, as at Frackville on the top of Broad Mountain, or farther away at Mauch Chunk. An amusement place, a good ten minutes’ walk from camp appeals to the boys in the evening. The average camper who attends two Weeks at camp returns with plenty of tan, increased weight, and a longing to repeat the experience another year if not to remain a third week.

Camp “Thomas Potter ’ for the past three years has been beautifully located Out in the open where there is plenty of sun on the south side of Sharp Mountain, about two and one-half miles from Pottsville, and a good half mile walk along a mountain road from Tumbling Run—the Willow Grove, Revere Beach, Coney Island, Atlantic City, or what not of Pottsville, Pa. A walk of five minutes from camp, downhill, brings one into the ^valley south of Sharp Mountain. Here, one finds the Tumbling Rua Dams, two large artificial lakes of clear, cool water the shores of which are

Digitized by Google
-85-

“Camp ‘Thomas Potter* has been beautifully located out in the open.*’

lined with the boat houses of the residents of the town. The lake nearer the camp is nearly a mile long and at places is over one hundred yards wide. Surrounded by mountains on the north and on the south the scenery about the lakes compares favorably with other lakes, more popularlv known. There is a sandy beach where it is safe for the smallest child or the most timid oerson to bathe, a place well patronized by both sexes during the bathing season. The water in other places is very deep attaining a depth of nearlv ninety feet near the breast of the dam. A farm house near the camp supplies fresh milk, eggs, some vegetables, water and ice. Other camps scattered through the valley afford company at intervals; passing wagons, carriages, and automobiles, frequently break the silence of the neighborhood otherwise only broken by the cries of crows, barking of the camp dog, or the cackling of chickens. The surrounding woods, of which there is an abundance, afford a shelter for foxes, squirrels, rabbits, chipmunks, snakes, whip-poor-wills and birds. The camp being located* on a slope, is well drained and sheltered so that the campers fear little from severe wind or rain storms. A gentle breeze blowing constantly along the valley makes the hottest day comfortable. The camp, moreover, being located some distance from civilization is so secure from the petty thieving of tramps and phe pranks of outsiders that the campers retire in the evening (after the first night) without any fear or misgiving.

■ There are other, things, moreover, to be mentioned about the camp besides the good location. The camp equipment should receive some attention. The following were found in Potter Camp:—

Digitized by L.oo<?le
—8ft —

3	12	oz.	army	duck	12x12	tents with	flies,	for	sleeping.

1	12	“	44	*•	7x7	cook	and provision	tent.

1	12	44	44	“	16x18	mess	table	fly.

1	12	44	44	44	9x12	cook	stove	fly.

12 wire spring cots 34x6 6“.

12 ticks to be tilled with fresh straw for the cots.

1	folding mess table with benches for 12 persons.

2	three-burner gasoline stoves.

1	cook oven.

1	ax.

1	hatchet, saw, hammer, spade, tool box, sledge, wrench.

5 lanterns, baseball bat, gloves, balls.

5 buckets, 1 set quoits.

3	folding chairs.

2	wash basins, 1 emergency case.

1 14 ft. Michigan steel row boat.

5 large pieces of old canvas for tent floors and storm covers.

Agate dishes, cooking utensils, towels, stakes, ropes, etc.

The outfit is complete for twelve persons and can be neatly packed awa into a half-dozen large well-made boxes built for the purpose. The outfit when packed may conveniently be shipped to any part of the world. One of the large boxes when eiqpty is used for a refrigerator, another for a grocery chest, another for stove support, two for suit cases and clothing; the cases holding the cots when covered with thin boards and white oil cloth serve as tables for the cook. The whole outfit when not in use is stored in the barn near by.

The camp has always been arranged with some idea to symmetry, comfort, and security. In 1910 and other years, the three sleeping tents

Digitized by Google
—87—

were placed about fifteen feet apart in a straight line forming one side of the camp 4 street.” About twenty-five feet in front of this line of tents and forming the other side of the camp 4‘street” the mess table, cook stoves and provision tent were placed; the idea having been to avoid the destruction of the sleeping tents in case of fire which is likely to occur when one uses gasoline stovfcs which give a good heat, smoke the utensils very little, and the fuel for which can be easily procured. Wood fires require more work all' around while coal oil stoves smoke too much. The middle sleeping tent supported the flag pole with its American flag and camp penant. The camp toilet, consisting of a hole i,x2’ and 1.5* deep over which a box arranged for comfort has been placed, was built about seventy-five yards from camp among the trees and concealed by old canvas purchased for tent floors and other odd uses.

There is nothing about a camp that adds so much to its appearance as the neat arrangement of the tents, stakes, and mess tables with the necessary cooking apparatus. A daily inspection of the camp which means attention to the ropes, stakes, blankets, cots, etc., is compulsory. Especially is this true during and just after a rain. Paper, boxes, clothing, etc., should not be permitted to lie around a camp nor in its vicinity. A hole should be dug some distance from camp wherein may be placed the garbage of the camp. It is just as important to cover this garbage with soil1 as it is to cover frequently the excreta in the toilet, the neglect of which in both cases means many flies about camp and possible sources of sickness. This is a very important matter about camp and one that must be attended to as regularly as the airing of blankets and tents.

Campers as a rule are a hungry lot; they live all day out of dobrs and work up a good appetite. At meal times they want to eat, and they do eat heartilv when the food is right. The following menu for the week will give a good idea of the fare at Potter Camp. The writer having had some experience with slow and tardy colored cooks resolVed to enjoy camping to the fullest extent by acting as cook himself, having had some experience at various camps during a period of fourteen years. Menus often were arranged to avoid constipation, a frequent trouble among campers.

MENU. Potter Camp.

A. M.

Cornflakes Bacon Fried eggs Bread Butter

Coffee or milk

Oatmeal Fried bread Prunes Bread Butter

Coffee or milk

SUNDAY.

NOON.

Pot roast beef Canned peas Boiled potatoes Watermelon Bread Butter

Coffee or milk

MONDAY.

Chopped beef Buttered beets Boiled potatoes Rice pudding Bread Butter

Coffee or milk

p. M.

Boiled ham

French fried potatoes

Lettuce

Bananas

Bread

Butter

Tea or milk

Dried beef Baked beans Sliced tomatoes Canned peaches Bread Butter Tea or milk

Digitized by CjOOQle
	—88— TUESDAY.	
A. M.	NOON.	P. M.
Cream of wheat	Lamb stew	Pressed ham
Buckwheat cakes	Boiled potatoes	French fried potatoes
Molasses	Canned corn	Lettuce
Bread	Tapioca pudding	Prunes
Butter	Bread	Bread
Coffee or milk	Butter	Butter
	Coffee or milk WEDNESDAY.	Tea or milk
Cornflakes	Beef steak	Frizzled dried beef
Ham	Fresh beans	Sliced tomatoes
Fried eggs	Buttered beets	Lettuce
Bread	Baked potatoes	Baked apples
Butter	Bread pudding	Bread
Coffee or milk	Bread	Sutter
Oatmeal	Butter  Coffee or milk  THURSDAY. Bean soup	Tea or milk Boiled ham
Buckwheat cakes	Canned peas	Sliced tomatoes
Molasses	Baked potatoes	Sweet cakes
Bread	Rice pudding	Bread
Butter	Bread	Butter
Coffee or milk	Butter	Tea or milk
Cream of wheat	Coffee or milk  FRIDAY. Clam chowder	Canned salmon
Boiled eggs	Canned corn	Baked beans
Bread	Boiled potatoes	Sliced tomatoes
Butter	Tapioca pudding	Bananas
Coffee or milk	Bread	Bread
Cornflakes	Butter  Coffee or milk SATURDAY, Beef steak	Butter Tea or milk  Boiled ham
Fried bread	Canned peas	French fried potatoes
Prunes	Boiled potatoes	Lettuce
Bread	Bread pudding	Bread
Butter	Bread	Butter
Coffee or milk	Butter	Tea or milk
	Coffee or milk	Canned peaches

The expenses per person of the 1910 camp were six dollars for the first week and five dollars for each succeeding week with an additional twenty-five cents per week for the use of the camp boat. This artiount at the time covered the cost of provisions, the rent for the camp site, the board and expenses of the camp leader, the wear and tear on the outfit, and the interest on the investment. The restrictions placed by the Reading Railway Company that controls most of the ground near the lakes has created a demand for camping sites on lands belonging to farmers up the valley from the lakes. As a result the farmers have asked a good rental for their camp sites. The increasing cost of provisions especially meats, lard, butter, eggs, and vegetables, has caused an increase in expenses so that a minimum of six dollars per week will be asked in 1911. Expenses may be reduced somewhat by buying .provisions in bulk. Groceries may be secured thus from Philadelphia cut price stores; Sears, Roebuck & Co., of Chicago, or else-

Digitized by CjOOQle
—89—

■where. Experience in this matter as in others is a good teacher. Quality must be considered. The articles in the bill of fare mentioned were purchased for an average of nine persons for four weeks, in the quantities mentioned below. When the supply ran out the nearby town supplied them. The camp sent an almost daily order to Pottsville for provisions in the nature of bread, meats, butter, fruits, and vegetables.

PROVISIONS—QUANTITY—COST.

V/2	doz.	candied corn..$1.20 ($ doz.

2	“	44 peas...... 1.25	44

1	44	“ peaches....	1.90

1 doz. baked beans...... 1.40	u

M2 44	tomato soups......	.90.	44

Vt 44	salmon...............80	V

Vi 44 condensed milk...r 1.20	2‘

1	bag of salt................   .03	,

5 lbs.	prunes................@	.10

4	4*	raisins............... @	.10

4	44	soup beans.............@	.05

35 44	sugar.................  @	.05^

5	44	lard..................  @	.17

4	44 oatmeal.................. .05

10 44	rice...................@	.10

5	44	butter per week........@	.30

3	pkg. E. C. cornflakes.....@	.12

3	44	cream of wheat.........@	.13

2	44	buckwheat..............@	.12

1	44	cornstarch ............@	.10

3	44	noodles.............. @	.10

4	loaves bread daily.............25

3	qts. milk daily................24

4	doz.	eggs—week.............@	.26

2 cans syrup—week.................@	.15

1 bu. new potatoes................@	1.20

1 watermelon per week.......@	.40

V/i doz. bananas—1 meal.....@	.20

4	bunches beets a week...........03

Lettuce per week...............10

Vi pk. fresh beans a week...@	.15

1	qt. onions......................05

Tomatoes (15 lbs. per week)...@	.10

IV* lbs. tea................. <0	.60

2 lbs. coffee per week.........@	.25

2	bottles vanilla...............  40

1 pk. pepper...............;......10

1 44	cinnamon..................  10

1	bottle salad dressing...........25

8 gallons gasoline............@	.15

3	boxes matches...............@	.05

6	cakes of soap (3 kinds)....M	.05

Toilet paper..................   .15

MEATS FOR THE WEEK

5	lbs. pot roast beef.............80

5	44	beefsteak................ 1.10

2	44	chopped beef................32

2 44	boiled ham............... 1.00

% 44	dried beef..................27

E 44	stew lamb...................45

2 44	bacon.......................40

1	44	pressed ham.................15

Soup bone.......................10

2	lbs. ham........................50

30 clams per week...................60

1	lb. sweet cakes a week..........15

3	pkg. tapioca................@	.15

Yapk. apples per week....:....... .15

2	lbs. soda (washing).............03

1 bottle oil of sassafras.........10

(to drive away flies from table)

The selection, moreover, of the members of the camp is another matter to be considered in running a camp successfully. Fortunately for all concerned, the members of the Potter Camps have been congenial—a most important matter when one is camping. One uncongenial member in a camp is sufficient to destroy all the harmony and good that a camp affords. Each one has been willing to assist the cook, to get water, provisions, etc. Each one seemed willing to obey the few rules which are here appended:—

RULES (hung up in each tent).

1.	Do not smoke in tents.

2.	Firearms must not be in evidence around camp.

3.	Do not use profanity.

4.	Respect the rights and property of others.

5.	All loud talking around camp must cease at 11 P. M.

6.	The good reputation of the camp depends on the good behavior of

each member of camp.

7.	Blankets and cots should be placed in the sun daily.

The best results from camping are gotten by:—

1.	Being optimistic.

2.	By retiring early.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-90—

H. By eating judiciously.

4. By refraining from smoking.

Each camper is advised to take the following outfit with him so as to be comfortable under all conditions:—

CAMPER’S OUTFIT.

1 pr. blankets or quilt.	Underwear	Towels

1 pr. boots or rubber shoes.	Shirts	Soap

1 pr. old shoes.	Collars	Wash rag

1 old suit and hat.	Ties	Comb

1 rubber coat or rain coat.	Stockings	Brush

1 bathing suit.	Camera	Baseball glove

Penknife.	Ball	Sweater

Young people whether at home or at camp require amusement and recreation. Potter Camp has been admirably located and regulated for them. At times bathing at six in the morning has been indulged in; an early walk up or down the road before breakfast is often_ taken—the woods being too wet with dew in the early morning. Breakfast, usually about eight, means a hearty meal1. The campers retire too late to get up earlier— this is the worst feature of the camp. The boys then go boating, play quoits, stroll up the mountain, play baseball or go to town for a short time. At eleven o'clock bathing and swimming become the chief attractions for everyone in camp at the time. The noon meal at one o'clock (the regularity of meals at Potter Camp was made one of its virtues) means another hearty meal. After this meal the boys usually seek the camp easy chair or take a sun bath for an hour—nearly all hands take a siesta. Visits to the mines are usually made in the mornings for very few care to miss the afternoon bathing and swimming. Although bathing suits were worn for several hours at a time, no one seemed to suffer from any ill effects except die newcomers who suffered from sunburn through keeping their pale skins exposed to the sun too long at first. The evening meal at six permitted the cook and all hands to get the work done and get into the “Run” for the evening. The camp, deserted by all except a faithful fox terrier and a lighted lantern under the mess tent, assumed an air of mountain stillness. Boxes and trunks were securely locked so that no one ever thought about robbery.

At the “Run” a vaudeville show, free moving pictures, free dancing, and an ice cream parlor—all under orderly management—made a desirable place to spend the evening. On clear evenings the young people of the town came out in droves; the campers soon became not only acquainted but also popular. At eleven everything shut down; lights were put out and everyone went home—some to town, some to camp where restful sleep was to be had without effort until the cook's dishpan-gong summoned the campers to breakfast.

In conclusion, one word about the camp leader should be added. This important person shoul'd be one quick to observe and remedy disturbed bodily functions, and discontent among campers; one agreeable to suggestions for amuseirients or better meals. He should be one who is firm in matters that tend to disturb the harmony of the camp or the peace and happiness of neighbors; and above all, he should be one cool in emergencies. The leader should be well versed in woodcraft, “first aid to the injured,” camp makeshifts, and in general be a storehouse of information for all occasions.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
-91-

American Physical Education Association Convention at Boston, Mass., April 11—14, 1911.

PROGRAM.

TUESDAY, APRIL ii, 2:30 P. M.

Therapeutic Section Lecture Hall of Girls’ Normal School 2:30 P. M. “Hygiene in Physical Education,” Miss Clara G. Baer, Sophie Newcomb College, New Orleans.

3:00 P. M. “Some Abdominal Poses and Their Treatment,” Dr. Jay

W.	Seaver, New Haven, Conn. Discussion opened hy Sanjuel G. Webber, M. D., President Massachusetts Medical1 Gymnastic Sb-ciety.

3:30 P. M. “Physical Training in the Correction of Scoliosis,” Dr. Edward H. Bradford, Harvard Medical School. Discussion opened by Frank E. Peckham, M. D., Providence, R. I.

4:00 P. M. “Age,” Dr. Charles S. Minot, Harvard Medical School. Discussion led by Dr. Geo. V. Buehler, Head Surgeon Cambridge Relief Hospital.

4:30 P. M. “Resuscitation of the Drowned,” Mr. Carl Forsberg, assisted by a crew of men from the Massachusetts Volunteer Life Saving Corps.

Joint Program .WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 8 P. M.

Reception at Harvard Medical School, given by the Massachusetts Medical Gymnastic Society to the American Physical Education Association. Address of welcome by Dean L. B. N. Briggs, Harvard University. President’s address, Dr. Geo. L. Meylan, Columbia University.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 9:30 A. M.

Girl’s’ Normal School 9:30 A. M. “Administration and Management of Physical Education in Public High Schools,” Thomas J. Browne, Physical Director Commercial High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

10:15 A. M. “The Mechanism of Voluntary Movement,” Dr. G. V. N.

Dearborn, Professor of Physiology; Tufts Miedical College.

10:45 A. M. Joint session, Secondary School section and Society of Directors of Physical Education in Colleges:

1.	“College Athletics,” Geo. W. Ehler, C. E., Professor of Physi-

cal Education, The University of Wisconsin. Discussion opened by William F. Garcelon, Graduate Treasurer Harvard University Athletic Association.

2.	“Administration and Management of Secondary School Physi-

cal Education,” Dr. Pierson S. Page, Physical Director Andover Academy.

3.	“Co-operation Between Secondary Schools and Colleges,”

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1:002:00.

Girl’s’ Normal School Luncheon

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
—92-

, , . WEDNESDAY, APRIL u

2130 P. M. Visits to Public Baths, Gymnasia,, Etc.

3 :oo P. M. Exhibition of gymnastics in gymnasium of Girls’ Normal School by fifteen girls from each of the ten high schools of Boston.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 8. P. M.

Public School Physical Training Society

C.	Ward Crampton, M. D., President.

Girls’ Latin School

Address of welcome, Hon. John J. Fitzgerald, Mayor of the city of Boston.

“Boston, 1915” ‘‘Getting Together to Promote Health and Efficiency,” James P. Monroe, Executive Director.

“The Two Kinds of Play,” Joseph Lee, School Committee, Boston. President Playground Association of America.

“A New System of Physical Training for Educational Purposes,” C. Ward Crampton, M. D., Director of Physical Training, New York Cityt

Joint Program THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 9:30 A. M.

9:30 A. 'M. “The Recreative Value of Certain Exercises” (A Preliminary Report), Dr. E. H. Arnold, Director New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

10:15 A. M. “The Physical Education of Girls and Women,” Dr. John M. Tyler, Professor of Amherst College.

11:00 A. M. “The Administration of Physical Education of Girls and Women,”

11:45 A. M. ‘fThe Administration of Physical Education in Public Elementary Schools,” Randall Warden, Director of Physical Education in Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1:00-2:00 P. M.

Girl's* Normal School Luncheon

THURSDAY, APRIL 13

2:30-10:30. Demonstrations, Visits to Playgrounds, Municipal Gymnasiums, etc.

FRIDAY, APRIL 14

Girl's’ Nprmal School

9:30 A. M. Business session.

10:30 A. M. “Albuminuria in Physical Education,” Elmer Berry, International Y. M. C. A. Training School, Springfield, Mass.

11:00 A. M. “Administration and Management of Physical Education in Social Organizations,” E. A. Peterson, Head Worker, Goodrich House, Cleveland, Ohio.

11:45 A. M. “Physical Welfare Work of a City,” Robert N. Words, South End House, Boston, Mass.

FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1 P. M.

Copley Square Hotel Luncheon. Meeting of the Council.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
—93—

HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS.

Write directly to the hotels, or to Baroness Rose Posse, 206 Massachusetts Avenue, Boston, secretary of the local committee.

Hotel Rates.

COPLEY SQUARE HOTEL. Headquarters. Special rates for those attending the Convention. European plan. Without bath, single room $1.50 per day, larger outside room $2.00 per day. Court room with private bath $2.00 per day. Outside room with private bath $3.00 per day. These rate® are for 1 person; $1 per day additional for 2 persons occupying room. Suite of 2 connecting court rooms, private bath, $2 per day each room; suite of 2 connecting outside rooms, private bath, $3 per day each room. These rates for 1 person in each room of suite; $1 per day additional for 2 persons occupying each room.

HOTEL NOTTINGHAM. European plan. Without bath, single room $1.50 and $2.00; double room $2.50. With bath, single room $2.50 and $3.00; two beds $3.50. Two rooms and bath $5.00. All rates are per day.

HOTEL WESTMINSTER. European plan. 1 person in a room $2.00; 2 persons in a room $3.00.	2	and	3 rooms to suite.

Extracts from “Physical Education,” London.

AN APPEAL.

We venture to make an appeal, especially to young men, to give a little thought to the subject of physical education from the point of view of its being a duty to the State, as well as to one’s self and neighbour. Physical education is the subject which this journal1 endeavours to promote, and believes to be a necessary part of everybody’s education. Physical education will not do everything, but sound physical education is the foundation upon which the State must build if it desires to stand the stress and strain of modern life. If young men would make a study of English History—a fascinating subject—they would find it a record of personal service and individual initiative that has pieced together our world empire. But to-day, 1911, it will require a high level of general excellence to maintain that empire, and to do that, every section of society must be prepared to sacrifice something for the Motherland. If not by immutable law, we shall drift (or be crushed out) into a fourth or fifth rate power.

The first people that ungrudgingly accord woman her rightful privileges and position in the State and home, and awards physical education (not games, which should always be optional) a place similar to that prevalent in the palmy days of Greece, may withstand, as no other race ever has, the decay that hitherto has seemed to be the ultimate fate of all civilisations.

We have yet to learn the great, though simple truth that the Kingdom of Health, like Heaven, is within. No tinkering without will or can do what must ever emanate from within outwards. Man must work out his own (physical) salvation and from within. What applies to the individual applies to the nation. When this fact is realised, two practices must

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-94-*

go by the board, viz., vivisection and vaccination, both being permitted only because of the gross ignorance, in high places, of the marvellous possibilities and potentialities of the highest creation on this planet, viz., the body , of man.

By correct diet, poise, and a knowledge of the laws governing locomotion, man should live to reach easily the age of 90 or loo, retaining normal1 health.

We would ask voung men to look around and see what is being done upon the Continent by our neighbours in gymnastics and then to emulate their brother gymnasts; for there is no finer raw material in the globe than in England, but raw material must be “worked up” but that is just what the average young man shirks, viz., the discipline necessary in gymnastics. He* prefers his games—he desires to get as much from the State as he can and give as little—in this every section of society is alike. Then let him take an intelligent interest in general foreign affairs—then join some one of the defensive schemes now waiting for him. If weak, join a gymnasium; regular exercise will very soon harden and build him up. A weak nation, like an anaemic school-boy, invites attack.

In June last, the National Physical Recreation Society did a very patriotic thing in inviting French and Bohemian gymnasts to compete for our National Shield, in order to give an object lesson of what is done in other countries. In spite of a journey of 900 miles, different rules and conditions, the Czechs won our Shield with ridiculous ease. In France and Bohemia, thousands and thousands of young men gladly and willingly submit to the necessary, often severe, discipline connected with gymnastics for the “honour, safety and welfare” of their country.

It is not altogether the fault of the average young man, ignorance regarding physical education in this country is rife, especially discemable in theoretical writers, educational authorities, medical men, etc., who are, as a »	rule,	unable to differentiate between physical exercise and education. On

the other hand voluminous writers declare that in the worship of the god of games all necessary will be found to carry on successfully our great and world-wide empire.

The gymnastic and calisthenical work shown last June by our French /	and	Czech visitors was a revelation, and already good results are accruing

in various directions.

We look forward to the time when we, like Continental nations, will have our great Gymnastic Festivals, and why not have them inaugurated by a simple religious ceremony, and honoured by our King—showing that the country at large realises the importance and necessity of training the national physique to be hardy and vigorous in order to retain the world position gained for us by the splendid efforts of our forefathers. Existence . in the near future is not going to be one whit less strenuous than it is today. If we are to hold “our palm to pine” conquests it will only be by carrying out nationally and literally the truth enshrined in the old aphorism, Cfoittm vires civitatts vis.

Judging bv the following correst>ondence our English cousins are not at all pleased by the new Syllabus of Physical Training adopted by the Board of Education, nor with the teachers who are to teach it.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-95-

TO THE EDITOR OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Dear Sir:—Referring to the paragraph in your last issue entitled “Physical1 Training” it seems that the Board of Education is about to invoke the aid of Legislation to compel children of their schools to receive daily Physical Training. The expression used is “suitable and appropriate Physical Training,” yet I venture to assert that the interpretation of this hitherto has been one Syllabus of would-be Swedish exercises compiled for the universal use of ordinary school teachers, “untrained” or “trained.” The latter are persons who have possibly attended throughout an optional course of ten or a dozen lessons given by a Gymnastic Teacher, whose services have been procured by their Education Committee; the untrained are those who have not had this “little knowledge,” which for them and for Gymnastic Teachers is proving a “dangerous thing.”

In view of the fact that both the Syllabus and this method of instruction appear to meet with entire satisfaction on the part of the authorities, may I ask on the children’s behalf if the Bill introduced by Mr. Whyte requires this sort of thing to be continued to their seventeenth year? If the English child is bound to be “made in Sweden,” so to speak, may his “medical treatment,” be undertaken by someone who knows something about it?

Economy whispers to the Board of Education that a nominal dozen lessons, a smattering of Physiology and Hygiene—so condensed as to leave the novice under the impression that ventilation consists of mechanical contrivances opposed to tight-lacing, and that Morris Dancing and Medical Inspection will prevail against crowded localities; also that the circulation of the blood is brought about in the centres 6f co-ordination by the Board of Education’s Syllabus appealing to the Aesthetic Sense. Economy whispers that these impressions together with unbounded self-complaisance on the part of the Council Teacher will avert the danger of physical degeneration.

If the terms of the Bill do not provide for the best of College-trained instruction, then its hopeless failure will be the better fate for England. It is to be pointed out, also, that the authority of “The Board” is increasing to Secondary and High Schools, and who can tell how much further in the future?

Let those who have Physical Progress for all social classes at heart see to it that this matter be legalized only under proper conditions.

Yours faithfully,

Sceptic.

BOOK REVIEW.

Open Air by William E. Watt, A. M., Ph. D. 282 pages SV2 by 8 inches, illustrated; published by The Little Chronicle Co., Chicago. Mailing price $1.65. Any one who has been fortunate enough to hear Dr. Watt speak on the subject of ventilation will be glad to have this book for it is as bright and breezy, and as full1 of wit as his lectures are. The book is a statement of what is being done and what should be done to secure right air in homes, schools, offices, factories, churches, etc. Dr. Watt is principal of the Graham school, Chicago. In his preface he says:

“Most modern houses are kept too warm. All modern school's are kept too warm and dry. All children who can afford it have too great an

Digitized by

Google
-96-

abundance of underwear and wraps. Mothers frequently swelter their children with wool and silk and fur to make them immune to colds, rheumatism and pneumonia! Science shows us that this is the very surest road to these diseases.” And in “The Steam-Heated Woman” chapter in his book Dr. Watt says:

“The steam-heated woman of to-day often says things to her children, to her husband, or to her dearest friend, which she knows at the time are unwise, hurtful and possibly not entirely true. But she is under the impulse to do something desperate because she has steam-heated herself out of all semblance to patience and good temper.” “A measure of quick relief is to reduce the heat.” “The girls of to-day, however, are better equipped than their mothers, for they know better than to submit to the practices which were in vogue when the heroine of the novel was a pale beauty. We call such anaemic now. In the days of the not very remote past the novelist found it necessary to have his heroine faint at the proper point, the focal point in the story. “This has come about because our girls now are outdoor girls. They ride and golf and spend much time getting a quantity of tan. They walk and swim. They shock their mothers frequently, but they have less occasion to call the physician.”

The book is warmly recommended to alp teachers. To be had from. Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Truths. Talks with a boy concerning himself, by Edith B. Lowry.,, M. D. 96 pages, \]/2 by 7 inches, published by Forbes and Company, Chicago. Mailing price 55 cents.

In this book the author follows the same line of thought that she does in her book for girls, “Confidences.” While the book is good and should be widely used it hasn’t the same “true ring” that her other book has. A woman can not write so well on the sexual question of boys as she can of her own sex. To us it seems that her book in connection with Dr. Winfield Hall’s book “Reproduction” preceded, perhaps, by Miss Margaret Morley’s book “A Song of Life” would give teachers and parents an admirable sequence of books for boys. The book is warmly recommended. To-be had from Mind and Body, fierol'd Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

SUMMER SESSION

of the

to be held at

INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

Courses in all the branches of physical training. Special course in play and playground management.

For bulletin address :

NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U.,

415 E. Michigan St.,

Indianapolis, Ind..

Digitized by