MIND AND BODY

Vol. 34	JULY, 1927 No.	361

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Brookline, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

-----------------------------------------------♦

Qriginal articles and reprint^

«►-----------------------------------------------♦

GAMES AND SPORTS IN BRITISH SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES

General Summary

On the basis of the foregoing sketch of sport at British schools and universities, certain generalizations may be emphasized, not for the sake of instituting comparisons or contrasts with the United States, but simply in order to give to American readers a clearer understanding of conditions in Great Britain:

1.	Games and sports form an important phase of the educational process as it is carried on at British schools and universities. They are valued partly for their physical effect upon youth, and even more for their socializing influences. This valuation is a matter rather of practice than of theory. Comparatively little recognition has as yet been accorded to sport in British educational discussion, and none in the form of university organization. Many of the younger universities, however, are aiding athletics to the end that a better corporate

•Taken from Bulletin No. 18, 1927 of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

Digitized by VjOOQlC
146

feeling may be developed, and the university life and training enriched thereby.

2.	However much participation in games may be insisted upon at public and day schools, at all universities sport is essentially casual. It is the result not of compulsion or pressure in any form, but of individual volition and choice. College and university sport is therefore free from exaggerated self-consciousness. Interest in it is, broadly speaking, spontaneous because it grows out of personal experience of the field or the river and the loyalties engendered by a common life. At the older universities, participation is very general for the reason that this casual attitude appeals favorably to a great many students. At the newer universities and in Scotland, the ties of corporate life being weaker, either competitive sport languishes or enthusiasm for it must be stimulated.

3.	Subject to individual exceptions, the major emphasis of British university student-opinion sustains academic work and the group of activities connected with it rather than games. Sport is made ancillary to study. The reason is to be traced in the strong persistence of the tradition that a university shall be conducted as primarily an intellectual agency. Even the man who enters an older university preferably for sport soon conceives a genuine respect for intellectual achievement and is often led to emulate it. On the other hand, it is generally held that no man can secure high honor in his studies without manifesting some of the qualities of mind that are developed by social contacts in games and in mingling with others.

4.	In Great Britain sport, like education, has not yet reached mass development. Sport is still an affair of individuals. Its development at any given institution is therefore mainly dependent upon the economic and social status and the tastes of the individuals who form the group.

5.	The course of British sport has always been strongly influenced by the graduates of the universities and the public schools. With former school, college, and university players, a participating interest in games tends to remain keenly active throughout life. Yet in spite of the activities of old boys’ and graduates’ sport clubs, the sports and games of the schools and universities are of very much less practical concern to graduates, and usually to teachers, than to the schoolboys and undergraduates who participate actively in them. The factitious reputation that athletic success can bring to institutions is therefore considerably qualified, even while personal athletic prowess is highly esteemed.

6.	Owing to the nature of British games, less importance attaches to a player’s precision of technical skill than to the diversion that he receives from them. Generally, they are learnt early in life. Participation is therefore play in the strict sense of the term, whether during a single contest or throughout a season.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
147

7.	Since games are regarded in Great Britain as essentially play rather than work, the line between the amateur, the man who plays at his games, and the professional, the man who works at sport for financial profits, is strictly drawn in most branches of athletics, nominally drawn in all. The whole force of public-school and university opinion tends to keep this distinction constantly charged with meaning. Very few persons depend upon school, college, or university sport for their livelihood, and those who are thus dependent are regarded not as leaders, but as employees. No such person depends upon victory for his living. These facts, supplementing the traditions of the public schools, stimulate a conscious effort to prevent the commercializing of school or university sport and of amateur sport in general. Thus, the phrases, “play the game’’ and “to play the game for the game’s sake,” transcend the usual emptiness of such slogans, gather an almost mystical significance, and become the rallying cries of British sportsmen.

It is to the tonic quality of moral education implied in these ideals that games and sports in British schools and universities significantly contribute.

THE DESIGNING OF PLAY AND ATHLETIC FIELDS

Translation by William A. Stecher.

The German National Commission for Physical Education has just issued an announcement that snows how thoughtfully Germany is preparing now for the great extension in physical education work, play and athletics taking place there. The announcement is as follows:

Thursday, June 23. Morning, general meeting.

1)	The necessity of adequate facilities because of the health of the people.

2)	The necessity of such facilities for education ends.

3)	Determining principles in the designing of such

facilities.

Afternoon, sectional meetings

2	P. M. 1) The designing and maintenance of the following: Running tracks, Jumping Pits, Throwing and putting fields.

2)	Bicycle tracks

3)	Grand stands, Gymnasiums, Athletic halls.

4 P. M. 4) Design and maintenance of fields as follows: Football, Hockey, Tennis, Golf, Baseball, and Playgrounds for children.

5) Problems of Heating, Lighting and Ventilation

Friday, June 24. Morning, sectional meetings

9 A. M. 6) Tracks and other facilities for sledding 11 A. M. 7) Swimming pools for summer and for winter use.

8) Boats and boat houses

Digitized by VjOOQlC
148

3. P. M. 9) Sport parks, trees, shrubbery, etc.

6	P. M. General meeting

10) Financial operations involved (speaker will be the former cabinet member Dominicus). The best men available have been selected to present and to lead the work of each meeting.

Saturday, June 25. 8 A. M. A tour embracing visits to the following: Post stadui, (erected for postal employees) General Park, Playground at the Lonesome Poplar, German Stadium, Sport Forum, the Golf Course at Wannsee, Sports Field at Wannsee, Gymnasium and the Dominicus playground.

In the evening a special train will be taken to visit the following cities that offer, exceptional opportunities for inspecting the best existing facilities for play, recreation and sport. Sunday, June 26 Dortmund, Oberhausen, Duisberg Monday, June 27 Dusseldorf, Cologne Tuesday, June 28 Frankfort on the Main Wednesday, June 29 Nurenberg

Thursday, June 30 Dresden and the Jugendburg at Hohen-stein. Evening, return to Berlin

Participants’ tickets cost 20 Marks; the round trip including fare, hotel and sleeper will cost approximately 300 marks. Ho* tels in Berlin will cost from 5 to 10 marks daily.

The announcement is being sent to all cities and rural committees asking them to send as their representatives men who have a deciding voice in determining policies affecting the physical education of children and adults, as well as the recreation policies of communities.

Communications are to be addressed to Secretary of the German National Commission for Physical Education (Deutscher Reichsausschuss fur Leibestibungen), Kurfursten Strasse 48, Berlin, W. 35, Germany.

Here is a chance for American cities to send someone abroad to give us the results of thfe notable convention and inspection tour.

COLLEGE ATHLETICS*

A quarter of a century ago, a writer on student life and customs selected the years about 1890 as the period in which abuses fn athletics reached a climax and from which an improvement could be traced. At the turn of the century he wrote, “the two problems which confront college athletics today are, (1) the realization of a higher ideal of sport which involves the relegation of the all important factor of intercollegiate competition to a secondary position, and the substitution therefor of an adequate conception of physical culture, and (2) the ex-

♦From the 20th Annual report of the president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

Digitized by CjOOQIC
149

tension of the benefits of organized games to a much larger number of undergraduates.” His words anticipate by some twenty-five years the burden of recent reports on certain phases of present-day college athletics. If the implied strictures apply as well to the conditions of 1925 as to those of 1901, wherein lies the progress in American college sport that has so often been attributed to the past twenty-five years?

It may perhaps lie, first, in the recognition, which is gaining currency today, that the abuse of intercollegiate rivalry and the desirability of extending the benefits of organized games to as many students as practicable, are phases of a single matter, and, secondly, in the conviction, which perhaps may as yet be only a hope, that athletic sport, freed from the tendencies that at present overlay it, can be made to have value as a part of the process of education.

Mass Athletics

For all of the problems involved the solution is held by many to be mass athletics. The purpose of mass athletics, by whatever name it is called, it to secure the participation of as many physically fit students as possible in games and sports. Athletic contests between classes and other units in the common life of the university, individual play at tennis, squash, handball, golf, boxing, fencing, sculling, running, and other pursuits are to provide recreation and wholesome exercise according to the student’s capacity. Physical examinations are given with the intention of preventing his entering games for which his bodily condition does not qualify hitn, to open the way to sports best suited to his powers and needs, and to measure his progressive physical development. In the degree to which these ends are secured, and iki proportion as the student body is induced to play games out-of-doors, mass athletics is commonly regarded as successful.

Some Dangers in Mass Athletics

Other factors, however, both physical and moral, must be considered in any attempt to evaluate the results of mass athletics. To a growing number of physicians it is a grave question whether hard athletic indulgence during adolescence is worth the price the athlete often must pay when he reaches full maturity. “In colleges, the oversized boy, tall and overweight, is excellent football material. If not overtrained and heart-hurt at the time of the athletic tests, he acquires a hypertrophied heart and hence an increased systolic blood pressure, which makes him uncomfortable and mentally and physically ‘foul’ (as he terms it) as soon as his athletic life ceases. He is from this time on an impaired insurance ri^k; as a rule,, he does not live to his expectancy. In practically all colleges and in some schools, physical medical examinations are made of each boy or youth before he is accepted and trained for any special branch of athletics, and the diseased or damaged hearts are eliminated. But what medical examination of a boy or youth can exactly

Digitized by Google
150

determine his reserve heart strength?” Acute heart strain may occur not only in the competitive contest, but even in the period of training that supposedly fits the participants for the final struggle. The oarsman-hero who topples over in the shell at the finish of the university race is not the only victim of utter heart exhaustion.

The non-physical factors must concern the physician less than those who are responsible for other phases of the education of youth. Even some undergraduates have expressed apprehension lest the careful supervision that mass athletics implies may deprive sport of some of its spontaneity, and lest too formal or too complicated a system of intramural contests may shortly leave no place for the “duffer” or the “dub”. The practice of "scouting for 'varsity material” among the participants in intramural games is likely to prove a deleterious influence, for, once discovered, the "promising” if reluctant sportsman can be scarcely expected to resist the calls, of duty to Alma Mater, on the one hand, and of personal fame, on the other. At some institutions a determined attempt is made to engage as many men as possible in preparation for intercollegiate contests, to benefit these individuals by a regular and rather rigid course of training under competent direction, and to secure a large reserve of recruits to be drawn upon in the development of various teams. Squads from which members of teams representing the university are selected are kept large at all times during the playing season and cuts in them are postponed.

Some phases of such an athletic program are undoubtedly beneficial. But late squad cuts encourage rather than diminish the idea of intercollegiate competition and mass rivalry, and in so far as this idea is baneful it must affect any activity that it permeates. On this ground the endeavor to engage as many men as possible in intercollegiate competition must; be sharply distinguished from mass athletics in its best phases. A more wholesome future for college and university sport rests not so much upon further disseminating the idea of athletic rivalry between institutions as upon modifying it and perhaps curtailing it.

The Financing of Mass Athletics

Mass athletics is costly. Its success depends upon extensive playing fields, competent and tactful promoters, and almost unlimited supplies of athletic equipment. All of these requirements entail large current and capital outlays. Even the best endowed university could scarcely afford the expenditures from present college funds necessary for one autumn’s mass athletics. Many administrators have already committed themselves to the view that mass athletics is a most beneficial element in the education of youth, and projects involving it are being enthusiastically promulgated at more than one institution.

► 71 Yet on the other hand, few branches of college athletics are self-supporting, even with the help of student fees. Of college

Digitized by * ^.ooQie
151

sports, three are occasionally prosperous: basketball, baseball, and football. The success of mass athletics is almost everywhere dependent upon the financial prosperity of football alone.

Mass athletics offers only one of the reasons why football at a great university must be made a paying venture. Every chance that may lead to commercial success must be availed of—even the gate receipts may be insured. The compensation paid to coaches, trainers, graduate advisers, side-line and other physicians, rubbers, the equipment often used a few times by “first-string” players and then passed on to less pampered or less important contestants, the straw or sawdust for the field in case of rain, some of the expenses of training tables, to say nothing of the sums represented by the erection and maintenance of stadja that could accommodate the entire population of a good-sized city—the cost of all these items, as well as the support of other forms of intercollegiate athletics, must be borne by football. When to that cost is added the burden of financing mass athletics, in whatever guise, the importance of winning teams is seen in its real perspective, for winning teams bring publicity and publicity brings large gate receipts.

The Desire to Win

At the root of the Anglo-Saxon tradition of athletic sport, to whatever remote corners of the earth it has penetrated, lies the desire for victory. Games, even the mildest, are nothing without the element of contest, which is the very core of sport. The notion of the game for the game’s sake may be held up as an ideal, but that ideal gains whatever reality it may possess from the fact that a man who can play a game well can excel his competitors. The player who does not play to win is intolerable to friends and opponents alike, whether in one hemisphere or the other. The crowd that follows the boats along the Iffley towpath is as moisy and tense as the throngs on the observation trains that trail the shells at New London, and even more gay with color. Boat-race night in London is as strident as in New Haven, nor is the tumult confined to the natural partisans of the universities. The English public follows sport, amateur or professional, with a seriousness unknown to the general r*un of American newspaper readers. The fundamental differences between English and American college games lie not in the presence of the desire to win in one country and its absence in the other, but in the values that are set upon the victory, in the means that are felt to be justifiable to secure it, and in the number of spectators.

If our college athletics and especially mass athletics do possess the wholesome elements that their apologists and promoters have claimed for them, and if our colleges are to train the habits and powers of youth, and predominantly its mental habits and powers, we should recognize that athletic sports and games must be made to serve this end and primarily this end, if our higher institutions are to be intellectual agencies. ,

^	*	Digitized	by
152

Grant this much, and we are faced by the fact that all the benefits that may derive from games and sports for the student depend for their existence upon the financial prosperity of football Abolish—assuming for the moment that the step were possible—admission charges to football games, and not only will intercollegiate competition go, but mass athletics will be rendered impossible before its ideals have begun to become realities; the good will perish with the bad.

The Saving of College Sport

Athletic sports and games can be made a beneficent force in American education, but not by continuing their commercialization or by permitting thdm longer to retain their pre-eminence in our distorted scale of academic values. They will never be abolished, and he would lack judgment who advocated that they should be. Their more valuable qualities can be enhanced and bent to secure some of our educational needs that enable men to live as men should among their fellows. Their undesirable elements can be diminished.

If, then, educational virtue does ihhere in athletic sports from which the taint of commercialism and mass rivalry has been eliminated, and if this taint may endanger even mass athletics, only one course seems open to those institutions which desire to render intramural games serviceable to education. Some form of financial support is required, sufficient to make resort to the methods of the showman and the professional sport-promoter unnecessary. Hitherto, athletics has absorbed the college; it is time for the college to absord athletics.

The Rationalizing of College Athletics .

At present, three groups, perhaps four, unite to direct our college athletic policies: students, faculty, alumni, certainly, and in some instances the townsmen, who are beginning to make their influence felt. That students of college age should acquire a predominance in the annual disbursement of sums running from a half to three quarters of a million dollars, which today represent the gross income from athletics at certain larger universities, is not to be maintained for a moment. Faculties are supposed to consist of specialists in scholarship and education, not fn the financing of athletics. The amount of time and responsibility that faculty advisers even now are forced to devote to undergraduate spor ts is not always to the best scholastic interest of universities and colleges. The panacea of “faculty control of athletics” is not the universal remedy that some have supposed it to be. Until alumni justify by good works their present powers, the wisdom of giving them still further voice in the matter is dubious. Of late yearls, the townsman, with his demands that large stadia be built in order to fill his pockets, whether from construction contracts or from seasonal sales to visitors, his over-valuing of winning teams, and his insistence upon being admitted to the big games at the state university

Digitized by VjOO^lc
153

which he as a taxpayer helps to support, is becoming a sinister figure. Clearly, neither students, faculties, nor alumni are in position to assume further duties or demands connected with the control of college athletics as ft exists today.

It should, however, be possible to secure a reapportionment of responsibilities and a quickening of judgment respecting athletics in alumni, faculty, and students. Once let these groups be awakened, and whatever is demoralising in the townsman’s influence is minimized. For such a change the initiative must rest with the American college or university president.

The American system of control fti higher education, for good or for ill, has vested in the college president powers that are, or have been, almost absolute, yet the president is the servant of all masters. Winning athletic teams and the huge crowds that witness games have had a powerful effect upon the publicity that makes for increased registration. Perhaps, after all, our fundamental error has consisted in an inability to distinguish between undue expansion and wholesome requisite growth. Be that as it may, at a time when the college president might have curbed his alumni in their hue and cry after numbers, he often ran with their noisiest. When he might in respect of athletics have molded the academic conscience and reformed the opinfon of undergraduates, he has often left the task to others. University funds have been loaned—at good interest, to be sure— for the erection of stadia to accommodate spectators at football games. Gate receipts, schedules, salaries of coaches and attendants, the repayment of loans and the meeting of interest charges, disciplinary administration, the taxation of playing fields, the scholastic standing of players, eligibility, and all the practices that are darkened by what we call commercialism without knowing precisely what we mean, have been permitted to corrupt a form of activity that might have been made of great value in training the powers of youth. Now that the current is flowing with its full force, the college president must consume years of persuasion to accomplish in athletics results that thirty or even ten years ago he might have achieved in months. In this respect, he has been a leader who has not led.

Any institution whose alumni, undergraduates, and faculty desire wholesome and rational athletics can have it both within its own walls and in modified competition with rivals. A college that sets about securing such athletics to itself may suffer defeat on the playing field, its registration may diminish, and its constituency may clamor; but its faculty will in time discover a change in the scholastic tetnper of its student body, and its undergraduates will learn the distinction between true athletic sport and noisy and scruple-diminishing competition.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
154

THE RELATION OF PUBERTAL CHANGES IN GIRLS TO PHYSICAL ACTIVITY

(Excerpts from an article written by Mrs. Buche-Geis, M. D. Gynecologist in Dresden, Germany).

During the years preceding puberty in girls, growth is mainly in height. With the advent of puberty, however, the secretion from the ovaries brings about an acceleration of growth in another direction, a growth in breadth. Growth in length no longer proceeds in the same proportion as before. Under the influence of this sedretion the complete ossification of the skeleton setfc in. This is also the important period for the development of the adult body form. These physiological developments are modijfied by the demands of daily life and of civilization, by poor posture, and by sedentary habits, etc. Growth in breadth, particularly of the thorax, is thereby interfered with. The result is a small, flat, sunken chest.

It is our business, then, to footer the physiological effects of the ovarian secretion, to counteract the retarding influences and to further the growth in breadth. During this period we must, therefore, influence the bones in such a way that they will develop breadth of body. Thte is above all important for the thorax; but, also, for the pelvic girdle. Exercise for such purpose must naturally be strong and vigorous.

Growth in breadth of thorax is gained by means of all those exercises which expand, lift, and develop elasticity of the chest, as for example, all gymnastic breathihg exercises. Of course, these breathing exercises have but a hypothetical value if the lungs themselves are not induced to strong and active participation. To this end bodily exercises which force the lungs to strongest effort are necessary; that is, bodily exercises which greatly stimulate respiration. Running, swimming, etc., are of exceptional value in this respect in that they combine a breathing exercise with the strongest stimulation of lung activity. For the practice of correct breathing exercises, such activities are of greatest value, having a substantially greater value than breathing exercises which do not by means of body activity demand great lung expansion. In order to participate in such activities it is necessary that the respiratory muscles be developed. These muscles are the ones which raise and lower the chest. At the same time the muscles of the neck, chest, shoulders, back and abdomen come into action. These muscles must, therefore, also be exercised in order that they may constantly aid in raising and lowering the chest. This strengthening of the respiratory muscles is not to be desired for the purpose of developing the ability to execute one or two breathing exercises occasionally, but, by means of continued exercise, to get the muscles into that condition which will permit them properly to fulfill their func-

Digitized by ViOO^ 1C
155

tions over a long period of time. It is just for this reason that continuous exercise in running, swimming, etc., is of great importance. For the development of girth of chest, for the stimulation of the bones for growth in breadth, the most suitable exercise, next to swimming, consists of exercises on the apparatus. Apparatus work is an indispensible factor in the development of chest girth during this period.

What is true so far as the chest is concerned, is likewise true of the pelvic girdle. I have often pointed out the great importance of breadth of the pelvic girdle during childbirth The period of puberty is of extreme importance for the later breadth dimension of the pelvic girdle. Once the pelvic bones have become ossified, it is very difficult to bring about any change in dimensions. During puberty, while the activity of the ovaries is stimulating the development of pelvic breadth, we 0an best aid nature and induce development in the desired direction. Most suitable for this purpose are all those exercises which involve energetic swinging and straddling of the legs, and a lowering and raisihg of the front of the pelvis. The greatest number and variety of exercises of this kind are possible on the gymnastic apparatus: on the parallel bars, horse, horizontal bar, etc. Vigorous free exercises of the Swedish and Neils Bukh type are also suitable for the attainment of this end. In addition, many track and field activities and sports in which the pelvis and hips are vigorously involved are valuable, such as high jumping, shot putting, ball games which necessitate frequent bending, swimming movements which demand drawing up the knees and straddling the legs, etc. Rhythmic gymnastics also afford many suitable exercises. It is obvious, then, that it is mainly during this period of unfolding that vigorous bodily exercises of all kinds are absolutely necessary.

All bodily exercises are permissable, but we must observe moderation. For this reason it is best to omit activities which have an exhausting influence upon the heart. Above all, long distance running, long distance swimming, and long distance rowing are to be omitted between the ages of 14-18 years. On the other hand, short runs from 75 to 100 metres, as well as short distance swims are permissible. As exercises of speed they exert a stimulating effect upon the growth of the heart and serve to strengthen it. Such exercises, however, should not be indulged in more than two or three times per week. Among the games which are suitable during puberty are schlagball, stock-ball (baseball), and tennis: among the track and field activities high jump, broad jump, etc.

Many girls have heart murmurs during puberty. A physician possessing a knowledge of physical education activities must determine the type, as well as the amount, of activity in which such girls may participate. On the whole we need not be uneasy about these girls, provided, of course, that the trouble is not a genuine case of valvular deficiency followingze^e@0^g^of the
156

joints, diphtheria, etc. I have found among girls with so-called functional heart disturbances a surprising increase in strength of the heart as the result of participation in bodily exercises.

FAINTING

What is ordinarily understood by the term “fainting” is not a serious condition. Swooning, or falling in unconsciousness, may, however, accompany any one of several serious and sometimes fatal conditions. Different emotions cause different circulatory disturbances. EmbaiTassment causes blushing by a paralysis of the constricting muscles of the small surface blood vessels. When the constrictor muscles let go, the surface vessels dilate and this permits an excess of red blood to come to the surface. On the other hand, anger and fear cause blanching of the face by reason of the constriction of the small surface vessels and a decreased flow of blood to the surface.

Shock, such as “surgical shock” following severe injury or during and after a surgical operation is caused by a dilatation of the large internal vessels. With only the proper amount of blood in the body to fill these vessels and maintain circulation under normal pressure it ip readily understood that if these large internal vessels suddenly dilate there will not be enough blood to fill them. When they are only partly filled circulation cannot be maintained and as soon as there is a deficiency of blood to the brain unconsciousness follows.

This is analogous to ordinary fainting. If, as a result of some emotion there is a temporary disturbance of circulation and decreased blood flow to the brain, the result is swooning or fainting. When the person drops down with the head on a level with or below the rest of the body, gravity aids the blood flow to the brain and the person quickly recovers.

Some persons faint veiy easily when they visit the dentist, the doctor or see someone injured. The emotion caused by seeing blood or seeing some one suffer is sufficient to bring about this temporary circulatory disturbance. First there is blanching of the face with a death-like pallor quickly followed by unconsciousness if the person does not sit or lie down or get out to the open air.

Fainting because of being in a crowded room belongs to this same class as does also so-called “hysterical” fainting. Always emotional persons faint much more readily than others.

Usually persons who faint recover more quickly if left where they fall but they should be straightened out into a comfortable ppsition flat on the back with the head low. Good circulation of fresh air should be secured, with fans if necessary, and friction of the lhnbs toward the heart will be helpful. Cold water to the face causes a reaction which often quickly restores tone to the vessel walls. The inhalation of irritants as camphor

Digitized by VjjOOQ LC
157

ammonia, or “smelling salts” often helps to bring about this reaction.

The pulse of a person in a hysterical faint remains unchanged but in other cases the pulse will be weak and slower than normal. Persons debilitated by malnutrition or sickness faint much more readily than when they are normally well and strong. No attempt should be made to give any sort of medicine to be swallowed until consciousness has fully returned.

Fainting never occurs without cause and when it occurs without apparent cause a doctor should be consulted to find and remove the cause. The person who falls unconscious without apparent cause and who does not give a history of frequent or easy fainting may not be fainting at all but may be in urgent need of immediate medical attention for some serious heart condition. In such cases it is better to call a doctor unnecessarily than to take chances.—N. Carolina Health Bulletin.

HOW MAY WE MAINTAIN THE BALANCE BETWEEN FORMAL AND FREE ACTIVITY PROGRAMS IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS?*

Grover W. Mueller, Philadelphia

It will be impossible in the time at my disposal to deal in any but a most superficial manner with the topic which has been assigned to me. This is true, to a large extent, because there is no considerable agreement among us regarding which activities are formal and which are informal or free.

It would seem necessary, therefore, that a discussion on this ' topic start out with a very clear definition of terms; otherwise there will be confusion of thought. Secondly, a discussion on this subject should develop the advantages and disadvantages associated with each type of activity, because there is considerable disagreement on this matter, also. Thirdly, in order that the discussion may have a practical value, it should concern itself as largely as possible with applications to concrete school conditions.

This is a rather large order for twenty minutes. I shall do the best I can in the allotted time, but obviously cannot introduce many details. There seems to be a prevailing tendency to use the terms 'ihformal’ and ‘natural’ as though they were synonymous. The same is true of the terms ‘formal’ and ‘artificial’. As a matter of fact, the terms ‘natural’ and ‘artificial’ have reference to the type of activity; the terms ‘formal’ and ‘informal’ to the method of conducting the activity.

♦Read at the convention of the Eastern District, American Physical

Education Association, Washington, D. C., April, 1927.

Digitized by ViOOQ LC
158

That a natural activity may be taught in a formal way is a matter of common knowledge and practice to good teachers of physical education. Examples of this are very common. Likewise, artificial movements may be practiced in an informal way, although, to be sure, this but rarely occurs.

Most activities may be given either as formal or informal exercises. It is unquestionably true that some activities lend themselves more readily to an informal procedure and that others are almost of necessity presented in a formal way. But this does not alter the fact that they may be given in the opposite way or that at certain times and for specific purposes they should be so given.

Permit me, at this point, briefly to define a few terms. It is not necessary that you agree with my definitions; it is important, however, that you understand what I mean when I use each term.

a)	By formal procedure I mean that in which the whole class—(or divisions therleof)—does the same thing at the same time, or in which parts of the class take turns in the same activity. It would, of course, be possible to have formal work with but a few individuals, but this is only rarely done in our schools. The factor of importance is that the person in charge determines what the movement shall be, the number of movements, the rhythm usually, and the duration of the exercise. The pupils do as they are told; there is no choice.

b)	By informal procedure I mean that in which the individual is at all times free to make his own decisions, and, within rather broadly defined limits, to choose his own movements.

c)	Then there is a third term which I think should be denned and used in order to clarify the atmosphere. I feel that this term, or a similar one, is necessary because very frequently no sharp line of demarcation may be drawn between the formal and the informal methods. We have a blend, as it were, between the two methods. This third method I have chosen to term the semi-informal or semi-formal method. In using the term semi-informal or semi-formal method I have in mind those natural activities which are so presented to the pupils that an informal atmosphere prevails, while at the same time a definite organization and procedure is maintained. Such a method permits of a certain desirable amount of order and the possibility of teaching each individual that part of the activity in which he is least proficient. The notable example of this method may be observed in the organization of the class into small groups or squads, for track and field activities, for learning the elements of games, and for apparatus exercises. The squad maintains a definite, yet not rigid, formation, each individual (or several) works in proper turn, the exercise is chosen by the teacher or squad leader, and the latter offers helpful criticism and suggestion to each performer.

So much for the definitions. What follows is predicated upon the assumption that the time set aside for physical education during school hours, if it is much less^than one hour

Digitized by VjO(^IC
159

daily, is primarily for the purpose of teaching definite, worthwhile activities, and only secondarily for the purpose of giving exercise and affording recreation. I shall attempt to weave into a discussion of the relative merits of the three methods before mentioned, a suggestion as to the manner in which a proper balance between them may be maintained.

Permit me, at the outset, to state what I believe should be the general basis for the regular lessons given during school hours. The actual application will naturally vary somewhat with the school grade. There should be a few moments of formal artificial activity, a considerable amount of formal natural activity, a generous amount of semi-informal or semi-formal activity, and, finally, some informal activity. On this basis the class may be given a sufficient amount of exercise; and it may be taught natural activities which will tend to be indulged in Informally after school hours. At the same time interest in the lesson may be maintained.

Formal method contributes largely to the efficient conduct of the physical education program. It develops a discipline and a morale which makes control of the class easy. Without discipline efficient work is impossible. Too much informal activity results in laxity among the members of the class with its natural rfesult of wasted time and little intense activity. Informal activity is only well conducted where control exists. Such control might be termed organization control.

Organizing and Moving the Class. The use of tactics is justified almost solely because of their value in furthering this organization control. At the beginning of the lesson the class is formally arranged in some definite alignment in order that work may be efficiently and promptly started. Later the class is formally divided into groups or squads for semi-formal or semi-informal and informal work. And these squads, when being moved from place to place, should usually be formally moved for the purposes of good order and the best use of time. Finally, in dismissing the class to the locker-room, or the class-room, formal marching is usually necessary.

Now just a word concerning the teaching of the natural activities. Just because the natural activities are naturally interesting and demand expression does not imply any proficiency in their motor expression. The proficiency must be developed. Such development may be gained by slow and long drawn out practice in the formal way, or it may be much more rapidly gained by efficient formal teaching. The more proficient the individual is, the greater are the physical, mental, moral and social benefits to be derived. This is true not only because proficiency obviously permits of the attainment of the benefits to a greater degree, but because the more proficient the individual is, the more will he engage in the activities,—and the more he engages in the activities the greater will be the opportunity for the realization of the desired objectives. Formal teaching devel-

Digitized by VjOOQLC
160

ops skills which may, and in all probability will, be exercised during the out-of-school playlife of the child.

The proficient individuals tend to be active and the others are inclined to look on. The latter are conscious of their lack of proficiency and hesitate to demonstrate their inability before others. If they can be made to attain a fair degree of success, they will be only too ready to participate in the activities.

Many track and field events and numerous game elements, to say nothing of apparatus exercises, can best and most economically be taught to the class as a whole. This may take the form of the whole class working at once, or of one file or rank working at a time. As soon as a majority of the class have a fair idea of the movements involved and have gained a slight degree of proficiency therein, they should be divided into small groups under leaders. The method then assumes a semi-formal or semi-informal nature. It is fn these small groups that individual instruction may be given and where, as a result, the greatest development of skill, occurs. In classes of older children, this ability (skill) may often be exercised in an informal way durihg a part of the period, or indeed, at times, during most of the period.

As regards offeritog a sufficient amount of exercise. It has previously been pointed out that much more work is accomplished in the limited time at our disposal by the use of the formal and semi-formal and semi-infortnal methods, than by infortnal methods. This is true for the reason that either all members of a class are active simultaneously and continuously, or, as is usually true in the case of the semi-fortnal or semi-informal method, the individuals go through the activity in rapid succession. In'the informal method a much greater proportion of the time, so far as the individual is concerned, is spent inactively.

Using Formal Method as a Substitute for Informal Method. I need hardly dwell upon the necessity of using the formal method as a substitute for informal method under conditions of limited space, limited time, large classes under the direction of an insufficient number of teachers, or of inclement weather. That a proper balance between formal and free activity is impossible under such conditions is obvious.

Relief Drills. So far as relief drills are concerned, I believe they should be as informal as possible; they should truly afford relief.

Corrective Work. Corrective work must obviously be formal in order to gain the desired results.

The Use of Informal Activities. My discussion up to this point would seem to indicate that I would place but slight emphasis upon the informal or free activities. So far as devoting any considerable amount of time to them during the regular class periods is concerned, that, precisely, is my stand. However, I believe that a great amount of time and considerable

Digitized!:	1C
161

emphasis should be placed upon them at other times. I believe that most of them should be provided for in the organization of after-school and recess activities.

It should also be remembered that in addition to participation in such an organized extra-curricular program, a large number of children engage in informal activities after they have gone home for the day. This will be true to an increasing extent, and in a more beneficial way, if the children are taught many different kinds of activity during the regular physical education periods. But, as has been suggested, such teaching is possible, to any appreciable extent, only when the formal or semi-formal method is used.

And, in conclusion, let me say once more, that the formal and the semi-formal or semi-informal methods, when used by a good teacher,—whether in the group song-games of the younger children, or the squad track and field events of the older ones— will be surrounded by much of that feeling of freedom and informality which is so characteristic of the informal method.

GIRLS NATIONAL ATHLETIC MEET IN GERMANY

Translated by William A. Stecher.

In Germany, national athletic meets have been held since 1921. The number of participants has steadily increased. In spite of this growth there is an increasing tendency to discontinue the meets or to so modify them that objectionable features will be eliminated.

A recent issue of the “Leibesuebungen” contains the following thoughts relative to athletic meets for girls.

Girls should be given an opportunity to engage in athletic competition.

A prospective meet is a strong incentive (and many need a strong incentive) to prepare for strenuous physical work. This has great bodily value, which, in turn, gives rise to a joyous feeling of strength and the power to accomplish things.

The self-confidence of many pupils who are not among the best, is strengthened when success crowns their efforts at a meet.

Striving for physical success strengthens the will.

Social values arise when meeting other groups in friendly competition.

It is recognized that competition has dangers, especially for young people. Education, however, must see to it that youth may meet dangers without harm.

The dangers in competition are as follows: over-exertion of the physical powers, strong mental disturbances, over-ambition, undue egotism, pride, striving for public recogniton. It should be the aim of teachers and the school to recognize these dangers, and by means of suitable precautions to minimize them.

Digitized by vjUUVIC
162

By means of proper methods it is possible to gain all the values that lie in competition, and at the same time eliminate the objectionable features.

The best method to accomplish this is to select a fitting form of competition embracing types of activity that appeal to girls. With this in mind the following suggestions relative to type of competition and events for interschool meets are offered for consideration.

1.	Interschool athletic competitions are to be held only as a part of general play days.

2.	These play days are to be held in places that make it possible to exclude undesirable spectators.

3.	The athletic meet is to conclude with mass demonstrations free exercises, dances, games or special exhibitions.

4.	Except league games in Schlagball (a form of baseball) no other additional interschool competitions are to be allowed. This applies also to so-called dual meets, or elimination meets.

5.	There shall be no individual competition, but only team competiton.

6.	If possible the events shall be such that all the pupils in each school may compete. Because in many cases this will be impossible each school shall enter fifty (forty) per cent of its pupils. If a school enters more than the prescribed minimum number extra points shall be given for this.

7.	The following events are suggested for competition: Running, Broad jump, Baseball farthrow, for older girls Javelin farthrow, Swimming and Free exercises of various degrees of difficulty.

SWIMMING POOLS AND SANITATION

This is the season of the year when swimming pools are being opened in almost every one of the large towns and cities of the State. These places are becoming more and more popular as places of recreation, and hence with the increasing population and ease of travel from one place to another it is more important than ever that correct principles of sanitation be applied in the conduct of each one of them. Under the above heading the New York State Department of Health, in a recent Radio Talk through its Health News Service, issued the following statement, which is just as applicable to other states as it is to New York State:

“No one with a cough, cold, infected eyes, ears or skin or any other infectious disease should use a public swimming pool, is the advice of Mr. Arthur S. Bedell of the Division of Sanitation of the State Department of Health. This statement was made in a health taik broadcast Friday night-from Station WGY.

Digitized by VjOOQIC
168

"Like the little red school house on the hill," said Mr. Bedell, the old swimmin’ hole is rapidly becoming a joy of the past. The modem drift from the country to the city, the automobile, the depletion of many of our smaller streams and the increasing pollution of the waters adjacent to our larger communities have all had a part in creating a need for artificial swimming pools. The ever increasing number of these pools and the heavy patronage by the public have developed a public-health problem that should be given due consideration by local public health authorities.

“As a means for providing healthful recreation for large numbers of people, the swimming pool is taking first rank in civic life for swimming is one of the most healthful exercises. The co-ordination of all the muscular activities of the body with deep breathing produces a wonderful sense of exhilaration and well being.

"In making use of these public or private institutions, citizens have a right to assume that all due precautions for health and safety have been taken by those in charge. Is this faith justified in your community? Scum gutters, a circulating water system provided with filtration and sterilization apparatus, specially designed inlets and outlets, and a vacuum cleaning apparatus, when properly designed and utilized, should maintain the water and the pool in a safe sanitary condition for your use. If bathing suits are used they should be of undyed, lintless material. If you use suits provided by the pool management, be sure that they are laundered and sterilized before each use.

"The modern artificial swimming pool is no longer a mere tank filled with water. Great care is now taken in the design and construction. The use of a white tile lining facilitates cleaning and increases the pool’s attractiveness and safety.

“A swimming pool is a place for recreation and not a bathtub to cleanse the body. Shower baths and toilet facilities are provided at all indoor swimming pools and the suitable use of these by the patrons is essential in swimming pool sanitation. No one suffering with a cold, cough, infected eyes, ears, or skin, or any other infectious disease, should use a public swimming pool.

"A swimming pool offers you at all seasons of the year the pleasures, without the dangers, of the old swimmin’ hole. Make the most of it but do not endanger the health or safety of your fellow citizens by any thoughtless act or disregard of sanitary regulations."

Digitized by
164

THE PLACE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN BUILDING A PERSONALITY*

Florence E. Bamberger, Baltimore, Md.

The terms social and personality are used so loosely today, that one wonders just what connection they have at all. An amusing story illustrates this loose use of the term. A negro went into a hardware store in an urban city in the South and requested the salesman to show him a razor. Before making his purchase he examined one after another, rubbing his finger up and down the sharp edge and then putting it down on the counter with an unsatisfied shake of the head. The shop keeper wishing to expedite matters suggested that he buy a safety razor, no doubt that would serve him to better purposes. “No boss,” said the darkey, “This here razor is not for shaving, it is for social purposes.”

Education today is conceived of as a continuous process of charging individuals so they will have higher and better wants, physical, mental and spiritual; and be more skillful, more efficient in securing these higher and better goods.

Teaching is thought of as that activity which discovers and arranges the environment so as to provide for a constant succession of potent stimuli which compel those desirable responses that will make permanent and effective changes in the muscular-neural system of every individual.

Furthermore, the curriculum is conceived to be a series of suggested activities inherent in which are to be found those stimuli which are necessary to induce in individuals such responses that will eventuate in personal growth in social habits, attitudes and skills.

Each body of knowledge, social sciences, natural sciences physical education, and the like contributes in its own unique way to this curriculum. Each makes its contribution in its own way to individual growth. It is quite obvious, therefore, that if as a result of this heterogenous assortment of activities, a unified, harmonious, self-poised, happy individual is to eventuate, a common purpose must run through them all, and a common agreement as to outcomes must be jointly shared.

When thirty-three states have passed laws requiring physical education in the public schools, and several great social movements are promoting its cause, it becomes mandatory for those in charge of the work to be quite able to define its contribution to individual and social growth in definite and clear-cut terms.

Physical education being an organized part of general education does play an important and essential part in developing the personal powers of individuals and in bringing about the happy

♦Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, DeslMoines, Iowa.

Digitized by LtOOQ Ic
165

adjustment of this developing personal power to adult social ways of living. It does this by setting up a two-fold program. The first aspect of this program is purely and distinctively educative, the second aspect is protective.

The educative aspect of the physical educational program shares in three fundamental aims or goals of instruction:

1.	The primary one is physical health.

Health is defined by Averill as "that condition of body and mind in which sufficient energy is available for the performance of a full day’s work and a full day’s play, and that abundantly and without friction.”*

2.	The second goal of this educational program of physical education is attained thru associative learning. This is a definite body of facts, of principles, concerning laws of health and the like are discovered and formulated by the children themselves thru direct participation in health-giving exercises of plays and games. These facts, principles, wherever it is possible should result from an intellectual summarization of the pupil’s own experiences in preserving or augmenting his physical well-being. Many of the positive rules for health guidance should first become habitual daily practices of the children without much understanding as to why they constitute healthful practices. Later thru thoughtful discussions, pupils should be acutely conscious of the value of these daily practices. Many of the positive rules for health guidance, it seems to the writer, can and should be deduced by the pupils themselves from their own right habits, together with a desire to maintain well being at its present high pitch. By way of an example, a teacher suggests to her sixth grade boys and girls the pleasure it would be for them to join the seventh grade pupils on a ten mile hike two weeks hence. Can they do it? Have they enough physical endurance? How can they best prepare so they will not “fall by the way-side?” Certain training rules should be set up and the responsibility placed on each girl and boy for obeying them to the letter, just as a training coach insists that his team obeys his mandates. These rules concern themselves with:

1.	Diet.

2.	Regular exercises increasing in intensity until the individual limit for healty training has been reached. Pupils must be educated as to the dangers of overtraining.

3.	Bathing, ventilation, sleep, well-balanced day of work and play, and the like.

After the hike another discussion should take place. This would be in the nature of a genuine experience meeting, as to what in their previous training helped, why some stood it better than others, what continued practices of these health rules would insure for future needs and the like.

♦Averill, L. A.: Educational Hygiene, Houghton Mifflin Company, 1926

Digitized by VjOO^IC
166

In this intellectualizing aspect of the educative program, there are two points that it seems desirable to stress:

1.	The first one is that while the most important health practices necessarily take place outside the school and away from the teacher’s personal direction, nevertheless, a goodly number of situations arise in the school for establishing a permanent attitude and natural p~actice of wholesome activities. It would seem quite possible to do for the mass of our children, “to prepare them to live more happily and healthfully,” by the same procedure as a good coach uses to prepare a few of the elect to win a game. “Here is a day’s work to be done, so much studying, so much swimming, so much reciting, what's the best way to prepare for this strenuous day-—how many hours of sleep? What are the best conditions for securing sufficient and adequate sleep?” In other words I should like to supplant the formal method of inducting the pupils into health rules by having them formulate them as necessary means for accomplishing their personal goals with the greatest ease and pleasure possible.

2.	In the second place I should like the children to experience rather than to receive from teachers the bits of rare wisdom and group customs concerning health lore. We tell them the best way to ventilate rooms, and charge them to use this knowledge at home; but we, the teachers, attend to it in schools. It might easily be part of the daily routine to propose such a problem as this. “It is time now for us to take this arithmetic test, and see if we can make or exceed the national score? In order to do this our physical conditions for work must be just right. What should we see to first? Temperature! What should it be? Sixty-eight, you say? Is our temperature correct?” In like manner necessary details might be discussed.

The third phase of the educative program concerns itself with those concomitant or moral aspects which inhere in all genuine learning experiences. The number and importance of the possibilities for the development of moral traits inherent in physical education are most impressive. By way of example, we list some that Frank Lowth has given.

♦♦Self-control. This quality is necessary for success in almost any game, as also in playing the game of life. In playing ball a loss of temper, for example, is fatal. Many a pitcher’s skill for an entire day or game has been lost because of a fit of bad temper.

Good Judgment. The best players are, other things being equal, those who use the best judgment. Judgment is an intellectual quality, but it has a moral element in it. Judgment is needed in all situations in life. It is slowly built up as a result of actions. To be a player or a citizen of good judgment is to merit and to receive the praise of the group or of the community.

millan.

**Lowth, Frank: Everyday Problems of the Country Teacher. Mac-

Digitized by

Google
167

Obedience. The spirit of true obedience and the readiness to obey are essential qualities of the most effective citizenship. Such obedience is learned on the playground, particularly if the play is properly supervised. The child understands that he cannot expect a place in the game unless he conforms to the rules and obeys the leader or captain. As he does not wish to lose his place he obeys, even though he may be disobedient elsewhere, for a time, until he sees the fundamental need for obedience, in all the relations of life. The transfer of training can be made with all thought on the part of the instructor.

Cooperation. Teamwork is needed in modern civilization; it is needed among country people, who often find such cooperation difficult because they were not, so trained in childhood and youth. Group games cannot succeed without the spirit and the method of cooperative endeavor. Children need to learn to subordinate selfish personal interests for the good of the social body. Such training in unselfish cooperation makes for the highest and best type of useful citizenship—a type greatly to be desired in our day and age.

Initiative. This means the ability and the habit of starting new endeavors or enterprises, and of carrying them on to successful termination without being told or controlled by any outside force or authority. Play assists greatly in placing a child upon his own responsibility, where he must choose for himself as to goai or purposes, and the means of accomplishing or realizing the purpose.

Unselfishness. Play affords plenty of opportunity for children to think of one another, especially of those who are weak and cannot do everything which a normal child can do. In every school there are children who for one reason or another are "picked on” and mistreated in various ways. It is the teacher's business to see that bullying is discontinued and that the bully gets what is rightly coming to him—righteous retribution. The teacher needs to know what is going on outside; it is positively dangerous to permit injustice to continue day after day. It is training in bad citizenship. The wrongs of the playground may well serve as objective material for practical civics. One of the lessons of government is that the strong shall protect, instead of abuse the weak.

Alertness. Success in life demands alertness, quickness, promptness of response, the ability to decide and to act quickly, games to teach and train children in this quality, for the game itself is impossible without nimbleness of wit. The slow are pushed aside and suffer, and are defeated because of their slowness. A normal child soon learns the lesson that he must “speed up” if he is to hold his own. So he quickens, frees, and lubricates his mental and physical machinery, and develops needful skill in running, dodging, and throwing the ball. This alertness is carried over into the work of the school; the better moral fiber, along with the development of intellectual acumen, soon results

Digitized by
168

in greater progress in the work of education. Thus, play scores another point in the discipline of life.

The protective function of the physical educational program lies in its responsibility to promote care and protection for all children in order to remove as far as is possible all handicaps to normal growth, development, and educational progress. This involves the coordination of all the scientific knowledge of the physician, dietician, and the physical education director.

To summarize briefly then, the goals, outcomes, purposes of physical education are identical with all other forms of education. They seek to set up a curriculum which is merely a succession of selected stimuli which compel pupils to respond in terms of satisfactory activities. This participation produces wholesome changes in their muscular, neural, and emotional natures. Through the direct participation in individually satisfying activities, pupils accumulate a store of habits that insure a healthy, vigorous body and a definite number of facts and principles concerning the way to attain and retain perfect health. This is presented in such a way that the urge to promote health as well as the means for so doing go hand in hand. And, lastly, through whole-hearted, purposeful indulgence in health-promoting activities pupils develop a moral stability, secure a moral growth by which behavior dictated by internal guidance gradully supplants behavior induced by external control. Thus is developed that feeling of individual responsibility which is society’s protective insurance against danger and depredation. Each person is thus made to feel the need of not keeping within the law, but of keeping the law within. The whole truth may be summed up in this trenchant truth “Prepare and prevent rather than repair and repent”.

THE CRUX OF THE VENTILATION PROBLEM

By J. E. Ruch, M. D.,

It would seem that the object of ventilation of occupied rooms is to maintain the air in a condition in which it approximates that of outdoor air on a pleasant, temperate day of summer. In the addition of air or its removal from rooms it should be our attempt not to create a draft. To define the common term draft is apparently a rather difficult thing, but perhaps a working definition may be a current of air which removes one part of the aerial blanket in such a way that the heat is removed from the body more rapidly than it is generated. If this took place over the whole surface of the body we would not consider it a draft because of the fact that the heat regulating mechanism

♦(Abstracted from the paper presented at the semi-annual meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, in Lexington, Ky., May 28, 1926)

Digitized by CjOOQlC
of the body would then come into operation and would cause a readjustment of the circulation.

"While we realize that the evil effects of placing many persons in a confined space does not come from a diminution in oxygen or an increase in carbon dioxide, nor fromlthe chemical vitiation of the air, nor the presence of a volatile organic poison there is considerable evidence to show that increase in temperature and humidity and a lack of movement of the air are the important factors. Increase in the surrounding temperature makes it more difficult for the body to get rid of its heat by radiation and conduction, and increase in humidity increases the difficulty of cooling effects by the evaporation of perspiration and the result is an elevation of bodily temperature, a decreased vaso-motor tone, the gorging of the skin with blood, and the

rptoms that have already been described. In order to avoid discomforting and debilitating effects on the body due to lack of ventilation it would seem that we should consider ourselves well within our rights to attempt to control all the factors which we have a right to expect would obtain in an air supply which would give us optimum conditions.

The problem of ventilation is a complex one. There is a need for the removal of odors and excessive dust; there should be an attempt to control droplet infection by methods of ventilation so far as that may be possible; carbon dioxide while in itself not poisonous, is perhaps not an extremely desirable material in high concentration. That individuals may survive in experimental chambers for short periods of time under decreased oxygen and increased carbon dioxide and increased humidity is true, but that these are extremely desirable conditions and that they are more suitable for the living organisms than conditions simulating those of outdoor air, no one is foolish enough to believe. That the control of temperature, humidity and air movement may control all of the other factors entering into the problems of ventilation is a fairly complex one with a good many interacting factors to be considered goes without saying. Take into consideration the lack of constancy in temperature, humidity, dust, etc., in the out door air and it will be seen that the getting of air into a building and having it meet certain desirable specifications is a good deal of a problem. That all of the factors concerned in ventilation are not very satisfactorily answered at the present time must be apparent from the foregoing statements.

There are two general ^riethodsTfor ventilation, the one, the so-called natural system^ is usually accomplished by opening the window. This is probably of great value under ordinary conditions in houses, but the system is usually inadequate for schoolhouses or meeting halls, where great numbers of people congregate. The artificial systems of ventilation are those which are usually installed in connection with heating systems. This is the type that is usually found in large buildings and

Digitized by V. jDOQle
170

schools, meeting halls, churches and the like and the ventilation is accomplished either by the plenum system, in which the air is forced into the rooms, or by the vacuum system, in which the air is exhausted from them, or by a combination of the two methods. Various modifications of these systems have been instituted from time to time in which the air may be washed or screened, or humidified, or some of it may be recirculated. Most of these systems are based on a unit which attempts to supply 30 cu. ft. per minute per person.

In comparing the two methods, namely, window ventilation and artificial ventilation, it will be noted that the former is by no means a controlled process, while the latter, if properly constructed and properly operated, should be able to meet any type of condition that is likely to be placed upon it. The former is haphazard or is dependent on chance, while the latter is under control. No provision can be made in natural ventilation for the conditioning of the air unless it is the one factor of increasing its temperature, and we have noted that there are many factors in the problem.

The question merely resolves itself into whether or not we desire a certain type of air for our rooms or, perhaps more cor-ectly, is a certain type of air more advantageous to health than another type? It will be apparent that if there are air conditions which might be termed optimum these cannot be obtained by any haphazard means, where people are crowded together, such as by simply opening the windows. If we find that it is desirable to have a certain type of air, and a certain amount of it, there is little question in anyone’s mind but that if these conditions can be determined definitely and scientifically the type of air which is desired can be delivered by mechanical appliances.

We need controlled conditioned air, just as we have controlled conditioned milk or controlled conditioned water.—Heating & Ventilating Magazine,

WINNING HEALTH

Neither good health nor poor health is merely a matter of luck. There is no element of chance in the securing of health. Good health can be won by following well known methods of living just as surely as poor health will follow other equally well known methods of living.

Parents are responsible for the method of living of their children up to a certain age and then the child himself must thereafter assume that responsibility.

There are certain things which each individual, regardless of age, must do for himself if he would win good health. Parents should teach the children this fact and cause them to do for themselves during immaturity the things which later mature judgment will tell them are essential.

Digitized by CjOOQ 1C
171

Secretary Hoover, speaking along this line, has given a valuable message to childhood which is well worth quoting. He says:

"When I was a youngster, it never occurred to our parents or teachers that the kids themselves must take the most important part in their own growing up in order to be strong and healthy. Moreover, in those times the world knew nothing about why contagious diseases were contagious; nothing about why and what fotfd made for strong brains, legs or lungs.

"Our resolute mothers fought off illness, stuffed our tummies, and hoped for the best from accidents in the swimming hole, from foul balls and climbed trees. Many kids were thought to be condemned to be perpetually weak. To grow up normal and strong was mostly luck plus mother’s effort and her prayers.

“But since then medical science has discovered a lot of things. We know how to stop much contagious disease at its origin and to stop it from spreading. We know the rules by which to keep healthy from teeth to toes. We know a lot about safety methods to prevent accidents ....

“We know that to have and to hold a good job and to be a good citizen we must have good health. We know all this can be helped by play. It does not abolish joy or adventure.”

NEW STUDIES OF THE CIRCULATION

Henderson and Haggard, of Yale University, have for many years been giving special attention to the study of the blood and the circulation. They have recently perfected a method by which the amount of blood circulated by the heart can be measured with a considerable degree of accuracy. They find that the amount of blood circulated through the lungs is practically equal to the amount of air inhaled and may reach the enormous volume of nine gallons per minute. By exercise, the amount of air passing through the lungs may be increased to ten times the ordinary amount and the volume of blood circulated to five times the ordinary.

The increased demand of oxygen occasioned by vigorous exercise is met by the body in three ways: (1) an increased pulse rate; (2) an increase in the heart stroke, that is, in the amount of blood sent out by the heart at each beat; and (3) by an increased utilization of oxygen, which is indicated by an increased difference in oxygen content between the arterial and the venous blood. This difference is ordinarily about four per cent. Up to certain point, the increased pulse rate and increase in the heart stroke may increase the oxygen supply sufficiently to prevent an increase in the difference fti the oxygen content of the arterial and venous blood.

In the violent exercises of athletes, the amount of oxygen conveyed to the tissues may become insufficient. The development of this condition of insufficiency is the limiting factor in

Digitized by\jOO^ 1C^
172

athletics. The same condition develops in cases of advanced organic disease of the heart when the heart muscle becomes incapable of doing the work required of it. In the case of athletes, the decrease in the body’s store of oxygen is quickly made good by the succeeding rest. In the case of heart disease, the inhalation of oxygen may prove a valuable resource by which life may be prolonged.—From Good Health, Battle Creek, Mich.

ATHLETICS IN THE HIGHER SCHOOLS

The opening of many new higher schools appears to be an opportune time to make a statement relative to what is termed "athletics in the higher schools."

At the present time, the Board of Education is doing its best to provide suitable facilities and also a sufficient number of teachers to give to every boy and girl at least one hour of vigorous muscular play-work per day, either within school time or after school. With this object in view the number of gymnasiums in every new school has been increased. In buying new school sites, the need of adequate play facilities for all pupils is a consideration of prime importance. The number of teachers of physical education has been increased so as to allow for the supervision of after school playwork for all pupils. All this goes to show that the Board is making every effort to put into effect its resolution of June 13, 1916 to raise the physical fitness of all pupils.

What appears to be necessary is a clearer conception on the part of some principals and teachers of the vital part they play in putting into effect a comprehensive plan of physical education. Traditions in some of the older schools affecting the play life of pupils, appear to be preventing them from viewing the athletic problem from newer angles.

The modem trend, even in colleges, is to place the greatest weight upon the play life of all students. So far as public schools are concerned, where no teacher’s tenure of position depends upon his ability to turn out winning teams, the policy should be “Athletics for All.”

The function of athletics in public schools should be as follows:

1)	To give all pupils an opportunity to learn and to play standard games.

2)	To so organize this play-life that the pupils gladly will stay after school to play inter-class games. These games should lead to the determination of the champion team in every scheduled sport.

3)	To allow this champion team to play one or more games with teams of neighboring schools that were chosen by a similar process. This type of competition, however, should always be the outcome of the former.

Digitized by ViOOQ10
173

A RATING FORM

Sanitary Rating of Schoolbuildmgs and Playgrounds,

Philadelphia, Pa.

FALL INSPECTION .......................192.. A. M. or P. M.

WINTER INSPECTION......................192..................

SPRING INSPECTION .....................192..................

Directions

1.	Make the report in triplicate. Leave one copy with the principal of the school and forward two copies to the superintendent of buildings.

2.	The data to be recorded in this blank are for the purpose of assisting in furnishing a rating as an element in the general rating of the school for the possession of the “Health Trophy/' Only those conditions, therefore, for which the pupils are responsible are to-be considered.

3.	Three inspections of the character provided herein should be made each year; the final inspection must be made in time to forward the report not later than March 31st.

4.	Use the following code, placing rating in square after each inspection: E-Excellent; G-Good; F-Fair; P-Poor; V. P.-Veiy Poor.

5.	Under “Remarks" record a rating for the condition of the yard, fences and outside walls of the school building.

Digitized by C

Inspector.
174

o	   <■

News, notes and comments

The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York City has recently issued an “Art and Health Booklet" which has been prepared for the use of schools. This publication is intended to serve as a means of familiarizing children with some of the paintings of modern artists and, at the same time, it will emphasize the desirability of health practices. Free copies are furnished to school superintendents and principals.

The executive committee of recreation terraces of New York City has announced that it will soon start a campaign to raise $2,000,000 to build indoor and outdoor playgrounds each six stories high with facilities for many kinds of recreation in an endeavor to keep children off the street. The first of these will be built on the lower East and West Sides. It will occupy a space of 200 by 200 feet, and will provide outside terraces and playground space of 101,561 square feet, with inside space of 125,281 square feet. The building will be constructed in the form of a series of five terraces, without inside stairways, but with ramps leading to each level. There will be stores on the ground floor to take care of the cost of operation. On the other floors will be swings, seesaws, playground equipment for little children, a large auditorium, dance hall, three swimming pools, a gymnasium, bowling alley, billiard room, and handball courts. The present committee members are Dr. William J. O’Shea, superintendent of schools; Henry C. Curran, former commissioner of immigration; Hatcher Hughes, William P. Earle, Jr., Schuyler N. Warren, Jr., Joseph P. Chamberlain, Daniel L. Turner, Col. W. G. Wilgus, Geofrey Parsons, Dr. Haven Emerson, Charles D. Day, Madeline Stevens, and Lulu Morton—New York Medical Journal.

k

Writing on the subject of hygiene in colleges, Dr. Thos. A. Storey says, “There are deficiencies and defects common to current programs of applied hygiene that make them indifferently effective or cause their failure. The number of hours a week and the number of terms scheduled for required applied hygiene is commonly inadequate for the production of lasting habits of physical exercise, recreation and play.

There can be no great educational effectiveness when the size of the sections in applied hygiene and the total number of students and student hours assigned to the individual teacher each week produce an excessive instructional overload. The mass drills and other forms of mass instruction necessary under such conditions prevent individual instructional attention.”

Digitized by

Google
175

In the Chorley Wood College for blind children in England, “Outdoor games are played on a clear level lawn of half an acre bounded by a wide gravel walk which makes the guide of safety. A satisfactory ball game has been evolved after the fashion of association football, except that it is played by hand. The ball is of covered wickerwork and in it is a bell which gives by sound the sense of position; so clever have the girls become at this game, that on one occasion they beat a team of sighted girls.”

H. A. Reisman compared tuberculous and non-tuberculous children with respect to weight and found that those with incipient, latent, masked and juvenile tuberculosis are not necessarily underweight and that there is no greater evidence of tuberculosis among malnourished children.

The New York State Commission on Ventilation has resumed its investigation of methods of window-gravity ventilation for schools.

Splendid runners. Rudolph Zabel, the explorer, reports upon a tribe he encountered in Central America called Tarahu-mars, which appears to have some of the most wonderful runners in the world. He speaks of a religious festival lasting twelve days, during which the participants daily indulge in long runs. A man delivering a message it is stated, ran a distance of 960 kilometers in five days. Women are known to run 300 kilometers. The tribe has religious games during which a ball is kicked continuously for several days and nights. Training for these great feats of endurance begins in early youth.

I	hold it an indisputable maxim, declared Rousseau, that he who has only seen one race of people, instead of knowing Man, merely knows the people with whom he has lived. The teacher who, throughout most of the year lives with a group of children, within the four walls of a classroom, has particular need for seeing many “races of people” and many new things. The psychic drain of teaching, the continual discharge like that of a battery makes it particularly necessary that the teacher have frequent fresh contacts and experiences.

Narrowmindedness, prejudice, provincialism, intolerance, are doubly dangerous in the mind of the teacher. We may deplore these traits in others, but for the teacher such traits are a curse, both to himself and to his pupils. This because teaching, in the final analysis, is a spiritual process. It is the transmission of personality. As is the teacher, so are the pupils. Therefore kindly tolerance, quick sympathy, wide understanding of human needs and aspirations, respect for the opinion and integrity of others,—these are the attributes of the real teacher.

Digitized by V_iOO^ IC
176

The summer season offers the teacher a marvelous opportunity, possessed by few other groups of workers, for travel and self-improvement. The teachers’ summer tour is not mere idle lounging, but is an adventure in the Larger Life. Travel, of course, does not automatically guarantee brerdth of vision nor freedom from prejudice. Many globe-trotters are shallow, bigoted, and uneducable. But, by and large, those persons who have traveled with open mind and honest gaze, have enriched their lives, quickened their minds, and illumined their souls. “Fain would I travel to some foreign shore,” sang Dryden, “so might I to myself, myself restore.”—V.MacC. in Sierra News.

Wash Your Hands

At the entrance to every Moslem Mosque there is a lavatory where the faithful may perform their ablutions before entering within the sacred portals. This is suggestive of purity and cleanliness. We might well learn from these Orientals some valuable lessons, not so much perhaps on the spiritual side, although even that wouldn’t hurt us very much, but more especially on the physical aspect.

When Moses compiled his sanitary code he gave it an ecclesiastical setting. In this way he was able to make it effective. Through all the centuries it has stood as a masterpiece. In it washing and purification are emphasized and given a very important place. Part of this may have been symbolism but in addition to this, undoubtedly there was a background of truth. To eat with unwashed hands should be taught as an unpardonable breach of social and hygienic ethics.

A few years ago the slogan “Swat the fly” was started for the purpose of exterminating that pesky little individual, the common house fly. There had been laid to his door the crime of feasting on infected material, getting his feet covered with germs, visiting the homes of the people about mealtime, and depositing on the food those pathogenic organisms, causing various disorders such as dysentery, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria and others. After a fair trial he was convicted as he should have been. The fly, however, is innocence personified when compared with our own hands. There is no mess too foul for them to get into and there is nothing that is so chronically infected as they are. If you doubt it, ask the surgeon and note the care with which he scrubs up before an operation; and the best he can do is only about 85 per cent of being surgically clean. To help out on the other 15 per cent he uses sterilized gloves.

What then must be their condition when unwashed?

Were it not that they are usually uncovered and exposed to the light and air—our best natural disinfectants—they would be a menace to health. Think of some of the diseases whose causative agents find an extrance through the mouth,QJT,nose; diph-

Digitized by njOUvIL
177

theria, scarlet fever, smallpox, measles, infantile paralysis, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, chicken pox, mumps, whooping cough, etc. Quite a large family, sure enough. It is easy to see how the germs of these diseases may be transferred from infected hands to the food and thus gain entrance to the system. It would be a great lesson in personal hygiene if in every public school there were facilities for hand-washing. If it was made a regular order of business before the lunch hour, it would form a health habit that would have a very far reaching effect.

Aside from being suggestive of cleanliness and ordinary decency, it would serve the very useful purpose of preventing many a bad. cold, a flu, a sore throat, or worse. Soap and water followed by fresh air and sunlight are among our best disinfectants. They are within the reach of every one and should be cherished as our protectors and friends. We might go far and serve worse than by adhering to the teaching of Moses in these respects.—The Pennant, N. D.

The Cast Iron House. Considerable speculation has been aroused by the working out and constructing of a cast-iron house in Great Britain. The steel house previously experimented with proved objectionable on account of the connecting bolts which gave it the appearance of cheapness.

Walter MacFarlane and Company, Glasgow, Scotland, have developed a cast-iron bungalow, which is practically all of this material, being formed of castiron plates 3 ft. 7 1-2 in. long by 2 ft. 6 1-2 in. wide and 5-16 in. thick. These plates are cast with a specially rough exterior, so that, when painted, they have the appearance of stucco. While the first cost exceeds that of the steel house, the cast-iron construction will undoubtedly be more lasting and there is also a saving in time and labor of erection, the cast-iron house having been put up in as short a time as three days.—Heating Magazine.

TEN COMMANDMENTS

There can be no more important nor finer work than that of a parent. No preparation for any profession or avocation should be as painstakingly thorough as for the job of being a parent.

Dr. D. A. Thom, director of the Boston Habit Clinic for children, has made some pertinent observations which embody the fundamentals of child training. Condensed into ten paragraphs, they may aptly be called the “Ten Commandments for Parents."

1.	Don't be over-solicitous. Children may become self-centered and develop imaginary complaints because illness is looked for.

Digitized by VjOOQ 10
178

2.	Don’t “baby” your children too much. The child who is closely tied to his mother’s apron strings is deprived of the chance of learning how to live with his neighbors.

3.	Don’t try to give your children everything they demand.

4.	Don’t bribe. So often is heard, “Now, Johnny, be a good boy and mother will give you a penny.” Soon Johnny will be demanding two or three pennies.

5.	Don’t cheat. Frequently parents misrepresent or lie to keep a child quiet or to gain a desired end. Suddenly they waken to the fact that their child has no regard for the truth, and wonder why.

6.	Don’t make meaningless threats.

7.	Don’t talk about or laugh at children in their presence, as self-consciousness is harmful and quickly developed.

8.	Don’t be cold and repelling. A parent too busy to bother with a little child’s nonsense will never be bothered by his real problems.

9.	Don’t be discourteous. Children have their own plans, which are frequently utterly disregarded by adults. If you must interfere, show consideration.

10.	Don’t disagree over discipline before the child. Settle differences in private.

The home atmosphere of the child will determine the future character of the adult.

Shall it be one of truth, cheerfulness, and love, or shall it be of deceit, discontent, wrangling and hate?

“As the twig is bent, so the tree is inclined.”

BOOK REVIEWS

“A Wise Woman at the Court of Hygeia”—A one act

play by Miss Esse V. Hathaway, in pamphlet form, issued by The Womens Foundation for Health, New York City. Price 35c.

This is a clearly written health play with a setting in the court of Hygeia. The characters are all girls and are friends and agents of Hygeia. Their names speak for themselves—Joy, Achievement, Prosperity, Health Examination, Health Prescription, Exercise, Nutrition, Recreation, Mental Health and The Wise Woman, plus attendants to Exercise, Nutrition, etc.

(“The Wise Women” was a term applied in the days of primitive man to a group of women who earned the title through the use of herbs in sickness.)

The theme is well sustained and shows the part each plays in extending the court of Hygeia. The speeches are rather lengthy. The play would undoubtedly be improved by following the suggestions in the author’s note to increase the number of attendants and introduce some dancing. Otherwise there seems to be a lack of action.—Janet B. Walter.

Digitized by

Google
179

“The New Handbook of Health” by Woods Hutchinson, A. M., M. D. Published by Houghton Mifflin Co., 1926, revised edition. 410 pages, size 7 1-2” x 5” cloth bound.

Dr. Hutchinson’s self-stated aim is to ‘teach care of the body rather than physiology.’ This is in keeping with the modem trend of health education texts. Health habits, safety, and first aid, are introduced with sufficient physiologic and anatomic background to make them fairly comprehensive. While the book is intended primarily as a pupil text, there is much of value to the teacher in the problems, projects, report^, and references that follow each chapter.

Our chief objection to the arrangement of the book is the irrelevancy of some of the illustrations. This may be noted particularly ip Chapter III which deals with food, ‘the fuel of the body-engine,’ and intersperses the context with pictures of volleyball and basketball games. Incidentally the automobile analogy appears to be greatly overdone in the early parts of the book. However, the author is to be commended for his thorough and interesting treatment of foods, cooking, and vitamins; also for his inclusion of the material on accidents and emergencies.

We were surprised to note the omission of the glossary from this edition, as we regard it of considerable value. The settingup exercises shown in the chapter on Muscles could well be omitted as they are too circumscribed to be in accordance with up-to-date developments of calisthenics. The whole tone of the text, however, reflects an enthusiastic appreciation of the values of outdoor sports and recreation, and this should recommend its use as supplementary to a health education course for children of the junior high school grade.—Howard L. Conrad.

“Freshman Hygiene,” personal and social problems of the college student by Raymond C. Bull., M. D. and Stanley Thomas, M. S., M. A., Lehigh University. Published by J.

B.	Lippincott Co., Philadelphia, 1926. Price $2.00, 288 pages with 74 illustrations, 8 1-4x5 1-2”. Bound in cloth.

This text is written as an avowed supplement to a first year college course in Hygiene. As such, it is to be commended on several points; namely, the clarity of expression, the organization of material into Personal and Social Hygiene, the thorough manner in which sex information is handled, and the total lack of mawkish sentiment and ‘preaching’.

In several other matters, however, there is an apparent lack of care and fitness. On the whole, the choice of illustrative material is satisfactory, but figures 5, 34, 49, 52, and 56 are quite puerile, and are likely to insult the intelligence of even a freshman. The authors’ opinions on “collegiate’ clothing appear to need ventilation. Our view is that wide trousers, short skirts, garterless socks, hatless heads, and open shirt collars are worthy hygienic reforms irrespective of whether their purpose is fad or fancy.

Digitized by VjOOQ IC
180

In our estimation, aimed to be in concurrence with the best thought, there is too much emphasis placed on ‘breathing exercises’ per se, in Chapter XI. We believe that the respiratory mechanism responds to the physiologic law of ‘supply and demand’, and that ‘breathing exercises’ are, in most cases, of doubtful value.

Chapter XXII covering Posture is on very ‘thin ice’. This topic is highly controversial, and Professors Bull and Thomas seem to forget that in spite of artificial attitudes (figure 48), students will unconsciously assume the easy, most natural, position for accomplishing the desired task.

The last portion of the book is devoted to sex and its social significance. This material is arranged and presented in an enlightening and interesting way.

The text is clearly printed, and the use of italics for emphasis is to be commended.—Howard L. Conrad.

BE A HELPFUL BYSTANDER

By G. H. G. Fisher

POISONS

This is a big subject, and one which cannot be taken up exhaustively in elementary papers such as this series affords, and then, too, it would not be wise to make this lesson too technical, since what is really necessary is to give a few plain hints such as will prove effectual in meeting such an emergency as poisoning.

Lots of people think that in all cases of poisoning, the most important thing to do is to give an emetic to make the patient vomit, but that is a very unfortunate idea, for in some cases it would prove fatal. So then, to be quite sure as to this matter of emetics, if the mouth or lips are burned or stained,that is usually the evidence that an acid or strong alkali has been swallowed, and in that case an emetic MUST NOT be given. Among acids, salts of lemon and certain polishing pastes must be included, while the alkalies are caustic potash, caustic soda (lye) and ammonia.

What we need to remember in cases of acid or alkali poisoning is that we must first give a neutralizer, hence if it is acid that is swallowed the antidote or neutralizer is an Alkali such as Lime Water, Aromatic Spirits of Ammonia (teaspoonful in glass of water), Baking Soda in water, chalk powdered in water. First get patient to rinse mouth out and then let him sip the mixture slowly.

If it is a strong alkali, then the neutralizer or antidote is an ACID! Lemon juice, vinegar (50-50 in water), grape fruit or even orange juice. As before, first rinse out mouth and then let patient drink by sips. Follow this by letting them drink oil, such as olive, salad, cod-liver, or that found in good

Google
181

sardines; if no oil is at hand give cream and flour beaten together, or raw eggs beaten in milk or water. Remember the same principle holds if one is overcome by acid or alkali fumes, pour the neutralizer on a cloth and hold to the nostrils so they can inhale i.e., if the suffocating fumes were ammonia, soak a cloth with strong vinegar, contrariwise if an acid, soak a cloth with clear Aromatic Spirits of Ammonia.

If the mouth and lips are not stained, and you are not positive as to what the poison was, then quickly give an emetic, and insist on patient vomiting by pushing finger back in mouth.

Common emetics, tepid water, two tablespoonfuls of salt, or one of mustard in glass of tepid water.

Follow emetics with draughts of milk, raw eggs beaten in milk or water, milk and flour mixed or even oils may be given in all poisoning except phosphorus. Strong tea, especially black tea, may be boiled and given in many cases of poisoning.

In all poisoning from narcotics, such as opium, morphine, chlorodyne, give emetic. Follow with strong black coffee, and keep patient awake.

If it is carbolic acid, rinse out the mouth with clear alcohol or any strong liquor. Mix some in water 50-50 and let drink slowly. Follow with milk and epsom salts, or castor oil mixture. Paris Green poisoning, emetic of soapy water, oils to drink, stimulate with aromatic spirits of ammonia (one-half teaspoonful in one-half glass of water), warmth and friction to body. Ptomaine poisoning, from bad fish, meats, etc. Emetics large dose castor oil, stimulate and apply heat to body.

Always speed medical aid, but lose no time in following the above suggestions. In all poisoning it is the first 10 to 15 minutes that tells.

FRACTURES

The bones which break most freqently are the lower jaw, collar bone, ribs and those of upper or lower limbs. Great care must be taken in handling fractures, as it is quite easy to turn a “simple” fracture into a “compound” fracture, and utmost tenderness must be exercised in removing clothing or shoes, where that is necessary.

Jaw—Always examine teeth on side where the pain is. If these are irregular or gum is bleeding, the evidence of fracture is clear, so place the lower teeth against upper, get some one to put them in place, and take a narrow scarf, catch under jaw and carry other end over top of head, cross at temple above ear, and carry other end around forehead and other around nape of neck and tie other on opposite temple.

Collar Bone-^Always run fingers over both collar bones, and if broken the comparison will usually reveal a lump on the injured side. Make a lai^e pad of some article, a scarf, cap or paper, place under armpit on injured side, gently press arm into side, and carry forearm over chest upwards inclined. Make a..wide scarf with

Digitized by xjUDV LC
182

triangular bandage, carry over forearm and hand, bring round over arm at side and tie tight behind.

Ribs—A fracture of these is most distressing, and usually causes one to faint, the pain being due to the motion of lungs in breathing, and consequently the injured person tries not to breathe. The distress is shown on face plainly. Take a towel, reaching from the armpit to waist, and long enough to encircle body; lay injure^ on back and two persons with strong, steady hands pull tight until the patient can take a little breath (secure with safety pins or stitch with thread.)

Arm—Carefully place against side with forearm across chest, and fasten with wide triangular scarf the width of limb, on opposite side.

Forearm—Fold several newspapers the length of limb and secure same thereby with strips of tape or string tied around, and place in large arm sling.

Fingers, Hand or Wrist as above.

Leg—Use splints on each side of limb reaching from middle of thigh to heel; boards or folded blanket will do.

Knee cap—Splint on back of leg from middle of thigh and lower part of leg and fasten above and below knee.

Thigh—Splint must reach from armpit to ankle, Using small four-inch board or gun with butt in armpit; secure at armpits, waist, high in thigh, over knee, under knee, and at ankle and tie both legs together. If a woman, fold skirt smoothly and tie all bandages below waist around dress over both limbs.

Ankle or Foot—Make an ell splint by nailing a short board, size of foot, to one long enough to reach middle of leg, and secure.

Strains, Sprains, Contusions and Dislocations.

Strains and sprains are often confused, but a strain is not a sprain, since a sprain is much more serious than a strain. A strain is the stretching of a muscle, either in overexercising or from overdoing in work; particularly in lifting heavy articles, especially	jerking	up	weights with	the back bent. As

a rule, rest will	restore	an	over-straining	of the system; fric-

tion, with hands on parts affected, cold applications and support of pillows on lower extremities, or of arm sling for upper extremities for a short time, will usually suffice.

A sprain, on the other hand, is a wrench of a joint due to a sudden or violent movement. In severe sprains the ligaments may be torn, the cartilage of the joint may be injured, the surrounding muscles and there may even be a hemorrhage into the joint. The symptoms of such a serious injury are well known; the pain is usually bad enough to cause the injured to faint; nausea	is common;	great swelling	occurs if the blood

vessels near the	surface	are	ruptured; the	parts become black

and blue within an hour or two—those deeper take a day or more to cause discoloration. Speedily procure medical help, but in the meantime, if the ankle, remove shoe by undoing laces or buttons and carefully rip back seam of shoe and ten*

Digitized by VJUUVlV
183

derly dip off; otherwise, if shoulder or elbow, place patient in easiest possible position and support limb on pillow, if wrist, support with large arm sling; if knee or ankle, elevate limb on pillows. Apply ice-cold applications. Epsom salts in solution is good, as the evaporation is an aid to keep down swelling, but don't cover cloths; alcohol may also be used for same

Eurpose. One of the best remedies to combat the pain and eep down swelling is chloroform liniment—equal parts chloroform and sweet oil. Apply cloths saturated with this mixture, cover with oil silk, rubber tissue or oil paper, and keep in place by loose bandage. Always treat shock, and insist on patient keeping perfectly quiet,

A common contusion is that of the eye sockets, better known as a “black eye.” To overcome swelling and discoloration, keep pieces of lint or gauze, which have been on ice over the contusion and change frequently, wash the eye and surrounding parts with boric acid solution (teaspoonful to two ounces of boiled water), and when swelling and inflammation are reduced the affected parts may be painted with contractile collodion, or new skin. Larger contusions, place injured in most comfortable position; if limbs, elevate on pillows and keep cold or hot cloths on bruised parts according to weather— hot in cold weather, cold in hot weather. Treat shock and call for doctor.

In case of dislocations, carefully place patient in comfortable position, apply cold or hot applications, treat shock and get medical aid as quickly as possible.

Rabid Dog and Snake Bites Rabies is not at all uncommon and is a most dangerous condition. While usually found in dogs, it is also transmitted from cats, pigs, horses, sheep, and among wild animals—foxes and wolves. It is well to remember that the poison is in the saliva or froth; consequently, a bite through clothing is not apt to be so dangerous as on the bare skin; also to know that a rabid animal does not necessarily have to bite one to infect him—any of the saliva coming into contact with an open sore may produce hydrophobia. Prevention in a case of this kind is most vital, and it is with the dog especially that we ought to exercise very great care. Hence it is well to heed the following indications. Usually a dog does not show infection until from three to five weeks, when he becomes depressed, irritable, snappish, restless, slinks off into dark comers, hides in the cellar, or crawls under a shed or outhouse. He rejects his usual food provided by the family, eats rubbish, dirt, etc., and snarls at the sight of water, and the mouth is filled with a thick saliva. As the disease progresses, the animal develops convulsions, the bark becomes hoarse, paralysis is generally the final stage, but most dogs toward the end become greatly excited and run loose, snapping at everything. One dog running loose in eastern Minnesota cost one county thousands of dollars in the loss of horses, colts and cattle generally T/^p^h^-bit.
184

In case a person is bitten, lose no time in dealing with the patient. If on the face, at once squeeze bitten part to make it bleed, which if it does not quickly cross slit with a clean sharp knife or razor (over bite) and encourage to bleed, and if the lips are not cracked, suck, but first cleanse off surface of wound.

If on extremities, immediately tie a ligature of string or strips of cotton between bite and the heart. In fact, it is well to tie several up the limb. Then insist on bleeding as described, follow this with burning the wound, using either nitric or carbolic acid, or if these are not obtainable, with a red hot iron or blade. Frontiersmen often put a little gun-powder on a wound, wet with a solution of bichloride of mercury, 1 to 4,000; peroxide of hydrogen, 50-50; or lysol, or iodine. Take off ligatures and be sure to treat shock; if liquor of any kind is used, only give in small doses and in water.

For snake bites, the same treatment is followed, in the mam, though, of course, the poison from such is much more active than that of rabies; death may even occur from four to five hours, or in as many days.

Treat shock which is most positive in snake bites, and speed medical aid, but don’t fail to follow these hints while physician is coming.

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D I	.	»

FREE EXERCISE DRILL FOR MEN AND WOMEN

Women’s Exercises arranged by A. O. Diete Men’s Exercises arranged by A. C. Teuscher.

Music: “Diplomat” by J. P. Sousa

Free Exercises for Women

I.	Exercise

Three steps forward and close with placing hand in front of shoulders-1, sideward-2, forward-3, upward-4,....	1-4

		[Formation				
T	T	T	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	T	T	T	T
T	T	T	T	T	T	T
T		T		T		T
M.	w.	M.	W.	M.	W.	M.
FILES	I		II	Ill  Digitized b;		/Google
185

Lower arms sideward palms upward-5, Lower arms

downward-6, face about 7-8 .......................... 5-8

File I. begins with right foot and faces right about. Files II and III begin with left foot and face left about. Repeat all three times ....................... 9-32

II	Exercise

File I. Lunge right rideward arms sideward............... 1-2

1-4 turn right, change kneebending, lower trunk backward, arm side downward and right arm backward, left arms to strike in front of fore head both

hands closed................................... 3-4

Return movements ....................:......... 5-8

Repeat left, right, left  .................... 9-32

File III Same as I but begin left, right, left, right.

File II Lunge left forward arms oblique fore upward..... 1-2

Change kneebending, lower trunk backward, right arm backward and left arm to strike in front of

fore head, both hands closed................... 3-4

Return movements .............................. 5-8

Repeat right, left, right..................... 9-32

III	Exercise

Three steps forward and close with kneebending on

—4, Arm movements same as I Exercise........... 1-4

Kneel and place hands in rear of head.......... 5-6

Lower trunk backward and straighten arms sideward palms up.................................  7-8

Raise trunk and place hands in rear of head .. 9-10

Return to squat stand and place hands on floor ... 11-12

Rise to stand ................................13-14

Face About....................................15-16

Repeat all ...................................17-32

File I. begins with right foot and faces right about ...

File II. and III. begin with left foot and face left about.

IV	Exercise

File I. Lunge right forward, arms oblique fore upward ... 1-2 Turn bend trunk forward right and place left hand on right knee, right arm backward, hand closed,

turn head right .............................   3-4

Return movements .............................. 5-8

Repeat left, right, left ..................... 9-32

File III. Same as I. but begins left, right, left......

File II. Jump to side stride, arms backward ............ 1-2

Lower trunk forward and swing arms fore upward 3-4

Return movements .............................. 5-8

Repeat three times ........................... 9-32

V	Exercise

All face left about and march to new formation.

Digitized by Google.....
186 FIGURE 1

Ladies

Actives

Ladies

VI	Exercise Pyramid

No. 1 Stride right forward, arms fore upward 1-4............ 1-4

Bend right knee, hands in rear of head ............. 5-8

Kneel left, arms sideward and hold ................ 9-24

Lunging position right forward, arms sideward.....25-28

Close right to left, lower arms ...................29-32

No. 2 Same as No. 1 to 8.................................... 1-8

Place hands on No. 1 shoulders, raise left leg backward .............................................. 9-12

Raise to support lying frontways and hold .........13-24

Return to lunging position right forward, arms

sideward ..........................................25-28

Close right to left, lower arms ...................29-32

No. 3 Jump to side stride, arms fore upward................. 1-4

Place hands in rear of head ........................ 5-8

Swing arms side downward and grasp No. 2 left

ankle ............................................. 9-12

Raise No. 2 to support lying frontways and hold 13-24

Lower No. 2 and arms sideward .....................25-28

Jump to close stand and lower arms.................29-32

No. 4. Stride left forward, hands in front of shoulders .... 1-4

Bend right knee, arms sideward...................... 5-8

Change kneebending, arms upward ................... 9-12

Swing to handstand and hold........................13-24

Lower to squat support lying (frontways) left .....25-28

Close left to right, raise trunk and lower arms...29-32

No. 5 Jump to side stride, hands in front of shoulders ..... 1-4

Straighten arms sideward ........................... 5-8

Move arms upward................................... 9-12

Catch handstands of No. 4 and 6 and hold...........13-24

Release handstands, arms upward ...................25-28

Jump to close stand, lower arms side downward .....29-32

No. 6 Opposite to No. 4.......................^...........  1-32

Digitized by VlOOQlC
187

No. 7 Jump to side stride, arms fore upward................. 1-4

Hands in rear of head .............................. 5-8

Swing arms side downward and grasp No. 8 right

ankle .............................................   9-12

Raise No. 8 to support lying frontways and hold ....13-24

Lower No. 8 and arms sideward .....................25-28

Jump to close stand, lower arms side downward .....29-32

No. 8 Stride left forward, arms fore upward................. 1-4

Bend left knee, hands in rear of head............... 5-8

Raise right leg backward, hands on No. 9 shoulders 9-12

Raise to support lying frontways and hold ...:.....13-24

Lower to lunging position left forward, arms sideward ..............................................25-28

Close left to right, lower arms ...................29-32

No. 9 Jump to side stride, arms fore upward................. 1-4

Place hands in rear of head ........................ 5-8

Straighten arms sideward .......................... 9-12

Move arms upward and support No. 8 at shoulders.. 13-24

i7Lower arms sideward .............................25-28

|	Jump	to close stand, lower arms side downward...29-32

►	*'	>	-No.	1 to 9 on right side will do the exercises opposite

to No. 1 to 9 on left side.

/ Jt 3	Ctx  V S’ I	n n  1 * ? 1*7	fCr\  (a jT 1	n  3 t t
		FIGURE 2		
March to	VII Exercise  new formation. Fig. 3					 1-16
		Actives		
Ladies	- —r-* -v  < ; V 7	\  \ /  \/  / <  * X X X AC X AC <  X X	n  \ / a- 7	Ladies

A	\

FIGURE 3

Join hands and 3 glides sideward with swing hop on 4 .......17-20

Two cut swing hops in place ................................21-24

Repeat glides and cut swing hops to opposite side ..........25-32

Circle I begins to left side. Circle II begins to right side.

VIII Exercise

Lunge left forward, swing arms backward and join hands

Kneel right, swing arms fore upward ...................

Bend trunk backward, lower arms sideward...............

Digitized by

Google

1-2

3-4

5-6
188

Straighten trunk, arms upward................................ 7-8

Bend trunk forward, swing arms fore downward and backward .................................................... 9-10

Straighten trunk, swing arms fore upward ...................11-12

Raise to lunging position left forward, arms fore downward

and backward ............................................13-14

Close left to right, release hands..........................15-16

Repeat right ...............................................17-32

Circle II begins with right foot

IX Exercise

March to new formation. Fig. 4.............................. 1-32

FIGURE 4

Actives

T	T	T

T	T	T

T	T	T

T	T	T

T	T	T

T	T	T

1	2	3

LADIES

/ \

Actives

X Exercise

File 1. Lunge left sideward, place hands in front of shoul

ders .............................................. 1-2

Bend trunk left sideward, straighten arms sideward,

left hand on No. II, right knee ................... 3-4

Raise right leg sideward to balance stand left sideward right hand on No. II right elbow ............. 5-8

Return to lunging position left sideward, left arm

side upward, right arm sideward ...................9-12

Close left to right, lower arms side downward ....13-16

Repeat............................................17-32

File III	Same as I but lunge right sideward

File II.	Jump to side stride, arms fore upward.............. 1-2

Place hands in rear of head ....................... 3-4

Hold..............................................  5-8

Straighten arms sideward ......................... 9-12

Jump to close stand, lower arms side downward ....13-16 Repeat............................................17-32

XI Exercise

March to new formation. Fig. 5.................... 1-32

File I

XII Exercise

Lunge right sideward, arms left sideward ...........

1-4 turn left, change knee bending, swing arms fore

downward and backward...............................

Swing arms oblique fore upward and catch hand stand of No. II.....................................

Digitized by VjOOQLC

1-2

3-4

5-6
189 FIGURE 5

Ladies			Ladies	
T T T T		\v	T T T T	
T T	i <	> f  /  . X	T	T
T T T T  1 2	* \		T  T  3	T  T  4

Actives

Hold..........................................  7-10

Swing arms fore downward and backward..........11-12

Swing arms fore upward ........................13-14

1-4 turn right, close right to left and lower arms

side downward .................................15-16

Repeat.........................................17-32

File II	Lunge right sideward, arms left sideward ....... 1-2

1-4 turn right, swing arms side downward and

fore upward .................................... 3-4

Swing to hand stand............................. 5-6

Hold........................................... 7-10

Lower to squat support lying right ............11-12

Raise to lunging position right forward, arms fore

upward ........................................13-14

Close right to left with 1-4 turn left, arms side

downward.......................................15-16

Repeat.........................................17-32

File III	'Same as II. but lunge left sideward

File IV	Same as I but lunge left sideward

XIII Exercise

March to new formation. Fig. 6..........

T

T

T

T

T

T

L

T

T

A

T

T

T

T

T

A

FIGURE 6

T

T

T

A

XIV Exercise

Same as I Exercise

XV Exercise Same as II Exercise

T

T

L

1-32

Digitized by
190

XVI	Exercise

Same as III Exercise

XVII	Exercise

Same as IV Exercise

Exercises for the Men

Line-up: four flank files facing front of stage. Each file seven deep (see formation).

I	Group

Beginning at right side of class, files 1 and 2 begin all exercises to right; files 3 and 4 begin all exercises to left.

I.	Ex. 1-2, lunge 1, sidew, place 1. hand in rear of head,

raise right arm sideward., trunk in line with right leg, 3, reverse knee bending, raise trunk and turn right, arms obliquely forward upward 4, bend trunk forward and grasp 1. knee with both hands 5 to 8, return in like manner. Four times, reverse each time .................................32 cts.

II.	Ex. 1-2, step 1. and right forward. 3-4, stride jump for-

ward 1., arms obliquely sideward upward 5-6, straighten to stand, 7-8, face 1. about in two steps on place. Four times, same side..................32 cts.

III	Ex. 1-2, lunge 1. forward and raise arms sideward 3

lower trunk forward, hands in rear of head. 4 twist trunk right. 5-8. return. Four times reverse ...........................................32 cts.

IV	Ex. 1-2, step left and right foward. 3-4, stride jump

forward left and stay in bent knee position with hands on floor outside of feet. 5-6, extend left leg forward. 7-8, return. 9-10, extend right leg forward 11-12 return. 13-14, rise to stand. 15-16,

face left about in two steps. Repeat once ....32 cts.

II GROUP

All files close forward and march left about the stage, file No. 4 leading, to one large circle in 32 cts....32 cts.

Members are numbered off by 2's with No. l’s facing inward. No 2’s outward.

I.	Ex. No. l’s, 1-2, guard position right backward with hands on floor. 3-6, swing up to handstand against hands of No. 2’s. 7-8, bend head forward. 9-10, return head. 11-12, return legs to first position 13-14, rise to stand. 15-16, face left about.

No. 2’s, 1-2 jump to side stride position and place hands in rear of head. 3-6, extend arms obliquely sideward, upward and grasp legs of No. l's. 7-8,

Digitized by VjOO^ l6
191

bend arms. 9-10, extend arms. 11-12, return to first position. 13-14, position. 15-16, face left about. Repeat once reversing exercises .................I

.32 cts.

II.	Ex. The circle is divided into four sections of seven

each, all facing inward. Each section marches forward in front line, in eight steps, to cross formation in line with corners of stage; then each arm march forward eight steps, face left about and repeat. At finish face toward outer end of arm.

With hands on hips, on count 1, touch left foot sideward. 2, cross foot in front of right knee. 3, touch right foot sideward and return left. 4, cross right foot in front of left knee. 5, jump to side stride position. 6, jump and cross feet. 7, jump to side stride position. 8, close feet .............32	cts.

Each arm is now divided into two sections, outer three and inner four.

Ex. for first three: 1-2, face right, bend knees and place hands on floor. 3-4 straighten backward to front lying position 5-6, turn left to side lying support, with left hand on hip. 7-8, extend left arms sideward. 9-10, return. 11-12, return to front position. 13-14, close forward. 15-16, rise and face front. Repeat reversed.

Center fours face left then each arm describes a square left thru marching forward four steps, then one quarter wheel left by 4’s. Repeat three times ..............................................32	cts.

III.	Ex. The two arms left of stage march to a circle at

left; the two arms at right same at right side, in 16 cts. Then: 1, touch left foot sideward and bend arms to cut. 2, cross left foot in front and extend arms sideward. 3, touch left foot sideward and bend arms. 4, position. Repeat right, left, right ..32 cts. Circles are numbered off by 2’s.

No. l’s, 1-2, fall forward to front lying support.

3-4, straddle feet sideward. 5-8, No. 2 raises No.

1	to hand stand. 9-12, return with feet closed.

13-14, close backward to squat stand. 15-16, rise to stand.

No. 2's, 1-2 jump to side stride position and raise arms obliquely sideward upward 3-4, bend knees and grasp one left and one right ankle of two No. l’s 5-8 raise No. l's to hand stand. 9-12 return No. l’s to lying support. 13-14, return to first position, 15-16, position. Repeat once, reversing

exercise

.32 cts.
192

IV.	Ex The class now faces to flank position and both circles march to rear and center of stage where lines now cross and march to double circle, small one inside, large one outside. Each circle has fourteen men. Left circle inside,- right circle outside, all face outward.......................................32	cts.

Outer circle: 1-2, bend knees and hands on floor.

3-4, straighten backward to front lying support.

5-6, raise left leg backward. 7-8, return leg. 9-12 same exercises with right leg 13-14, close forward.

15-16, stand. Then; 1-4, march forward. 5-6, lunge left forward, lower trunk forward in line, place hands in rear of head. 7, extend arms sideward.

8,	return arms. 9, extend arms sideward. 10, return arms. 11-12, position 13-16, march backward.

Inner Circle: 1-2, guard position left backward and hands in rear of head. 3-4, bend backward and

extend arms obliquely sideward upward and grasp partners hands. 5-8, return.

Four times left, right, left, right ...............32	cts.

Ill Group

March to first line-up in four flank files in 32 cts. ......32	cts.

The following exercises are executed with the class working at intervals of two counts.

1. Ex. Ex. 1., Group 1. Two center files begin on count

1., outer files on count 3.........................32	cts.

II. Ex. 1-2, Face outward and fall forward to front lying support. 3-4, turn to front of stage to side lying support with hand on hip. 5-6, extend arm sideward 7-8, return arm. 9-10, return to frpnt lying position 11-12, close forward. 13-14, rise to stand.

15-16, face front. Repeat once inward.

Outer files begin on 1, center on 3 ................32	cts.

Ill Ex. Ex. III., Group 1. Inner files begin on 1, outer

files on 3..........................................32	cts.

IV. Ex. 1-2, same as Ex. II., Group III. 3-4, bend arms and raise left leg backward. 5-6, extend arms and return leg. 7-8, same with arms and right leg back ward. 9-10, return arms and leg. 11-12, close forward 13-14, rise to stand. 15-16, face front.

Repeat once inward.

Outer files begin on 1, inner on 3..................32	cts.

Files countermarch outward and off stage.

Digitized by v^ooQle