MIND AND BODY

Vol. 33	FEBRUARY,	1927	No.	356

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1879•

----------------------------♦

Qriginal articles and reprint^

RECREATION AS THE CHALLENGE FOR LEISURE IN THE MODERN CHURCH

Herbert E. Coyer, North Tonawanda, New York.

In thousands of communities today the problems of recreation are not adequately or desirably met by existing recreational and amusement agencies. Outside of the schools, and even in many schools, there is little or no intelligent direction for one of the most vital expressions of all ages of life. Many organizations have made bold attempts at reaching the people of a community but their life seems to be comparatively short. Perhaps the first of its kind from the modern point of view, outside of the Y. M. C. A., has been the Settlement House. It usually was a house created by the inspiration of some individual

Note:-What Mr. Coyer says about the Church, may with equal propriety be extended to include schools of all kinds and the organizations like the Turners Sokols, American Legion, etc.

Digitized by L^OOQle
. 390

or group of individuals for general welfare and recreational purposes. Unless substantially endowed it too had a comparatively short existence. This seemed to be the fate of all such organizations that were not tied up to a definite religious program. Perhaps this is why we can point to the long and successful existence of the Y. M. C. A. and with hope of its continued success. Surveys of organizations doing welfare work show that where they have no religious motive they last only so long as their group lasts. , This perhaps is why the Settlement House is gradually being replaced by the Church Parish House, an institution with not only a religious motive but an institution becoming endowed so as to make for the permanency of its work.

In the middle ages the church did all the welfare work in the community. They ran the hospitals, the asylums, the schools, etc. Financial assistance was given them by the state for this purpose. Today various welfare agencies receive help from the state and the church receives none — hence the necessity for the endowing of the church house.

A survey of Community Chest results shows decidedly that the community does not want any more Community or Settlement Houses doing general welfare work. Instead certain agencies have • had to combine because some only reached certain needs of the individual. The uniting of two large organizations like the Playground and Recreation Association with the Community Service shows that one good organization can render a better all-round service than by limiting their work to a specific field. Even a highly organized institution like the Y. M. C. A. is confining its work mostly to the industrial class in promoting its program of recreation and with its Department of University Extension.

As a result of the prevalence of undesirable and unwholesome conditions thousands of churches have found it necessary to enter the field of recreation and minister to the physical and social interests as well as the religious needs. In the past the attitude of the church toward places of recreation was one of aggression. It fought the saloon out of existence, it condemned the cheap dance hall and scorned the amusement park. Yet all of these places held their arms wide open to our young people because they furnished a place of enjoyment for the leisure time, and all the while the church was damning them the church never attempted to offer a satisfactory substitute.' If one could step into a modem Church Parish House today one would see all the essentials that care for the leisure time of its people. It stands as a monument for spare money and spare energy. In other words it shows that the church has at last met the r‘Chal-lenge for Leisure.”

If we look back over the centuries of civilization we can readily see that leisure has been a dominant force in the advancement of the world when properly harnessed. Three thousand years ago, along the shores of the Mediterranean, there developed a culture that has been one of the greatest contribu-
391

tions to the world and which has never, been surpassed. The philosophers from those Mediterranean States rank among the greatest thinkers of all time; the artists were masters of chisel and brush, and are consciously imitated to this day; the playwrights were the inventors of the perfect tragedy. And, in this same civilization, the athlete was held in equal esteem with the thinker, the sculptor, and the writer. We find that Egypt was able to make permanent its contribution by a thorough maintenance of a system of slavery that relieved them of all hard toil so that they could use their time ip planning temples, in creating literature, and in perfecting works of art. Likewise the Greeks, on a basis of slavery, were given the opportunity to develop their literary ability, and to work creatively in the realm of sculpture, in painting, philosophy, and in architecture. Without the use of slaves Greece could never have made permanent and invaluable the enrichment of those ideals and achievements which have entered into what is called civilization. Rome, with her imperialistic outlook and military power, brought untold numbers of slaves to Italy. Roman citizens, generally, were men of leisure. They could use their minds and talents and strength very largely according to their own unfettered desires. It was the failure to properly use their leisure that social disease and decay set in. It is sad when we recall how these great nations were laid in a spirit of physical activity, but when the spirit of slavery entered—a spirit that gave too much leisure—the expression died out and the races began to decay. The ruined Colisseum today is an impressive monument to a fallen civilization that never learned to properly conserve its surplus time, wealth, and energy. What was true then is true now. We can build all kinds of magnificent places of recreation and worship, but unless we can see to it that they are properly used the evil of leisure will be upon us. It can readily be understood that the church’s great undeveloped resource is “Leisure.” Just recently there appeared in the Atlantic Monthly an article entitled “Leisure—for what?” where the author reminds us that the average man today has far more leisure than did his ancestors. He concludes the article by saying, “The great problem before us today is to create a civilization that will not degenerate under leisure—leisure is and must be a means and not an end; —its true value is measured by whether it lifts us or lowers us in the world of intangibles, the world not of material but of spiritual values.” How true this is when we regard that what a man does with his leisure is the finest revelation of his true self. It is not the things we do because we must but the things we do because we may, which really speak the true language of our life.

The call for a program of leisure-time activities supervised by the church is based upon some of the most significant facts in modern civilization. There is a real need for creating that in which vital membership can readily be achieved. Ruskin somewhere says in substance that Idleness and Cruelty are life’s

Digitized by CjOOQle
392

major sins. Nobody respects the idler. The church today faces a challenge to save whole areas of human life from moral disintegration and decay. It is a challenge to prevent the spread of morally and mentally damaging idleness and of billions of misused money. To accept this challenge is not the reclaimng of lost memberships, or lost needs, or lost money, but the reclaiming of lost energy which is the most pressing of all lost human needs. To accept means the evaluation of the church’s program and the adding to it that which will make it most effective. The church must frankly face the question of who is molding the standards that will make or mar its youth, and what is the character of the agencies that are sowing the standards through their activities. Taking a negative attitude toward recreation now is no more a doubt for the church. Instead she must face the dangers that have crept into recreation and offer the reasonable substitute that has always been lacking. She must face the danger of Commercialism and its partner, Professionalism, because with these two goes Immorality. These evils of recreation are the rat-holes that lead to the element of gambling, scandals, and degradation that soon destroy clean wholesome recreation, so that the price the church must pay is one of eternal vigilance. The church must think of its ministry in its relation to the total life—physical, social, mental, and religious. All this is based on the conception that religion is not a segment of life but relates to and affects all phases of life. This conception has a socializing influence that inculcates the spirit of co-operation and team play that cannot be ignored by the modem church any longer.

This is the spirit that caused such churches as the West End Presbyterian Church in New York City to build its parish house to meet the recreation needs of the church and the community; also the Brick Church in Rochester, N. Y., to erect a new building with a gymnasium, swimming pool, bowling alleys, and various recreational and educational facilities, besides a dormitory for men; Trinity Methodist Church in Springfield, Mass., its new building with swimming pool, gymnasium, pool and billiard room, and spacious auditorium; St. Timothy Chapel in Philadelphia its splendid house and summer camp; Morgan Chapel in Boston its new building; St. George’s Church in New York City its parish house equipped with a trade school for boys, a cottage colony and summer camp; and Trinity Episcopal Church in New Haven, Conn., its new three hundred thousand dollar parish house equipped with a gymnasium, pool and billiard tables, bowling alleys, library, large auditorium with facilities for movies, individual class-rooms for a large church school, and apartments for members of the staff, also its spacious vacation cottage at the seashore. In Gassell Park, Los Angeles, the program of community recreation became so effective that the church is now known as the Community Church. Many churches, like a dormant Presbyterian church in Buffalo, N. Y., have taken a new lease on life by the erection of a new building
393

with provisions for recreation and leisure-time activities. Countless other churches are also ready to attest a visible quickening of church life due to intelligent planning for the leisure hours of its people. In Delaware sixteen churches promote all their own recreation through their Church Athletic Recreation League. The Ministerial Alliance of the Methodist Church in Kentucky backs the recreational activities of its church. The Board of Sunday Schools of the Methodist Church has authorized the publication of training courses for recreational leadership and has just recently published a handbook to be used as a text. In New Haven, Conn., there are twelve Episcopal churches linked together in an Episcopal Athletic Council to promote recreational activities for all in its denomination.

Many churches after groping for the means of holding their young people have at last found the instrument in the modern parish house. Here every available piece of equipment can be utilized as it has never been used before without fear of the slightest objection. The parish kitchen,' that usually would stay closed for months, is now opened for weekly luncheons and classes in cooking. The Sewing Guild’s sewing machines have been brought out of storage—dusted and oiled—and sewing and dressmaking taught as well as Red Cross and Hospital Service performed. In many churches, like in South Congregational Church of Springfield, Mass., the Sunday evening service is supplemented by clean wholesome movies which has had a decided effect in interesting many young people to attend who perhaps would be somewhere else. The church gymnasium has also its great socializing effect, not alone in its gymnasium classes where young and old participate, but in providing a better outlet for the social craving than the cheap dance hall provides for the boy and girl. The manifold possibilities of the gymnasium more than pays for itself in this regard. Even the pool and billiard tables are a means for Pater et Filius to get together and play. The parish house also offers an ideal meeting place for the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, or Camp Fire Girls. Perhaps it would be well to note here that fully eighty-five per cent of the Boy Scout Troops in the country are organized in connection with the church, or the church school, and the Girl Scouts and Camp Fire Girls are coming to be organized in this same way.

Incidentally, this is a new day for the Rector for his responsibilities are somewhat lessened as one phase of his administration now comes under the professional guidance of a trained recreational leader. In the modern church all the social and recreational needs come under his supervision. He organizes a Recreational Leaders Class comprised of representatives from every organization in the church and a course of study of recreational and social material is supplemented by lectures by leaders in other fields of recreation in the city. This same group assists with the gymnasium classes and each month, or often as the occasion requires, a parish party is conducted. It may be a dance, a Boy Scout Jamboree, Hallowe’en party, Christmas
394

Tree, Valentine’s or Washington’s Birthday party. Before the party takes place its organization is gone into and properly constructed, then after the party its success or failure is analyzed to guide them in the future. The class gets the Director’s point of view and spirit which permeates the entire parish because they are representative of every group in the church.

With such a program in co-operation with the Clergy, the total life—the physical, mental, and the religious—of the parishioner is reached and a proper investment of tinje, energy, and money of the people of a modem church is met.

A ONE HUNDRED PERCENT HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAM IN THE JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS*

A. Lester Crapeer, East Stroudsburg, Pa.

The title of this paper might indicate that its content would construct a theoretical program in Health Education as an ideal for which to strive, but to the speaker a one hundred per cent program is one that is operating at that percentage of efficiency, so that material covered will be that which is at present within the realm of possibility and practicability in the average Junior High School.

In order that our thoughts and discussion may be clarified the meaning of the term, Health Education, as hereinafter referred to, is considered to include the entire health program, that is, the three divisions of health work as now operating in most cities, having to do with the health of the school child, namely:

1	Health Correction (more commonly known as Medical Inspection in which we have school doctors, dentists, nurses, dental hygienists, building hygiene and school sanitation, etc.)

2	Health Activities, comprising gymnasium classes, athletics, demonstrations, physical or motor ability tests, tests of achievement, and all the other numerous activities usually contained in the physical education program.

3	Health Instruction, with its classes in Hygiene, Physiology, health habits, visual instruction, plays and pageants safety methods, special classes, etc.

It seems desirable and is indeed proving so, that the three mentioned divisions affecting the health of the school child should be under a single administrator for purposes of coordination and efficiency, and to fit them into the educational program, which is, after all, the primary function of the public schools. This means an executive head who might be termed a director of health education or an assistant superintendent in

•Read at the Annual Junior High School Conference Temple University, Philadelphia, October 23, 1926.

Digitized by

Google
395

Charge of health. Under such an administrator and with a staff consisting of two men instructors and a nurse in a Junior High school of 1C0D to 1500 pupils, with a time schedule of one 60 minute period each day devoted to Health Education, with a gymnasium and a play field adjoining the school, we may proceed to construct our program. The Health Education of the boys only will be considered. The program for the girls will be identical differing only in detail of material suited to their physiological needs and in the policy of athletic procedure.

At the beginning of the school term each child should be given a physical examination (not a hasty “inspection”) which could be conducted jointly by the doctor; dentist, nurse, dental hygienist, and physical directors. This examination should be given in the period, alloted to Health Education because it should be the basis for the whole health program. Inasmuch as the children in most states have been examined yearly for the previous six years it would seem that it is not necessary for a physician’s time to be taken with every child, so that with the school nurse taking the weight and height, the school dentist or hygienist examining the mouth and teeth, physical directors examining eyes, posture, and skin conditions, that it would leave the doctor free for diagnosing any irregular conditions that these other health workers may detect, and also take the heart and lung examinations. The psychological value of having all of these various health workers participate in examining is obvious. It promotes that feeling of cooperation which is desired for a rational health program. With the record cards of these examinations available in the school they become very definite tools with which the different divisions may carry on their corrective work.

Should there be no dentists or dental hygienists on the school board’s staff the nurse or physical director may examine the teeth.

The nurse and physical director share in the follow-up work of the examination, the former in home visitations and the latter in personal interviews because of his contacts with the boys and the influence he has by virtue of his work and position.

The Junior High School health activities may be as varied and as numerous as the equipment, training, and personnel of the staff permit. In the matter of time allotment, three hours a week devoted to outdoor games and athletics during the Fall and Spring and to gymnasium classes in the Winter, seems to be a satisfactory one. The content of the work for Junior High School boys, while dependent upon the training of the instructors and facilities and equipment of the school, might in most cases embrace in the Fall, Soccer and modified games and relays with the foot-ball such as Touch Foot Ball, Foot Ball Fundamentals introduced in competitive form. Motor Ability Tests in Soccer and Foot Ball, etc.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
896

In the Winter term full use of the gymnasium is made but no opportunity should be lost for exercise in the out of doors, should conditions and opportunities permit. A well rounded program of graded gymnastics, details for which may be found m numerous, well written books, and in the various syllabi published by the different states, which we have no time to discuss here, furnish adequate material for gymnasium work. In order to obtain measurable results, tests of Achievement and the Physical or Motor Ability Tests which have been more or less perfected, are available, and have their place in a health education program. In the administration of the program of activities provision should be made for recreational advantages for the faculty in the form of Volley Ball teams, Dancing classes, hikes etc.

Athletics in the Junior High School reach their highest degree of usefulness when conducted on an intra-mural basis, with provision for every boy to participate in his choice of two or three different sports, with no representative or varsity team to monopolize the time and equipment, with the possible exception that when all the s.udents have been provided with an opportunity to participate, if there is still remaining time and space, a representative team might be selected to compete with other Junior High Schools within the city, but not to travel outside of the city limits.

In addition to the three hours of physical activity, two hours of health instruction should appear m the Junior High School program. The fundamental purpose of this health instruction to be the formation of health habits rather than the accumulation of factual knowledge. It is in this instructional phase of the Health Program that most of the progressive educators are centering their interest, and while there appears to be a wealth of materials and a great variety of methods, there is little uniformity or definiteness in the presentation of this work to aid the untrained teacher, although such books as Cobbs Outlines in Hygiene and the texts by Burkhard Chambers and Maroney are excellent samples of the newer methods in Health Instruction. The matter of instruction in safety methods which is so vital in our larger cities should receive attention and be included in this phase of the Junior High School Health Program.

As a means of tying up the Physical Examinations with the Health Instruction the following reports of two projects conducted last year present a means of showing very definite and measurable results and presenting forceful instruction. The first seems applicable to all students in the Junior High School (rather than to a small selected group as used in the project) and the second to a special class.

Project No. 1. Special Class for Underweights.

“A class of some 50 boys were selected from those whose physical examinations indicated a weight of 10 per cent or more below the normal as determined by such a chart as de-

Digitized by Google
397

vised by Mr. Stecher and his staff, together with some boys recommended for inclusion by the various instructors. The class met twice a week (on various occasions one day a week was devoted to individual conferences) for a period covering ten weeks. At the close, the class consisted of 40 pupils, the others having left school^ or were discharged from the class for special reasons.

“The procedure consisted in having each boy make out a graph chart upon which he recorded his weight weekly, and which also indicated what he should normally weigh and normally gain during the particular ten Weeks during which the class was conducted. Instruction was given as to the causes of under weight, the remedial measure necessary to gain, and the proper health habits to cultivate. Care was taken to make the requirements few in number, in the hope that they would be more readily followed out. For instance, the class was first asked to do just two things—secure 10 hours sleep each night, and to substitute milk or cocoa for coffee at breakfast. Later, individual conferences resulted in special prescriptions for each pupil, together with suggested diet lists as favoring the changes for increase in weight. The school nurse aided materially in the inspection of those not showing gains after the first three weeks had elapsed—to determine whether physical defects were the cause of their not showing improvement.

The normal amount of gain in the particular ten week period as indicated bv the latest scientific investigations for boys of this particular age, (Affleck, Nutritional Survey of the Schools of Springfield, Mass.) should bj 3.1 pounds. Of tbe t^otal of 40 boys who completed the class, 26, or 65% showed a gain greater than 3.1 pounds. Two boys lost in weight (one having particularly bad teeth that were not cared for, and the other having an obvious serious nasal obstruction) and one boy neither lost nor gained—he also having defective teeth that were not cared for. One boy 52 pounds over weight, by following a modified diet, and reduction in the amount of food, reduced his weight 15 1-4 pounds in the ten week period.

The most valuable phase of the work was the very close manner in which the charts showed the class the effects various habits and conditions had upon their weight, thus impressing them as no amount of lecture or reading work would have done. I refer to such instances as the boy who showed the greatest gain, whereby for 12 weeks (from the time of his physical examination until five weeks of the class had passed) had gained only 1 pound, but by having his teeth attended to, gained 11 1-4 pounds in five weeks time; to the immediate loss in weight during cold; to the increase in weight which resulted when they ceased drinking coffee and substituted milk; to the gain made when a boy cut down in his smoking; to the gain or loss when the proper or improper amount of sleep was secured, and other results due to hygienic living. Following are the detailed gains or losses for the entire class:

Digitized by Google
398

1	boy lost 3 pounds 1 boy lost 1 1-4 pounds

1	boy neither lost nor gained.

2	boys gained 1 pound

3	boys gained 1 3-4 pound 1 boy gained 2 pounds

1	boy gained 2 1-4 pounds

2	boys gained 2 1-2 pounds

2	boys gained 3 pounds

3	boys gained 3 1-2 pounds

4	boys gained 3 3-4 pounds 3 boys gained 4 pounds

2 boys gained 4 1-2 pounds 2 boys gained 4 1-4 pounds 2 boys gained 4 3-4 pounds 2 boys gained 5 3-4 pounds 1 boy gained 6 pounds 1 boy gained 6 1-4 pounds 1 boy gained 6 1-2 pounds 1 boy gained 7 pounds

1	boy gained 7 3-4 pounds

2	boys gained 8 pounds

2 boys gained 11 1-4 pounds Project No. 2 Special Class for Chronic Absentees.

A second special class was made up of a group of the 27 boys who had the greatest number of absences during the months of October, November, and December. All of these attributed the cause pf their absence to some form of sickness. The same procedure was carried out during the months of January, February, and March as with the previous class, with the exception that more emphasis was placed upon the prevention of colds as they were epidemic at this particular season of the year.

The following significant results occurred:

Total days absent for all 27 Oct. Nov. Dec. 179 Total days absent for all 27 Jan. Feb. Mar. 179 Attendant percentage of entire school for Oct. Dec. 94% Attendant percentage of entire school for Jan. Mar. 92% Drop in school attendance percentage	2%

(This 2% drop for Jan. Mar. has been uniform for last 3 years)

Six boys had perfect attendance during Jan. and March. Eighteen boys had better attendance in Jan. and March. The above-mentioned results were accomplished in the face of an epidemic of grippe and an 11 day loss by one boy because of lack of transportation facilities.

Of 22 boys questioned 16 had definitely acquired 1 or more health habits which they did not have before class started. The other six did not change any of their habits.

To recapitulate—A 100 Per Cent Health Education Program in a Junior High School would have:

Digitized by A^OOQle
399

1	An administration heading up all phases of the School

Health Program.

2	Instructors trained to conduct both activities and in-

struction.

3	Provision for one hour each day of Health Education

work.

4	A thorough Physical Examination for each child.

5	Emphasis on out of door activities.

6	Tests of Achievement and Ability.

7	Provision for Faculty Recreation.

8	After school athletics for all-representative teams after all have had opportunity for participation through the intramural program, but then only where there are more than one Junior High School in a city.

9	Health Instruction with emphasis upon the development of health habits rather than the accumulation of Factual Knowledge.

10	Methods that are productive of measurable results as demonstrated in the two projects discussed.

NOTES OF TRAVEL*

A. Gertrude Jacobs

5.	Impressions Of The Orient.

Plunging from Australian mid-winter to Oriental mid-summer was an enervating experience. The body cannot adapt itself all at once to such a rapid change. Nature protects us by gradually merging the cold of winter into the heat of summer.

To people unused to tropical climates the heat is doubly hard to bear because of its humidity.

It envelops one like a hot wet blanket. Certainly no Turkish baths are needed to induce perspiration. At Hong Kong, which I was assured was having a c6ol season, I was in a dripping perspiration most of the time. It was induced by the slightest exertion in day-time and it poured off at night when the screen mosquito nettings over the bed cut off what little breeze one might hope to get.

Cholera was raging in Shanghai so passengers were discouraged from going shore.

From the tired worn faces of those who embarked there I could well believe that they had suffered from the worst heat spell known for sixteen years. It was estimated that the average daily temperature was over 100 degrees and at night it dropped to about 80 degrees. There had been no rain for over a month. It is no wonder that men and women must learn to take life easy in the sweltering heat of the tropics! It goes

(Continued from January.)

Digitized by v^ooQle
400

without saying that schools were closed so that I had to gather information from other sources and judge of the buildings from their outside appearances. In the majority of places I was very favorably impressed. Halls of learning are thoroughly respected even if the masses never receive any personal benefit from their use.

Warm countries do not have to consider the latest improvement in artificial ventilating and heating systems. Schools are built more or less like sheds opening on all sides and classes are even conducted out of doors.

In parts of Japan however, where the winters are cold enough for snow and ice, protection is given and more is needed. I was told that children blue with cold, had to sit hour after hour in rooms devoid of heat.

The splendid system for the medical supervision of school children, fails there, as in other countries, when it comes to a practical application. Educators as well as physicians know the slogan "prevention is better than cure” only in theory as yet. If they could only be brought to realize that to save a child from developing a cold would be infinitely better than to cure the cold afterwards, an educational step in advance of the times would undoubtedly be taken. The Japanese Government controls all public schools and has the supervision of private ones— since the latter have to reach a certain standard before being licensed. I was glad to learn that one of the requirements is a gymnasium.

The Swedish System is used for formal work and this is supplemented by military drill for the boys.

A corps of physicians is kept busy examining school children. They are expected to give each child a complete medical examination twice a year.

When defects are found the patient is referred to the family dentist or physician. In some placed the latter is paid upon a yearly salary basis, to keep the family well. Deduction from the salary of the physician is made in case of illness. It seemed to me to be a very sensible arrangement and one which would do a great deal toward raising health standards if it could be adopted the world over.

In all Oriental countries I was extremely impressed by the well-kept condition of the teeth. The Chinese have the most hygienic tooth-cleaner on the market. It is a stick of some kind of wood which softens when dipped in water. When used it keeps the tartar removed and the teeth polished. After each cleaning the used portion is cut off so the danger from infection is slight.

Gold is used for fillings. Even the stewards on the steamer displayed a considerable amount of it as they smilingly assured you that they understood perfectly just what you wanted. Nor did they lose that golden smile in the dining room when it was not reciprocated. If, for example, an order for fresh fruit was interpreted to mean cheese or an order for omelet to mean their

Digitized by CaOOQle
401

national dish of roast pork, they were always ready to rectify the mistake—cheerfully—Roast pork in hot weather was something I could not understand. But the story goes that the Chinese first discovered its gastronomic possibilities when a pig was roasted thru the burning of a house. Rumor has it that other houses were burned before it was discovered that the delicacy could be obtained more easily. Certain it is that the Chinese love pork. I saw a whole roast pig once, waiting, while the funeral procession was being formed, to be taken to the grave with. the body.

Live pigs were enclosed in pens on our steamer so that steerage passengers might kill and roast them as needed.

One must be careful not to drink unboiled water in the Orient. Cholera and dysentery are more or less common diseases. Also one must never—no never—eat lettuce or other uncooked vegetable.

Since few beasts of burden are used animal manure cannot be had. Hence the natives use human faeces for that purpose. It is kept in huge retainers after being collected each day, and then is carried out and worked into the ground when needed.

Undoubtedly this custom is responsible for helping in the spread of disease. Cooked vegetables or fruits protected by thick skins are the only safe natural foods. Even lettuce grown under hygienic conditions may be kept fresh by water squirted thru the mouth of a solicitous cook! The Japanese used to be true vegetarians. Today they use a great deal of fish and they cure one variety in such a way that it may be eaten raw.

Chop suey appears to be an American dish. It is not Chinese. We had one dinner in a Chinese restaurant where they could not speak English. It consisted of chicken and walnuts, fried pork, fried fish, lobster, duck, rice, tea and several varieties of condiments. It is no wonder that Oriental cooking plays havoc with digestion!

Manila and Honolulu being American presented quite different aspects to other eastern countries. In them the trend toward educating children is a strong one. Many of the natives speak English which they learn in the public schools.

I	saw some of the finest school buildings in Honolulu which I have seen anywhere.

In all the eastern countries provision seems to be made for sports. Even Sandakan, North Borneo, had a beautiful public green used for games and situated right in the center of the town. Sandakan boast of having one hundred white people on the island. Therefore the green is used principally by Malays and Chinese. Our Australian men passengers lost little time in challenging the Englishmen of the island to a match game of cricket, f could not visualize a group of middle-aged American men doing the same thing in the heat of a tropical country. Certainly the sporting spirit adds a lot to a man's enjoyment of life.

Digitized by i^ooQle
402

Human life counts for so little in China that probably dietetics is an unexplored subject even in the higher education. Coolies are practically beasts of burden. I was informed that the majority of the rickshaw men were addicted to opium and that their average span of life was but five years.

Both China and Japan are making concerted efforts to cut out traffic in opium. Custom officials were stationed on steamers while in port to watch for would-be smugglers. These vigilant men have confiscated and burned enormous quantities of the stuff, sent by traders from supposedly Christian countries.

After visiting China it is easy to understand why the death rate is high, even without the daily toll of robbers or pirates. Women have to work side by side with men in heavy manual labor. Loaded baskets are carried by being suspended at each end of poles strung across the shoulders. One poor old woman, or perhaps a young woman looking prematurely old, I used to meet every day. She was bent almost double while carrying basekts of cement up a hill in this way.

It would not take much of a stretch of imagination to believe that thousands of babies die each year as a result of prenatal conditions. One physician told me that thousands die of lock-jaw at birth thru infection from dirty hands or instruments. Thousands of cases of blindness too, may be traced to the inexplicable custom of having the eye-lids scraped by no greater specialist than a street barber.

I was glad to find that in Japan—Japan with an area smaller than California and with a birth rate of 400,000 to 800,000 baDies a year—the outlook was more hopeful. Baby clinics are being started and an effort is being made to disseminate hygienic knowledge with young or prospective mothers. Teachers who can afford to do so, are encouraged to study abroad and the Government sends out and bears the expense of those whom it feels are fitted for special appointments.

Salaries are very small ranging from $30 to $150 a month according to the type of school and the position.

The artistic kimono of the Japanese women’s dress is a tremendous physical handicap. The obi or girdle has to be worn very tight to get the right effect. In adjusting the kimono sometimes as many as seven strings have to be tied around the waist. In consequence of this the chest becomes cramped and the back curved. There is an appalling amount of tuberculosis amongst Japanese women. This disease it is claimed has more victims in Japan than in any other civilized country in the world.

Mothers often do not wean babies while in arms. In fact a mother may be feeding two or three of varying ages at the same time. The sucking action like that of the miserable dummy or pacifier changes the shape of the unformed jaw. This probably accounts for the ugly and prominent upper jaws to be seen in so many of the Japanese.
403

Japan is cleaner and more sanitary than China. Hong Kong is not typically Chinese yet it was bad enough. Eighty years ago it was but a struggling village. Then England took it over and because of the protection afforded Hong Kong grew by leaps and bounds. Today it is a city of probably 800,000 inhabitants.

Sanitation if one could use the word in connection with China has not kept pace with the need of even Hong Kong. Because of the mountains the city can only expand to any extent on the Kowloon side of the river. Here, one finds whole Chinese districts with no water in the houses. It must be carried from the street. Naturally with large families one could not expect to find cleanliness.

Japanese on the other hand are strong on bathing. There are even families who do not object to doing it in the open. First the body is scrubbed with soap and hot water. Then there is a complete rinse. Then, in a tub very much the shape of a large butter firkin follows a sitz bath in water too hot for comfort. The bath water is heated with a small stove connected to it. The formality of changing the water for different members of the family or for visitors is dispensed with. Since all are clean when they enter upon the third stage of bathing why be pernickety!

Babies in both China and Japan are carried on the back of parent, brother, sister or slave. It is sadly true that in China little girls are still sold as slaves, bringing at least $500 a piece.

The Chinese use a square of material with strings at the four corners. This gives more support to the baby than the Japanese custom of using but one long strip of material. This is placed around the bearer’s neck is crossed in front and crossed and recrossed around the body of the baby. In this unnatural position babies are held for hours at a time, with their little heads bent backwards or resting on or over the shoulder of the carrier. It must be a terrible strain, yet they go everywhere, strapped on in this way—even to being a handicap to the brothers who indulge in games and sports. It is a wonder that more of them do not come to untimely ends.

Japan believes in play spaces and has them set apart in cities. She also has adopted the idea of roof play-grounds. The sport spirit helps to off-set the bad results of the rigid school system. An American educator is responsible for the statement that Japanese schools do not even try to reach the individual.

Routine programs require about six hours of lecture work per day. If convenient to assign algebra, geometry and arith-metric all in one term they are so assigned, regardless of the bent of the student. Boys and girls become so exhausted from this daily grind that they do little studying outside of school. Since all money transactions involving cash change are counted up upon beads strung on wires it would seem as though courses in mental arithmetic could profitably be added to the curriculum of schools in both China and Japan, One Japanese health

Digitized by ^.ooQle
404

measure may certainly” be commended. Twice a year the Government insists upon all houses being cleaned. To be sure furniture is simple and mats are easily taken up. But out of doors everything must go while police make their inspections and give their seal of approval.

In summing up the results of my five month’s trip around the world I believe that the outstanding feature is the manifest awakening everywhere to the needs for more efficient health teaching. One of the outcomes of this awakening is to be Hygiene Exhibition at Bandoeng, Java, June and July 1927. The prospectus is interesting from its very comprehensiveness and also from its sponsoring. With us exhibitions of this kind are usually left to physicians and health education teachers.

Here I find on the chief committee two university professors, a military man, three men connected with the Fair Association, one mayor and one banker.

The Secretary A. J. Helling travelled on the same steamer as I. He is a young man but so keenly alive to the hygienic needs of the East Indian Netherlands that he fairly devoured any pamphlets or information which I was able to give him.

America, largely I think thru the circulation of books on health and the world-wide work of the Red Cross is looked upon as more or less of a world leader in health education.

Surely then it behooves us to keep abreast of the times. We shall have something to do to keep beyond the pace set by the Dutch if their program for the Exhibition is fully carried out. I can do no better than quote the objects as set forth in the prospectus.

1	To create a vivid visual impression of the various diseases and factors which threaten human health in the tropics.

2	To make known the rules of health and their application in order to prevent as far as possible diseases under 1— the influence of harmful factors and to fight with every power prevailing diseases and unfavorable influences.

3	To give an indication of how this application may be carried out in the simplest, most efficient and economical manner and, if possible, to show statistics referring to improvements in health attained by the means used.

4	To bring visitors to a deeper consideration and consciousness that health is one of the chief sources of human happiness, wealth and contentment, of physical and mental welfare and the capacity to work.

5	To instill the idea that everyone is not only responsible for the maintenance and improvement of his own health, but to a great extent for that of his family and fellow citizens.

6	Finally, to impress upon everyone what should be done, and what left undone to further the interests of public health in general from a hygienic point of view.

Digitized by t^ooQle
405

LAWS OF HEALTH EMPHASIZED BY THE "CASE-METHOD”*

FIFTH GRADE.

(a)	Object.

To teach effect of the use of alcohol on health and character.

(1)	That alcohol benumbs one’s sensibilities when taken in excels.

(2)	That exposure to continued cold may help to cause sickness.

(3)	That a cold in head may develop into pneumonia, if not treated.

(4)	That alcohol weakens one’s resistance to infection.

(5)	That it lessens one’s strength in combating disease.

(b)	Presentation.

During the winter a man was found by a policeman huddled in a doorway. He did not respond to the policeman’s call, and did not know where he was or where he was going. He had a bad cough, so he was taken to the nearest hospital where he was examined. He was found to be intoxicated and sick, so they gave him a bath and put him to bed. The next morning he was worse. He said he was a bricklayer by trade, 40 years old, out of work and had no home, and had had a cold for a week. The following day the physician at the hospital reported that he had pneumonia with little hope of recovery, as his system had been weakened by the use of alcohol. In a few days he died.

(c)	Deduction.

(1)	Why wasn't this man home?

(2)	Why was he out of work?

(3)	Why was he stupid when the policeman called to him?

(4)	Is exposure to cold for a long time good for you?

(5)	When it is very cold what should you do when you go out?

(6)	When you get chilled through and cold, what should you do?

(7)	Why didn’t this man know he was cold?

(8)	Why did his cold turn into pneumonia? (Not treated, and resistance lowered by alcohol).

(9)	Why was there no hope of his getting well?

(10)	If this man had not used alcohol, what would have happened?

(11)	Hundreds of cases like this each year.

(•Continued from January)

Digitized by L^OOQle
406

SIXTH GRADE

(a)	Object.

To teach use of coagulation in slight wounds.

(1)	That a clean cut wound will usually heal quickly.

(2) That bleeding is one of the most efficient ways of cleansing a wound.

(3)	That coagulation will cause the bleeding to cease.

(4) That after coagulation the wound is not likely to become infected if a clean bandage is applied.

(b)	Presentation.

Some time ago one of our seventh grade boys while at work in the shop accidentally cut his finger with a very sharp sloyd knife; it bled freely at first, but gradually stopped. The teacher then applied a bandage, and in a few days the wound healed.

(c)	Deduction.

(1)	What kind of a wound will a sharp knife make? Clean cut)

(2)	Of what value was the bleeding? (One of the best ways to cleanse a wound.)

(3)	What caused the bleeding to stop? (coagulation or clot)

(4)	Why did the wound heal so soon without further treatment? (free from infection).

SIXTH GRADE

(a)	Object.

To teach:—

(1)	Relation of blood and circulation to health.

(2)	Relation of food and air to good blood.

(3)	Effect of excessive exercise after eating.

(4)	Necessity of medical attention when get tired easily.

(b)	Presentation.

In a school not very far from here last week a girl in the seventh grade ran to school right after eating her lunch of bread and butter, pie and coffee. She only ran about two blocks, and when she came up the steps she fainted. She soon gained consciousness, but was weak. A doctor happened in the school, and he offered to treat the girl. He found that she got very tired each day, that she did not feel like studying or playing, and that she often had pain in the abdomen (stomach) He examined her blood and found she had a blood disease called green-sickness. He said it usually came from improper food, not enough fresh air, poor ventilation, etc. and that with good food, fresh air and a little medicine sho would be all right in a couple of months.

(c)	Deduction.

(1)	Why did this girl faint? (Violent exercise after eating, and can mention also improper character of the lunch).

(2)	Why shouldn’t you take violent or excessive exercise right after meals? (Exercise demands blood for the
407

working muscles, thus taking it away from the organs of digestion and impeding the digestive process—mention similar effect of mental work).

(3) Does one often faint from running, after a meal? (No)

(4) Why did it happen in this girl? (The quality of her blood was poor and her health consequently impaired probably with weak heart action.)

(5)	On what does the quality of our blood depend? (Normal healthy organs, good food, fresh air, exercise, regular sleep, cleanliness, etc).

(6)	Should a boy or girl get tired readily? (No)

(7)	When they are this way what should they do?

(See physician).

(a)	Object

To teach that:-

(1)	Tuberculosis may affect other parts of the body.

(2)	Tuberculosis always comes from bacillus of tuberculosis.

(3)	This bacillus always comes from person or animal with tuberculosis.

(4)	That the disease can be arrested.

(5)	The best method of treatment and prevention.

(b)	Presentation.

A little boy eight years of age was in the second grade in one of our schools. He was small for his age, thin and pale. He got tired very easily, and in the morning he said his leg hurt him when he walked, but it got better later in the day. His mother had died of consumption when he was four years old. The little fellow said he had fallen from a stepladder a couple of years ago and hit his hip on the corner of the steps, and his father thought perhaps this was making it hurt. He was examined by the doctor, his hip put in a plaster cast, he was placed in one of our open air classes, and in a year’s time was cured.

(c)	Deduction.

(1)	What do you think was the matter?

(2)	Where did it come from?

(3)	Why did it appear in hip?

(4)	What part of the body does it usually attack?

(5)	How does it get in the system?

(6)	What is the best remedy:

(7)	How could everybody be cured?

SEVENTH GRADE

(a)	Object Respiration.

(1)	The results of incorrect breathing.

(2)	The effect of adenoids and the necessity of correcting these defects.

(b)	Presentation.

A mother noticed one of her little girls when asleep always had her mouth open, and watching the child she found the

Digitized by v^ooQle
408

little girl breathed through her mouth the greater part of the time. The child seemed tired much of the time, had frequent colds, and was rather dull at school, and last month brought home a very poor report. The mother spoke to the little girl, telling her to keep her mouth closed and breathe through her nose, but she could not do it.

(c)	Deduction.

(1)	Why couldn’t the child breathe through her nose? Adenoids which are a soft spongy growth back of the nose, above and in back of the soft palate made it impossible. Enlarged tonsils too made it impossible.

(2)	How should this condition be corrected? Usually by removal—operation when young.

(3)	What are the bad results if condition is not corrected and mouth breathing goes on? Frequent colds, catarrh, deafness, dullness and slow progress at school, change of bones, uneven teeth, improper air, nourishment.

(4)	What are the advantages of nose breathing? Air is warmed while passing through nostrils and dust particles are removed, thus decreasing chance of throat irritation and catching of colds.

(To be Continued)

AN AMATEUR CIRCUS

By Erna Bayless, Chicago.

The following circus may be given by boys and girls or by mixed groups of children and adults. It may be given in a gymnasium or out of doors. It was given at Butler House in the gymnasium. Bleachers were erected at one end of the gymnasium and chairs were placed only on two sides leaving the center and one end of the floor for the performance. The entrance was at one end of the gymnasium and the exit at the other.

1.	Grand March

Every one was in the grand march except some of the dancers whose costumes we did not want the spectators to see until the dance number.

2.	Cadet Band

There were eight women in this act, dressed as ridiculously as {possible, one taking the part of a drum major. The band carried anything that would make a noise, horns, a wash board with a scrub brush, tin pan, etc. The act was entirely impromptu, rehearsing would have spoiled it and it was only about a minute long.

3.	Animal Act.

We had elephants, giraffes and monkeys. We made our ownTanimal costumes, making wire and wood frames for the elephants and giraffes and covering them with burlap. The ele-

Digitized by t^ooQle
409

phants were covered with bluish grey and the giraffes with brown. On the brown skins of the giraffes we sewed yellow spots. The elephants and giraffes had two operators each. The monkey suits were made of brown canton flannel with hoods and long curling tails. The suits were made like children's night drawers with feet. The monkey false face completed the costume. The hands of the monkeys were left bare and were “made up.” They climbed ropes in their acts and so could not have their hands covered.

The animals came on in separate groups, led by a trainer who was in costume. The trainer led them through as many stunts as possible. Each group was allowed about four minutes. This act had to be rehearsed three or four times so that the animals would know their stunts and learn to walk like animals. The animal act is always good. We used the book “How to Put On An Amateur Circus,” by Hacher and Eames, for the direction for making our animal frames. The animal costumes are the hardest to make, but they are worth the trouble.

4.	The Flower Garden

This was the dancing act and was composed mostly of children. The children were dressed in flower costumes, made of Uennieon crepe paper and copied in part from the Dennison grou^S book- The lights were turned out and the children children stooa°afl<19r» then the lights were turned on again. The the sun. In a Greek daftce &.£T°UP of girls entered, representing dancers’ costumes were short Greek <sad.the flowers. The sun cheese cloth over pink. On their heads they wortHa of yellow of cardboard, covered with yellow crepe paper, representing beams. They were barefoot.	.

After the sun dance the flowers danced in turn, Buttercups Pansies, Poppies, Roses and Irises. After each dance they went back to their places.

After the flowers had finished dancing two girls, dressed as butterflies flitted in, danced among the flowers and flitted out. Then the tiniest children of all came in, dressed as Sunbonnet Girls and Overall Boys, and did a very short little dance, then, one going to each group of flowers they led them off. This act was fifteen minutes long and was very pretty.

5.	Woofus Drill.

About 18 children were dressed in huge heads which came to their waists; around their hips were buttoned men’s coats, and they wore men’s shoes. The heads were made of white muslin and were made somewhat like a pillow slip, wide at the top and narrow at the waist. The children folded their hands on top of their heads and the muslin covers were slipped down over their arms and heads. The elbows sticking out made the ears of the head. Huge, grotesque faces were painted on the heads. The sleeves of the coats were stuffed, and stuffed gloves were sewed at the end. The girls did a Virginia Reel. It was a weird looking drill, for the children looked as if they

Digitized by ^.ooQle
410

were all head and trunk with no legs, just feet, and the arms dangling lifelessly at the sides added to the impression. The act took about two minutes and was one of the most popular of the whole circus.

6.	Clown Act.

Twelve girls dressed in black and white clown suits with red peaked hats did a clown dance and then beckoned in twenty more clowns. These clowns were dressed in all kinds and colors of suits. This was the apparatus act. Horse, buck, traveling and flying rings and parallel bars were used. All pieces were used at once. During this act we had clowns walking around doing funny things. There was also an ostrich with his trainer and a huge black cat wandering in and out among the performers. This act took twelve minutes. The ostrich and cat were also made of a covered wire frame. The ostrich had one operator and his frame was covered with grey cambric, his feathers made of crepe paper. The cat was large, having two operators. He was covered with black canton flannel and had a movable tail

and head.

Some part of all the animals was movable, the ears of the elephants, the heads of the giraffes and ostrich.

7. The Family Album.	,	.

In this act we simply copied, in tableaux form^ OWjimseach amily albums. ThfiKaffflTwSn7 to the centre

Ives which made it all the fun-

pictures found in famil for about a_

Drill.

This was just a Japanese lantern drill given by sixteen girls in oriental costume. The lanterns were not lighted.

9,	Wonderful Slack Wire Performance.

Our wire was a wide plank set on two stall bar benches with a chalk line down the centre of the board. Our performer was a young girl dressed in a ballet costume carrying a Japanese parasol. She walked the chalk line and imitated a real tight rope walker. With her were two clowns who mocked her, falling over themselves on the floor.

10.	Roman Drill.

The girls were dressed in short Roman costumes and did a marching drill.

11.	Indian Club Drill.

Six girls in gymnasium clothes did a drill. We enameled our clubs so that they looked very pretty under the lights.

12.	Cartoons of the Day

In this act we dressed up and acted out a few of the most popular cartoons of Chicago. This had to be done the last minute for we used the latest cartoons.

13.	Dance of the Nations.

This was another dancing act. The girls were dressed in National costumes and danced in turn, Irish, Dutch, Spanish, Scotch, Swedish and Hungarian. As they finished dancing they

Digitized by
411

retired to the background in isolated groups, some standing, some sitting. Then one girl dressed as America entered and did a solo dance, gathered all the Nations together, and led them off.

14.	Mock gym class.

This group was dressed in funny gymnasium clothes, with arms and legs stuffed to represent great muscles. Some had their bloomers too long, some had their middies on backwards, etc. They marched in and had a ridiculous gymnasium lesson. This act was also impromptu.

15.	Tilting Horses.

The girls were inside of horse frames which represented a rider on horse back. Of course the horses had only two feet. They galloped on, canying long tilting poles and had a tilting match. The horse frames were made of wire and wood and covered with brown burlap. Strips of bright colored cloth were tacked on the heads for reins. Bells were sewed on the reins. On each side of the horse we sewed a stuffed leg, with a shoe tied on the bottom. The girls stepped into the frames. They came around their waists and were held on by straps over the shoulders.

16. Indians and Pioneers.

tTj^8 waf our k®*' ack ^ group of Indians ran in and did dashed ’iff viiP0®*	M	^ey	finished	a	group	of	pioneers

Srt, snappy kTfilefife®?®! the Indians away and then did a and made a good finish for Tro8	a great deal of pep

The entire performance took about one anv. hours. As side events, coming between acts we had a-^Mfcers clown, a farmer family and Siamese twins. The latter were two girls in one pair of pants.

We made all our own costumes, with volunteer help. It took about six weeks to get ready for the circus, and day and night work, but it was a success and that is what counts.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC

ASSOCIATION

Amendments to the Constitution, By-laws and General Rules adopted at the annual meeting go into effect on the first day of January 1927.

1)	In the future, any person receiving compensation for services performed in any capacity in connection with athletic games, or any athletic club, will be ineligible to compete in games held under the rules of the Amateur Athletic Union, until he shall have permanently abandoned such employment.

2)	The five relay races held in connection with the outdoor track and field championships are not to be scored in deciding the winner of the team championship. A special trophy will be awarded to the organization whoso representatives score the

Digitized by boogie
412

greatest number of points in the combined senior individual and five relay races.

3)	In the future, no penalty will be imposed for the first false start in hurdle races, but the offender shall be disqualified on the second false start.

4)	In sprint races up to and including 50 yards, an athlete who makes a false start shall be penalized one foot for the first and another foot for the second false start. In races over 50 yards and including 75 yards, the athlete making a false start shall be penalized 2 feet for the first and 2 feet for the second false start. Heretofore a one yard penalty was imposed upon athletes making false starts in all races up to and including 125 yards.

5)	In breast stroke racing, when touching at the turn or in finishing a race, the touch must be made with both hands simultaneously while the shoulders are parallel to the surface of the water.

6)	The 50 yard swim, plunge for distance and 200 yards relay events have been eliminated from the senior championship program.

7)	The following is a complete list uf the swimming events

for which the Amateur Athletic Union will recognize records in the future:	_	aan

Free style-100, 150, 200, 220 30040^^	^

1000 yards, 3-4 mile and^oneju400, 500, 800

10001 Nilf	and 440 yards; 100, 200 and 400

Breast Stroke—100, 200, 220, 440 and 500 yards; 100, 200, 400 and 500 meters.

Medley Swim—300 yards and 300 meters.

Relay Racing, Free Style—(Teams of four and five, swimming equal distance of 50 and 100 yards) 200, 400, 500 and 880 yards and one mile; 400 and 800 meters.

Back Stroke—600 yards, teams of four each swimming 150 yards.

Breast Stroke—800 yards, teams of four each swimming 200 yards.

8)	The wrestling rules relating to the scoring of points were amended so that in future, points will be scored as follows:

Points

Aggressiveness on mat.......................................1

Time advantage (when behind or on top of opponent)..........2

Getting out from under opponent and upon feet...............5

Bringing opponent to mat and getting on top.................5

9)	The rules governing the gymnastic championships were amended so as to make them more nearly conform with the rules governing the Olympic gymnastic competitions.

The changes made in rules governing gymnastics, which now call for prescribed exercises on apparatus comprising the all-
413

around, it is believed will result favorably in gaining adherents to this sport because it will place in the hands of each district association committee, definite prescribed work and it only remains for them to interest the gymnastic clubs in their vicinity to practice such exercises in their regular class schedule.

Our rules now conform in this respect to the International Federation and also the German, Bohemian and Swiss-American Turn Vereins, from which latter three the majority of our competitors are drawn.

10)	A technical committee is now being formed, which will prepare these prescribed exercises in time for publication in our handbook.

It is likely that they will be made up largely from the 1928 Olympic exercises, which are now in hand. The Olympic Gymnastic program calls for teams of 8 men, of which the 6 scoring highest will be counted and that such team will be required to perform a set of mass exercises of their own choice of from 10 to 12 minutes duration. The substitutes or extra men may win any individual event.

11)	Separate events are as follows:

Horizontal Bar, Parallel Bars, Side Horse and Rings; one prescribed and one optional exercise are required; Broad Pommelled Horse, one prescribed vault from beat board. Long Horse; one optional yault from spring board.

12)	Pole vault for limited height and form. Additional details and copy of prescribed exercises when translation is completed will be sent upon request from A. A. U. headquarters.

The Amateur Athletic Union voted to apply for membership in the I. F. S. F. (International Female Sports Federation) and elected Messrs. William C. Prout of Boston, Fred L. Steers of Chicago and Mrs. Aileen Allen of Passadena, Cal., as the three delegates to represent the Amateur Atnletic Union in that organization. Five track and field events for women will appear on the Olympic program at Amsterdam in 1928.

The Chairman of the Committee on Women’s Athletics was authorized to send out to individuals having to do with women’s competitive athletics, requesting their opinion on the effect of competitive athletics for women so that the consensus of the views of those most closely identified with women’s athletics may be received and embodied in the report of the Committee on Women’s Athletics, to be made at the meeting of the Amateur Athletic Union one year hence.

Committee on Women’s Athletics—F. L. Steers, Central, Chairman.

Jas. Shannon, Allegheny Mt.,; Mrs. Thos, J, Tracy, Connecticut; Grace K. White, Florida; Mrs. E. Fullard Leo, Hawaiian; Paul R. Jordan, Indiana-Kentucky; Wm. E. Day, Inter-Mountain; Dr. L. R. Burnett, Martin A. Klein, Geo. H. Vreeland, Metropolitan; Mrs. J. J. Kennedy, Elsie Erley, Michigan; Mrs. Ada Taylor Sackett, Dr. M. F. D’Eliscu, Middle Atlantic; Frank

Digitized by CjOOQle
414	.

H. Briggs, New England; May C. Sickman, Niagara; Jas. Barker Smith, Ohio; Margaret Jenkins, Pacific; Dr. William Burdick, South Atlantic; Miss Myra Graves, Southeastern; Perry Roehm, Southern; Miss Aileen Allen, Howard Cleveland, Southern Pacific: Robert L. Probst, Western.

Olympic Games Committee—Gustavus T. Kirby, I. C. A. A. A. A.; Louis Di Benedetto, Southern A. A. U.; Robert S. Weaver Southern Pacific A. A. U.; Dr. John Brown, Jr., Y. M. C. A.; Harry W. Maloney, Intercollegiate Rugby Association; A. A. Stagg, Western Conference; Dr. George Meylan, N. C. A. A.; Mrs. E. Fullard Lee, Hawaiian A. A. U.; Captain C. R. Train, N. A. A. F.

POSTUftE AND POISE*

D. A. Sargent

No questions are more frequently asked the physical instructor by parents than the following: "What can you do to make my boy or girl hold the head up?”

“What can be done to give them a better carriage?” Anyone who conducts a gymnasium from a purely commercial point of view, or introduces a few calisthenic exercises into a fashionable school for the sake of catering to the whims and caprices of wealthy parents, may yield to the latest fad in physical education, and immediately call to the attention of said parents the virtues of some kind of so-called "posture drill”. If the attainment of a good posture according to conventional ideals is the sine qua non of physical education, which so many good people seem to think—and if positive injury and actual disease may result from bad posture, it is not strange that many parents should desire to see the evils remedied by the methods that promise the most immediate results.

This introduces us at once to the same old trouble that has cursed the practice of medicine ever since the practice began:— that is, the temptation to relieve the symptoms instead of making war with the disease, or to treat the effect and neglect to remedy the cause.

That the laity should yield to this temptation is quite natural; but when great institutions of learning and the most conservative of our orthopedic surgeons take up the fad of "posture” and follow the same superficial policy, it is well for us to pause and consider whither our methods of physical education are tending.

If we go back to the primitive conditions of life, we find the organs of the body developing along horizontal planes. This must necessarily be so as long as these organs are functioning in

•Reprint by permission from “The Sargent Quarterly.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
415

animals that carry their bodies with the long axis parallel with the surface of the earth.

As soon as an animal begins to stand on his hind legs and walk or run, be he dog, horse, bear, ape or man, the vital organs begin to adjust themselves to new conditions, and to seek a perpendicular instead of a horizontal basis of support.

When any of the above mentioned animals try to stand on their hind legs for ever so short a time, they tend to take on the human shape of trunk and limbs. In nearly all the four-footed animals the trunk and viscera are supported by a spine that is formed in a single arch, one of the strongest supports for weight born at right angles to its convex side known in nature. This is susally the form of the infant’s spine at birth. As long as the infant crawls around on all fours, this sort of spine serves his purpose very weU- When he begins to try to stand on his feet and about, then the spine loses its large convex dorsai v.urve and begins to take on the four familiar curves of the human spine known as the cervical, dorsal, lumbar and pelvic.

The erect position of the trunk of the body as maintained by the spinal column with its four normal curves constitutes at once the greatest strength and weakness of man as compared with other animals.

Those who are ambitious to flatten out the natural curves of the back and establish an absolutely straight spine from the head to the pelvis should bear these facts in mind. The physiological curves of the spine not only add to its elasticity, and grace, ease and extent of movement, but to its strength in bearing greater vertical weight. That a curved spine is stronger than a straight one seems paradoxical and would be untrue if we could regard the spine- as inelastic—for any inelastic column must clearly be strongest when straight.

Practically, however, all columns are more or less elastic, and if pressed by vertical weights first bend and then break. “It has been calculated,” says Humphry in his classic work on "The Human Skeleton,” “that when a column is just going to bend, the weight sustained is inversely proportional to the square of the length; greater force is therefore required to produce bending in a short column than in a longer one which is equal in breadth and material.

Now the spine, consisting of three curves, between the pelvis and the head, and being elastic, must bend in three curves (that is, must bend as though it were composed of three short columns) and a greater force—say, nine times as much—is required to bend it than if it had been straight and therefore capa-able of bending in one curve.”

Thus the infantile spine and the senile spine are single curve spines and are indicative of weakness, while the adult spine of a well developed man or woman has three curves and is indicative of strength. The pelvic curve may be disregarded in this discussion.

Digitized by L,ooQle
416

The great weakness of the upright or vertical position assumed by man is due to the fact that in this position the organs and viscera are not well supported. They were developed in the lower animals under conditions where they were suspended from an arched spine in a horizontal plane, as we have seen. As soon as these organs are located in a body operating in a vertical plane they tend by force of gravity to sink to the lowest point in that body and the straighter the passage way—or in other words the straighter the spinal column—the easier the descent!

Man in his struggle upward through the ages toward perfection has had this great physical difficulty to contend with, and the prevailing weaknesses found today among large numbers of the human race show that nature has not yet completed her task. Some of these weaknesses are abnormal spinal curvatures, hunch back, various forms of hernia, visceruptoci*. varicocele, bow legs, knock knees, flat foot, etc.

All are largely due to the force of gravity working on the human body when supported in a vertical position, where strength of bone, muscles, ligaments and other tissues have not been sufficiently developed to resist this constant pull downward.

The fact that so many people are free from the defects that I have mentioned is an indication of the possibility of freeing still larger numbers from them.

“How may it be accomplished?” you will naturally ask. We have already seen that in making the spine assume the three curves mentioned while maintaining the standing position, Nature is trying to accomplish this very thing; striving to overcome the difficulties attendant on the upright position and to make adaptations to fit us to its requirements. By the law of compensation, the backward curve in the dorsal region is met by the forward curve in the cervical and lumbar regions. The backward curve in the dorsal region also makes more room for the heart, lungs, liver, stomach, etc., and makes the spine stronger to sustain the weight of these organs, as well as others of the abdominal and pelvic cavities. This burden is partly shared by the muscles of the abdomen and floor of the pelvis. The dorsal curve also brings the whole weight of the trunk and head more directly over the centre of support, and by the advantageous attachments it offers to the erector spinae muscles, makes this powerful group capable not only of holding the trunk erect on the pelvis but of sustaining the efforts of the arms in carrying various weights and burdens in front of the body. (This will explain why the carrying of heavy suitcases etc. produces a backache when the erector spinae muscles are not well developed. The pull of the suitcase is comparable to the vertical pressure on a column, and the bending of the spine to one side or another as the weight is shifted from hand to hand to gain relief, represents the ultimate bending of the column.)

A school boy was once asked to give his definition of the human skeleton. He said, “The human skeleton is a string of

Digitized by kjOOQle
417

wobbly bones, the head sits on one end and you sit on the other.” Here is the problem in a nut shell! To acquire the ability to maintain an erect attitude in an easy, natural manner one must be able to make “a string of wobbly bones” rest on each other in perfect equilibrium and in perfect poise. To maintain a good carriage therefore, implies that the head must be well poised on the axis, the trunk well poised on the pelvis, the pelvis on the heads of the thigh bones, the thigh bones on the tibiae or big shin bones and the shin bones on the astragali or big ankle bones.

This complicated balancing arrangement of the various parts of the body involved in the erect standing position cannot be secured by practicing “head backward bend,” "pulling the chin in,” “trying to flatten out the back,” “grinding the shoulder blades together,” or performing any such simple posture drill. Nor can this desirable result be accomplished by wearing patent shoulder braces or supporting corsets. All of these artificial arrangements tend to weaken the muscles of the trunk, and incapacitate them for doing the very work nature intended them to do. It must not be construed by the casual reader that I am at variance with efforts to produce good posture, or with the necessity for the correction of abnormal antero-posterior curves of the spine. My objection is rather with the outlook of many who have “taken up posture,” and consequently with their methods also. Their neglect to consider this interdependency of the skeletal joints, this unity of muscular action, leads them astray in diagnosis and in treatment. Some of the so-called corrective exercises are good as far as they go; but assuming a position, holding a posture,—which too frequently is only another term for holding a pose,—are not the best ways of accomplishing the desired result. Holding a position always requires the prolonged strain and tension of certain groups of muscles, as experienced by those who stand at attention for a long time in military drill, while being inspected or reviewed. The subsequent relief when allowed to relax too often causes the body to reassume the very position that the enforced posture aimed to correct. Since “a resting muscle tends to assume the position it takes during exercise,” it is clear that it is in activity only that the muscles receive the proper stimulus toward correction and in activity only that they gain the functional power required to maintain that correction.

A fairly good posture may be super-imposed on one’s physique by muscular tension, just as a show of good manners may gloss over defects of character. But posture is for use, just as character is for use, and the boy who can stiffen himself up to grade A for posture inspection, but who does his gymnastic exercises in poor form, walks with a clumsy gait, 'and [shows himeslf ungainly in other activities, has not attained good Dear-ing.

Another decided objection to over emphasizing the value of “good posture,” as such, is that it makes the victim of this

Digitized by v^.ooQle
418

craze painfully self-conscious. “Assume a virtue if you have it not.” “Put on a good front and the world will take you at your own valuation.” “Throw out your chest and people will think you are an athlete.” These are some of aphorisms that accompany the posturer’s frame of mind. But the real athlete soon learns that, when it comes to a test of power and ability, of which the "good posture” is supposed to be symbolic, the “chesty man” is frequently a “poser” or a “bluffer.” For this reason genuine athletic ability, if accompanied by modesty is more likely to disguise itself by assuming an attitude that is almost the reverse of the “poser.” Hence, the Eton boy’s hunch, with hands in his pockets, and the proverbial athlete’s slouch,— and now the debutante’s slouch, which is only another term for modesty forced to assert itself to meet the growing objction to a “brazen front.”

The true upright posture implies, as I have shown, the strengthening and developing of all the important muscles of the body from the crown of the head to the soles of the feet.

• I am reminded here of one of the sayings on Benjamin Franklin’s old Almanac, “An empty meal-bag cannot stand upright.” Neither can flabby muscles! To explain in detail the many and various ways of developing all of these muscles, would take me too far afield from the purposes of this article. Suffice it to say that all around physical activity, whether it is taken in the many and divers forms of labor or in such general gymnastics, athletics and field and water sports, as are now provided by most of our schools and colleges, makes little difference as long as a judicious amount of all round muscular activity is required.

To revert to my thesis that, whereas posture may be attained by a super-imposed muscular rigidity, poise must be the outward expression of strength, balance and harmony between the working parts of the body. Let us refer to some classic example in art. Take, for instance, the Venus of Milo; by all the thumb-rules of good posture, this figure as it stands today, one shoulder low, one hip high, is awry. Yet is it not acclaimed as the highest symbol of feminine majesty and beauty? Look at the Winged Victory of Samothrace; does not her abdomen protrude, ye posturers of the eagle eye? Yet the power in activity of that figure and its unity of coordination render it superb. Poise is instinct with strength and grace. It is not the posture but the poise of the wrestler, the discus thrower, the gladiator, which makes them models of the human form. The statues of soldiers adorning so many of our Civil War monuments are condemned as being barren of artistic expression, and therefore lacking in power,— but their postures are irreproachable! There must be evidence of latent power, which even the cowed bodies of Rodin’s “Hunger” group possess, and suggestion of activity in poise to render statuary vital and commanding. The most famous statue of Abraham Lincoln represents him with partially bowed head and shoulders, yet that statue speaks of everlasting strength.

Digitized by CjOOQle
419

A few years ago two or three hundred of the Sargent School girls took part in the Preparedness parade in Boston. The correctness of their alignment, the rhythm and elasticity of their step, and the general ease and naturalness with which these girls carried themselves attracted the universal admiration of the press and public.

Some time later, two artist friends of mine were looking over a series of photographs showing some of the physical activities of the same group of girls. The photographs that they most admired were snap shots of a fencing bout and a diving contest. The work of the principal performers attracted my attention, as I felt it was not the best the school could offer, and I wanted to apologize for it.

“But no,” said one of the artists, “the form and positions of the two principals are fine and need no apologies—but the thing that we are most enthusiastic about is the unconscious grace and beautiful poise of the group of girls who are watching these athletic performances!”

In a way I think these two illustrations afford the highest tribute we could ask for the developmental effect of our physical work. Yet no special efforts are made to attain these aesthetic accomplishments. They come as a natural result of the all round training in general gymnastics and athletics which make up the curriculum of the Sargent School.

I	would substitute for the command “stand straight,” the advice to cultivate ease of bearing attendant on harmonious bodily poise; to develop balance, elasticity, rhythm, swift muscular adjustments and strength. Then the natural physiological curves of the spine will complete the coordinations necessary for a commanding posture.

THE TURNERS AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION*

William A. Stecher

In the mad rush of the present day it sometimes is advisable to slow up a little, so as to get enough time to look back upon the path that has been traversed, and also to determine if real progress has been made in a particular line of endeavor. During these hectic times it also is wise for most of us again to read the history of physical education, and to try to understand what our great predecessors really were striving for.

For instance: What was in the mind of the old German Turners when, over one hundred years ago, they coined their motto: Frisch, Frei, Froehlich, Fromm? A free translation of this motto would be: Free, Cheerful, Intelligent, Dependable or Good.

*An elaboration of a short essay written for the Louisville Turnfest Bulletin.

Digitized by CaOOQle
420

We might also ask: What were Jahn’s ideals? A reading of his rugged writings can leave no dount in any one’s mind that what he wanted to accomplish by means of “Turnen” was something entirely different from what, in recent years, is so often called “Gymnastics.”

Jahn and his followers wanted to educate human beings. They were not interested primarily in the strong man nor in acrobats. Physical strength, it is true, was to them something worth striving for. But it was not an end in itself. It was a tool by means of which it was possible for a man to become free and healthy. To be weak meant that a person was at the mercy of all men. Strength and freedom were linked together by them as something desirable for all human beings.

Cheerfulness to them meant mental health; a sane outlook upon this world of ours with its “good” far outweighing the efforts of the things that are bad. Cheerfulness was a worthwhile possession to be striven for. And gymnastics was the tool most useful to acquire this trait.

Intelligence to them meant the utmost development of the natural mental endowment that is the precious possession of all human beings. It meant the ability to understand, to comprehend, to analyze, to think constructively. Gymnastics was a tool by means of which dormant mental faculties were aroused, cultivated and strengthened.

Dependability meant to them that human trait, that in modem times might be called morality. A person who could not be depended upon, who was not good, was immoral; he was not to be trusted; he was a social misfit. Gymnastics helped to train such persons into a higher type of human being.

An understanding, therefore, of what “Turnen” really means should show that it does not mean merely muscular work of great skill, but that it also means mental, social and moral training and education.

Stanley Hall understood this when in his great work entitled “Adolescence” he said the following when speaking of the need of a great leader in our work.

“The world now demands what this country never has had, a man who, knowing the human body, gymnastic history, and the various great athletic traditions of the past, shall study anew the whole motor field, as a few great leaders early in the last century tried to do; who shall gather and correlate the literature and experience of the past and present with a deep sense of responsibility to the future; who shall examine martial training with all the inspirations, warning, and new demands, and who shall know how to revive the inspiration of the past animated by the same spirit as the Turners, who were almost inflamed by referring back to the hardy life of the early Teutons and trying to reproduce its best features; who shall catch the spirit of, and make due connections with, popular sports past and present, study both industry and education to compensate their debilitating effects, and be himself animated by a great ethical and human-
421

istic hope and faith in a better future. Such a man, if he ever walks the earth, will be the idol of youth, will know their physical secrets, will come almost as a savior to the bodies of men, and will, like Jahn, feel his calling and work sacred, and his institution a temple in which every physical act will be for the sake of the soul.”

When Jahn took his boys out to the Hasenheide, to the great open spaces outside of Berlin, his gymnastic lesson was a combination of the most informal type of work, of songs or games, and of inspirational talks. He looked upon gymnastics as an instrument by means of which he aroused in his pupils a greater patriotism. At that time Germany was no nation in our modern sense, but an aggregation of independent states, free cities, kingdoms, counties, etc., etc.

When he and his followers spoke and sang of “Deutschland fiber alles” they did not mean that Germany was to be superior to other nations, but that a “United Germany” was the ideal every patriot should strive for, not the ideal of being a Prussian or a Saxon, or any other one of the dozens of smaller independent units. He visioned Germany as a nation, as we vision the United States as a nation.

It was perfectly natural, therefore, that when Lincoln issued his call for volunteers to save the nation, that the Turners were among the first to respond. Love of country, patriotism had been bred in them, they could not do otherwise. They had lived in a country that was a nation only in name, but not in fact.

At this time it is of interest to remember that Ling like Jahn also had an ideal of a unified country, a unified Scandinavia, and that both men were known in other lines of endeavor (Jahn as a philologist, Ling as a poet) more than as teachers of physical education.

A Turner, therefore, is never to be looked upon simply as an athlete or a gymnast. His training embraces activities that help to make him a better social being. He is constantly being urged to develop to its limit his intellectual capacity so that he shall be able to beeome a person free to do his own thinking in all lines of human activity.

He is asked to interest himself in the civic life of his community so as to know what is good for his family, for his friends, for his city and for his country.

He is, therefore, interested in civic affairs. And in determining what party he should support he is expected to be guided by his “civic conscience.” The greatest good to the greatest numbers should be his ideal. None but citizens of the United States may become Turners.

It is of more than ordinary interest to know that for many decades the Turners’ platform contained demands like Equal Suffrage, Election of Senators by popular vote, the Parcel Post, Separation of State and Church, and many other reforms that now are part of our system of government.

Digitized by CjOOQle
422

To close observers it should be evident that the modem trend in physical education is in line with what the Turners always have had as their ideal. This ideal is a human being who has had all his innate possibilities developed to their fullest capacity; a healthy human being possessing a trained mind; a person who in all his actions is guided by a social conscience.

If once this is understood the reason for the committees usually found in Turner societies, namely: On Schools, on Mental Development, on Lectures and Debates, on Dramatics, on Sunday Schools, etc., can be more easily understood. They mean that a Turner Society is not an athletic club, but an educational institution; an institution that has as its ideal the training of intelligent, self-willed citizens.

REST CURE IS UNSPECTACULAR, BUT EFFECTIVE IN EARLY TUBERCULOSIS*

For centuries the public has been repeatedly disappointed by the failure of the many so-called and widely heralded cures for consumption. There is as yet no medicine, serum or antitoxin which will cure this death-dealing disease.

Nevertheless, there is a remedy which will “cure” practically every case of early tuberculosis, which will arrest most cases of moderately advanced tuberculosis, and which will even bring about the quiescence of many cases of far advanced tuberculosis.

This “cure” is not climate, not some special diet, and not sleeping porch, but “rest”—rest of body and of mind; rest for periods of months; at first complete rest in bed and later modified rest.

To be sure, rest is a slow cure but a “cure,” nevertheless. Because of its slowness and its inconvenience, and because there is nothing spectacular about it, rest is little appreciated. If every case of tuberculosis could be diagnosed early and if all would take the rest cure as they should, tuberculosis would soon become unknown.

Tuberculosis causes an inflammation in the lungs. The germs causing this inflammation—the tubercle bacilli—throw off a toxin or poison, which is absorbed by the blood and carried throughout the body. It is this poison which causes fever, loss of weight, weakness and the other symptoms of tuberculosis. The more blood there is pumped through the area of inflamation, the more toxins are absorbed and the more active are the symptoms and the more rapid is the spread of the disease. Exertion of any kind causes the heart to beat stronger and more rapidly and hence forces more blood through the inflamed area and causes the absorption of more poison.

On the contrary, the heart beats more slowly and with less force when one is lying at complete rest in bed. For this reason complete rest in bed brings about the least possible absorption

*N. Carolina Health Bulletin^

Digitized by L^ooQle
423

of poison into the system, causes disturbing symptoms to disappear and promotes healing of the diseased area in the lung. As one's condition improves the inflammation in the chest will very slowly become less pronounced and ultimately the area diseased will become walled in by scar tissue, or at times the- whole area of disease will become healed by being converted into scar tissue.

Most people have little conception of what “rest” means. Many think they are resting when they give up their regular work, although spending their time hunting, fishing, attending ball games, going to parties and dances or riding around the country in an automobile. They had just as well, and ofttimes better, be at their regular work, so far as helping their tuberculosis is concerned. Exertion of any kind whatever, whether it is for pleasure or for business, causes active tuberculosis to spread.

Rest should be begun at the earliest possible moment after the discovery of the disease. At first rest should be complete— 24 hours a day in bed. Every case, no matter how early it is discovered, should have six or eight weeks of this sort of rest in bed. Whether or not bed rest will need to be continued longer than this will depend upon the amount of trouble in one’s chest and upon the activity of the symptoms. Naturally, the more trouble one has in his chest, the more cautious he should be. Every one should remain at complete rest in bed for at least two or three weeks after his temperature has not been above normal and his pulse above 90 per minute.-

HEART CASES

A recent issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association contains an article from the Journal’s correspondent from Paris, on “Sport and Its Abuses”. In the article it is stated that Dr. Felix Regnault recently had written several articles calling attention to abuses in the field of sports with their attendant dangers to the heart.

In his articles be protested mainly against the foot races, both the speed tests and the endurance tests, with prizes to the winners, which attract, on Sundays, a crowd of young men who present themselves before they have had sufficient training. These beginners have no chance of winning the prize but enter the contests with the temerity of youth. Dr. Regnault has observed many young men suffering from acute attacks of asys-tolia, and holds that such conditions will produce subjects who will remain cardiac patients for the rest of their days. He thinks that for public races only persons selected by athletic associations to represent them should be accepted.

The correspondent states that a bitter attack in the sporting journals followed the publication of the foregoing statements. Dr. Beilin du Coteau, who is himself a follower of sport, having won several prizes, thrust the whole matter aside as merely

Digitized by i<jOOQle
424

conflicting theories. He stated that he had never observed the heart affections to which Dr. Regnault referred, and accused the latter of endeavoring to discredit all sports, which play an important part in the betterment of the human race.

In reply Dr. Regnault states that he has seen, in the Boui-caut Hospital, Paris, professional sportsmen dying of chronic asystolia at the age of 35. He has seen, in the health resort Nauheim, students from Oxford and Cambridge, who were taking treatment for their damaged hearts. In conclusion, Dr. Regnault expressed the opinion that it would be better if all 100 and 400 meter races, in which the participants have not been subjects to previous examination, were suppressed.

NOTE BY EDITOR.	,

Well, Paris is not the only place in which crowds of young people present themselves as competitors. In these United States scarcely a week passes without strenuous competitions. These affairs, as a rule, have no qualifying entrance conditions, except perhaps registration with the A. A. U.

Then we have numerous cross country and marathon races in which practically any one may enter. In most cases the participants have not been trained for the severe effort that takes place in the final spurt.

We also have the basketball fever, that during the winter months is at its height. While in some large cities there is a measure of supervision, such is not the case in small cities and the country towns where “the honor of the school" often is bought at the expense of a boy’s or girl’s heart.

The only safeguard that is universally applicable is to demand as a prerequisite to all participation in competition a thorough course in physical education, and have this consist of hard muscular work.

The following resolutions were adopted at the 32nd annual convention of American society for municipal improvements held in Washington, D. C. November 8-12, 1926.

Whereas, Ours is an age in which the people are gaining more and more leisure through the introduction of labor-saving devices and the shorter work day and work week; and

Whereas, This greater leisure may be either an evil or an opportunity for personal and community betterment, depending upon the way it is used;

Therefore, Be It Resolved, that the American Society for Municipal Improvements urges the imperative necessity of setting up in every city and town the most adequate systems of recreation for children, youth and adults, the same to include playgrounds, athletic fields, swimming pools, community centers, and the like, all under trained leadership, for we are convinced that through these means the problems of the new leisure will be solved and at the same time, the health and happiness of the people will be furthered, juvenile delinquency will be lessened and community morale increased.

Digitized by

Google
425

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

GRADED COURSE IN TUMBLING AND STUNTS FOR

BOYS*

By Mathias H. Macherey, Newark, N. J.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 6	SECTION	ONE

Simple

1	Sit on mat. Supine lying. R;aise legs forward. Return to sit and reach hands forward to touch toes. Repeat.

2	Kneel. Bend trunk backward. Return. Bend trunk forward and return. Knee jump.

3	Roll over forward to stand. Bend knees, hands on hips. Hop forward in this position.

4	Raise right leg forward horizontal. Lean slightly forward and grasp with both hands around or below calf. Return. Opposite.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 6	SECTION	TWO

Medium

1	Supine lying. Raise legs forward. Bend knees and stretch with quick jerks to lift the body off the mat. Repeat. Bend knees close to face, grasp legs above ankles and rise as in roll forward.

2	Squatstand. Preparatory to roll backward. Fall backward touching heels, hips, back, hands, shoulders, and head in the order named. Keep knees close to the face. Do not finish roll, but return forward. Repeat.

3	Roll backward to stand.

4 Roll backward to stand. Bend trunk backward. Stretch trunk. Roll forward to stand.

5	Practice headstands.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 6	SECTION	THREE

Advanced.

1	Sit on mat, legs apart. Grasp legs below the knee. Roll sideward right to sit. Repeat.

2	Roll forward to stand on left foot, right leg raised forward. Raise arms forward, bend left knee and stretch, bend deeper each lesson until limit is reached.

3	As 2 but opposite.

'Continued from last month.

Digitized by
426

4	Supine lying with knees bent, feet on mat close to hips and hands resting on mat close to shoulders. Form an arch by raising the midsection of the body. (As in bend the crab)

5	Head stand. Return. Handstand with . assistance. Place left foot ahead of the right, bend forward and place hands down on mat rather close to the left foot. Kick the right leg. Push head backward. The common mistake of the beginner is that of placing the hands too far in advance of the left foot. Consequently the body is in a horizontal position, the most disadvantageous from which to arrive at the handstand.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 7	SECTION	ONE

Simple

1	Roll over forward to stand. Kick right leg backward bending at knee and rest right instep in right hand. Hop off the .mat in this position.

2	Kneel on right knee, extend left leg forward, heel on mat forward. Bend trunk forward, reach with hands forward as far as possible. Keep left leg stretched. Return. Repeat. Opposite.

3	Wheel-barrow. Partners. A down on hands, raising right leg with his hands and both walk across the mat. Opposite.

4	Fall forward to support lying frontways. Jump feet forward to squatstand. Return to support lying. Jump feet forward straight knees. Roll forward to stand.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 7	SECTION	TWO

Medium

1	Squatstand. Lower backward to lie on shoulders, hips flexed, lower legs toward face. Snap legs downward grasp ankles with hands, draw feet underneath hips, push body forward and stand.

2	Same as 1 but place hands palms downward on mat beyond shoulders. With snap of legs push off with hands and land on feet. (Snap up.)

3	Headstand. Return. Bend the crab or bend trunk backward as far as possible. Return. Roll forward.

4	Cartwheel twice.

5	Handspring over rolled up mat or over pupil who is down on all fours.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 7	SECTION	THREE

Advanced.

1	Roll forward to squatstand. Roll backward to stand. Preparatory hand stand exercise. (Place left foot ahead of the right, bend forward, place hands close to left foot, kick right leg backward and follow with left leg.) On return flex at hips and land on feet.

Digitized by Google
427

2	Roll forward to squatstand. Headstand. Return. Jump to far straddle stand. Bend knees deep, pass right hand between the legs from behind and reach forward as far as possible. Return to stand.

3	Handstand with assistance. Handspring over rolled mat.

4	Round off (Cartwheel with 1-4 turn so that after the turn the pupil looks toward starting point.)

5	Bend the crab or bend backward as far as possible and return. Roll backward to lie on shoulders with hips flexed and legs lowered toward face. Snap legs downward, bend knees, grasp ankles draw feet underneath hips and stand. (Preliminary to Snap U. P.)

LESSON TWO

GRADE 8	SECTION	ONE.

Simple

1	Kneel. Reach forward with right hand as far as possible. Return. Repeat. Opposite. Knee jump.

2	Roll forward to stand. Arms sideward, raise right leg backward, body horizontal. Return. Opposite.

3	Kneel. Bend trunk backward, turn right and reach backward with right hand as far as possible. Return. Opposite Knee jump.

4	Step left foot ahead of the right. Kick right leg forward jump left and turn left about to squatstand left, right leg extended backward as in support lying frontways, hands on mat. With a jump change feet several times. Stand.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 8	SECTION	TWO

Medium

1	Handstand, with and without assistance.

2	Handspring over rolled up mat or over pupil down on all fours.

3	Bend trunk backward as in bending crab. Return. Roll forward to stand. Fall forward to support lying position. Rear vault to sit. Roll backward to stand.

4	Squatstand. Circle right leg forward under right hand, replace right hand and continue circle backward under left hand and left leg to support lying frontways. Jump feet forward to squatstand. Headstand. Return.

5	Cartwheel and Round off.

LESSON TWO

GRADE 8	SECTION	THREE

Advanced

1	Handstand with or without assistance.

2	Handstand. Return. Bend the crab or bend trunk back as far as possible. Return.

3	Snap up: Supine lying, raise legs and hips, rest on shoulders neck and hands. Snap legs fore-upward, push with hands and neck, land standing on feet.

4	Snap up. Handspring forward. Headstand. Return. Bend the crab.

Digitized by v^ooQle
428

PRESCRIBED APPARATUS EXERCISES FOR THE THIRD ANNUAL HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASTIC MEET NEWARK, N. J.

Boys

PARALLEL BARS Run and jump to upper arm hang in middle of bar, immediately rise to support on front swing, swing backward, right leg cut over right bar on front swing, swing backward to upper arm stand, (shoulder stand) straight body roll forward to upper arm hang, swing forward and kip up to support, swing backward, dip swing forward to stretch straddle seat; swing right leg backward between bars, 1-4 turn right to side support lying position frontways on left leg, rear vault left to cross-stand sideways.

HORIZONTAL BAR Jump to hang, undergrasp, swing; on backward swing change to upper grasp, (pull body toward bar before letting go of hands) swing forward, lap up to support and swing right leg forward over bar, knee circle backward, underswing, swing forward, squat through and backward pull up to support rearways, double knee circle backward, release grasp, throw backward to kneehang swing and dismount (knee drop).

LONG HORSE Run and long jump, support on neck, with straddle vault.

RINGS (Without swing)

Pull up frontways and dislocate (as you get ready to dislocate throw body up and backward and push arms sideward to eliminate shock resulting from improper dislocate) kip up to support, roll forward to hang, pull up forward to inverted stretch hang, lower backward to momentary back lever, continue to hang rearways, turn over forward to hang, pull up forward to inverted straddle hang and straddle off forward (double cut off).

SIDE HORSE

Side stand frontways, double rear mount right to straddle seat on croup; scissors forward to straddle seat; right outergrasp on rear pommel, left outergrasp on front pommel, feint right swing right backward and flank swing left over neck to support rearways on saddle, 1-2 circle right backward, 1-2 circle left backward, and 4-4 circle left underneath right hand; 4-4 circle forward right, 1-2 circle right forward, screw turn right (1-2 turn right) change left hand to support on croup, swing left leg over neck and 4-4 circle left over croup and saddle with 1-4 turn right to stand.

TUMBLING

Round off, back handspring, fall backward, roll backward to handstand and snap down, 1-2 turn dive, handstand snap down with 1-2 turn front handspring, run and front somersault.

Digitized by UjOOQle
429

Girls

TUMBLING

Cartwheel, round off, bend the crab, kick legs over to stand.

Fali backward, roll backward to handstand and snap down. Fall

forward to support lying position. Draw feet forward with hip

raising, headstand; flex hips, headspring; neck spring, handstand,

turn over to crab, rise to stand.

FREE EXERCISES

1	D. Arm circle backward, (swing arms fore up and back downward) raise arms forward, deep knee bending.

2	Jump to straddle stand, arms sideward bend trunk backward, hands back of head. Stretch trunk and arms upward.

3	D. A. C. sideward right, 3-4 D. A. C. sideward right (left arm sideward, right arm bent across chest, and fall out sideward right.

4	Change knee bending, swing arms sideward right horizontally with trunk- and head turning to the right and immediately reverse the movement.

5 Swing arms forward, stretch right knee, turn trunk forward,

4-4. D. A. Circle forward, lower arms and continue (back upward and fore downward) bend trunk forward, grasp ankles with hands.

6	Jump to close stand, stretch trunk and bend arms upward, and horizontal balance, left leg horizontal, stretch arms upward.

7	Return to position, arms at sides. Double arm circle outward, jump in place to knee bending, stretch knees to toe stand and arms sideward.

Position.

PRESCRIBED EXERCISES FOR FIRST GRAMMAR SCHOOL GYMNASTIC MEET OF THE NEWARK PUBLIC SCHOOL ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.

Girls’ Events

PARALLEL BAR Cross stand between bars 1-3 in. 1-4 turn right and upper-grasp on front bar, jump to support, swinging legs to left with 1-4 turn left to straddle seat in front of hands; raise arms sideward and grasp in front of legs; swing legs backward, close and swing forward to cross seat right, 1-4 turn left to side support lying position frontways, full circle right leg underneath left, between bars and join left leg; full circle left inward; squat over rear bar to sidestand between bar, jump forward to hang lying position; pull with arms, arch back and sidestand rearways.

SIDE HORSE

Run and squat over saddle to support rearways; 1-2 circle left backward; 1-2 circle left forward and 3-4 screw turn forward

Digitized by kjOOQle
430

right to straddle-seat on croup; swing left leg forward to join right leg, swing both legs backward to straddle-seat; right hand outergrasp on near (right) pommel, left hand outergrasp on far (left) pommel; swing right backward to side support frontways; kneel right in saddle, extend left leg sideward to rest on neck; bend trunk sideward right, raise left arm side-upward; 1-4 turn right, both hands on right pommel, both feet resting on neck to support lying frontways. Lower to straddle-seat in saddle; swing forward and backward and front vault dismount sideward left.

TUMBLING

Run and handspring forward; roll forward to stand; handstand, turn over to bend the crab and rise to stand; head spring. Bend the crab, kick legs over to stand; repeat crab and kick over; fall backward to neck lying position and snap up.

FREE EXERCISE Slow Continuous Smooth Movements. Slow Rhythm

1	Step forward right, transfer weight, raise left heel, raise arms forward, arms held loosely as in dancing.

2	Raise left knee forward, bend trunk backward, move arms sideward palms up (3-4)

3	Step forward left, raise right heel, raise arms upward as .in fifth dancing position (5-6)

4	Bend trunk forward, bend both knees, lower arms downward and raise backward (7-8)

5	Leap forward right to horizontal balance, left leg backward, arms sideward (9-10)

6	Swing left leg forward, swing arms down and fore-upward, 1-2 turn right on right foot, dip step backward left, left hand on right knee, right arm backward (Discus thrower 11-12)

7	4-4 circle right forward (13) Change forward, swing right arms forward, left backward (Throw discus 14)

8	Swing right leg forward high, stretch left knee, arms forward (15)

9	1-4 turn left, right leg and arms to position.

Boys

PARALLEL BARS Cross stand frontways at end of bar. Grasp, jump to support with forward swing, straddle off backward to stand (double cut off) Jump to support, swing left leg over right bar, 1-2 turn left to straddle seat in front of hands. Swing backward and scissors backward to straddle seat behind hands. Raise to shoulder stand. Flex hips and roll forward to straddle seat in front of hands, swing backward and double rear swing right to straddle seat, grasp at end of bar, swing forward, backward and turn over with arms bent (handspring off)

SIDE HORSE Sidestand frontways. Right hand reverse grasp on left pommel. Left hand support on neck. Jump to support and 1-2

Digitized by Google
431

circle right forward with 1-2 turn left, left hand support on right pommel, screw turn left to riding seat on croup. Right outer-grasp on right, left outer grasp on left pommel, swing backward right to support frontways, 1-2 circle left forward, 1-2 circle right forward, 1-2 circle left backward, 1-2 circle right backward, 1-2 circle left forward 1-2 circle right forward to split support over right pommel, swing right leg backward, 1-4 turn right change left hand to support on croup and rear vault over croup to cross stand sideways.

TUMBLING

Run and dive over rope 3 ft. 6 inches high to stand. Neckspring, handstand, lower to neckstand, snap up. Handstand, snap down, roll backward to handstand and snap down, back hand-spring.

FREE EXERCISE Bend arms upward, raise right knee forward (1)

Stretch arms sideward and right leg forward (2)

3-4 D. A. circle outward to arms upward, swing right leg down and backward (3-4)

Dip step sideward right, bend trunk sideward left, right hand back of head, left on hip (5-6) change knee and trunk bending left arm extended upward, right hand on hip, (7-8) Circle left arm to the left, stretch trunk (9) 1-4 turn right bend left knee, swing arms upward and bend trunk backward (10) 4-4 Double arm circle forward (11) bend trunk forward, bend right knee lower arms forward (12)

Stretch trunk raise arms upward, 1-4 turn left (13) lower arms sideward (14) Double arm circle outward, jump feet together to kneebending.

Stretch knees, raise arms sideward, lower heels and arms to position (16)

News, notes and comments

<> ■-■■■ ....... ■('

SUNLIGHT AND POSTURE

A recent issue of McCall’s Magazine contained an article by

E.	V. McCollum and Nina Simmonds of the Johns Hopkins University entitled "Is your child starving for sunlight?” The article should be pasted in the scrapbook of every teacher, but particularly in the books of teachers of physical education and of health education. Posture fiends also might find some “light” in the arguments.

Parts of the article are as follows:

One of the most remarkable discoveries of the twentieth century is the importance of certain kinds of light in promoting physical development and more perfect nutrition in growing

Digitized by CjOOQle
482

children. Although it has generally been accepted for hundreds of years that good hygienic surroundings include fresh air and sunlight, experimental studies daring the last few years have demonstrated that sunlight is far more important for the health of the child than it had hitherto been believed to be.

These remarkable discoveries were made during the study of the cause and nature of rickets. Doctor Huldshinsky, a prominent physician in Europe, had for years before this asserted that sunlight and especially mountain sunlight was very beneficial in the cure of rickets. He called attention to the marked contrast between cities in Switzerland at high altitudes where rickets was absent or nearly so and those at low altitudes where it was common.

There is now good experimental evidence to show that sunlight is of great importance to the nursing mother and to the infant which she is breast-feeding. An experiment has just been reported with two groups of cows which were kept in a dark stable for several weeks during the experiment. They were fed and cared for exactly alike, except that one group was irradiated daily with the rays of a quartz-mercury lamp which gives rays rich in ultra-violet light, and the other group was not. Two groups of chickens were so fed and kept away from light that they developed a mild grade of rickets. One group was then fed the milk from the irradiated cows and the other group the milk from the cows kept indoors and not irradiated. The former were cured of their rickets and the latter group developed a severe grade of the disease.

Not only were the cows themselves benefited by ultra-violet light when kept indoors, but they produced under the influence of the light so much vitamin D that they were able to secrete into their milk an amount sufficient to protect the chicks which drank the milk. This proves that illumination of a mother may greatly improve the quality of her milk as a preventive of rickets in her baby.

During the warm months of the years, children should be permitted to play in the sunshine with little clothing. A thorough bronzing of the skin during summer would-prove of great benefit to any child, whether strong or delicate. Exposure should be gradual so the skin will tan without becoming sunburned. Sunburn is very injurious and should be carefully guarded against in children and adults.

Sunbaths for Babies. Autumn and winter babies are much more apt to develop severe rickets than those bom in summer and spring because they get less of the outdoor sun. However, they may be given long indoor sunbaths by placing them in front of a sunny, open window where their faces, hands, arms and legs can be exposed daily for increasing periods.

This is Dr. Martha M. Eliot’s advice to mothers in an article on “Sunlight for Babies” in the June Child Health Bulletin.

Digitized by kjOOQle
433

“The beneficial effect of sunlight is not obtained unless the rays reach the child’s skin directly/’ says Dr. Eliot. “The interposition of much clothing or window glass keeps out the ultra-violet rays. It is only when the skin begins to be tanned that any benefit may be expected.”

In the north temperate zone, Dr. Eliot declares, it is usually possible for normal babies to begin to have outdoor sunbaths by the middle of March or the first of April, provided the place selected for the sunbath is protected from the wind.

Sunbaths should begin when the baby is about three or four weeks old. With the first sunny day of early spring the baby may be put in the direct sunlight with both the hood of the carriage and the baby’s cap pushed well back so that the sun will shine directly on the cheeks. The baby may be turned first on one side and then on the other so that both cheeks may be exposed and yet the eyes will be kept away from the direct rays of the sun.

Sunlight will prevent or cure rickets and it will aid in the prevention of many of the diseases of childhood, it is now known.

In some Canadian schools a few pairs of stockings are kept for the children who arrive at school with wet feet, and the development of colds provides the opportunity for this health lesson.

Hambly, Pembrey and Warner, English physiologists, who have been working in the always fascinating field of tests for human fitness, come to the conclusion that there is no real test of physical fitness for every and any kind of occupation other than the old method of trial and error. A man in perfect health may be fit for one form of muscular work rather than another and his capacity which is determined by his ancestry and development can be made manifest only by the repeated performance of the work in question. In these tests on students they found comparisons of pulse rate at rest and after exercise the best single indication of fitness.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Football Conditioning” by H. C. Langmack.

An illustrated Handbook for Coaches, Students and Players.

Published by A. S. Barnes & Co., New York. pp. 48. Price $1.50.

In this book the author presents a carefully selected set of fundamental exercises which should be of great value in conditioning football candidates. All positions and movements are clearly and simply explained and illustrated: they leave no doubt in the reader’s mind as to what is desired.

The exercises aim to establish freedom and power of movement. That they accomplish this object is attested to by Knute

K.	Rockne, Coach of Football at Notre Dame, when he states: “I have used Professor Langmack’s exercises for football and

Digitized by LjOOQle
484

find that they have given fine freedom of movement and that they have been able to develop fundamentals particularly on certain movements which are peculiarly essential to football.'’ The reviewer is impressed with the possibilities of extending this type of training so as to include various other activities. It is hoped that this excellent book will stimulate some of our colleagues to do this.—Grover W. Mueller.

“Group Study for Parents” is the title of a new pamphlet that has just been issued containing practical suggestions for parent-teacher associations, women’s clubs, and other organizations interested in child study It deals with (1) best methods of organization, (2) interesting programs for meetings, and (3) recommended books in child study.

The pamphlet explains why mothers and fathers should organize in groups to study the difficult problems that arise in the rearing of children. It advises concerning the size and make-up of groups, the time and place for meetings, officers and organization procedure. It also points out why some groups go wrong. It suggests subjects for discussion and ways to make the programs most valuable to the members.

The list of recommended books on child study is divided into seven classifications: (1) General, (2) Health and Feeding, (3) Sex and Adolescence, (4) Child Psychology, (5) Education, (6) The Family and the Race, and (7) Fiction Interpreting Child Life.

The 16 page pamplet is by Eva V. B. Hansl. It is published by Children, The Magazine for Parents, 353 Fourth Avenue, New York, N. Y., and may be obtained for ten cents.

“What to Eat in Health and Disease” by Benjamin Harrow, Ph. D., Associate in Physiologic Chemistry, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University. Published by

E.	P. Dutton and Company, New York. 203 pages, 5 in. x 7 3-4 in., bound in linen, illustrated. Price $2.00. First printing February 1923.

This book has been recommended by reputable publications, such as Hygeia and the Journal of the American Medical Association for the enlightenment of the interested lay reader. It is written simply and clearly, presupposing little previous knowledge on the part of the reader.

The scope of the book may be estimated by the chapter headings: What to Eat, Some Common Foods, The Planning of Meals, Infant Feeding, Vegetarianism, Diseases due to Faulty Diet, Diet in Digestive Disorders, Overweight and Underweight.

The author’s viewpoint is conservative and non-partisan. He endeavors to place before the reader both sides of controversial questions. His material is up-to-date and substantiated by quite an extensive reference bibliography. The tables and illustrative material are comprehensive and helpful.—Howard L. Conrad.

Digitized by CjOOQle
435

“Primary Gymnastics.” by Neils Bukh, founder and principal of the Gymnastic High School, Ollerup, Denmark. Published by E. P. Dutton and Company, 661 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Cloth bound, 148 pp. Price $2.00 (with an educational discount of 20%), postage extra.

“As the clay of which the artist makes his models must first be thoroughly softened and worked before it can be shaped to express in its lijies beauty of form and character, so similarly, when the aim is to help the healthy growth and perfect development of youth, a thorough preparation of the material is necessary.

“The aim of the Danish fundamental or primary gymnastics is to give, first and foremost, a thorough working and toning up of the whole body.

“Three main divisions can be maide when dealing with faults in the upright carriage, which is the normal walking posture of the human being: (1) Stiffness, which shows itself in the movement in the joints of the skeleton. (2) Lack of Power, which shows in the muscles. (3) Awkwardness and lack of freedom, which shows in movement.

“The ground work of training must, therefore, be directed in three corresponding groups, which aim to counteract these three faults by increasing mobility, strength, and agility, since the aim is to produce a carriage where these three attributes are united to give expression to perfect grace.”

The preceding paragraphs from the pen of Neils Bukh express in a clear way the aims and scope of the exercises contained in “Primary Gymnastics”. Most of those exercises are of the free-exercise type, many of them, however, being executed with the aid of apparatus. Jumping, vaulting, and tumbling have an important place in the development of co-ordination and agility.

Neils Bukh has undoubtedly made a real contribution to physical education. All teachers in this field of education should familiarize themselves with his system of training. Many exercises of interest and value may be gleaned from it.

To all those who are interested in physical education this book is very highly recommended as the best present source of information and material in fundamental gymnastics.

May we not be considered presumptuous if we inject a plea at this time against the wholesale adoption of this ‘new’ method of exercise to the exclusion of all the other types of activity which have been tried and proven. It is to be regretted that only too many of our colleagues are prone to reject the old as soon as something new appears on the horizon. Let us rather select what is of value in fundamental gymnastics and recognize it for what it really is—an addition to, and not a substitution for all of the other good things that we already have.

—Grover W. Mueller.

Digitized by Google
In 1926 We Published the Following Books:

ATHLETIC DANCES AND SIMPLE CLOGS

By MARJORIE HILI5AS (Barnard College) and MARIAN KNIGHT-ON (Teachers College). With music and illustrations. Quarto Cloth.	Price	$2.00

“The dances are precise without being formal; the movements natural yet definite. Every teacher of clog dancing will find this book a worth while addition to her collection.”—Lucy Adams in The Womans Press.

BRIEF HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, A

By EMMETT A. RICE (Indianapolis). Profusely illustrated. 8vo, cloth.	Price	$2.00

“It is easily the best thing I have seen and the only one I would consider as a text.”

Flora M. Frick, Physical Director, State Teachers College, Moorhead, Minn.

CALISTHENICS

By S. C. STALEY, author of “Games, Contests, and Relays,” “Individual and Mass Athletics.” Illustrated. 8vo, cloth.

Price $3.00

“The best publication of its kind in the country today.”

New Haven Times-Leader

DANCES OF OUR PIONEERS

With Music and Hand Book. Collected by GRACE L. RYAN, and music arranged by Robert T. Benford.	Quarto,	cloth,

illustrated.	Price	$3.00

The music is in one volume—with the definitions of Steps, “Calls,” and Directions in a Hand Book contained ih a “pocket” in the inside back cover.

EDUCATIONAL STORY PLAYS

By EMILY ELMORE and MARIE L. CARNS of the University of Wisconsin. Illustrated, 8vo, cloth.	Price,	$2.00

“It is by far the best book I have yet seen in its line, and the very thing that I needed and used in my practice teaching classes in Playground work.”—Wayne Christian, State Normal School, Slippery Rock, Pa.

FOLK COSTUME BOOK, THE

By FRANCES H. HAIRE, with 20 full page illustrations in four colors (40 figures) by GERTRUDE MOSER. 8vo, cloth. Second Edition.	Price	$6.00

“This is a very useful book for directors of pageants, little plays, where elemental knowledge of foreign costuming is required, and for persons engaged in work of folk dance characters where costuming is to be used.”

The Boston Transcript

FOOTBALL CONDITIONING

By H. C. LANGMACK, Illustrated with cuts showing the drills to be practiced. 8vo. Imitation pigskin leather.	Price	$1.50

“It is concrete and has no padding and I think every football coach could read it and study it and use the points in it to a great deal of advantage.”—Knute K. Rockne, Dir. of Athletics, University oj Notre Dame

GRADED GAMES FOR RURAL SCHOOLS

By ALFRED E. ROSS. With diagrams, music, illustrations. 8vo, cloth.	Price	80c

“The author has selected and grouped eighty-nine outdoor and indoor games in such a way as will be helpful to rural school teachers in the solution of problems created by insufficient space, size of class, age and sex of pupils ."—'Mind and Body

(Continued on opposite page)