library

University c.t Montana.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 25.	MAY, 1918	No.	269

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14. 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O —n.TT— wmam hi. .. —	   ,	,	r	r,	O

J ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

O' " " I .—..I. -.--r-	I	.in	i. r. i—•	t -. —n-—n— O

REPORT OF CONFERENCE ON PHYSICAL EDUCATION Atlantic City, N. J., February 27, 1918.

In response to the invitation of Commissioner Claxton of the U. S. Bureau of Education, under date of February 9, 1918, a conference on a national program of Health and Physical Education was held in the Marlborough-Blenheim Hotel, Atlantic City, at 4 P. M., February 27th, 1918. Commissioner Claxton presided. Dr. W. S. Small, Specialist in School Hygiene and Sanitation, of the Bureau of Education, was designated as Secretary.

Commissioner Claxton opened the meeting with a general statement of the purpose of the conference:	“To	consider	ways

and means for securing the establishment of health and right health-habits as a part of the education of all children and of such physical education as will give to boys and girls full and complete control of their bodies and result in a generation of men and women strong and healthy and in every way physically fit for the duties and tasks of life both in peace and in war.”

Dr. Small stated that the principle governing the issuance of invitations was that all national organizations that either directly or indirectly were actively interested in the promotion of health and physical education of the youth of the country should be

Digitized by
represented; and further that a limited number of persons who as public officials or as individuals had shown conspicuous interest in the problem had been invited.

With respect to the program for the conference, Dr. Small stated that the proposals to be presented had been drawn up by Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Chairman of the Committee on Health Problems in Education of the National Council of Education.

Dr. Wood presented the following proposals as a basis for discussion and action:

I.	That a comprehensive thorough-going program of health

education and physical education is absolutely needed for all boys and girls of elementary and secondary school age, both rural and urban, in every state in the Union.

II.	That legislation, similar in purpose and scope to the provisions

and requirements in the laws recently enacted in California, New York State and New Jersey, is desirable in every state, to provide authorization and support for state wide programs irr the health and physical education field.

III.

IV.

V.

That the United States Bureau of Education should be empowered by law, and provided with sufficient appropriations, to exert adequate influence and supersivion in relation to a nation wide program of instruction in health and physical education.

That it seems most desirable that Congress should give recognition to this vital and neglected phase of education, with a bill and appropriation similar in purpose and scope to the Smith-Hughes law, to give sanction, leadership and support to a national program of health and physical education; and to encourage, standardize and, in part, finance the practical program of constructive work that should be undertaken in every state.

That federal recognition, supervision and support are urgently needed, as the effective means, under the Constitution, to secure that universal training of boys and girls in health and physical fitness which are equally essential to efficiency of all citizens both in peace and in war.

Discussion of the several proposals was led by:

Proposal I. Dr. D. A. Sargent of Harvard University. Proposal II. Dr. Thos. A Storey, State Director of Physical Training for the State of New York.

Proposal III. Dr. W. B. Owen, Chairman, National Council of Education (Principal Chicago Normal School).

Proposal IV Dr. W. S. Small, U. S. Bureau of Education.

Proposal V. Dr. C. Ward Crampton, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, New York City.

A general discussion followed.

Dr. Crampton moved that proposals as presented by Dr.

Digitized by UaOOQle
99

Wood be endorsed and that it be recommended to the Committee on Resolutions of the Department of Superintendence that these proposals be incorporated in their report to the department. Upon motion of Mr. West the first proposal was amended so as to read “for all boys and girls of elementary school age” instead of for all boys and girls in elementary and secondary schools. With this amendment Dr. Crampton’s motion was carried.

Dr. Crampton further moved that the conference as constituted resolve itself into a continuing committee and that the Chairman be authorized to appoint a smaller committee to confer with him and prepare a definite program of action and report back to the general committee as progress is made. After some discussion as to the size of the “smaller” committee, the motion was carried unanimously.

Members of Conference on Physical Education

Dr. Taliaferro Clark, Surgeon U. S. Bureau Public Health.

Dr. Charles N. Wharton, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. Dr. Thomas D. Wood, 525 W. 120th St., New York City.

Chairman, Committee on Health Problems in Education, National Council of Education. Dr. W. B. Owen, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, Illinois.

Chairman, National Council of Education. Dr. W. A. Burdick, 311 McCoy Hall, Baltimore, Maryland.

President, American Physical Education Association.

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.

Major R. A. M. C. Professor of Physical Education.

Dr. George J. Fisher, 124 E. 28th St., New York City.

Director, Physical Work, International Y.

M.	C. A.

Dr. Francis E. Fronczak, Health Com'r. of Buffalo.

President of the American School Hygiene Association.

(Miss) Jessie H. Bancroft, 164 Sterling Place, Brooklyn, N. Y.

President, American Posture League, Madison Ave., New York City.

Dr. H. M. Bracken, State Board of Health, Minnesota!

Council Health and Public Instruction, American Medical Association.

Philip Marvel, Atlantic City, New Jersey.

Representing the American Medical Association.

(Miss) Emma Wilson, American Red Cross.

Mr. Arthur A. Hauck, Council National Defense.

Lt. Walter Clarke, War Department.

Commission Camp Activities.

Mr. L. N. Hines, Crawfordsville, Indiana.

Department Child Hygiene, N. E. A.
100

Mr. W. A. Bailey, Kansas City, Kansas.

Chairman of Committee on Physical Training, National Association of Secondary School Principals.

Dr. Eugene Lyman Fisk,

Medical Director, Life Extension Institute, New York City.

Mr. D. S. White, American Academy of Political and Social Science. Dr. Emery Marvel, American Academy of Political and Social Science.

Dr. A. J. McKelway, Southern Secretary, National Child Labor Committee, Washington, D. C.

Mr. Edward N. Clopper, Northern Secretary, National Child Labor Committee, New York City.

Mr. John A. Vail, Representing American Federation of Labor. Mr. James E. West, Chief Scout Executive, Boy Scouts of America., Mr. Lome W. Barclay, Director of Department of Education, Boy Scouts of America, New York.

Dr. Hastings H. Hart, Director, Dept, of Child Helping, Russell Sage Foundation, New York City.

Mr. J. E. McCulloch, Secretary, Southern Sociological. Congress, Washington, D. C.

Mr. J. H. Berkowitz, Field Agent, Bureau of Welfare of School Children, New York City.

Dr. Thomas A. Storey, Director, Physical Training, Bureau of the Military Training Commission, State of New York, Albany, New York.

Dr. S. Josephine Baker, New York City, Director, In charge of School Medical Inspection in New York City.

C.	Wrard Crampton, M. D., New York City.

Director, Dept. Physical Education, N. Y. City Schools.

Mr. W. A. Stecher, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Director of Physical Education.

Mr. Henry S. Anderson, New Haven, Connecticut.

Yale Gymnasium.

Mr. Lory Prentiss, Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J. Mr. A. A, Stagg, University of Chicago.

D.	A. Sargent, M. D., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. Paul C. Phillips, M. D., Amherst College.

Mr. J. M. Gwinn, New Orleans, La.

Superintendent of Schools.

Mr. L. B. Alderman, 405 Count House, Portland, Oregon.

Superintendent of Schools.

Dr. F. B. Dresslar, Peabody College, Nashville, Tennessee.

Mr. Chas. H. Keyes, Skidmore School of Arts, Saratoga Springs, N.Y. Dr. A. E. Winship, Journal of Education, 6 Beacon St.,' Boston. Mr. Wm. C. Bruce, Editor, School Board Journal.

Mr. Howard T. Ruhl, Delaware College, Newark, Del.

Mr. Paul J. Kruse, Cornell University.

Assistant Prof. Rural Education.
101

Miss Julia Lathrop, Director, Children’s Bureau, Department of Labor, Washington, D. C.

Dr. Jos. Raycroft, Chairman, Committee on Training Camp Activities, Washington, D. C.

Mr. Walter Camp, New Haven, Conn.

Commission on Training Camp Activities, Navy Department.

Mr. Joseph Lee, 1 Madison Ave., New York City.

President, Playgrounds Association of America.

Mrs. Frederick Schoff, President, National Congress of Mothers and Parent Teachers Association, Philadelphia, Pa.

Dr. Frank Bachman, General Education Board, New York City.

Dr. Wickliffe Rose, General Education Board, New York City.

Dr. C. W. Hetherington, State Supervisor of Physical Training, Sacramento, California.

Dr. E. Conradi, President, State College for Women, Tallahassee, Florida.

Dr. Fritz Talbot, Com. on Child Welfare of the General Medical Board of National Council of Defense. Boston, Mass.

Miss Ella Phillips Crandall, National Organization for Public Health Nursing, New York City.

The following is the Committee on National Program for

Physical Education, as appointed by the U. S. Commissioner

of Education.

Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

Dr. Thos. D. Wood, Columbia University, New York City.

Dr. C. Ward Crampton, Director Physical Education, Department of Education. New York City.

Dr. Charles Mayo, President, American Medical Association, Washington, D. C.

Dr. Taliaferro Clarke, U. S. Public Health Service, Washington, D.C.

Mr. Walter Camp, New Haven, Conn.

Dr. A. J. McKelway, Southern Secretary, National Child Labor Committee, Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Women’s Committee, Council of National Defense, New York City.

Mrs. Ira Couch Wood, Director Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund, Chicago, Illinois.

Mr. John A. Vail, American Federation of Labor, Philadelphia.

Mr. James E. West, Chief Scout Executive, Boy Scouts of America, New York City.

Dr. W. B. Brown, Principal Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

Dr. Wr. S. Small, Specialist in School Hygiene, U. S. Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C.

Digitized by UjOOQle
102

A STUDY OF SCHOOL RECESSES (Continued)

By W. H. HECK, Prof, of Education, University of Va.

Space, Equipment and Games

These necessities of recess have been so well discussed in the literature on play that it would be superfluous to take up much space in repeating the well-recognized principles of these discussions. The national movement for play has probably given proportionately too little attention to the school and recess side of the question, a side that might appeal to most communities first and thereby open the way for wider development. Just a few words are here needed about the meager but encouraging beginning in the schools here represented. The average playground space per school in 26 schools or systems reporting such acreage is about three acres; but these figures do not include the larger city schools, which generally have very little space for recess. The small city, town, and consolidated rural schools are the best favored in this regard. A great deal more interest should be shown in using vacant lots near the school, even if a small rent be required; and it is surprising that so few schools avail themselves of such advantages. Furthermore, not half a dozen schools report much playground apparatus, exclusive of simple equipment for basketball — the most popular game for the older children. Baseball is a general favorite with the boys, of course, but is played informally in most schools. Fortunately, football is not generally encouraged, and volley ball and soccer are becoming better known. Tennis courts are multiplying rapidly but cannot often be used at recess, as too much space is required in proportion to the number of players. Games for little children are taught by teachers in a few of these schools, and some high-school teams are coached after school hours.

One of the greatest needs in our curricula is some requirement that in each grade certain games at least be taught and frequently played. An education without play is anemic, and adherence to the rules of games is as necessary as adherence to the rules of any effort for efficient activity. Slipshodness and deceit are immoral in play as in other enterprises. So games must be taught outdoors and in; and if the playground space is small, it should be constantly used during the day in combination with indoor instruction. And all the children must play, not a few while the others look on.

Separate Playgrounds

Should there be separate playgrounds for boys and for girls? Only insofar as necessary. The children of the first and second grades ought to play together in games taught by teachers. Even in some schools where older children are separated, these little ones have their games in common. When boys from the third grade up show any tendency toward rudeness to girls, or take possession of their space and apparatus, or play with them too roughly, then separation of the sexes may become necessary. The possibilities of trouble are greatest in the grammar grades and tend to die out, or become particularized to a very few students, in the

Digitized by C.ooQle
103

best high schools. Of course, boys and girls will and should have their own games under any circumstances and will tend to segregate naturally. Some principals of the thirteen schools, generally small, reporting no separate playgrounds, say that the matter takes care of itself in this way, and some even encourage the boys and girls to play together. But separate playgrounds are reported by 25 schools or systems and are generally considered essential, especially in city schools. The entrances to toilets may be so placed that some separation of the sexes near them is obligatory.

However, boys and girls co-operate in all forms of school work, so why fear, discourage, forbid co-operation in the freer and more spirited life at recess? Does the recess naturally tend to sex consciousness and even to disorder? Boys and girls tend to become what we impute them to be; and, by advertising and inculcating our fear of social intercourse between them in schools, we make them conscious of and sometimes interested in possible trouble. Better expect no trouble, erect no barriers, put up no sign-posts; and then believe in, watch for, insist upon, stimulate to, and generate pride in the courtesy that good society expects between boys and girls. Of course there are backgrounds of bad breeding, as well as good, in most schools, but the esprit de corps of conscientiously and wisely administered public or private schools tends to lift up rather than drag down, to seek standards above rather than at the level of the majority. A supervised recess should offer little chance for trouble, and the spirit of the school should tolerate no breach of decorum.

Of course, if the co-operative recess for all cannot be even tried in a given school, the matter is settled so far as that school is concerned. But where such a recess can be given a trial, it deserves the trial; then, if with the best available intentions and wisdom the plan fails, the separation of the sexes can easily be renewed.

Separate playgrounds for age groups are desirable only if necessary to keep the children from crowding each other out of their rightful space. This encroachment may easily happen to gain room for the games of the older children, especially for high-school athletics, which are sometimes unjustly favored in space, equipment, and prestige. The need will generally be met by informal divisions for the older boys, the older girls, the younger boys, and the younger girls. As most boys take more exercise after school than girls do, the space should be proportionately equal or even larger for the girls, who should be induced, probably, required to make full use of it. The children not participating in the games with their own group should be allowed to move about freely from one division to another, so long as they do not interfere. Of course, disciplinary trouble over any of these divisions would force stricter boundary lines and rules.

The occasionally expressed fear that some older children, especially boys, will set bad examples to the younger is a confession of weakness in the school management, as the faculty is there primarily to inculcate and enforce responsibility for better individual and social life. If our schools cannot expect children to associate

Digitized by Google
104

without injury, then our society is in a bad way. As previously emphasized,-there is little reason in most schools to fear that the very large majority of the children will not keep up to a high standard of decorum at school. The small number of older and younger children needing attention ought to be watched and trained to conformity; if this is impossible, they ought to be eliminated. The public school is not a reformatory; and the manners and morals of the normal child must be protected from injury, especially thru public institutions. If the school authorities ever fear democratic recesses of different age and sex groups, they had better omit some textbook work and concentrate on solving recess problems rather than dodging them.

Supervision

The supervision of recesses is not a separate problem but an integral expression of the spirit of the general administration. The best way to find out what a school really is at heart is to study the behavior of children at recess, especially if they are allowed to be spontaneous. To reach an acceptable degree of order and consideration, every effort should be made through suggestion, control, and punishment, if necessary; but children should not be interfered with, certainly not policed, insofar as they reach by themselves a creditable standard of happy co-operation. They must grow up to self-control, not teacher-control; and too many pedagogical strings at school are as bad as too many apron strings at home.

Yet most children need some adult leadership at recess. They often stand around in a helpless inactivity that tempts an observer to use a prodding-rod; or they engage in haphazard amusements as monotonous and meaningless as “chop-sticks” on a piano. They are like people who cannot spend their wealth, especially in ways that are beneficial to themselves and others. By suggestion and example teachers can lead these children to put more fun into and get more out of recess, to have more organization and variety in their games, and to bring about a wider and heartier association with others. A kill-joy teacher should be ruled off the grounds, and repressive rules avoided. A recess without a good time is not a recess; it is only a breathing-spell. And a recess without laughter and noise is unnatural. But with busy, happy children disciplinary problems tend to vanish and be forgotten. Public opinion will enforce its own social requirements, and the rules of recess will attain ethical sanction.

And what if children do sometimes become excited at recess and get happily tired? The classes immediately following may suffer somewhat, and the relief function of recess may be lessened, at least on the physical side. But children go to school more to live and learn than to learn and live; and they generally live more at recess than in the classroom, and sometimes learn more too.

The custom of assigning the supervision of recesses to most of the teachers in turn — alternately by day or week or month — is uncertain and unwise. The capabilities and methods of teachers in meeting this responsibility will vary so much that no consistent
106

development of leadership will be possible. Police duties can be bandied about from person to person, but leadership never. Better select the best qualified and expect constant service from them, with partial compensation in greater prestige and salary and in relaxation periods at other times in the day. Further compensation will come to the supervisors in the service itself.

About three-fourths of the schools here represented report regular, though often informal, supervision at recess. Three have none at all, and two none in the high school. This supervision is mainly done by teachers on duty but sometimes by the principal alone. The officials seem pleased with their present arrangements and report very little disciplinary trouble at recess. But the leadership side of the supervision has rarely been developed, and then mostly with the little children or in connection with high-school athletics.

Only gifted supervisors have the desired combination of leadership and of police control, the latter being latent because unnecessary. They need a rainbow of good qualities. They should let the children run their own recesses but should infuse the right spirit into the running; should break up unsocial cliques and check disagreeable individuals; should know and direct the standard games; and should make all anxious to do their part. Above all, the reticent or offish or afflicted children should be brought forward to a recognized place in the group life. Social maladjustments in childhood cause much unhappiness and promise more in the future. And recesses offer to the supervisors fine opportunity for correcting some of these maladjustments by reproving the unjust, restraining the bully, shaming the profane, and boycotting the obscene; by encouraging the timid, teaching the backward, befriending the lonely, and introducing the stranger. Truly this is no trivial responsibility, no mean role for a supervisor. A recess is not an entr'acte, it might even be the climax of the play.

The meal times of school children will be studied later on in this series, but the present report includes some data on the school side of this question. In about one-half of the schools a large proportion, in one-third a small proportion, and in one-sixth none of the children go home for dinner or luncheon. Although family dinners are seldom suited to children near the middle of the school day and although luncheons or even lunches at school are better, it is difficult to oppose home wishes in this matter at the second recess. The average amount of time allowed for the second recess is little influenced by the number of children going home, except, negatively, in the large city schools with short recesses. About six of these schools serve luncheon. Children staying at school are generally allowed to take their lunch outdoors, where they eat and play at the same time and scatter around their paper and “leftovers,” unless severe rules or an unusual esprit de corps forbid. Only two or three schools keep children in the classrooms until lunch is hastily eaten. Which is the better way of dealing with

Eating at Recess
106

this problem it is difficult to decide; probably the outdoor plan is generally more satisfactory, if luncheon cannot be served.

The prevailing custom, or neglect, of allowing children to eat lunch at two or even three recesses should be condemned. There is no hygienic good in giving the digestive system this extra work to do,* especially when the school is demanding mental alertness in recitation and study. Frequent nibbling at food is a bad habit, due to home indulgence and to individual lack of self-control. Eating at the first recess should be prohibited entirely, and children going home at the second recess should not be allowed to bring any lunch at all. If some children have had breakfast so soon that they become hungry early in the school day, then the first recess, instead of the second, should be their one and only time for lunch. All this discussion is based upon the expectation of school dismissal before or at 3:30, and upon the belief that children should have something to eat on their return home, as the third of the four light meals due them during the 24 hours. On account of this third meal, the second at home or school ought not to be heavy or produce that mental heaviness so noticeable after the second recess in many schools.

Drinking of Water

The drinking of water during the school day should be confined to recesses. With opportunity at two or more such periods and before and after school, a child can get all the water he needs, if only he thinks about getting it; and he should be made to think. In fact, a neglect in meeting any real need of this kind and a nervous desire to break the monotony of school work by moving about in or out of the room are the actual causes of most requests to get a drink of water. A first bell could be rung five minutes before the end of recess as a warning to the thirsty and thoughtless to prepare for a dry session; and a little parching later on would be a gentle reminder to those that heeded not. One regulation or very similar regulations for going out either to get a drink of water or to use the toilet, as in most of the schools here represented, imply failure to distinguish between different needs.

Use of Toilets

In connection with the general supervision of the school there is another problem that centers in the recesses but is not confined to them. This is the use of toilets during school hours. Though neglected in the literature and class instruction on educational questions, this daily problem is perplexing in many schools, and is dealt with in a multitude of ways.

Every child, if possible, should attend to hygienic needs before coming to school in the morning. It is mistaken prudery not to insist upon this to the children and to their parents. As constipation is becoming one of the most widespread evils of our civilization, both home and school must combine to prevent it in the children. Talks to the boys by a man and to the girls by a woman have proved very helpful in some schools; and especially ought not the subject to be dodged in parents’ meetings.

Digitized by CaOOQle
107

If a child still comes to school without having attended to such matters, he should feel free to “go out” of study or recitation -class without embarrassment or punishment. Better sacrifice time and attention to school work than undermine health. But other hygienic needs can generally be met by recesses that are less than two hours from each other or from the opening and dismissal of school; and self-control in regard to these needs should be encouraged. In all cases the child must tell some designated authority at some appointed time the hygienic reason for his going out. If there is much repetition in the case of any child, the parents or even the family doctor must be consulted. It is better to allow going out without request but with explanation later on than to restrain individuals by requiring such interruptions and publicity. Sufficient requirements are those that a slip with name be put on the teacher’s desk as the child goes out quietly, that a maximum time be not exceeded, and that explanation and estimate of time be reported to some advisor. In case of little children requests may sometimes be needed, but with older children, especially with girls, they do more harm than good. Hygienic counsel, differentiation of needs, general regulations, individual freedom, and proper explanation — these will meet nearly every case in both an orderly and a hygienic way.

The use of toilets on request during school hours is allowed in most of the schools here represented, the request being omitted in five high schools. There are a few reports of keeping-in or demerit, either for going out at all, for overtime, for more than one in a class out at the same time, or for going out soon after recess. Records are seldom kept, but sometimes names are put either on the blackboard, on the teacher’s tablet, or on individual slips. There is very little report of dissatisfaction with present plans.

Rainy-Day Schedules

Of 24 of the schools here represented eleven do and thirteen do not make some change in their schedule on account of bad weather; and naturally the representation of town and rural schools is greater in the first group and of city schools in the second. The change is generally a shortening of the second recess, or even a combination of two recesses into a short one, and a proportionately early dismissal of school. With children moving about the building and eating their lunch, discipline is more difficult, even when all the teachers are on duty. The children who generally go home for a meal either anticipate a rainy-day schedule and bring lunch with them, or they share the lunch of friends, or they wait until their return home. A change of schedule after the school day has begun sometimes inconveniences these children and especially those parents that come or send for students. Some principals are strongly opposed to rainy-day schedules and seem to be supported by the homes in this proposition.

The problem is primarily one of local conditions and sentiment, but the burden of proof on every case should rest upon those that introduce changes for inclement weather. Every effort should be made to get the best into and out of the regular schedule be-

Digitized by kjOOQle
108

fore cutting down the recess time. This cutting down really amounts to cutting out the recesses, which are too valuable to be omitted thoughtlessly. Why not omit a singing lesson every time a few children have the sniffles, or a history lesson every time the teacher is not prepared?

Bad weather is more often a state of mind than a meteorological fact. It is fear of the weather bogey. And children soon learn from parents and teachers this kind of phobia; they must not get wet, they must avoid the mud, they must not get cold, they must keep out of the wind. Most of this teaching weakens body and character. A child that is scared of a raindrop ought to be made ashamed of himself; and so ought a child that runs for cover as soon as he sees a cloud in the sky or shrinks from mud on his garments, as from a spot upon his soul. Children ought to be dressed properly for cold or rain or mud and then be turned out with little regard for weather, rain coats and rubber caps and overshoes being as necessary equipment for school children as pads and pencils. Leam-ning to meet changes in weather without timidity or whimpering is no small part of education both for boys and girls. Of course, these arguments may not be valid for invalids, for whom exceptions must be made; but schools are not sanitaria.

Schools in city, town, and country ought to give rainy-day recesses a fair trial, demanding some ingenuity on the part of teachers and children in arranging for outdoor activities in rough weather, with due regard for character and size of playgrounds. Everyone should take pride in making such recesses healthful and pleasant. Overshoes can save many schools from an overdose of mud; but there is no reason to revolt against a little mud brought in on shoes or clothes or hands, for it is not deadly and will be cleaned away sooner or later. When the weather is really too severe for outdoor activities, then indoor recesses should be planned with great care. A searching test of school management is the success of these indoor exercises and recreations. Are they orderly, lively, and enjoyable? And there is sometimes suspicion that rainy-day schedules are due to poverty in management, the line of least resistance being to avoid rather than master difficulties.

Conclusion

Most of the suggestions made in this report are tentative and dependent on local conditions; they are stated in the hope of promoting discussion. But there is often emphasized in the preceding pages a conviction not at all tentative; that recesses can have inestimable values beyond those generally granted in theory or realized in practice. The dictionary definition of recess as “cessation from employment” is still accepted and applied in many schools thruout the nation. In these schools children are let out for an interim, with little sense of responsibility in the heads and hearts of the faculty for what the children do or say or think, so long as they do not run against the barriers of discipline. The main purpose of the present paper is to substitute for this negative attitude a positive one of helping children to gain more health and happiness, initiative and persistence, courtesy and consideration.
109

fellowship and service thruout the recesses. For this high purpose these periods deserve space and time and equipment and, above all, special leadership, just as the recitation and study periods do. And probably the recesses will pay the highest interest on such an investment of public funds and individual devotion.

"Reprint from The American School Board Journal.

THE OPEN WINDOW CLASS

JOHN P. TURNER, M. D., Medical Inspector of Public Schools, Philadelphia.

School authorities of all large cities especially, find a problem in the proper care of the vast army of anemic, undernourished, physically debilitated children. Until very recently but little was attempted. Systematic Medical examination of school chil-, dren was begun in Boston in 1894. Its original purpose was to control the spread of contagious diseases. Records show however-Elmira, N. Y. had a school Medical Inspector as early as 1872. In Boston, and other cities that soon followed with health examination of school children, it was discovered the elimination of contagious diseases from the school room was but one of a vast number of problems confronting the Medical Inspectors.

Defective vision and hearing, nasal obstruction, enlarged tonsils, decayed teeth, and many other physical defects, that tended to lower the natural resistance to disease, and make the young mind unfit to grasp its studies, were found in a large percentage of those examined.

While yet in its infancy Medical Inspection of school children now has many specific objects among which may be mentioned :

The detection and correction of physical defects; the detection and exclusion of contagious diseases; the sanitary supervision of the school building; and the care of special groups, such as the physically debilitated in Open Air Classes, the tubercular and cripple in special classes.

The nearest approach feasible to the real Open Air Class, in our large cities, is the Open Window Class.

In order to cite a specific instance of the beneficial results of Open Window methods, we will discuss the operation of the Thomas Durham Public School Open Window Class, located at Sixteenth and Lombard Streets, Philadelphia. This class was organized in September, 1913, under direction of the Department of Medical Inspection of Public Schools. In it were grouped twenty-nine children of the second, third and fourth year classes. Viewing these twenty-nine children when they were first organized into a class, one's impression was that nature had not only denied them strong, robust bodies, but in addition had decreed for them scholastic inefficiency and backwardness nothing would overcome. We determined to meet the issue, and combined three of Nature’s greatest champions of good health, namely:	Fresh

air, judicious bathing and proper feeding.

Digitized by LjOOQle
110

Fresh Air

We selected a second floor room with southern exposure. This room has a window area of 180 sq. ft. and a floor area of 1073 sq.ft. The windows are kept raised and lowered as much as possible at all times. The Board of Education provided a sweater, a woolen blanket, a pair of woolen gloves, and a woolen hood for each child. In extreme weather all of these are used. The pupils of the Open Window Class are far less liable to “catch cold” than those of the warm air room. They live while in school practically in the same atmosphere they enter, when they leave the building for their homes.

Pure air being in constant circulation, the lungs are ventilated as well as the room. The atmosphere instead of being dry has Nature’s provision of moisture. In the Open Window Class no child is in a draught. The temperature is even. This fresh air idea has a wholesome influence on the homes from which the children come.

Judicious Bathing

The pupils are given under supervision, a shower bath shortly after their arrival, (from 9:15 to 9:30). The water is first warm, then tepid, then cold. Each child has his own towel which is laundered in school. As the skin is one of our chief eliminents we can grasp the importance of thus aiding nature in one of her natural recourses.

Immediately following the bath, a nutritious breakfast awaits the class. This take§ place from nine thirty to ten o’clock. The menu which varies, consists of hot cereals, milk, stewed peaches, prunes, soup, toast, shredded wheat and rice.

Pupils of this class are given regular grade work, with three five minute periods of gymnastics in the afternoon. These exercises are intended especially to increase the chest elasticity and expansion.

Once each month assisted by the School Nurse, we weigh and take the chest measurements of each child. These records are recorded on a health card, which is sent home by the pupil for the parent to see.

How well these abnormal children are overcoming Nature’s handicaps, and making their way scholastically, will be noted in the following statement of Mr. J. R. Paul Brock, Principal of the Thomas Durham School:—

“The Open Window Class has at present thirty pupils on roll. On account of the delicate condition of the children perfect attendance is practically impossible, but it is surprising to know that the percentage of attendance for the group is always among the highest percentages of class attendance in the whole building. For instance, during the school year 1916-17 while the building averaged eighty per cent the Open Window Class averaged 87.6. This attendance has been very surprising and opposite to what we had expected. The class has maintained this superiority of attendance from the date of its organization.
Ill

The Open Window Class is composed, for the most part, of children who are slow in regular grades, doubtless on account of their physical condition. Out of the 30 on roll at present 22 are slow pupils, that is, it has required for them in normal classes more than a term to do a term’s work. The study of 15 pupils transferred from this class to regular classes during the school year 1916-17 shows that out of 12 who still continue in school, although they were slow pupils before having been assigned to the Open Window Class, 7 have made a class a term, while one of the other 5 has been assigned to the special class for backward children, 3 have made two promotions out of a possible three, and 1 one promotion out of a possible three. The study of the facts thus far tends to show that the instruction in an Open Window Class room tends to stimulate the minds of children. The fatigue periods are fewer in the Open Window Class room, if they occur at all. The observer is impressed with the alertness of pupils at all times of the day. This class room in the Durham school presents scarcely any disciplinary problem.”

For the first three months in the school year, we find the average gain in weight per child is 3.22 pounds. The average gain for the first six months is 6.33 pounds, per child.

With such gains in weight, with such records in scholarship and discipline as above reported by the Principal, I maintain the modern fresh air treatment of physically debilitated children is worth the while.

NEW YORK CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FOR SWIMMING INSTRUCTOR

By LEONHARD FELIX FULD, LL. M., PH. D., Assistant Chief Examiner, Municipal Civil Service Commission, New York.

Duties of Position

Swimming Instructors in the service of the City of New York are required to give instruction in swimming and life saving and to guard the safety of persons using the public baths in the city. They are appointed at a salary of $900 per annum and receive annually increments of $60 in their salary upon evidence of satisfactory service until the maximum compensation of $1080 is reached.

Of the male candidates who succeed in passing this examination a separate eligible list will be prepared of those who are willing to accept appointment as life guards on the public bathing beaches under the jurisdiction of the city.

Subjects of Examination

The examination was divided into three parts:	Experience,

with a weight of two points; Practical Test, with a weight of six points; and a Written examination of Duties with a weight of two points. A minimum of 70 per cent was required on the practical test and a minimum of 70 per cent was required on the written examination.

Each candidate was required to be familiar with methods of

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
112

making rescues from drowning and with methods of resuscitation. They were also required to have a good knowledge of the various forms of instruction for beginners and for advanced swimmers, including ability to teach all strokes of swimming, floating and diving.

Applications were received only from candidates who were at least twenty-one years of age and not more than forty-five years of age.

Experience

Under the heading of Experience each candidate was required to give a detailed statement of his education, training, practical experience and record of employment. These statements of experience were carefully rated on a comparative basis.

All candidates who succeeded in passing the practical test were given a minimum rating of 70 per cent on experience and each candidate was given as much additional credit as the comparative value of his training and experience merited in the judgment of the rating examiner.

Practical Test

The practical test which had a weight of six points out of ten in the scheme of the entire examination, and which was the first part of the examination to be held was conducted at one of the public baths of the city, the men and the women being examined on separate days.

In the practical test the teaching ability of each candidate was given a weight of five; the personal ability a weight of five; the knowledge of life-saving a weight of five and fancy diving a weight of one.

In the subject of teaching ability, the knowledge of preliminary instructions was given a weight of forty; the knowledge of lifesaving thirty; the back stroke five; the trudgeon five; the crawl five; fancy diving five; floating five, and plunging, treading water and under water swimming five.

In the subject of personal ability the knowledge of life-saving was given a weight of fifty; the trudgeon crawl a weight of ten; fancy diving a weight of ten; floating a weight of five; trudgeon a weight of five; the back stroke a weight of five; the breast stroke a weight of one; treading water a weight of one; plunging, a weight of one; turning a weight of one and swimming under water a weight of one.

In the subject of life-saving, swimming with the subject was given a weight of forty; the knowledge of resuscitation a weight of thirty; ability to break holds, twenty; diving for weight and the land carry, a weight of five for each.

In the subject of fancy diving, the knowledge of the plain front was given a weight of ten; the plain back, a weight of ten; the front jack a weight of ten; the back jack a weight of ten, and twenty points was allowed for a knowledge of each of three optional forms of diving.

The maximum on each element of each subject on the practical test was given only to those candidates who showed perfect

Digitized by UaOOQle
113

ability in that element; each candidate was rated competitively on each of these elements and given such a rating on each element as his comparative proficiency in the judgment of the Examiners merited.

Written Examination on Duties

The candidates who succeeded in getting at least 70 per cent of the practical test were given a written examination on the duties of the position.

The following questions constituted this written examination:

1.	In swimming the breast stroke, at what part of the arm stroke

should one inhale — during the drive or the recovery?

2.	What is the difference between the leg drive (kick) of the

trudgeon and the plain crawl strokes?

3.	Name twovof the strokes which may be used in swimming on

the back?

4.	What should be the position of the body in entering the water

on a plain front drive?

5.	What instructions would you give a beginner who was about

to try floating on the back for the first time?

6.	Describe the safest way to support to safety a struggling

drowning person.

7.	If a drowning person secures a body hold on the rescuer —

both arms around the latter’s waist — describe briefly the best method of breaking this hold.

8.	What is the first thing to do in reaching land with the un-

conscious victim of a drowning accident?

9.	How many full respiratory acts per minute should one per-

form in operating artificial breathing on the apparently drowned?

10.	Which is the easiest system of artificial respiration to operate without assistance?

Statistics

The following statistics of the most recent examination for Swimming Instructor may be of interest:

A — Applications filed .....................................   58

B — Passed in practical examination...... ...................  21

C — Passed in written examination............................. 20

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA

A preliminary report by J. GEORGE BECHT, Executive Secretary State Board of Education, Hairisburg, Pa.

The Pennsylvania School Code in prescribing the course of study for the schools makes mandatory the teaching of certain branches of study and then adds, “and such other branches, including physical training, as the Board of Directors with the approval of the proper Superintendent of Schools may prescribe; provided that in all school districts of the first class physical training shall be carried on as a part of the regular course of study in the public schools.”

Digitized by LjOOQLe
114

A special requirement is made with reference to physiology and hygiene, attention being particularly directed to the effect of alcoholic drinks, stimulants and narcotics upon the human system and which shall also include special reference to tuberculosis and its prevention. These subjects are to be studied as regular branches by all pupils in all departments of the public schools of the Commonwealth and in all institutions supported wholly or in part by money from this Commonwealth.

The Code also provides for compulsory medical inspection of all the pupils of the public schools in school districts of the first and second classes, and makes it optional in districts of the third and fourth classes. Furthermore, the State Beard of Education is empowered to prescribe rules and regulations for the sanitary equipment and inspection of school buildings, and to take such other action as it may deem necessary and expedient to promote the physical and moral welfare of the children in the public schools of the Commonwealth.

In these quotations made from the law, it will be seen that there are adequate general powers to inaugurate a definite and specific program of physical education for overy pupil in the public schools. But while there are these general powers covering specific phases, there has never been, except in a limited number of districts, a general recognition of the importance of physical training in all that it implies. There has been a great diversity of opinion with reference to controlling ideas in physical education and complete lack of agreement regarding material or method of instruction. Physical education is not a new thing. Da Feltra, (1378-1446) who was considered the first school master of the renaissance, introduced into his school at Mantua dancing, riding, swimming, running, jumping and archery. There appears to be no record of any other school adopting a similar course of training until Basedow opened his school in Dessau, in 1774. Subsequently, Comerarius, Comenius, Montaigne, Locke, Rousseau, and Pestalozzi laid considerable stress on the training of the body.

‘The soul will be oppressed if not assisted by the body,” says Montaigne, and again, “It is not a soul and it is not a body we are training up: it is a man; and we must not divide him up into two parts”.

“Keep the body in strength and vigor” says Locke, “so that it may be able to obey and execute the orders of the mind”.

Rousseau says, “In order to learn to think, we must exercise our bodies which are the instruments of our intelligence”.

The theories on which physical education was based have had wide variations. The ultimate purpose in some systems is to mechanize the body, to emphasize the anatomical rather than the functional side of physical education. The tendency, according to these theories, is to develop the body for its own sake. The German system of gymnastics is one of the best known systems. It was worked out by Jahn, who is known as the Father of German Gymnastics. He was an extreme patriot and his desire was to rebuild the bodies of the young Germans in order that they

Digitized by C.ooQle
115

might withstand the French. His scheme was to develop strength of body in the shortest possible time. He performed a great service to military Germany but gave little heed to the physiology and practically paid no attention to the psychological needs in the education of the young.

The Swedish system is probably the most precise system of movements and exercises which the world has known. That system was elaborated to meet what Ling and his followers designated “military, pedagogical, medical and aesthetic needs”. Here, again, the emphasis was on anatomy or structure rather than upon function which in our present day view we hold to be most important.

It has been pointed out by men who have given much study and thought to this subject and who have had opportunities for wide observation, that general educators have given too little attention to the study of physical education. That they have observed only its superficial values and have generally employed it for its effect on the externals of school discipline and school management. On the other hand, they tell us that a great majority of physical educators are not familiar with the general principles and tendencies of education. They have dealt with physical education as a detached problem and reduced it to a materialistic plane.

A rational scheme of physical education should first of all provide for hygienic care. It should secure for the pupil thru a rational distribution of motor activities certain health values. Physical education is not simply a matter of muscles. It is more a matter of the nervous system. It is for the sake of mental and moral culture and not an end in itself. The fundamental basis on which physical training should rest is the condition of health. “Good health is first wealth” is no idle aphorism. Every teacher ought to be familiar with the general elemental principles that underlie good health. This is not an impossible attainment. Any teacher worthy of the name can, if he will, make himself a competent, skillful tactful diagnostician if he is willing to give a very little time to the study of the subject. One of the greatest menaces to good health is that we do not know what to eat, how much we ought to eat and how we ought to eat. Every teacher ought to be capable of giving instructions in nutrition and dietetics. The National Government some time ago through the Department of Agriculture put out a bulletin in which is tabulated the caloric or fuel value of nearly every food ordinarily eaten. It is possible therefore to determine how much energy the human body uses each day at varying ages and under differing conditions of labor and rest.

A report of the pupils in the New York City Schools published within the last ten days shows that one-eighth of the children are undernourished and one-fourth in need of medical care of some kind. Many of these cases, it is said, had no connection whatever with the high cost of living but were the result of ignorance on the part of the parents, of the fundamental facts of dietetics. Commissioner of Health Emerson points out that England, Germany

Digitized by v^,ooQle
116

and France are suffering enormous increases in tuberculosis mainly as the result of the restricted food supply. Altho there is in this country a much greater amount of food, a similar increase in tuberculosis and other diseases may occur here if the public does not take a greater interest in the science of nutrition. .

Soon after the European war began we were greatly disturbed about the matter of military training in the public schools. Commissions to study the question were appointed in several of the States. Practically in all of the States where legislatures have been in session since the war opened, bills were introduced providing for some form of military training. The evident purpose was in some way or other to connect it up with the physical education program. The Massachusetts commission, when it came face to face with the question, found how widely the old time military training was separated from general physical training. The Commiss'on found that there is very little in the usual military drill exercises available in the war as waged on the battle fields today. There is really none of the marching with which in military drill we are familiar. Modern warfare does not use marching anywhere near the battle front now. The Germans used it in their mass attacks but they have practically abandoned it. The aeroplane and trench warfare have completely changed that type of military attack. Orders are no longer given in actual warfare as they once were. Now, it is the whistle or the telephone or a signal clicked on the wire or an order whispered from man to man. It is needless to enlarge on this phase of the subject. The so-called military training either for its direct or indirect benefits will not be distinctively a school problem. The one thing, however, that is apparent and vitally important for us to understand is that “war imposes the greatest tax on every form of physical competency that a man can possess — obedience, endurance, the ability to run and to run hard, the ability to climb a tree, the ability to crouch, to lie down, to listen intently — all these forms of physical capacity that date back to primitive man.”

Within the past twenty years much money has been expended in the construction of gymnasiums and their equipment with elaborate apparatus. The question has been seriously discussed if much of this is not a wasteful expenditure of money. After all, the best gymnasium is God’s great out-of-doors. Of course, the indoor gymnasium has a place for a dressing room, a place for dancing, for physical examinations, for corrective exercises for certain persons whose physical endurance is greatly limited; for use in inclement weather; even tho in the latter instance there is no reason why the body should not be trained to withstand the rigors of cold and rainy weather.

A physical training program for a commonwealth, a county, city or community should first include a propaganda for better health and better health conditions.

In the form of an outline the topics for this might be suggested as follows:—

1. Health examination of pupils.

Digitized by ^ooQle
117

2.	Personal health instruction by the teacher.

3.	Correction of physical defects under the advice of a phy-

sician.

4.	Co-operation of teacher with pupils and parents.

5.	Co-operation of teachers with doctors, dentists and health

officers.

6.	Instruction on communicable diseases.

7.	Sanitation of school house and school grounds.

8.	Domestic hygiene (food cleanliness).

9.	Community hygiene.

10.	Pupils as “health inspectors” or “sanitary officers”.

11.	Complete records of pupils' standing as to health.

12.	Instruction in health habits.

Co-ordinate with instruction on the topics enumerated above should be specific practice in physical exercises.

In a recent work published by William A. Stecher, Physical Director of the Philadelphia Schools, he gives the aims of physical education as: First, to maintain and increase health, to develop and increase organic strength, and second, to develop and increase skill, courage, determination, presence of mind, honesty and other mental and moral qualities. According to this view, the following types of exercises should be employed:

a.	Exercises that develop prompt response to commands

(obedience).

b.	Exercises that develop initiative and skill (resourceful-

ness).

c.	Exercises that develop co-operation (loyalty, unselfishness).

d.	Exercises that develop determination (leadership).

e.	Exercises that develop musculature (improved posture).

Such a program of exercises takes into account two phases

of physical training (1) Relief Work. This may take place at irregular intervals during the regular school session. In the Swiss schools fifteen minutes of every hour are given to relief work and generally in the open air, unless bad weather prevents. If given indoors, two or three minutes devoted to relieving the restlessness and fatigue will make pupils mentally alert and responsive. Relief periods ought to be a part of the program in every school. Even the most inexperienced and poorly prepared teacher can use the exercises adapted for this purpose. The purpose of this work is to counteract the evil effects of bad ventilation and unhygienic postures.

(2) Regular Physical Training Work. The relief work is temporary. Its effects are immediate. The regular work must be suited to meet the mental and physical needs of the growing child. For this kind of work the teacher needs special training. Any rational scheme of physical education must take into account the nature and extent of certain growth periods. In an examination of 32,000 school children, it was found there was a large number between seven and one-half and eight years with dilated hearts and consequent symptoms of cardiac impotence such as shortness of breath and great liability to fatigue; and a further interesting

Digitized by v^ooQle
118

fact was disclosed, namely, that while the child of seven fatigues less readily than the child of six which would naturally be expected, yet the child of eight fatigues more readily than a child of six or seven. The course in physical training must therefore be organized with exercises appropriate to different ages.

Three growth periods must be provided for.

First — Between ages 6 and 9. The essential factors at this time are exercises that incite to growth by animating the organic activities such as the breathing and the circulation of the blood. Open air exercises are best for this period. The exercise should bring into play the larger muscles and should stop short of strain or fatigue. Simple games requiring large free motions serve the best purpose here. Finely differentiated movements and carefully ordered calisthqpics are out of place at this time.

Second — Between 9 and 14, the exercises of the first period should be continued, and in addition such exercise as to tend to secure muscular control, poise of body and graceful movement of arms and legs. Exercises for skill and for a limited amount of endurance should also form a part of the training of this period. This is above all the period for the training of muscular quickness.

Third — Between 14 and 20. This is by far the most important period, for during this time weight increases very rapidly and growth in stature is greatly accelerated. The new muscular tissue must be organized and co-ordinated. Properly arranged physical exercises will do this. But of no less importance, probably of most importance, are the exercises that incite activity in the heart and lungs. During this period they are most properly responsive to physical exercise, but such exercise should laways stop short of exhaustion.

It is altogether probable that the next session of the legislature will pass a law making a “Course in Physical Training” a compulsory part of the program of studies in every school in the Commonwealth. Such a law will undoubtedly specify a minimum amount of time, say from two to three hours per week, to be devoted to this work. But we need not and ought not to wait for a legal mandate to spur us to action. Many districts have already made provision for this. But there is as yet no unified state-wide recognition as to the importance of this as part of the public school curriculum. Never was the time more opportune to arouse interest in this subject. It is a daily comment among the people when our boys return on furlough from a brief training in the camps: “How well they look!” “What a splendid bearing!” “What a wonderful development in a few weeks!” It was only a matter of simple, substantial food, out door life and regular exercise in posture and movement. This ought to have a lesson for us. Will we heed it? Will we profit by it?

And shall we not learn that other lesson disclosed thru the enlistments and the selective draft? That there were large numbers rejected for physical defects, many of which might and ought to have been corrected in the earlier years and for the correction of some of which the applicant was ordered to take special train-

Digitized by AaOOQle
119

ing so that he might qualify later? The time surely is ripe for a state-wide propaganda in this important matter. In this, as in many other progressive movements, the teacher holds a strategic position. The possibilities wrapped up in a program of physical training for the schools are well nigh limitless. Because the program is so large, we may not readily realize the definite results we could wish for.

Three things, however, every teacher can do. First, the teacher can co-operate with the medical inspector and the parents in the diagnosis of physical defects and in employing the simple means at hand for the correction of such defects as far as possible. Second, the teacher can make the teaching of physiology and hygiene bear upon this subject in a very definite and helpful way, especially in habit-formation. And third, the teacher in any school can carry on some, at least, of the most elementary exercises such as setting up drills and rhythmic movements. No teacher ought to do less than this and may do much more.

WHAT SHOULD BE THE OUTCOME OF PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS?

C. R. FRAZIER, Superintendent of Schools, Everett, Wash.

Physical education has not been taken seriously in this country. In only a few of the most favored and most progressive centers has it been accorded adequate recognition. Many communities have in the last few years recognized the educational value of play and have indorsed the movement for public playgrounds. The response, however, on the part of the children and youth has been rather discouraging. They still attend movies chronically even during the hours when the playgrounds are open.

The old-fashioned calisthenics, or rather the new-fashioned, old-fashioned, schoolroom physical training, is making an unusual contribution with increasing regard for the desirable outcome of physical education. Gymnasium work in college, high school, and in grades is doing good for those whom it reaches. Public-school athletic associations, which provide a series of competitions for elementary-school children, are full of promise in that they make their appeal so unanimous by setting sandards of accomplishment which any normal child can attain. But as for a national or American system of physical education we have far to go. The mode of procedure made fashionable by the famous reports of the National Society for Study of Education would be to determine the minimum essentials of an adequate system of physical education.

As the first step in this process we should endeavor to formulate the desirable results to be obtained, and then the determination of equipment and procedure might follow. Scholarship is already attacking this specific problem from the standpoint of public-school education. Professor Lewis Rapier, of the University

Digitized by LaOOQle
120

of Pennsylvania, contributes a thoughtful and suggestive discussion of it published in outline form in the Sixteenth Yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education.

I shall state in an empirical manner the practical aims that guide us in the public schools, until the way is pointed out more clearly by the combined findings of science and experience. The children of all the people must be put into the way of possessing good general health. If general healthfulness is accepted as the big aim, then the mental attitude toward the exercises offered becomes important. If pleasurable relaxation of the mind and nervous system is accepted as desirable, then mental strain is an undesirable accompaniment and should be avoided.

The second great outcome should be real vital and physical efficiency. This must include the development of lung and heart capacity.

“Athletic training is mainly heart training.”* And R. Tait McKenzie says in his incomparable treatise on Exercise in Education and Medicine that “to exercise has been assigned the role of cause, as well as cure, in most of the disorders peculiar to the circulatory system.” “The heart,” he says, “is a muscle capable of development and liable to overwork, and the arterial system shares intimately in changes taking place in the central organ of circulation.” It is important that we should have in mind the high development of the heart stopping this side of overstrain. Quite as important is lung development. The heart and lungs are the most vital of the organs, but as a contribution to general health the regular and healthy working of the stomach and organs of excretion is as important.

Physical training by inducing regular habits of exercise and temperate practices in eating has done much, but must do more.

The third outcome is good position and easy dignified carriage. Watch people walk! You can easily detect the trained from the untrained. The training in the schools should form the habits of life. It should not be necessary to provide a course of dancing lessons in order that your son or daughter may become graceful. The practical accomplishments of swimming, running, and rowing should be guaranteed to all youth as an essential part of its education. Certain mental qualities should come as an indirect result of physical education, such & the ability to cooperate, leadership, and willingness to practice good posture, good hygiene, and good, clean living. Every person should when he leaves school carry with him a love for good health-giving games, such as tennis, swimming, hiking, rowing, and golf, and should be sufficiently addicted to one or more of them as to insure his keeping at them all thru life. Can you imagine a better life insurance policy?

Calisthenic exercise taken once each day or more often under the direction of a supervisor who recognizes the real aims of such work is a very important factor in physical education. It provides systematic training in the direction of all the aims set forth. It coordinates the powers, it induces correct habits of position and walking, it contributes to the development of muscle, lungs, and *Roy and Adams, Eritish Medical a nd Surgical Journal.
121

heart. Through the use of folk games especially it develops gracefulness. And at the same time it should provide relaxation from mental and nervous strain.

One of the special aims in this work should be to make physical exercise pleasurable and attractive to the child. Children should look forward eagerly to this period. It thus serves the immediate end of aiding in the wholesome discipline of the school and the remoter aim of bringing children to adult life with a love for physical activity.

The great danger in this form of work is that it may become stereotyped and conventionalized. The moment this happens the value of the work is gone. There must be the live, human teacher playing upon the growing bodies of these children in such a way as to bring springing joyously to the surface the rhythmical play of correlated motion, now taking one form or combination and now another with little surprises introduced and some of the poetry of motion evolved; it goes without saying that this should be in the open, or as nearly so as can be.

While we are trying to correlate history and geography into closer relationship, I would suggest that we join music and physical training in a way which may enhance the results of both subjects. You have frequently seen physical drills on the same program with choruses as separate numbers. Why not combine them, not only on the same programs at entertainments, but in the daily work of the school? Breathing exercises are required in both singing and physical training and both develop the lungs. Will it not be a better test if children march and sing at the time, or even run and sing, and do it often enough to develop that vigor of lung power that can scarcely be attained in any other way, while at the same time giving a zest to the marching? Let the children sing while taking their calisthenics, while sitting, while standing, while walking or running. To be sure the big values resulting from this may not be simply lung and muscle development nor even musical skill; there may be emotional values. Try to analyze, if you choose, the different values resulting when groups of sturdy-bodied youth turn out of doors and march around the schoolhouse or the block singing lustily the words of “America” or that international song of democracy, “The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” or “Tenting Tonight on the Old Camp Ground,” or perhaps “Onward Soldiers, Marching as to War,” or “A Mighty Fortress Is Our God.”

“The fool profits by his experiences, the wise man by the experiences of others.” And even in this fateful and tragic year of 1918 I would glean a lesson from our enemy across the water. We must not taboo physical education or song or sentiment because they excelled in them, but being powerful factors in civilization we must develop them around right ideals. An inspiring incident is related by Mr. Bullet, editor of the Philadelphia Ledger, who saw company after company of German soldiers march to the cemetery in Berlin where they were to memorialize their soldier dead, and as they marched they sang, with the tears streaming down their faces, “Ein’ feste Burg ist unser Gott,” “A Mighty
122

Fortress Is Our God,” and the rows of prisoners of war who lined the way on either side broke into cheers, so great was their admiration for this combination of emotional expression and physical strength. I would have all that strength of body and that power of sentiment developed and conserved in our American youth, attuned to America and her humane ideals, and at the service of our country and humanity.

SANITATION OF THE RURAL SCHOOLHOUSE IN OREGON

MARVIN S. PITTMAN, Department of Institutes and Ruial Schools, State Noimal School, Monmouth, Ore.

Teachers, preachers, reformers, creators of whatever sort, have learned that to proclaim the evil, to describe the ugly and foul, to portray the pitiful and poor mean only ill-will of the guilty, brutality to the pure and the innocent, and depression for all. They have learned, therefore, to work on the creative, constructive side, to paint health and strength, to portray beauty and goodness, to laud the great and the true, to make the mean, ugly, and unworthy appear all the worse in comparison with the worthy, the beautiful, and the good, rather than to reveal faults by directing attention to them alone.

The school authorities of Oregon, following this psychological principle, have selected a number of points which are fundamental in a good rural school, stated them briefly, clearly, and printed them upon a card which is entitled, “Requirements for a Standard Rural School.” >"his card is put up permanently in some conspicuous place in every rural school, where it may be seen constantly by teacher, pupils, and patrons, and thus serves as a constant reminder to them to live up to its ideals. This, supplemented by the enthusiastic boosting and constant encouragement of the county superintendent and rural supervisor, stimulates active cooperation on the part of the entire community to high educational ideals.

Five of these requirements look to the sanitation of the school and the good health of the children. Tne fact that attention is called to each of these phases is an ever-present precept teaching its own truth and inviting further investigation. More than five principles of sanitation are treated, tho they appear under only five heads as follows: proper lighting, equipment, heating and ventilating, grounds, and sanitation.

It is left for the local authorities to determine what proper lighting is. Investigation reveals the amount of light required, the direction of the compass from which it should come, how it should fall upon the child and the teacher best to protect their eyes, the sort of window shades that are most suitable, the tint of the schoolroom walls and ceiling, and other features which affect the proper lighting of a room. In this particular the card is deficient. There should always accompany it a booklet which would clearly explain in terms not too technical the scientific reasons for each and every point required in the standard.

As to the equipment the standard requires: teacher's desk and chair, desks for the pupils properly adapted and placed, suitable

Digitized by LaOOQle
123

blackboards, and window shades in good condition. All of these requirements look to the sanitation and good health of the school, but such large liberty in interpretation is allowed that many times they fall below the health-giving standard. Quite specific advice should be given to guarantee the sort of chair and desks for teacher and pupils to be restful, bracing, health-giving. Care in the selection of the blackboard and in the placing of it is of no less importance.

The grounds are to be kept clean and free from papers. At least three pieces of play apparatus are to be provided. Walks are to be provided if necessary. This at first glance seems to have little to do with sanitation, but upon closer investigation we can see how vital it is. Clean playgrounds mean that they must be not only free from rubbish, but also drained, free from water, and

{jrovided with the necessary walks to guarantee dry feet. A very arge part of the sickness of children comes as a result of wet feet, ''he play apparatus emphasizes the necessity for activity and happiness which are necessary elements of good health.

Heating and ventilating have received a great deal of attention in the Oregon rural schools in recent years. The standard calls for a jacketed stove properly situated, as a minimum requirement. It calls for window boards or some other approved method of ventilating, ’his requirement has led to a very general investigation of this problem by practically every school board in the state. As a result, furnaces, Waterbury, Smith, and other approved types of heaters, properly installed, have been put into hundreds of rural schools, and but few schools in the entire state still have the old, unjacketed stove with its radiated heat, democratically situated in the middle of the room with no special privilege to any and with death-dealing danger to all. Ventilation, the natural adjunct of heating, has received an equal amount of attention, and the wholesome atmosphere which greets one as he enters the Oregon rural school testifies to the changed order of things since the days “when the air of the schoolroom smelled not like itself, I swear, but of the children there.”

Under the subject of sanitation are the following provisions: Pure drinking water, either drinking fountain or covered tank, individual drinking-cups, and individual or paper towels. Outbuildings, at least two good ones, to be sanitary at all times and free from marks. This has led to the installation of water systems, bubbling fountains, and other sanitary means of securing water free from contaminating sources, to the careful analysis of water supply annually in many cases, to a closer supervision of the health of the school, and to the prevention of the spread of contagious and infectious diseases. As a helper to the teacher in doing this work, and also in keeping the grounds clean and the outbuildings in good condition, a health officer has been appointed or elected from among the children. This advice has done much to stimulate the pride of the children in cleanliness and sanitation.

Sanitation, in the judgment of the Oregon school authorities, is the important phase of medical science. While it may be won-
124

-derful to cure, it is more wonderful to prevent. They believe that this is to be accomplished, not so much by law as by education, not so much by forbidding as by inspiring. This explains the • Oregon standard school card and the effort which Oregon is making to teach every day to all the children the laws of good health in a simple guise that all can understand and in a form that all will be inspired to obey.

o -i i	i	i	■	■	i	■	i	o

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

o	■	o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

The following is the su nmary of an article which appeared in full text in The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. Dec. 22, 1917, entitled

PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED CHILDREN

Recommendations for Outdoor, Fresh-Air and Open-Window Classes

By ADELA J. SMITH, Asst. Director of Phy’l. Training for Physically Handicapped Children.

FRANCES COHEN, M. D. and I. H. GOLDBERGER, M. D.. Assistant Directors of Educational Hygiene, New York City Public Schools.

1.	The type of physical defect should be the basis for the segregation of groups of physically handicapped children in special types of classrooms, that is to say, outdoor, fresh-air and open-window class-rooms.

2.	The range of temperature is governed by the type of physical defect in each special group.

3.	Glass wind and storm shields are recommended to admit light and regulate heat, replacing the canvas or wood protectors now in use. Specially constructed window ventilators should be installed in all open-window classes, to prevent drafts and to protect children seated near the open windows.

4.	No classroom for physically handicapped children, should be located higher than the second floor unless an elevator is available.

5.	In outdoor and fresh-air classes, movable, adjustable chairs

are recommended instead of fixed desks and seats. This equipment could then be used for sleeping, rendering but one set of classroom furnishings necessary. A movable equipment in outdoor and fresh-air classrooms has the following additional advantages:	(a) Direct drafts on children are easily avoided. (6)

Greater space for classroom activities and physical training is provided, (r.) The children are permitted greater freedom. In classes for cripples, additional mobility is made possible through specially constructed desks and pivotal chairs.

6.	The type of personal equipment should allow the greatest possible freedom for schoolroom activities and physical .exercises, .and should eliminate the danger arising from fire drills, and other

Digitized by LaOOQle
126

emergencies. It should also be sanitary, so as to be easily cleaned. The type of equipment commonly in use fulfils none of these requirements. Before a child is placed in a special classroom with lowered temperature, he should be provided with sufficient underwear and appropriate outer clothing, as well as storm equipment, so that he may not feel the effects of exposure when he leaves the classroom at the end of a school session.

The Relative Value of Fruit Juices.—Fruit juices are rapidly finding their way into the daily life of the Ymerican people. A few years ago they were limited to the delicacies of the home or to syrups of the soda fountains. Today orange juice and grape juice in particular have found a widespread and growing popularity as agreeable beverages. It is scarcely an exaggeration to say, as does one of the large manufacturing companies in advertising its product, that grape juice has become the national drink. The temperance wave that has swept over this country, taken in conjunction with a vigorous and highly effective advertising campaign on the part of various producers, has helped to secure favor for a refreshing and wholesome beverage. The shortage of sugar at present and the prospect of a necessary restriction in the output of syrups and similar “essentials” of the “soft-drink” industry are likely to increase still further the use of palatable fruit juices. In addition to organic acids which lend a tart flavor to them, these beverages, provided directly by nature, contain a considerable portion of sugars which lend a food value to the product. Thus a glassful of grape juice measuring 7 ounces (210 c.c.) will furnish about 200 calories in the form of sugar; and orange juice is about half as rich in food value. Recently the juice of the loganberry has begun to claim recognition in this category. Analyses made at the Oregon State Agricultural College at Corvallis indicate that this fluid likewise contains from 6 to 8 per cent of sugar in the acid juice. This lends to it a fuel value of approximately 300 calories to the liter, presumably in the form of available carbohydrates.—Current Comment. “Journal A. M. A.” Nov. 17, 1917.

The Purification of Swimming Pools. The secretary of the American Association for Promoting Hygiene and Public Baths, Dr. Manheimer,* has thus summarized his objections to the various methods of disinfection for pools employed heretofore: Ultraviolet light in actual practice has proved ineffective; copper sulphate, in low dilutions is unreliable, and in high concentration is not only costly, but also produces a water disagreeable to swim in; chlorin compounds, while effective as disinfectants, require a technical control usually not available in swimming pools, and when used in excess produce objectionable taste and odors in the water. As the result of Manheimer’s investigations at the Research Laboratory of the Department of Health, New York City, he has

•Manheimer, W. A.: The Application of Ozone to the Purification of Swimming Pools, Pub. Health Rep., 1918, 33, 267.

Digitized by YjOOQle
126

reached the conclusion that ozone properly applied to the water of a swimming pool effectively purines the water. When one part of ozone per millio i parts of water is used, the result is sterile water. When one half part of ozone per million parts of water is used, a bacterial reduction of 99.8 per cent results, except when too great an excess of air in introduced with the ozone. The application of the ozone for such purposes is said to be automatic in control, reliable in action, and not unduly expensive, so that the New York report recommends the consideration of this substance for use in a standard sanitary purification of swimming pools. Wherever recirculation of water is resorted to, as usually is the case for purposes of economy, refiltration must, however, be combined with the disinfection procedure. Manheimer points out, what is not generally understood, that clear water is essential, not mainly because of esthetic reasons, but for the reduction of the hazard of drowning. No method in actual practice, he adds, measures up to refiltration. It is an open question whether Manheimer’s rejection of disinfectants other than ozone is based on adequate data. Both ultraviolet light and chlorin compounds are giving satisfactory bacterial and esthetic results with certain swimming pool waters. While certain advantages of ozone are manifest, it does not seem wise to reco imend ozone treatment to the exclusion of other methods. Manheimer’s own published observations seem too limited to warrant extreme generalizations. The nature of the water dealt with and other local conditions are obviously factors to be taken into consideration.—From Current Comment in the Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc., April 20, 1918.

Sugar and Working Power. There can be no longer any doubt that the great function of carbohydrate food is to afford energy. This does not mean that other types of foodstuffs are useless in this respect; on the contrary, it is easy to foresee and to devise conditions in which fats and proteins are responsible for the energy metabolism. In starvation, for example, carbohydrate is not directly available; but under normal conditions of diet, approximately two thirds of the entire calorific intake is derived from carbohydrates by the average person with no extreme eccentricities in his eating habits. Half a century age, physiologists were inclined to attribute a superior value to proteins in the performance of muscle work, the supreme manifestation of the transformation of energy in the body. Today it need scarcely be argued that, so long as work is not excessive and does not lead to pathologic consequences, with an abundance of all types of foodstuffs in the diet, there is practically no change in the nitrogen output, i. e., there is no evidence of protein disintegration from it.

Anderson and Lusk have just furnished even more direct evidence of the superior value of carbohydrate in muscular activity. In calorimetric observations on animals, they found that the quantity of energy required to move a unit of body substance a definite distance through space is a constant factor that is independent of the condition of the body. -It matters not whether the subject is

Digitized by V.ooQLe
127

in the best nutritive condition or has lost as much as one fifth of his weight through fasting; the quantity of energy required to do a definite amount of work remains the same.

It is known that the metabolites of the foodstuffs, but notably of proteins, induce an extra heat production in the body which is co nmonly described as their specific dynamic action. They stimulate metabolism independently of the use to which they are put in the organism. Anderson and Lusk have found that whereas on a meat or high protein diet the increment of energy required to perform a definite amount of mechanical work is added to the specific dynamic quota that meat ingestion contributes to the basal metabolism, the metabolites of glucose induce no such extra heat production. When mechanical work is accomplished during the hours following a large ingestion of glucose, the metabolism rises to about the same height as when the same amount of work is done during a period when the gastro-intestinal tract is free from food. There is no “waste” of energy in useless heat production. This economy of carbohydrates for the accomplishment of work deserves to be emphasized at a time when food fuel is in great demand and the superior value of meat is still lauded. Whatever significance meat may have as a highly palatable form of protein food must not be confused with the discarded claims of its superiority as a source of energy for our working machine.—Editorial in The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. Mch. 23, 1918.

The life of the medical officer is a pleasant although a somewhat strenuous one. Calisthenics begin at 6:10, when every one gets thoroughly warmed up by an athletic junior officer who, for the time being, has no respect for rank or figure. Well-nourished specialists with international reputations are becoming as trim as racing yachts, and, although they pant and blow in the process, they do not utter a word of complaint. Mess is from 6:30 to 7. At 7:30 all turn out for drill in marching and until 8:30 every one learns the various sanitary formations. Again the drill master is no respecter of person and woe betide the man who “forget where his right hand lieth.” From 9 to noon is devoted to medical work about the hospital.—News from Camp Grant, 111. to “TkeJ. A. M. A.

In regard to physical education, Sir George Newman, chief medical officer of the board of education remarks that there is an increasing recognition of its value. The problem before the board of education has heretofore been relatively narrow, namely, to lay the foundations of a system of physical training throughout public elementary schools and encourage its development in secondary and continuation schools. Now their field of action is likely to be enlarged. The work hitherto accomplished must be strengthened and established, and if, as is hoped, all children remain at school till at least 14, the teaching of physical exercises in the public elementary school can be expanded and more satisfactorily carried out than when any children leave at the age of 12 or 13.

Digitized by Google
128

Malnutrition Among School Children .—The bureau of child hygiene of the New York City Health Department has just completed a survey of 171,691 schoolchildren of the borough of Manhattan. This figure was below the registration figures for the borough, as the survey was made during the intensely cold weather. The fact that the children came to school at this time would indicate that they were rather hardier than those not examined. The Dunfermline scale was used. Of those examined 29,781, or 17.3 per cent, belonged to the first class, that is, were perfectly normal from the nutritional point of view; 104,908 or 61.1 per cent, belonged to the second class; 31,718, or 18.5 per cent, to class three, the so-called borderline cases, and any pronounced change in their living conditions would undoubtedly have a distinct effect on their physical condition; 5,284, or 31 per cent, belonged to the fourth class, which was distinctly undernourished, and in need of immediate supervision and readjustment of life and environment. Of the children 6 years of age, 22.5 per cent were undernourished. This undernourishment increased in percentage up to 9 years of age, at which 25.2 per cent were found undernourished. Then followed a gradual decrease up to the age of 16 years, at which only 12.1 per cent were found undernourished. The general proportion of actual undernourishment for the borough was 21.6 per cent. It was found that nationality played an important part in the consideration of the prevalence of malnutrition. Of the Italian children examined, 28.7 per cent were found undernourished. The Italian children comprised 23 per cent of the total number examined. The children from Russia and Poland, who comprised 26 per cent of all the children examined, were found undernourished in 19.8 per cent of the cases. The figures for immigrants from other countries ranged from 17 to 20 per cent.

Catching Cold.—One catches a cold, says Dr. J. H. Kellogg, in Good Health (Battle Creek, October), because for some reason the skin lacks resistance. Apply a cold-water compress to a person’s head for several hours, and he will begin to complain that his forehead is sore and painful; he will have neuralgic pains in his forehead; the skin and the flesh become sore. This pain is called “rheumatism,” for lack of a better term. It is simply a painful, sensitive condition due to the lowering of the blood-temperature which permits waste matters to accumulate in the tissues, causing the nerves to become abnormally sensitive. He goes on:

“Thus in a general way we may say that the cause for taking an ordinary cold is lowering of the temperature of the blood, either locally or generally. If a person has been perspiring from exercise and sits down and lets the wind blow on him he soon begins to feel chilly. While he was exercising, his muscles were generating heat.

“For a muscle generates heat, just as a dynamo generates electricity. By its action, heat is generated, just as by the revolution of the armature of the dynamo electricity is generated— and, in fact, in a very similar way; not in the way a stove generates heat, but in the way in which a dynamo generates electricity.

“If a person perspires when exercising, it is because he gener-
129

ates more heat than is needed to keep the body warm, so it is necessary that the body should be cooled, and perspiration is simply the effort of the body to cool itself off. Bathing the skin with water and allowing the water to evaporate also have the effect of cooling the skin.

“Now, when the prespiring individual ceases to exercise and sits down, the effect is that of putting out a fire or blowing out a light. The extra generation of heat being produced, because the skin is wet and the clothing contains moisture and the evaporation causes a chilling of the body.

“It takes but a few minutes to produce this result: then in order to warm the body up, the muscles are set into spasmodic contraction. There are shivering and sneezing, which are signs of a kind of general spasm.

“When one sneezes, he does not sneeze with his nose, but through it. It is the entire body that is exercising. Every muscle contracts. The feet are lifted up from the floor. There is a j imp of the whole body. It would be quite impossible to hold anything steady in your hand when you sneeze; but the motion is particularly of the expiratory muscles. There is a sudden contraction of these muscles, with an explosive effort of nature to warm the body up.

“When you sneeze, you say, ‘Oh! I am taking cold.’ That is a mistake. You have taken cold. Your temperature has been lowered and you already have the cold, and the muscular spasm is the effort of nature to cure it.

“Now if you want to help Nature, the best way is to keep right on exercising. You feel a little shiver started here and there, and you feel chilly. Now set your muscles to work as hard as you can. That is the quickest way to stop the shivering.

“Certainly one can prevent himself from taking cold. One sits in church and a draft blows on the back of his neck. He says: ‘I am going to get a cold. I shall have a stiff neck to-morrow.’

“You do not need to have a cold. Just make the muscles contract as hard as possible; keep them working so they will keep the skin warm, and you will not take the cold.

“And the best of it is that one does not have to take gymnastic exercises or walk in order to exercise. )ne can sit perfectly still and work so hard as to make himself perspire freely—by making every muscle of the body tense. The hands can be kept straight at the sides, with the muscles perfectly rigid. Make every muscle of the body rigid and you will see pretty soon that you are breathing hard. Pretty soon you are taking deep breaths.

“You may say that it is hard to do that, but nevertheless one can sit quietly in church or other gathering and look the speaker in the face, and at the same moment work as hard as tho he were running to catch a train, or one may sit at his desk and dictate important letters or papers and at the same time be doing hard physical work.

“Thus one does not need to take cold because he is sitting still, for one does not need to be idle and relaxed just because one is sitting still.”
o>

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

0=

■o

RING BALL

By EDW. A. WERNER, S. B. Superintendent of Physical Education Public Schools, Houghton, Michigan.

In most instances the history of a game reveals that its origin is merely the modification or in some cases the development of a former pastime. Such is the case in my Ring Ball game.

To most of us Basket Ball needs no introduction. We know it is a very fascinating and valuable game. Because of the horizontal opening to the goal, which is placed ten feet above the floor, an eighteen-foot or even higher ceiling is required for this game.

Many groups engaged in recreation and play are organized in the grade schools, private homes, and social clubs. They have plenty available low ceiling and basement rooms which are utilized in playing games, but the mere fact that the ceiling is low makes Basket Ball, one of the most popular indoor (team) games, entirely impossible.

Thus to make the good features offered in Basket Ball, available in some team game to be played in low ceiling rooms, I have modified the Basket Ball Rules, changed the position, and for very large courts the location of the goals thereby producing my Ring Ball game.

For very large courts and especially those for growing boys and for women I suggest placing goals six to twelve feet from end lines of the court with a distance of twenty-eight to thirty-six feet between goals, and permitting shots to be made from either side of the rings. Instead of having only five players to a team as in Basket Ball, have an additional player for each forward and guard position, naming these, second forwards, second guard, and placing them betwen the ends of court and the goals as per attached diagram. This makes NINE players to each team.

On small courts and especially for boys I use the same number of players, with same names for each position, and as far as possible the same rules as in Basket Ball. The primal difference in the two games is that in Ring Ball the opening to the goal is in the vertical plane, goal fastened to the ceiling, while in Basket Ball the opening is in the horizontal plane and goal is fastened to the end wall of the court.

For those informed on Basket Ball no further rules or explanations are necessary. For those not familiar with Basket Ball, I would suggest they secure a copy of Basket Ball rules, study them carefully, then apply the modifications above mentioned. It may be that in the course of time Ring Ball shall fill a need as a low ceiling team game and make the publication of more specific rules a necessity.

Google

Digitized by
131

In conclusion I beg to state that it is not my purpose to offer Ring Ball as a substitute for Basket Ball, where the gymnasium ceilings are high enough to permit playing the latter, but merely to offer Ring Ball as a team game retaining nearly all the good features of Basket Ball, yet available for use in restricted space, and low-ceiling rooms.

					
n	Left Guard			Left Forward	Is  1
Ir					gr
			Center		
	0	1	O	1 0	
					
	Right Guard			Right Forward	S.P

The heavy lines denote the sidewalls of the court on a small floor and for a five men team. The dotted line extensions indicate where the extra players are stationed in the case of a nine men team court. If the room is extra long it might be well to provide for both types of games marking the five-men court and leaving the walls make the boundary for the nine-men court. I have no suggestion to make as to the size of the court, in fact I offer this as a game to fit your room r ..er than requiring a room to fit the game. Follow the basketball rules in all other matters.

REED DRILL

Music: “Pizzicato Polka” by Carl[Sidus, Op. 122, Kunkel Bros. Publishers.

Formation: Flank circle of flank couples.

Reeds held vertically unless otherwise stated.

Group 1.

EXERCISE 1.

Place left foot forward and straighten arms forward with

trunk bending to the left........................ 1

Place left foot backward and move arms sideward with

trunk bending right.............................. 2

Return movements...............................   3	&	4

Repeat to the right.............................. 5	to	8

Four (4) change steps forward bending trunk left and

Digitized by LjOOQle
132

right during the change steps (trunk bending always toward the side of the leg that is forward). 1 —4

Three (3) change steps backward and close......... 5 to 8

Repeat all ...................................._16	meas.

____	32	meas.

EXERCISE 2.

Stride left sideward and raise arms sideward........ 1

Place right foot forward and raise heels with bending

trunk right and cross arms over head............ 2

Return movements................................ 3 & 4

Two (2) change steps forward with 4-4 turn.......... 5 & 6

Two (2) draw closing steps sideward............. 7 & 8

Repeat.......................................... 9—16

EXERCISE 3.

Lunge forward and raise arms sideward..............  1

Turn trunk right.................................... 2

Return.............................................. 3 & 4

Two (2) change steps forward.................... 5 & 6

Two (2) leap hops forward with circling reed and 2-4 turn 7 —8

Repeat.......................................... 9—16

EXERCISE 4.

Place left foot obliquely forward outward and lower arms

forward downward and cross reed................. 1

Place left foot backward inward and raise reed over head

with trunk bending backward............   ..	2

Return.......................................... 3 & 4

Repeat right.................................... 5—8

Three (3) steps forward and raise right leg forward and

bend trunk right............................ 1—2

Repeat 3 times.................................. 3—8

No. 1 on the left faces about on the last leg swing.

Group II

EXERCISE 1.

As Ex. 1 of 1st group. No. 2 starting with the change steps and moving toward center of circle. No. 2 does foot placing and then change steps moving toward center.

EXERCISE 2.

As Ex. 2 of 1st group, but No. 1 starts toward center and No. 2 opposite.

EXERCISE 3.

As Ex. 3 of 1st group, No. 1 starts with 3 steps forward and leg swing with encircling No. 2 who starts with lunging.

EXERCISE 4.

As Ex. 4 of first group. A short chain is done during the change steps and leaps without turning.

. Move around circle, taking different partner each time in this figure.

Digitized by v^ooQle
O-

o

ATHLETIC NOTES

o

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School, New York City.

A.	A. U. SANCTIONS TOUR

Official sanction was granted by the Amateur Athletic Union' for the proposed tour in this country of the Misses Fannie Durack and Mina Wylie, the two leading mermaids of Australia. Notification to this effect was sent to Mrs. W. Chambers, honorary Secretary of the New South Wales Ladies Amateur Swimming Association. Mrs. Chambers made the application for a sanction, about one month ago.

Miss Durack, with her partner, is expected to arrive at San Francisco about the middle of June. The two Australian swimmers will compete in a number of events in practically all the large cities on the Western coast, and an effort will be made while they are in this country, to have them participate in events in the East.

All of the events will be under the supervision of the A. A. U. If the plans of the union’s officials materialize, the Misses Durack and Wylie will meet Miss Claire Galligan, national champion at 500 and 880-yards and one mile and Miss Olga Dorfner, the Philadelphia veteran, who holds titles at 100, 220 and 440-yards, at San Francisco July 21.

Ross Sets Four Records. Norman Ross of the Olympic Club, San Francisco established four indoor world’s swimming records at the National A. A. U. meet April 4, at Chicago.

Ross won the 330-yard race in 3 minutes 16 3-5 seconds, breaking the old record of 3 minutes 26 1-5 seconds, held by Percy Me-Gillivray of the Great Lakes Naval Training Station. Ross finished first in the 200-yard event in 2 minutes 6 4-5 seconds, beating the former record by 1 second. In the 220-yard swim he made the distance in 2 minutes 20 2-5 seconds, which is three-fifths of a second better than the previous mark. A few moments later he came in ahead in the 250-yard event in 2 minutes 411-5 seconds. The best previous time is 2 minutes 48 4-5 seconds.

One hundred and fifty tournaments appear on the schedule for 1918 as sanctioned by the United States National Lawn Tennis Association. This is exclusive of events for juniors, girls and boys to be played under the association’s auspices, the schedule for which has not been published.

All tournaments will be played for the benefit of the War Department’s Commission on Training Camp Activities. The funds will be handled through the association’s treasurer, George

W.	Wightman, of Boston, and will be distributed by the commission, through the Y. M C. A., Knights of Columbus and similar organizations, to provide tennis and other athletic facilities for men in military service.

Digitized by
134

PLAN TOjTEACH BOXING

A progressive system for the instruction of soldiers in boxing by squads has been evolved by Floyd A. Rowe, division athletic director at Camp Custer, Battle Creek, Mich., and sumbitted to Ur. Joseph E. Raycroft, general director of army athletics for the War Department Commission of Training Camp Activities, for adoption in all the training cantonments. The system has already been tested out at Camp Custer with effective results.

Under Director Rowe’s plan the soldiers would be detailed in

Kups of from three to six squads to receive a series of progressive ions in the different phases A boxing, thus giving the men a comprehensive instruction in the space of time ordinarily used up in learning a single lesson. The first group would consist of three

auads learning fundamentals; the second six squads receiving [vanced instructions; the third, three squads practicing instructions; the fourth, one squad practicing on the punching bags, and the fifth, one squad, in pairs, boxing. Officers and men of advanced training would be assigned to the groups as instructors, while the boxing camp director personally would take charge of group two, where the most important part of the instruction takes place.

The system, Director Rowe points out, would give the soldiers 7 1-2 minutes of fundamental instruction; 15 of advanced instructions; 7 1-2 of practice; 2 1-2 for bag punching, and 2 1-2 for actual boxing allowing for a half minute rest between rach period. In addition it would give variety to the lessons and stimulate the nterest of the men in the training which is now regarded vital to the equipment of every soldier because of its close relationship with bayoneting.

Another World’s Record Shattered. Joie Ray, of the Illinois A. C., and holder of the national 1,000-yd. indoor championship created a new indoor record at the three quarters of a mile in a special race at the annual games of the Wanamaker Commercial Institute in New York City, March 20. His time was 3.04 4-5, erasing the previous world’s record of 3.07 made in 1913 by Joe Driscoll.

WANTED.

The following copies of Mind and Body are needed to complete library files. Who can furnish them?

227	March	1914
247	<<	1916
249	May	1916
255	Jan.	1917
257	March	1917
263	Nov.	1917
72	Dec.	1901

Digitized by LaOOQle
135

O—n—n,	n ■... ■ n. t, - r—n r, ■	n	m , r, ,0

j	NOTES	AND	COMMENTS	j

O' " ""	    "■	■"	f	'■	o

BOOK REVIEWS.

The Laboratory Outline of Neurology. By C. Judson Herrick, Ph. D., Professor of Neurology in the University of Chicago and Elizabeth C. Crosby, Ph. D., Principal of the High School in Petersburg, Michigan. 120 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia and London. Price $1.00 net.

The fundamental purpose of the book is to assist the student as early in his laboratory course as possible, to formulate his knowledge of the nervous system in terms of the functional significance of the different parts. The book which is warmly recommended will be of great aid to students of psychology and education, especially to those specializing in physical education.

The Battle with Tuberculosis and How to Win it Iby C.

Macdougal King, M. B. 258 pages, illustrated, 5 by 8 inches. Published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia and London. Price $1.50 net.

Dr. King’s experiences while he was a tubercular patient convinced him that the great number of deaths that occur from this disease are caused by the fact that the majority of patients do not comprehend the significance of the reasons underlying the only treatment that will bring success. The book therefore is composed mainly of answers to the innumerable questions “Why must I do this”? Each of the twenty-six chapters treats of a distinct phase of the struggle, for instance with the preparation for the battle, with its progress, with its reverses, with the tactics of the enemy and finally with victory. The book is written for the layman. It also should be of great help to teachers in their efforts to direct the healthful living of their pupils.

“The Cadet Manual” by Majors E. Z. Steever and J. L. Frink. 317 pages, 6 by 8 inches, profusely illustrated. Published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia and London. Price $1.50.

This volume is the official handbook of the High School Volunteers of the United States. Major Steever as well as Major Frink has had many years of experience in adapting such parts of military education as were useable, for growing boys to school conditions. The present volume is the outgrowth of the so-called “Wyoming System.” The only part of the book that in a subsequent edition needs elaboration is part V devoted to physical training. This part should take in more of the work shown in Major Koehler’s Manual of Physical Training for use in the U. S. army. School systems intending to introduce some forms of military education into their high schools will find this book the best for such uses.

Digitized by L^ooQle
136

The directions are clear and concise, and the many splendid illustrations will be a help to the teacher as well as to the pupils.

“School and Home Gardening” by Kary Cadmus Davis, Ph. D. 353 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches, 160 illustrations. Published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia and London. Rice $1.25.

In twenty-three chapters Dr. Davis of the Knapp school of Country Life, Peabody College for Teachers, Nashville, Tenn. has given us a first class book embodying the principles underlying home gardening as well as school gardening.

The book is filled with useful hints and practical directions for all who wish to make a success of their gardening. It also should be a splendid text book for garden courses. At the present time when so much of the interest aroused in gardening will be apt to produce small results, a book like this should prove of great value in directing this interest along lines that experience has proved to lead to maximum results.

COUNTRY BOYS NOT PHYSICALLY SUPERIOR TO CITY

BOYS.

In order to determine whether the average of physical soundness is higher among country boys than among city boys, the following comparison was made: Selection was made of a typical set of cities of 40,000 to 500,000 population, with no large immigrant element, and distributed over ten different states (Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, New York and South Carolina), and a corresponding set of counties of the same total size, located in the same states and containing no city of 30,000 population, the total number of registrants in the two areas being 315,000. The result of the comparison was as follows: Of 35,017 registrants in urban areas, 9,969 were rejected; of 44,462 registrants in rural areas, 12,432 were rejected, or 28.47 per cent of city boys and 27.96 per cent of country boys. The result, therefore, was practically a tie, showing that the country boy does not possess a greater degree of the physical soundness necessary for his acceptance as a soldier.

The next national convention of the American Physical Education Association will be held at Chicago some time during the spring of 1919.

The convention just held in Philadelphia was better attended than any previous meeting. 440 people living outside of Philadelphia registered while 190 teachers within the city registered.

Where do you want your magazines sent after June 5th? Don’t forget to notify us of any change of address.

Digitized by CjOOQle
137

LABOR IN THE WARRING COUNTRIES.

The National Children’s Bureau in the interest of the children and youth of our country has been making a study of labor in the warring countries, under war conditions, and issues timely warning so that the unfortunate experiences of those countries may not be repeated in the United States now at war. French Minister of Munitions Thomas is quoted as saying:

“The experience of war time has only demonstrated the necessity—technical, economic, and even physiologic—of the labor laws enacted before the war. In our legislation secured in time of peace we shall find the conditions for a better and more intense production during the war.”

In France and also in England earlier standards of hours, which were relaxed in the hurry of the first months of the war, are being restored, not only, it is said, to protect the health of the workers, but also for the sake of industrial efficiency, present and future. Canada, Australia and New Zealand are said to have maintained their labor standards with little variation. The status of this question in France at present is set forth in the official bulletin (July 31,1916) on the uses of war as follows:

With the continuance of the war it becomes necessary not only to find the best possible disposition of the forces available for our war industries but also to avoid every cause for exhaustion or weakening of the labor employed in our factories. There is a close relation between the conditions in which we place our workers and the improvement or the increase of our war products. For the very sake of the national defense we must conserve all their physical strength for the workers who are responsible for the manufacture of arms and for the output of our factories.

SEVENTH MEETING CAPITOL DISTRICT BRANCH STATE HYGIENE AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION, NEW YORK

PROGRAM

Marth 9th, 1918.	Albany	High	School	9:30	A.	M.

9:30	Jumping Jack Dance
10:00	Wand Drill
10:30	The Future of Physical Education
11:00	Folk Dancing
1:00	Exhibition Club Swinging
1:15	Indoor Baseball game.
1:30	Athletic Dance

Laurence S. Hill, Director Physical Training, Albany.

Arthur C. Maroney, Phys. Di-Director, State College for Teachers.

Elmer E. Berry, Springfield Y. M. C. A. College.

Miss Elizabeth Burchenal

Frank A. Long, Albany High School.

Miss Dorothy Gleason

Skidmore School

Digitized by UjOOQle
2:00 Playground Games

138

W. C. Bachelor, Phys. Director Rennselaer Polytechnic Institute.

2:30 Competitive Athletics Suitable for School Use Mr. Daniel Chase. PROGRAM OF THE EIGHTH MEETING, STATE HYGIENE AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

At the eighth meeting of the Capitol District Branch of New York State at Albany, on April 20 the members of the society were the guests of the physical education department of the Skidmore School of Arts, Saratoga Springs, N. Y. The program was as follows:

10:00 Review, Lindy Lee

Miss Dorothy Gleason

Skidmore School Mr. Charles Kellert,

Albany Public Schools Mr. Laurence S. Hill

Physical Director Albany Public Schools.

Miss Jeanne Gray, New York State College for Teachers Wand Drill presented by the senior class in physical education, Skidmore School.

Conference Rural School Mr. Daniel Chase, Military Section	Training	Commission.

Review Jumping Jack Dance Business meeting.

Report of Convention Proceedings.

Dr. S. A. MacComber, Physical Director Union College.

10:30 Figure Marching 11:00 Dumb-bell Drill

11:30 Mimetic Exercises

12:00

12:15

12:30

1:30

2:00

Outdoor recreational activities

At the business meeting Dr. MacComber presented a most interesting report of the convention of the American Physical Education Association. Plans for the final meeting of the year were discussed. It was again decided to have a picnic at Nassau.

Caroline C. Johnson, Sec'y-

The Department of the Interior at Washington has just issued its Teachers Leaflet No. 3. Among the items under the general heading “Government Policies involving the Schools in War Time” we find the following interesting statement showing that our national government has not lost its head. It if only were possible to get some of the hysterical school reformers to b' equally sane, but agricultural work isn’t as easy and spectacular as a “countrysaving” activity as some of the other things emphasized in some newspapers by the reform rs. Here is that part of the leaflet that is of prime interest to us:

The Need in the Army and Navy. The Army and Navy do not want, and can not use, boys under 18 years of age, nor boys nor men of any age who are not strong and well-developed physically. So far as the Army and Navy are concerned, there is

Digitized by UjOOQle
139

nothing more important that the schools can do than to keep going' at full capacity, and at the same time to emphasize in every possible way their work in physical education. High school boys will render the best service of which they are capable by remaining in school until completion of the high-school course.

As soon as the Army is able to announce definitely its need of men possessing certain technical and trade qualifications, it will be necessary for large numbers of young men 18 years of age and over to respond by taking the training courses that may be provided to prepare them in the shortest possible time. But, in the meantime, nothing can possibly be gained by boys doing otherwise than to continue in school, laying the very best possible foundation for such subsequent training. If they are wanted, they will be called.

If the schools will carefully select boys having suitable physical development and other necessary qualifications, prepare them for the various branches of agricultural work, and send them out to service on the farms under proper auspices during the approaching vacation, they will undoubtedly be offering greater relief in the present emergency than would be possible by attempting to carry on any work immediately under the Army or Navy.

Vigorous physical training under discipline furnishes excellent preparation for civil or military usefulness later on. Such value as formal military drill in the high schools may have, however, is more likely to be through keeping the boys satisfied to remain in school than as a contribution to the immediate military strength of the country.

In “War-Camp” Community Service” we find the following interesting note by Lieutenant Eustace M. Peixotte.

The first “recreation instinct” of one who has been kept hard at work at a military camp for a day or days is to get out of it. Change of scene, food, and companions are the prime requisites of a “good time.” I believe, therefore, that where camps are near cities and not in isolated locations, the work of the committees having to do with soldiers’ amusements in those adjacent cities is vastly more important than recreation within the camp boundaries. I do wish to lay stress on the psychology of change in this connection, for I believe it to be basic.

Camp life is monotonous. You get up at the same hour every day, work with the same group of men on much the same routine of drills and exercises, eat meals which are prepared and served strictly as replenishers of bodily waste and not as the artistic creations of gastronomic specialists, and your lights go out at exactly the same hour every evening. An excellent life to lead, not un-enjoyable in itself, but monotonous.

Into this regular existence, then, comes at stated intervals, leave. What is your first impulse? To seek something entirely different, to catch the first car for town where lights are bright, streets full of new faces, and everything as different from the camp as day from night. It isn’t that you don’t like the camp or the

Digitized by VaOOQle
140

army life, not at all. It is just that recreation, variety and the spice of life are synonomous terms.

More power then to the Recreation Committees for Soldiers and Sailors. “Take the boys home for dinner.” Believe me, a home dinner tastes good after a week of camp “chow”! Provide other amusements, not athletics so much as less strenuous pursuits. Remember the recruits will get a systematic course in physical training for an hour and a half each day besides the militaiy drills, marches and trench digging, so don't think it necessary that the recreation be “active” and that “everyone should participate.” Leave that side to the army itself! With the exception of dancing, which somehow is different, your men on leave will want to be amused, not to give the show themselves. To see a play or a movie, to talk to people and get a chance to tell about his new life, to view the sights of the city and surrounding country, preferably in an auto—these are some of the pleasures that would, in my judgment, appeal most to most men.

Note by Editor: If more teachers of physical training understood the great value of a change of activities and at times a complete change of the entire type of work they conduct, we would have less complaint about uninteresting work.

MARYLAND’S PHYSICAL EDUCATION BILL PASSED BY THE LEGISLATURE

A Bill Entitled:

AN ACT providing for Physical Education and Training in the public schools of the State and authorizing and directing the State Board of Education to carry out the provisions thereof.

SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Maryland, That here shall be established and provided in all the Public Schools of this State and in all Schools maintained or aided by this State physical education and training for pupils of both sexes during the following minimum periods: A. In the elmentary public schools at least fifteen minutes in each school day and also at least one hour of directed play outside of regular class-room work in each school week. B. In Public High Schools at least one hour in each school week and also at least two hours of directed play or athletics for all pupils outside of regular class-room work in each school week.

SEC. 2. And be it enacted, That the State Board of Education upon recommendation of the State Superintendent of Schools shall appoint a Supervisor of Physical Education whose duty it shall be to direct and carry out the provisions of this act under the direction of the State Superintendent of Schools. The salary of such supervisor shall be fixed and paid by the State Board of Education out of any funds in its possession available for this purpose.

The State Board of Education upon recommendation of the State Superintendent of Schools is hereby authorized and directed to appoint such other assistants both clerical and pro-

Digitized by CjOOQle
141

fessional as shall be necessary in the administration and supervision of Physical Education; and shall make such by-laws and other Regulations as shall be necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this Act.

SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That immediately after his appointment the Supervisor of Physical Education, under the direction of the State Superintendent of Schools, shall organize his work and shall formulate the necessary and proper plans, courses and regulations for carrying out the provisions of this Act which when approved by the State Board of Education shall be followed in providing physical education and training as required under section 1 of this Act.

AIR COOLING SCHEMES FOR HOUSES.

Speaking on the subject of “Prizes for the Inventor" before^ the graduating class of the McKinley Manual Training School in Washington, Dr. Alexander Graham Bell told the graduates about the experiments he had been conducting for cooling the air in his own home and emphasized the possibilities in this direction. This part of his address as published in the National Geographic Magazine, is given herewith:

The problem of cooling houses is one that I would recommend to your notice, not only on account of your own comfort, but on account of the public health as well.

I have found one radical defect in the construction of our houses that absolutely precludes the possibility of cooling them to any great degree. You will readily understand the difficulty when you remember that cold air is specifically heavier than warm air. You can take a bucket of cold air, for example, and carry it about in the summer-time and not spill a drop; but if you make a hole in the bottom of your bucket, then, of course, the cold air will all run out.

Now, if you look at the typical tropical houses, you will find that they are all open on the ground floor. Supposing it were possible to turn on a veritable Niagara of cold air into a tropical house, it wouldn’t stay there five minutes. It would all come pouring out through the open places below and through the windows and doors. If you want to find your leakage places, just fill your house with water and see where the water squirts out!

I began to think that it might be possible to apply the bucket principle to at least one room in my Washington home, and thus secure a place of retreat in the summer-time. It seemed to be advisable to close up all openings near the bottom of the room to

Erevent the escape of cold air and open the windows at the top to it out the heated air of the room.

Now, it so happens that I have in the basement of my house a swimming tank, and it occurred to me that since this tank holds water, it should certainly hold cold air; so I turned the water out to study the situation. The tank seemed to be damp and the sides felt wet and slimy.

Digitized by LjOOQle
142

I reflected, however, that the condensation of moisture resulted from the fact that the sides of the tank were cooler than the air admitted. Water vapor will not condense on anything that is warmer than itself, and it occurred to me that if I introduced air that was very much colder than I wanted to use, it would then be warming up in the tank and becoming dryer all the time. It would not deposit moisture on the sides and would actually absorb the moisture there.

I therefore provided a refrigerator in which were placed large blocks of ice covered with salt. This was placed in another room at a higher elevation than the tank, and a pipe covered with asbestos paper was employed to lead the cold air into the tank.

The first effect was the drying of the walls, and then I felt the level of the cold air gradually rising. At last it came over my head. The tank was full, and I found myself immersed in cool air. I felt so cool and comfortable that it seemed difficult to believe that Washington stood sizzling outside. I climbed up the ladder in the swimming tank until my head was above the surface, and then found myself breathing a hot, damp, muggy atmosphere'. I therefore speedily retreated into the tank, where I was perfectly cool and comfortable.

Guided by this experience, I tried another experiment in my house. I put the refrigerator in the attic and led the cold air downward through a pipe covered with asbestos into one of the rooms of the house. The doors were kept shut and the windows were opened at the top. The temperature in that room was perfectly comfortable, about 65 degrees F.

At that time the papers were speaking of some ice plant that had been installed in the White House and congratulated the President upon a temperature of only 80 degrees F. when the thermometer showed 100 degrees outside. At this very time I enjoyed in my house a temperature of 65 degrees, with a delicious feeling of freshness in the air. Even when the air had risen to the same temperature as the rest of the house, as measured by a thermometer, the room still felt cool, because the air was drier, thus promoting perspiration that cooled the skin.

In this connection I may say that there is a very interesting cooling plant in Paris, France, run by the Societe de l’Air Corn-prime. Very many of the cafes and restaurants in Paris have cold rooms for the storage of perishable provisions, and these rooms are cooled by compressed air supplied by this company.

The plant consists of large pipes laid down under the streets of Paris, with small branch pipes leading into the cafes and restaurants. At a central station steam engines pump air into the popes and keep up a continuous pressure of from four to five atmospheres. As there are several hundred kilometers of these pipes under the streets of Paris, they form a huge reservoir of compressed air at the ground temperature.

In the cooling room of a cafe they simply turn a little cock and admit the compressed air into the room. A gas meter measures the amount of air admitted and charges are made accordingly.

Digitized by CjOOQle
143

The compressed air, by its expansion, produces great cold, and the cooling effect is still further increased by allowing the air to do work during the process of expansion. Dumb-waiters, elevators, and even sewing-machines are thus run very economically in connection with the system by means of compressed-air engines.

Now, it appears to me that this process might very easily be developed into a plan for the cooling of a whole city. You would simply have to turn a cock in your room to admit the fresh air.

ALEXANDER STURROCK

F^om St. Andrew’s University Magazine, Scotland.

We wonder how many of those who survey with admiring pride of proprietorship the new Gymnasium are sensible of the fact that, after our munificent Lord Rector, they have to thank Mr. Alexander Sturrock, the popular and worthy instructor of gymnastics, for the possession of the splendid building and its complete up-to-date equipment. Mr. Sturrock is one of those rarely gifted men who know what they want, and how to get it. There are few who have the welfare of the University more deeply at heart than Mr. Sturrock. He has taught gymnastics, nay, he has preserved the life of gymnastics in the ’Varsity for upwards of twenty years now, often at great personal disadvantage and with the weakest support. But despair is only a meaningless term to men like Mr. Sturrock. He had conceived the idea of a large, well-furnished gymnasium long before you or I ever thought of Andrew Carnegie as our Rector. Mr. Sturrock had plans prepared and the estimates all ready when no one else on earth' would have dreampt that the money would be forthcoming. It was a beginning. One might be inclined to smile at the sanguine audacity of the Instructor, but this kind of unreasoning confidence is powerful in kindling enthusiasm in the most apathetic. Faint hopes began to make a startled appearance among gymnasts discontented with their quarters and sighing for some habitation a little more airy and a little less confined and sabbatical. High members of the staff were besieged, and the new Athletic Union invested by the utopian proposals of the enthusiast. To Mr. Sturrock the advent of Dr. Carnegie meant at once the realization of his cherished schemes. Here was the man, and here the means — it only remained to enlist his interest and his aid. This was effected, and the walls of the impossible immediately fell down. The hope that Mr. Sturrock had so long nourished in his heart became, through the lavish generosity of our Lord Rector, an actuality, in the draughts of the architect, at least, if not in stone and mortar, and is now seen in concrete expression before us.

Mr. Sturrock’s whole life is of a piece with this incident. Mr. Sturrock evinced signs of the genius which has so characterized his entire life at a very early age — the formal reason of his devoting himself to gymnastics being a doctor’s advice regarding a

Digitized by UjOOQle
144

weak arm, which exhibited very early symptoms of disease. An accident, if you please, but a very significant accident! At Portsmouth Mr. Sturrock became acquainted with army gymnastics; he soon proved himself a proficient gymnast, and made up his mind to enter the profession as an instructor.

Many difficulties and hardships had to be faced, but none daunted Mr. Sturrock. He began with private classes in Dundee, and organized gymnasiums in connection with the Y. M. C. A. and with several church missions. But the capital necessary for opening a gymnasium of his own in which he could give public instruction was not forthcoming. Most men in the same position would have relinquished the idea if they had ever been bold enough to conceive it, but Mr. Sturrock—we say again—is not an ordinary man. Looking about for a loop-hole of success, Mr. Sturrock resolved to face the privations and perils of an Arctic voyage in search of whales and an American exploration party. At the end of two years, spent at the icy axis of this planet, he returned to Dundee, became public instructor of gymnastics and chief authority upon physical recreation and education in that city. In the course of a most active career he has been instrumental in establishing a score of gymnasiums where there happened to be a distinct need for such; has organized countless displays and competitions; and, in the arduous roles of instructor, has led to victory both the national team of Scotland and the team of Dundee city. Mr. Sturrock's fame has reached to the ends of the earth, and he has rendered services as “judge” in international and national contests up and down Europe, in St. Petersburg, Copenhagen, Luzerne, Hamburg, and Antwerp. Mr. Sturrock possesses pleasing remembrances of these occasions in the possession of suitable diplomas and medals.

We have already said something of the debt owed to Mr. l'} Sturrock by the fraternity of gymnasts in this Varsity. He was the first instructor when the club was inaugurated under the president- *> ship of the present Principal of St. Mary's College. He has shared the fluctuating fortunes of the club, and has identified himself with » its interests. His affection for the club has extended to every J member of it, to a touching degree, and the feeling has been warmly I reciprocated. He is a character full of charm and interest—genial, I kind, and, above all, devoted to his work—enduring all things, I hoping all things. The Gymnastic Club without Mr. Sturrock I would be indeed Hamlet without the Prince of Denmark again. I So, “Here’s a health to you. Father Sturrock—with all our hearts!” I

SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, STATE NORMAL SCHOOL I LA CROSSE, WISCONSIN.	I

Prepares young men and women to become teachers and directors of physical education* II Excellent equipment, large athletic fields. Three gymnasiums. Swimming pool. Special Jl opportunities for practice teaching in the public schools of La Croaae and in the various de- jj partments of our large Normal School. Two and three year courses. Credit given for sst-lsfactory work in colleges and other normal schools. Summer Sessions June 17th to Jirff 26th. For information and catalog address

F. W. Maroney, M. D., Director	F.	A.	Cottonf Presictatl^H

Digitized by Vjooole