MIND AND BODY

MARCH, 1912.

Yol. 19.

No. 207

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

AU business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Some Problems in the Crusade for Fresh Air.

' By C. JOSEPHINE DURKEE.

.Q Jl L \s- / 9 "3L ^ (a "7	'

The Lierlbaldnied children are nine in number. Twin boys, aged

seventeen months, playing in the yard reminded me of Gunga Din’s

uniform, which

“Was nothin’ much before,

An* rather less than ’arf o' that behind.”

The twins each.had on a fragment of a shirt.

The day was wet. The mother had a fever temperature, and had been told to remain in bed; but with nine children under fifteen years of age, a family income of twelve dollars a week, and only one pair of woman’s hands, what was a poor mother to do? Her home had three rooms, one above the other, a shack kitchen, 12x12 feet in size, back of the ground floor room, in which the children indulged their primitive instinct for playing in dirt and water.

It was the end of a cold, rainy day in late August, and followed! intense heat. I ran in late in the evening to meet the husband, whose work kept him away from home until eight o’clock. I found a fire in the stove in the shack kitchen, a loaf of bread, some sugar and some milk on the table, and sundry evidences that food, and not the manner of service, was the object sought.

The cold rain pelted on the roof, and on a chair sat the mother directing her children. She was almost too ill to sit up. In that little room were the mother, seven of the nine children and myself. To open the door or take out the window was to let in the storm. The window could not be raised or lowered. The children had bare legs and feet and few garments, for an acute attack of pleurisy that had seized the mother had caused an accumulation of ten days soiled clothing. The mother and one little deformed girl had tuberculosis; none of the children were strong. The warmth was needful to prevent their taking, cold, and yet the many pair of lungs were using up the oxygen of the air, and sending out the poisonous return. Plainly this was a time to set about securing means for constant ventilation in that kitchen, for this scene would be re-enacted increasingly as the weather grew colder^

/

Digitized by C.ooQle
How should it be done? Arrange the sash of the one window to slide horizontally above it; cut another transom-like window, cover it with wire netting, but no glass, and over this new window adjust on the outside a canvas awning to serve as a shield during storms, and making it possible to keep the window open night and day. In the top of the door make a sliding shutter. The father can make these changes at a cost of a few cents, and ventilation may be had in any storm.

Under what conditions does the family sleep? In the third-story room sleep four girls, one of them suffering from tuberculosis. In the second-floor room the father occupies a lounge, one twin has a crib, the mother takes the delicate twin in bed with her because it cries if away from her. (How much of his delicacy is due to this?) Three small boys occupy the other bed. The room is 14x14x9, with a 4x5 floor space taken out to accomodate the stairway, which is enclosed. This leaves 226 cubic feet for each person—a little more than half the minimum requirement, 400 cubic feet. There are two windows on one side of the room and one on the opposite side. For safety, all of these windows should be open. As a matter of fact, the “opposite” window is usually closed, and the sashes of the other two are open only halfway.

These people are entirely self-respecting, and do the best they can with their income. The mother is only thirtv-six years of age, and, in addition to her nine living children, has had five who are now dead. Fresh air for that family, fresh air in winter cold and summer heat the visiting nurse must secure, or Death will increase the already heavy toil. The family ask for neither milk nor clothing—just help to keep well. We must give them first of all, abundant fresh air, even if we must supply clothing and fuel to accomplish it.

ANOTHER CASE.

In a small city is another family, father, mother and five children, the latter all being under ten years of age. The mother is twenty-six, and has had one other child, now dead. In the families of both parents there runs a history of tuberculosis. Only the mother, however, is positively tuberculous. Because the house stands alone, because air and sunlight are freely admitted, because there is a garden, and because the family needs unusually numerous, and the rent small, it seemed best to the nurse that they should not move, although they have refused steadily to use any room on the ground floor for sleeping.

The second floor consists of two rooms, each with two windows, so that air is freely admitted from three sides of the house. The rooms are 16x16 and 7x16, with 8 feet from floor to ceiling, and an open doorway between the rooms. This allows a little more than 400 cubic feet for each person. It is planned that in the large room the mother shall have a cot under one of the windows, with a canvas curtain from its top, which shall drop over her bed. This will put her “out of doors,” but will reduce open window space. Three children will occupy the room with her. The other window will be removed, but there will be a cotton blind rolling from the bottom, to be used in dressing. The carpet will be taken from the floor. A stove will be placed in this

Digitized by (^.ooQle
—3—

room. The father and two children will sleep in the smaller room with the windows removed. The stove will provide heat for them while they are dressing and will permit the use of the rooms during the day in winter.

In this instance there are other things to accomplish. The father earns less than $1.25 per day. The mother and oldest child have solicited food, clothing and money from all available sources. To stop the beggiDg, keep the family together, get more efficient service from the young father, arrest the tuberculosis, and save this really attractive family of children is a worthy task for public-spirited workers.

The following incidents are added to show the need of constant ventilation.

A patient closed the window in her bathroom and lit the gas stove to warm the room for her bath. When the place was warm enough she went in. A few minutes later a heavy fall on the floor alarmed the family. An entrance was forced. The patient lay senseless on the floor. Imperfect combustion of the gas and exhaustion of oxygen nearly cost the patient her life. It was many days before she could sit up.

A nurse had an oil stove to enable her to write late in a cold room; the window was down three inches from the top. A strange headache, stupidity and sleepiness came. She attributed it to late hours and weariness. She found after a time that it was due to the lack of fresh air. Her stove used up the oxygen. The same late hours produced no such effect when a small lamp instead of gas was used foT a light, and when she did not bum her oil stove.

This need of Fresh Air is a need of all—the patient, the family, the doctor, the nurse. Give us that, and aches diminish, night sweats presently cease, the head becomes clearer and efficiency greater. Nothing is so abundant. How strange that we do not freely use it! We build our houses to shut it out; then we pay our physician and our nurse to get it in, or to take us out of the house into its pleasantness. When they come to us their first act is to open windows and let in the fresh air and the sunshine, without which their labor is in vain.

Fresh Air Magazine.

PRACTICAL EUGENICS.

Ty JOHN H. CHASE, Cambridge, Mass.

The majority of people believe that human heredity—mental as well as physical, and probably even temperamental and moral—follows the same law as does animal or plant heredity.

They know that through breeding animals and plants can be transformed into a wonderful state of perfection; and they feel that the whole human race would be immeasurably benefited by the same system of selective breeding, but they see no practical method for bringing this about; and because of this most Eugenists are considered pure theorists along with Utopian Socialists and dreamy scholars.

To connect up with real life is the following idea practical?

The state of Indiana has for over six years performed the opera-

Digitized by
tion for vasectomy in the Indiana Reformatory for habitual criminals, rapists, idiots and imbeciles. Over 500 men have in this way been sterilized with very little pain, without even having to stop work, and with no change in their sexual enjoyment, nor in their natures, most of them undergoing the operation voluntarily; and the state has thus saved itself from a large crop of human weeds, through unreckoned years.

But why stop with a few penal institutions. The large majority of the insane, the feeble minded and those afflicted with the most social diseases are not in hospitals or prisons. Why should there not be a responsible board of the broadest experts to pass on all such persons and if in their unanimous opinion the operation should be performed for the good of society let if be performed by an authorized member of the Board of Health. If necessary, stating the limit of conditions within which the Board may act.

This Board might consist of the executive head of the Associated Charities, of the executive head of the Board of Health, and a prominent member of the state penal or insane institutions. All of these men will view life from an extended horizon, will be interested in human progress and reform, will be in touch with groups of individuals needing this form of betterment and by demanding a unanimous vote will be a check upon the overenthusiasm of any one department. Legal authority should be no harder to procure for this, than for penal institutions.

The effect upon society would be incalculable as all know who are acquainted with the literature of the Jukes family, the family trees of criminals, of feeble minded, or have daily experience with the shipwrecked of society.

THE PECTINEUS MUSCLE IN GREEK SCULPTURE.

It is well known that the Greek sculptor’s knowledge of anatomy was not based on scientific dissection, but. on the daily observation of hundreds of nude athletes exercising in the palaestra—a vast advantage over the ways of the modern artist who depends on his model or his teacher of anatomy for his knowledge, and never sees the nude figure in action, but only in repose.

Those who heard or read Sir Clifford Allbutt’s interesting address on “The Historical Relations of Medicine and Surgery” at the St. Louis Exposition in 1904 may remember that he emphasized a certain muscle in the groin, originally noted by the distinguished archeologist. Professor Charles Waldstein, which w'as known to the sculptors of the Peri-clean age, but has escaped the attention of modem students of artistic anatomy because it is not superficially visible in the normal subject to-day. This muscle* highly developed in the stress of Greek athletics, is, in effect, either the pectineus or the iliopsoas, which lie on the floor of Scarpa’s triangle. Professor Waldstein describes a torso from the

i. London, 1905, p. 7.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—5—

metopes in the friezes of the excavated Heraeum near Argos (one of the great sanctuaries of ancient Hellas,) which exhibits this peculiarity in a remarkable manner.2 The figure represents a nude warrior-youth “in the supreme moment of contest,” throwing all the weight of his body against an Amazonian adversary, of whom nothing remains but a short, dainty, dimpled, unmistakably feminine hanli, pressed against his side. This torso, which Professor Waldstein regards as one of the finest examples of modeling from the nude which the Greek sculptors have left us, has a curious round protrusion in the groin, like a bubo or incipient hernia, which anatomists have not been able to explain except as the result of strain or pathologic enlargements of the glands. Dissection made by the archeologist’s brother, Dr Louis Waldstein of London, show that the nodule is not connected with the muscles bounding Scarpa’s triangle (clearly defined in the torso,) but must be the forcibly contracted pectineus, which insertion directly under the lesser trochanter of the femur. While the pectineus is hardly noticeable in the average living subject, lying normally hidden at the bottom of Scarpa’s triangle, experiments made by Dr. Waldstein on rwo of the most powerfully developed professional athletes in London demonstrated clearly that the nodule in question was a muscular formation, not seen ill repose, but throwing into striking relief when the subject assuming the exact attitude of the torso, throwing all his body-weight on his bent left leg, with the right upraised, and with the superadded strain of pushing against an adversary with all the weight of his trunk.

This feature of the torso, far from being an abnormality, therefore, only gees to show the wonderfully close notation of visible, palpable, external anatomy on the part of sculptors of the age of Polycletus. Besides the pectineus, there is a marked and almost conventional line Tuning along the groin from the ilium to the pubis to be found in all ancient statues of athletic prize-men, but not regarded as true to nature nowadays. Concerning this line Professor Waldstein writes:	“It	is true

that it is not a frequent occurrence in so marked a form among men in our days; but I have found numerous instances as clearly defined as m any Greek statue. I attribute its atrophy in our day to the wearing of clothes, especially trousers and braces, which have transferred the weight-carrying exercise of the torso to the shoulders and have thus relieved the abdominal region and its muscles from their function and caused these muscles to atrophy.”—Jour. Am. Medical Assn.

—<As an article of dress, corsets have been so long in use that much expectation cannot be entertained that anything which can now be said will have the effect of inducing any mother to forbid the use of them for her children, or that she will herself discard them. When manufactured so as perfectly to be adapted to the shape of the body, and to possess elasticity, in addition to being loosely laced, they certainly are of service in giving support to the trunk; but when, as is almost invariably the case, they ire

2. Waldstein, Charles:	The	Argive	Heraeum,	Boston	and New York,

i,	18f. See in particular the beautiful photograph of the torso on Plate xxxiv.

Digitized by

Google
ill made and tightly laced produce the effect of distorting the chest, lessening the capacity for the lungs to act, and, by unequal pressure, preventing the natural' action of the respiratory muscles.—London “Health”

TRACK AND FIELD WORK FOR THE GYMNASIUM.

By Carl H. Hbckrich, St. Louis, Mo.

(Coacluded.)

THIRD CLASS.

TBoys 10 to 12 and Girls 12 to 14 years of age.)

The girls of the third class are two years older than the boys, it is, therefore, better to take up the work of each sex separately.

BOYS.

The work of this class still differs but slightly from that of the two preceding elapses, but little new work being taken up. The boys now having developed some form, less time need be taken for preparatory, and more time should be given to actual work. Having had the preparation they will achieve more.

Competition, to a certain extent, will help here but care must be taken that the weaker pupils are not discouraged. Arranging the work so that ?t is class competition rather than individual competition will avert this. The following arrangement is suggested. Arrange your class in two or more divisions; a certain mark is to be reached in jumping. After all have jumped see how many in each division have reached the required mark, the division having the greatest number, wins.

In climbing the same plan can be followed, the division having the greatest number reaching the top, winning. Another manner would be to count those who remain on the floor, or those who touch the floor before the command “down” is given. This will encourage the weaker pupils to keep on, and shame the lazy ones. By this procedure all are working even though they may be doing but little actual climbing. In running arrange the class on opposite sides of the gymnasium, one half on each side, letting half of each set of runners come from each division. Let the winners take a place by themselves, and at the finish the side having most victors, wins. Divide the class so that there are an even number of large and small pupils on each side.

The work will be far more lively, and there will be much more of it if, in the jumping events, after the apparatus is placed and the explanations have been made, the divisions are left to work by themselves under a leader. The discipline may not seem to be quite so good, but much more work will be accomplished in a shorter time. Giving a command for each jump is too slow and the boys get restless. Make it a rule that the division that gets too boisterous or disorderly must stop and line up. The boys will soon get themselves in order.

A Short Run. (Dauerlauf) is always in order.

The Standing Broad Jump, with spring board and mat. Practice it in the same lesson with the Running Broad Jump. For the standing jump the distance is shorter, of course. Let the class march to the board, the last two pupils holding the mat. The first boy stands so

Digitized by v^.ooQle
that his toes are over the edge of the hoard, while the second steps on the lower end of the board to keep it from slipping. The first pnpil jump, the second moves up and the third steps on, etc. For the running jump the division goes back to the first position, and one boy runs at a time. The second gets ready while the first runs, and so on.

Running and Stepping or Skipping from board to board with increasing distances is performed as in the first two classes. This is good practice for the step in the Hop, Step and Jump, which is taken up by the next class.

Sunning and Stepping from the board to a box is also kept, but the pupils should do less jumping on the box, and more over it. Jumping over a boy, or maybe two now, lying across the box is also kept up, much hilarity resulting.

The Running High Jump is practised, still using the board.

Climbing: Racing on poles and also division competition should be practised, also climbing on ropes. Observe the rules about climbing down, as well as up.

Deep Jump and Deep Far-Jump. The hoys can now jump from quite a height hut must always be watched.

Throwing the Bean Bag, and “putting” it from the chest with both hands should be practised. Have some bags weighing five or six pounds.

Races: More attention should now be paid to the start.

Chinning with Undergrip; as in the second class, but the bar should be raised so that the feet are clear from the floor. Over-exertion must still he guarded against.

GIRLS.

The work of girls 12 and 13 years of age necessarily differs from that of the boys of 10 and 11. Some exercises should be dropped as not suitable and others should be changed. Girls do not enjoy competition as much as the boys do, still, if rightly managed good use can be made of it If a liking for competitive work can be instilled girls become very enthusiastic over it.

A Short Run. Ordinary running does not appeal to the girls as it does to the boys, but where music is provided it will be found a great aid.

The Standing and Running Broad Jump should be practised with moderation.

Running and Stepping or Skipping from board to board should be continued.

The Hop, Step and Jump. The boys of the third class have not, so far, had this jump, but the girls being older, should take it up. Only short distances should be attempted until the jump is properly learned, then larger. Use the board and mats.

The Running High Jump with board should be practised with moderation.

Climbing. Races for short distances on the poles; also division competition. Some climbing on the ropes may be practised.

Throwing and Putting the Bean Bag. Use a bag weighing five or

Digitized by v^,ooQle
six pounds. Throw (by swinging) for distance, at a mark, or into a box. These girls can also be taught how to “put” a bean bag (shot.) The preliminary movement can be taught in a calisthenio lesson without the bag. After these movements are well mastered, practice with a bag.

Running Races over various distances.

Chinning with Undergrip. The stronger girls will pull up as readily as the boys, the weaker should stand as do those in the second class.

FOURTH CLASS.

(Boys 12 to 14, and Girls 14 to 17 years of age.)

BOYS.

The boys have now arrived at the age where their manliness begins to assert itself and they feel that they can do any and everything. If the teacher is wise he will have kept track of his past years, and remember the glory of achievement of these pre-adolescent years and of those following. The memories of his increasing pride, as his jumps grew further or higher, his running and climbing faster and better, and in the mastery of a difficult new exercise, will do much to help him meet his boys on their own ground and lead them on to continued efforts. If, however, he has grown old in thought his task will be harder. In the first case he and the boys will have much pleasure during these and the next five or six years, the best of them all.

In the jumps the board is now discarded and a rubber “take off,,r four by six feet, should be substituted. This more nearly resembles conditions in the open and will accustom the boys to the flat take off which they will meet in their out door sports.

Some of the work of the former classes should be dropped and other taken in its place. Drop Running and Stepping from the board to and over a box—the Standing Broad Jump—the Bean Bags—Chinning with Undergrip—less Climbing on the Poles and more, both for speed and distance, on the Ropes.

Keep the Running Broad Jump, teaching the boys how to make use of the take off so as not to lose any of their jump, etc.—Deep Jumping (less often)—Climbing on the Ropes mostly—Racing, paying more attention to the start and the step—Occasionally, the Stepping from Board to Board—Running High Jump. Individuality will 'begin to show itself now,—some will try the side jump (scissors,; and others will try other styles which were not possible with a straight run and a board take off. A little encouragement and explanation will help greatly, and some very good high jumpers may be developed in this class.

Begin the Hop, Step and Jump, explaining the proportions, and the value of each part of the jump. Begin with the standing jump until this is well learned, then take up the running jump.

The Triple Standing Broad Jump. It is one of our most valuable jumps and is used far too- seldom. To give the body good all-around work it can’t be beat, legs, arms and body all helping.

The Standing High Jump can also be practised occasionally, the straight jump, the straight jump and turn, and the side jump all being used. Explain what use to make of the arms in the. standing jumps.

Putting the Shot,using a six or eight lb. indoor shot. Practice the

Digitized by (^.ooQle
preliminary movements during a calisthenic lesson. Instill the necessity of always watching the shot so that injuries may be avoided.

Chinning with Overgrip should be practised when the occasion offers itself.

GIRLS.

The girls of the Fourth class can take up much of the work of the boys, and in the same way. Climbing on the ropes seems too hard. Deep jumping should not be indulged in at all, and the Triple Standing Jump may be omitted. Chinning, if taken, should be practised with under, not overgrip.

FIFTH AND SIXTH CLASSES.

(Boys from 14 to 1 6 (fifth) and 16 to 18 (sixth) years of age.)

Boys in these classes are most interesting and the years are very valuable for effective work. The coming man shows up plainly, and the results, if the preparation has been correct and thorough, are easily seen. As has been said before, these are the years when we lose so many pupils. Counter attractions spring up on all sides and in spite of all that can be done we lose many of our most promising young people. These, then, are the years in which the teacher has the hardest work, but they are also the most enjoyable ones if he succeeds in reaching his boys. Good use can now be made of the natural forms of movement i e. track and field wrork, also of games (Volksturnen und Spiele) indoors and, later on, out of doors. The Athletic clubs get many of our boys at this age. If we can work up a proper interest in the activities fostered by them it will be easier to hold our boys.

The work for these two classes is about the same as that of the preceding one, but progressing as the boys get older. More use of competitive tests should be made. But use individual tests rather than class tests, for the young man likes to see how he stands against his fellows. A test of four or five events during the spring (at the end of the indoor season) has been found a good way to create and hold interest. There might be a class winner, and one or two for each division. This gives all pupils an equal chance, the little fellow not competing against the larger. A division test could also be arranged by totaling the wcrk of all pupils in each division, the highest ranking first. If a simple inexpensive button, a medal or an association pin can be provided it will add to the interest.

Things that migftt be added to the work of these classes that were not taken by the last are a preparation for Hurdling and Far High Jumping. The gymnasiums are usually not long enough for more than one or perhaps two hurdles, but form can be taught. Jumping stands and rods placed at the height of a low hurdle for fifth class, and (perhaps) at the height of a high hurdle for the sixth class will answer for the purpose.

In putting the shot use the eight lb. shot for the fifth class, and a 12 lb. for the sixfh class.

Time is well spent with these classes and patience is abundantly rewarded, es will be seen, when these boys enter the young men’s class (actives).

Digitized by CjOOQle
-10-

YOVm MEN’S CLASS. (AKT1YE KLASSE.)

The vourig men haying had a thorough preparation in these activities in the boys’ classes are ready to develop their ability to its fullest extent. No lesson should be given without some form of the modified field work in it. rrhe High Jumping (standing and running) and the Shot Put might be combined and given to one squad in the round of apparatus work. The other forms of work, a resume of which is-given below, can best be taken by the combined class. The indoor work does not (and should not) replace that of the out door, but it certainly gives the men a better understanding and a liking for the same, and if properly taught it can be made interesting.

Indoor work of this type is, naturally, practised under some disadvantages, like hard slippery floors, short runs, walls too near, slipping mats and close quarters, but with watchfulness and care the use of rubber take offs and runners, good mats well placed and held, the dangers are reduced to a minimum and much good work may be accomplished. When it comes to the out doors the men will be ready for it and will enter the sports eagerly.

INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD EVENTS.

1.	The Introductory Run.

2.	The Standing Broad Jump.

3.	The Running Broad Jump.

4.	The Triple Standing Broad Jump.

5.	Putting the 16 lb. Shot.

6.	The Hop Step and Jump.

7.	The Standing High Jump.

8.	The Running High Jump.

9.	Climbing, Hand over Hand and ordinary.

10.	The Running Broad High Jump.

11.	Practice Hurdling.

12.	Deep Jumping (occasionally.)

13.	Skipping from Board to Board (occasionally.)

14.	Running Races. Practice starts, steps and use of arms.

It is, at times, well to make combinations in a lesson such as Standing and Running High; Standing Broad, Running Broad and Triple Standing Jumps; Running Broad High and Hurdling; Running High and Shot Put: etc.

THE THEORY, TERMINOLOGY, AND TECHNIQUE OF GYMNASTIC DANCING.

By Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

(Continued.)

STEPPING ELEMENTS.

ORDINARY STEPPING, the most elemental of the natural movement-forms used in gymnastic dancing, is executed forward, sideward and backward, forward. The passive leg is thoroughly straightened forward, slightly turned outward, and knee and ankle extended with toes pointing about ankle high. In transferring the weight the toes first strike the floor. The other leg becomes passive and repeats the movement, sideward. It is executed in three modes:—with a closing-step, with a front-cross-step, and with a rear-cross-step. The closing step is performed by raising and

Digitized by LjOOQle
-11-

straightening the leg, as described under the Forward Marching, but to the side instead of forward. When the weight has been transferred the other leg is raised sideward similarly and is then closed to the other, heel to heel'. The front-cross-step begins in a like manner but instead of the passive leg closing to the active one, it crosses in front of it with slightly flexed knee, the body weight being carried from one foot to the other. The rear-crossstep differs from the preceding one only inasmuch as the leg crosses behind instead of in front, backward. The first leg movement is the same as that of forward marching. After the raising and straightening of the leg forward it is moved backward and placed toes first upon the floor.

Forward and backward stepping thus executed results in a shorter stride than when using the ordinary walking step, but lends more grace and beauty of performance to the exercise.

DERIVED FORMS OF STEPPING, the closing-step. Command : Step left forward—one. Close right—two. Stepping interrupted by closing the foot of the passive leg to the other, heel to heel, constitutes the closing-step. The action suggests the term. It may be executed in the same directions as stepping. Modifications are the glide-closing-step, in which the leading foot glides gently over the floor, and the draw-closing-step, in which the following foot is drawn over the floor as it closes heel to heel. It is frequently used in simple Spanish dances. Further changes may be made by adding stamping, by raising the knee forward or by raising the leg in the direction of the step without changing the tempo. These steps are executed in march, two-step and polka time, each closing-step requiring one measure. It may also be adapted to fast waltz, two measures: for each step.

THE follow-step.. Command: Step left forward—one.	Fol-

low with right—two. The manner in which stepping is interrupted by the foot of the passive leg following the leading foot and closing into a dancing position instead of stepping forward gives rise to the term. On “one” the leading leg is moved as in stepping and on “two” the instep Df the following foot is brought to the heel for the forward (or sideward) step. For the backward movement the heel of the following foot is brought to the instep. The follow-step is modified in the same manner as the closing-step and is also executed in the same rhythm.

the TOUCH-STEP. Command:	Left	foot	forward—place. The

left foot is raised about ankle high in the direction indicated, knee and ankle thoroughly exitended; the toes are lightly placed upon the floor with the foot slightly turned outward and again immediately raised, giving the exercise-the characteristic touching movement from which it derives its name. It is then held in readiness for the following movement. This exercise resembles the foot placing of free exercises and requires the time of an ordinary step for its execution. It is generally combined with stepping in various directions (See Step-Sequences) in which form the step provides the* touching movement. It is performed in march, two-step or polka time. Modifications consist of foot, knee and leg raising or swinging added to* the movement of the touching foot, and touching the floor with the heel! (heel-touch-step) with the ankle thoroughly flexed.

Digitized by
-12-

SPRINGING ELEMENTS.

ORDINARY RUNNING, the forward running step. The leg is extended forward similarly to stepping and the body propelled with a bound from the floor giving it momentary flight during which the foot of the passive leg is raised backward to about the horizontal, toes pointing. sideward running resembles stepping sideward excepting that the body acquires momentary flight from the spring. It is also executed in three modes; viz., with a closing-step, a front-cross-step, and a rear-crossstep. (See Sideward Stepping.) In backward running the lower leg is raised backward,* the toes pointing, to about the horizontal, derived forms OF running are seldom used unless sideward running with a dosing-step is considered such. In the placing of the feet they resemble the closing-step and follow-step of “Stepping,” but in execution they resemble the descriptions given above. Gallop and Schottische time are the most suitable for their performance, but mazurka and waltz may ateo be used.

JUMPING. It might be asserted that jumping exercises should not be contained in an outline of gymnastic dancing because they occur so frequently in other branches of gymnastics or because they do not resemble dancing steps. They are, however, too valuable to omit for they bring about a constant alternation of contraction and relaxation of the extensor muscles of the legs, much more so when, used in rhythmic repetition as in steps, than when used otherwise. Furthermore, they lend themselves prettily to composing sequences and combinations, losing completely their un-danceable appearance. Jumping exercises are divided into three phases:—

1.	THE STAND JUMP. Jumping from both on to both feet.

2. the step jump. Jumping from one foot on to both feet.

3. the jump step. Jumping from both feet on to one foot.

In all' of the three phases both feet take part in the exerdse. An endeavor has been made to avoid a term which depends on the degree and not on the nature of the execution of an exercise. Thus a spring from both feet giving but a slight rise to the body has during the past been frequently called a hop, which, however, immediately became a jump if the body was propelled a little higher or farther, the degree of the spring being the determining factor of the name. That this causes confusion, particularly when one thinks of the many kinds of hops possible, for jumping, leaping, cutting, etc., were all defined as some kind of a hop, is self-evident. The above named terms (and those to follow) are therefore suggested with a hope of bringing order out of chaos. They are to a considerable extent sel'f-explanatory.

the stand-jump. Command: Two (one or more) stand-jumps up-ward (in place, forward, sideward, or backward)—jump, one, two. The knees are but slightly flexed in preparation for propelling the body in the direction indicated, straightening, however, during flight with the toes pointing downward and the feet together. In alighting, the toes strike the floor first, the knees yielding to a slight flexion, followed by straightening of the knees and sinking of the heels into the fundamental position. This is executed upon one count. If more than one jump is to be performed the fundamental position is not assumed; i. e. the knees remain flexed and the next jump proceeds from this position. The stand-jump may be executed

Digitized by

Google
-13-

m schottische, gallop or mazurka time, making a very short flight interval and particularly suited for smaller children. It may also be executed in polka or fast waltz time, thereby considerably increasing the flight interval and the difficulty of the exercise, because of the control required to maintain the rhythm.

the step jump. Command: Step left forward (sideward or forward outward)—one. Jump upward (forward, sideward, etc.)—two. On one the step is performed in the direction indicated, the body weight being completely transferred. On two a jump upward is executed during which the heels close and which is followed by alighting upon toes with knees slightly flexed and immediately straightened. When performed continuously the next step begins with the knee straightening. Polka and fast waltz time are best suited for its execution. It may also be done in mazurka time by utilizing the third count for the knee straightening. The step-jump does not fit into gymnastic dancing as well as some of the other jumping exercises. Its combining possibilities are limited. Both this and the following step are of the nature of step-sequences, but are described here because they are phases of jumping.

THE JUMP step. Command: Jump-step left forward (sideward) — jump. One, two. On one a spring from both feet propels the body in the direction indicated; viz., upward, forward, or sideward. During the flight the slightly bent right leg is raised in the opposite direction of the jump; i. e. backward or sideward with the foot about knee high, unless the jump is upward when it is raised backward. The gymnast alights upon the ball of the left foot with slight flexion of the knee and with the right leg still in the backward position. On two the right leg is lowered in the fundamental position. Adaptable to slow march and poTka and moderate waltz time. Arm exercises may be added to all of the jumping phases.

HOPPING AND SKIPPING. These exercises are alike in the nature of their execution, both consisting of an upward spring of the body supported by one foot, differing, however, in the time rate of their performance. the skipping step is done in ordinary march or polka time, the skipping movement requiring but a slight part of the time consumed for a marching step, equalling about the sixteenth note of a dotted eighth note. It is also adaptable to mazurka time. Its execution resembles stepping from place, the skip being performed upon the ball' of the active foot while stepping from place (any direction) with the other. It may also be executed in place and combined with exercises of the legs (raising knees forward, feet backward, etc.), or of the head, arms, and trunk. The term needs no explanation, hopping varies from skipping only in degree and time. It requires about the time consumed for an ordinary marching step, but may be increased in tempo progressing from march and polka to gallop, mazurka (3-4) and schottische (4-4) time; in the latter rhythm four hops constitute a measure. The hop can only be executed if the body, through some previous exercise, is poised upon one foot. When combined with the various methods through which the body obtain® this stand upon one foot and with positions of the pendant leg a number of pleasing step-sequences, which will be considered later, are the result.

LEAPING. The leap is a modified form* of the running step. The

Digitized by Google
-14-

term has become rather vague in the vernacular use being indiscriminately* applied to various forms of springing or bounding. It is, however, originally derived from words signifying running, of which our English word lope, to run with a large step, whose intimate original relation to leap is very apparent, is also a derivative. The “Jete” of classic dancing is translated as leap and generally so used, its execution is, however, much more difficult and should not be used in the gymnastic work of the grades. The leap may therefore 'be used as a preparatory step for the “Jete.” In fact, all gymnastic dancing may be considered as preparatory work for the more artistic and classic dancing. Command: Leap left forward outward— leap (or one). Four leaps beginning left—one, two, three, four. Four forward leaps beginning left—one, two, three, four. The leg is extended in the direction indicated (forward, sideward, obliquely forward outward, also in place; seldom backward), similarly as in running, and the body propelled with a bound from the other foot giving it momentary flight. Alighting is performed upon the ball of the foot with slight flexing of the joints during which the pendant foot is raised with toe$ pointing behind the ankle of the active leg. This execution consumes the time required for the ordinary marching step and may progressively be given in the following tempi: march, polka, mazurka, gallop and schottische, the number of leaps in each measure equalling the number of beats in a measure, as two leaps in 2-4 and 6-8, three in 3-4, etc. Two or more leaps performed in succession should be preceded, however, by exercises in which the leap is followed by another step-element; e. g. by hopping, the leap-hop. Here the pupil has time to think before the next leap. There are a number of pleasing variations obtained by adding step-elements and positions of the pendant leg which will be considered under step-sequences.

CUTTING. The cut is a term whose justification must be based upon its national, even international use in classical dancing; it is the French “Coupe.” The step is poorly described by the name, but there is no known term that may be substituted. The word displacement is equally indefinite and much more cumbersome than cut. The movement usually begins from a raised position of the extended leg, that is, an open position, such as may be obtained from raising the leg forward, sideward, or backward. The supporting foot is displaced in the apposite direction by the striking or cutting action of the raised leg which assumes the position of the supporting leg. The exercise is termed front, side or rear cut according to the position from which the movement begins.

Side cut left—cut (or one). The straight left leg has been previously raised sideward, toes pointing about ankle high, in preparation. On one the left foot, through a slight spring* from the right, displaces the right which is then immediately swung to the position sideward. The left alights in the place of the displaced right foot on the toes with gentle flexion of the joints ready for the execution of the side cut right. Two or more side cuts may Jbe given in succession, but it is advisable to precede ’ them by a step-sequence in which the cut is followed by another step-element as was suggested under leaping. This also applies to other cutting steps.

Front cut left and rear cut right—one, two. It begins from the forward position of the left leg and resembles the execution of the side cut.

Digitized by

Google
—15—

finishing, however, with the right leg raised backward ankle high. The rear cut right which follows it (it may also be given separately) terminates with the left leg again in the forward position for the front cut. The body alights as described in the side cut.

The execution progresses from ordinary march to polka, mazurka, gallop and schottische time, the number of cuts performed in a measure equalling the number of beats in a measure; as, two cuts in 2-4 and 6-8, three in 3-4 time, etc. Furthermore, such tempi as 2-4 and 6-8 (polka and two--step) admit of two small cuts being performed on one beat; 1. e. four small cuts to a measure. When done in this manner, requiring great rapidity, the range of the leg movements must be considerably restricted. The cut may aiso be given from the fundamental position, in which case the designated leg is rapidly swung in the direction demanded for the exercise as indicated by the name of the step; it is then immediately followed by the whipping activity as described above.

Arm and head movements may be added to the hopping, leaping and cutting.	(To	be continued.)

NOMENCLATURE OF FREE EXERCISES.

By Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

(Continued.)	t

ARM EXERCISES.

Raising the\ extended arms.

Horizontal positions.

Forward. Raise arms forward—raise. Lower.

Arms are raised forward height of shoulder, the hands are kept shoulder distance apart. There must be no forward moving of the shoulders. Palms of the hands are turned toward each other.

Sideward. Raise arms sideward—raise. Lower.

The arms are raised to a horizontal position and forced slightly backward. The chest remains vaulted and the head erect. Palms are turned downward unless otherwise stated. The lowering movement returns the arms to the position described in the fundamental stand.

Backward. Raise arms backward—raise. Lower.

The arms move backward as far as possible, hands shoulder-width apart with palms turned toward each other unless otherwise stated. The horizontal position is not attainable owing to the limited motion in the shoulder joint. The chest must be kept arched.

The vertical (upward) position.

Raise arms fore-upward—raise. Lower.

Arms pass through the forward position and continue in the same plane until they are in a line with the trunk. The hands are the width of the shoulders or slightly more apart. .

Raise arms side-upward—raise. Lower.

Arms pass through the side position and onward to the upward position described above.

The oblique positions.

Raise arms obliquely fore-upward—raise. Lower.

Raise arms obliquely fore-downward-—raise. Lower.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-16-

Raise arms obliquely side-upward—raise. Lower.

Raise arms obliquely side-downward—raise. Lower.

The above are positions halfway between the directions designated. The palms are turned inward with the first two, upward with the third, and downward with the last exercise.

Swinging the extended arms.

Swinging differs from raising of the arms in the degree of speed involved in the movement. The direction® and the positions into which the arms are swung resemble the foregoing exercises of the extended arms. To these may be added swings in two different planes.

Examples:

Swing arms fore-upward and sideward—swing.

Upward and fore-downward (or return}—swing.

Swing arms side-upward and forward—swing.

Upward and side-downward—swing.

The directions through which the arms swing are indicated, pausing in the given terminating position. A variety of such swings are obtainable by using different starting positions.

Circling of the arms.

Circling resembles arm swinging in the velocity of the movement and is performed in lateral, antero-posterior and diagonal (with clubs) vertical planes.

Circle arms inward—begin. Halt.

Arms move through the sideward to the upward position (lateral plane) and cross in front of the body, remaining as extended as possible, completing the circle.

Circle arms outward—begin. Halt.

Same as arms inward but done in reverse order.

Circle arms backward—begin. Halt.

The extended arms move through the forward, upward, and backward (as far as possible) position and then downward completing the circle. (Antero-posterior plane.)

Circle arms forward—begin. Halt.

Reverse the movements of the backward circling.

The degree of circling must be stated; as i-i (3-4) circle of both arms outward—one. Return—two. Circling is also executed from the vertical or horizontal positions.

Arm circumduction.

Arm circumduction—begin. Halt.

It is similar to the arm circling backward but a much smaller movement. The exercise begins from the sideward as a starting position, the hands describing a circle of about one foot in diameter. The movement should be performed chiefly in the shoulder line and behind it.

Rotating the arms.

Mainly in the arms raised sideward position.

Turn palms upward and downward—begin. Halt.

The arm is rotated in the shoulder joint so that the palm is upward or slightly beyond it. Rotating movements are always done quickly. They may be combined with different arm movements; as Raise arms sideward with palms upward—raise. Lower.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-17-

Raising the arms to a bent position.

Hands on hips—place. Lower.

The fingers are pressed firmly together and placed on the hips, the fingers directed forward and the thumbs in rear. The wrist is kept straight and is in line with the forearm. The elbows are forced moderately backward.

Hands in rear of head (neck)—place. Lower.

The arms are raised sideward and the forearms bent sq that the finger tips touch at the base of the skull. The hand,jyri>st and forearm are in line and the elbows directed slightly backward. The head must not be pushed forward.	*

Arms for thrust—bend. Arms—lower.

The hands are closed to a fist, raised toward the median, line and upward to the side of the shoulders with the palms directed toward them. The forearms assume a vertical position with the elbows close to the side, knuckles outward.

Raise arms for strike—raise. Lower.

Hands are closed to a fist, the arms are raised sideward and bent forcibly at the elbows so that the fists will be directly over the shoulders. The knuckles are directed backward, forearm and wrist are in one line, and the upper arms are horizontal and slightly pressed backward.

Hands in front of shoulders (arms for forearm strike)—raise. Lower.

The hands are raised upward along the median line and moved forcibly outward' until they are directly in front of the shoulders, wrist and forearm in line. The elbows are completely flexed and drawn slightly backward. Forearm* and upper arm are horizontal.

Arms for strike from head—raise. Lower.

Hands are closed to a fist, arms are raised side-upward and bent 9o that the hands are directly above the center of the head; knuckles directed backward, and wrist and forearm in line. The elbows are slightly pressed backward.

Straightening arms in various ways from a bent arm starting position.

Arm straightening.

It is executed from the thrust and forearm strike position.

From the thrust position:

Straighten arms sideward—straighten. Bend.

The arms are completely straightened in the indicated direction, the hand opening with the movement. It is executed in the same directions as raising of the extended arms, the terminating positions will therefore be the same as those described under arm raising. The return movement is direct.

From the forearm strike position:

Straighten arms sideward—straighten. Bend.

It consists of a quick outward flinging of the forearms, the movement being confined to the elbow joint. The terminating position being the same-as that obtained from raising arms sideward.

Arm thrusting.

Thrust arms sideward—thrust. Bend.

It is performed as arm* straightening in all directions excepting that the* hands are kept closed.

Digitized by Google
-18-

A rrn striking.

It is performed in two directions: viz., sideward and obliquely side-downward from the ordinary strike position (hands over shoulders) and from the “arm for strike from head” position.

Strike sideward—strike. Bend.

Strike obliquely side-downward—strike. Bend.

The terminating positions are the same as those resulting from arm raising with the exception that the hands are kept closed and the knuckles directed backward.

(To be continued.)

THE ADAPTATION OF MUSIC TO CALISTHENICS.

By Louis K. Appjsl, Public Schools, Cincinnati, O.

It has long been a question as to whether music should or should not be used for calisthenics. Many physical directors are of the opinion that music tends to lessen the physical effects of exercises because the desired prompt responses are not always secured. This has too often been the case when the music was poor or when the composition was not at all suited to the characteristic type of the exercise. My experience has been that music is the prime factor which causes children to work more energetically, developing in them a liking for free movement work. One phase of the foregoing question, however, admits of no argument and that is, children gradually acquire a more defined sense of rhythm. Considering that rhythm, to a greater or less extent, is embodied in almost every act and action, its importance in daily life is inestimable. This fact, in itself, would warrant an application of appropriate music whenever practicable.

The best results can be obtained only when the piano player or musician can accent the notes in such manner that the instrument itself will do the countings so to speak. As a general rule, quick responsive movements require a sharp accentuation on the piano, while movements of a long duration require a more subtle and prolonged touch. Gymnastic music is really a distinct phase of music and demands skill and good time-keeping. The musician should have a thorough knowledge of the relative end and importance of each of the various types of characteristic exercises in order to gain the best results.

Following is a list of the different tempi and compositions:

4-4 Time:

march: For the sake of convenience, divided into two classes: (a) Fast, those written mostly in 1-4 notes and having the 1st and 3rd counts slightly accented; (b) Slow, written in 1-8 notes and having each of the 4 counts accented, four to a measure.

schottische: ist and 3rd counts accented; count four quickly to each measure.

gavotte: Every count accented. Very stately.

3-4 Time:

minuet: accent on each count—three to a measure. Very stately.

mazurka: accent on the 1st and 3rd counts.

Digitized by LaOOQle
•"19—

waltzes may be either slow or fast. la each case, the measure receives but one count for the three notes.

2-4 Time:

polka: accent on the 1st and 2nd counts. Polkas are usually written-in 1-8 notes and have a characteristic rhythm (“one and two and”) for ■each measure.

gallop: accent on each 1st and 2nd count. Very fast.

two-step and 2-4 march: accent on the 1st and 2nd counts, two to each measure.

6-8 Time:

two-step: accent on the 1st and 4th i-8th notes, counting two to each measure.

slow 6-8th: accent on each note, counting six to each measure.

Some of the above compositions do not adapt themselves readily for calisthenics and are used mainly for dancing.

Movements may be classed as:

(a)	Large: envolving the control of a considerable weight over a large distance such as raising of the leg, striding, lunging, knee bending, bent knee steps or layouts and trunk bending in all directions.

(b)	Small: envolving the control of a little weight over a large distance or a considerable weight over a small distance such as arm exercises, heel raising, foot placings and exercises of the hand, foot, head and lower leg.

(c)	Non-essential, involving little, if any, control and such sis are used merely for their esthetic values, as head turning, etc.

The general rule for adapting music to movements may thus be summarized: The predominant feature of an exercise should determine the character of the composition and the tempi—large movements require a slow time and small movements a relatively fast time. To illustrate this law, simple exercises from the fundamental positions are chosen as examples. All metronome readings are for 1-4 notes and are designated <fM M.”

1.	Vigorous arm movements such as bending the arms, straightening the bent arms, combinations of the former and arm raisings, forward, backward and sideward are best executed in Polka time, M M 112-120. The characteristic “1 and 2 and” of each measure demands quick responses on the numbers with a corresponding pause on the “ands.” The same effect is obtained by using a 6-8 two-step, three 1-8 notes to M M 112.

A slow schottische and a moderate “slow” march and some “fast” marches, M M same reading, are good but they lack the vigor and life of the former. For raising of the arms sideward-upward and forward-upward, it is best to diminish the M M reading, 100 being perhaps most satisfactory.

2.	Trunk exercises should be done evenly, slowly and with pressure* For bending backward, forward, and lowering forward, a waltz of the reverie type, MM 144, is best. Bending forward-downward requires more time and the M M should be set at about 120. Turning the trunk and bending or lowering sideward require less time and the M M reading is increased to 168 or more. In selecting a waltz, one having a chord for

Digitized by Google
-20-

the first ibeat is to be preferred because the accent can be more easily distinguished.

3.	Leg movements are of two types: those executed quickly and those performed slowly against resistance. For example, raising both heel's in quick rhythm (Polka M M 120) is quite different from the same exercise performed in a slower tempi, Waltz M M 192. This feature moist constantly be borne in mind. Knee bending half deep: bent knee steps and striding require a control and a partial transfer of weight respectively and the tempi should be moderate. 4-4 “fast” march, M M 152, counting two to each measure, 2-4 march or two-step, M M 76 or 6-8 two-step, three 1-8 notes to M M 76, are most suitable. A very fast waltz, M M 228, would answer the purpose though it would hardly be advisable to play a waltz in such a rapid tempo.

Knee raising, foot raising and foot placings would necessitate a slightly faster rhythm. 4-4 “fast” march, M M 168 could be used although schot-tische would be much better. Again, a slow 4-4 march, M M 84, counting four to a measure, Polka, 2-4 two-step and 6-8 two-step, three 1-8 notes to M M 84 could be advantageously employed.

Deep knee bending, kneeling and lunging must be executed rather slowly on account of the large distance over which the weight moist move. 4-4 march, M M 116, counting two to a measure or waltz, MM 176, adapt themselves most readily.

Head exercises are -of little value unless they embrace the resistive feature. Fast waltz, M M 208, supplies an even and appropriate rhythm.

Balancing, jumping and breathing exercises are best done without music because they are seldom taken in rhythm. Hopping and jumping (all forms) in place, adapt themselves best to schottische time, M M 138-152.

Combinations of movements present a new problem*. One must never lose sight of the characteristic type of the exercise. It would not be expedient to combine an arm and trunk exercise and use fast pol'ka or schottische in place of the customary moderate waltz. Alternate exercises involving two distinct rhythms must be governed by the slower rhythm. For example: Raise arms forward and return—1, 2; bend trunk backward and return—3, 4! A proficient pianist can regulate his time so as to play the first two measures (waltz time) quickly and the next two sl'owly.

In arranging drills or roundels to music, it is always best to select a composition and then determine the movements by the rhythm and time of the selected composition. This demands considerable skill. The practise of searching for a suitable composition to fit the movements, unfortunately, is more often, resorted to. If a position is to be held, use a 2-4 or 6-8 two-step and pause on count 2; or a 4-4 march “fast” and pause on 2, 3 and 4. Dumbbells and wands do not alter the tempi or composition any. On the other hand, clubs adapt themselves best to waltz time because there is always a combination of large and small movements aird it is easier to adapt the smaller movements to a slower tempi than the larger ones to a rapid tempi. Two-step time can also be used, but the tendency to become quicker is so great that the movements are apt to be executed only with diffiuclty.

For marching a 2-4 march or 3-4 march, M M 112-120 is good. A 6-8 two-step of the same rapidity offers more life and is to be preferreds

Digitized by CjOOQie
-21-

Running is best performed in. schottische time, M M about 168; skipping in 6-8 two-step or a 2-4 march having a dotted 1-4 note at the beginning of each measure as the “Rustic dance.”

Individuality on the part of the director may require a change in the previous M M readings but the compositions remain the same. Again, adults require a much slower rhythm than children. The relative ends of exercises must always be considered and no iron-clad rules can be laid down and followed. It has merely been the intention to suggest for consideration what has proved itsel'f best in specific cases.

In conclusion, I might add that music should be cautiously introduced. Good judgment will enable one to select a few good compositions which should become standard guides. Rhythm developes gradually and an influx of too many different “pieces” may cause confusion. As the sense of rhythm becomes more and more acute, the restriction against the use of too many different compositions may be removed and the result of having good and suitable music to accompany calisthenics cannot but be beneficial as well as satisfactory.

A Report upon the Second Public School Field Day in St. Louis,

May 27th 1911.

By A. E. Kindervater, Director of Physical Training.

The American League Base Ball Park was again secured free of charge through the generosity of Mr. Robt. L. Hedges. The program and work was prepared and carried out in detail by the supervisor and his assistants. The supplementary arrangements for admission, for eating, and for taking care of the pupils on the grounds was placed in the hands of committees formed by the Principals of our schools, the Department of Hygiene and the Attendance Officers. The various needs of this large undertaking, as well as the transportation of the necessary apparatus to the park and back to the schools, was taken care of in a most satisfactory manner by the Supply Department. The janitors needed to assist in*handling the apparatus on the grounds were cheerfully furnished by the Building Department. The increased appropriation for expenses enabled us to have paid gate keepers, ushers, and watchmen. These, with the assistance of a large squad of policemen, were a great help in keeping good order in every part of the park.

The day’s program differed from that of last year only in the exhibition features. The boys from schools having gymnasiums showed gymnastic exercises on 28 vaulting bucks, the girls from the same schools showed rhythmical movements arranged to popular music, while five schools demonstrated some of the schoolyard games recently introduced. This last feature did not show up quite strong enough on account of its newness and the lack of practice. The extremely warm weather preceding the Field Day prevented the amount of outdoor practice necessary. The mass exercises shown by 3400 boys and girls of grades 3, 4, 5, and fi were well given. They would have been much more impressive had the music been loud enough to reach the rear ranks.

Digitized by V.ooQle
-22-

The reorganized Industrial Band certainly did its very best and must be given due credit, but the space was more than they could fill

and the result somewhat disappointing.

THE PARTICIPATION.

A. IN COMPETITION.

1.	Boys’ Individual Contest in four classes. 66 schools entered 228 contestants and 215 substitutes. The contestants were classified as follows: Midgets, under 80 lbs. 60, Light Weights, under 95 lbs. 56,

Middle Weights, under 115 lbs. 59, Unlimited Weights 53. Each school was entitled to only one contestant in each weight class.

The events for this competition consisted of a dash, a throw with the basket ball, medicine ball or shot, and one standing jump, two standing jumps or a running broad jump according to the weight class the boy had entered. The combined result of the three events decided the prize-winners. The five boys making the highest number of points received prizes.

2.	Girls’ Individual Contest in four classes. 58 schools entered 196 contestants and 179 substitutes. The contestants were'classified in four classes similar to the boys, as follows:

Midgets, under 75 lbs. 51, Light Weights, under 90 lbs. 52 Middle Weights, under 105 lbs. 50, Unlimited Weights, 43. One girl representing one school in each class. The events for the girls competition consisted of a dash, and a throw with the basket ball, the combined i result of both events deciding the winners for a prize.

3.	Boys* Shuttle Relay Race in two classes. Class “A” being boys of grades 7 and 8, each boy running 100 yards. Forty schools entered 40 teams of eight boys to a team, a total of 320 boys.

Class “B” being boys of grades below the 7th, each boy running 75 yards. Fourteen schools entered 14 teams of eight boys to a team, a total of 112 boys.

Total representation in the boys’ races, 54 schools, 432 boys in 54 teams.

4.	Girls’ Shuttle Relay Races in two classes. Graded as the boys.

The girls in class “A’’ running 50 yards each.

The girls in class ”B” running 40 yards each.

Thirty schools entered 30 teams in class “A,” eight girls to a team, or a total of 240 girls.

Fifteen schools entered 15 teams in class “B,” eight girls to a team, or a total of 120 girls.

Total representation in the girls races: 45 schools, 360 girls in 45 teams.

5.	The combined representation of both sexe3 in the competition

as outlined above was as follows:

Boys Individual Events.......................... 228

Girls Individual Events......................... 196

Boys Team Races................................. 432

Girls Team Races................................ 360

Total of competitors entered.................. 1216

Digitized by v^ooQle
—23—

332 boys and 43 girls failed to put in an appearance in time for the competition and were ruled out. This left 1041 contestants. The $280.00 appropriated for prizes for the winners among these 1041 contestants amounted to only $2.88 for each winner. This is certainly a good and cheap investment for the benefits derived and the stimulus given to outdoor physical activity.

B. IN EXHIBITION FEATURES.

'	3. 336 boys of 14 schools having gymnasiums showing graded

gymnastic exercises, demonstrating mounts, riding and vaults on bucks placed sideways, 28 boys performing the same exercises at the same time at the command of the leader. Considering that nine of these schools are in their first year with this work, the results were very satisfactory.

2.	504 girls of the 14 schools having gymnasiums performed

rhythmical movements especially arranged to the music of two of our most popular American Songs:	“Marching	through Georgia,” and

“My Old Kentucky Home.”* The movements for both songs were correctly and gracefully executed by the girls and enthusiastically received by the large audience.

3.	3400 boys and girls of grades 3, 4, 5, and 6 performed a mass drill of calisthenics and wands. At first each drill was shown separately, and finally combined, to the strains of especially selected music. Had this music been loud enough to carry the sound over the entire field the effect of these exercises would have been greater and more satisfactory.

4.	460 pupil3 of both sexes representing five schools, were given the last number on the day’s program demonstrating schoolyard play, each school playing five different, games. A3 stated above this number of the program did not succeed so well as was expected for the reasons before given.

5.	Total active representation on the field was 5916 pupils.

Report on the Two High School Field Days.

A. THE HIGH SCHOOLS FOR WHITE PUPILS.

On Monday, May 29th, during the afternoon, the new “High School League” of the St. Louis Public Schools, embracing the four high schools for white pupils, held its first field day on Francis Field. The day’s program comprised a set of 14 track and field events for two groups of contestants. The groups were composed of: a. Juniors, boys under I6V2 years of age, b. Seniors, boys over that age.

The four schools were represented as follows:

Juniors 43. Seniors 73. Total 116.

One of the most commendable features in this new high school league is the rule that no prizes of value are awarded to the individual winners in a contest, A very appropriately engraved certificate stating the nature of the contest, the winner s name, and the name of the

* These exercises were published in the October (202) issue of Mind and Body

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-24-

school is the only reward. The trophies for both Juniors and Seniors , consisted of cups, and these go to the school making the largest number ox points. It is all honor and not valuables that are given. This should

be the ideal of all amateur athletics.

One of the features of this field day that should be eliminated next year is the permitting one boy, who happens to be a good runner,

+o take part m three or more running events, thereby overstraining his neart, and possibly injuring his health, all for the sake of gaining a few more points for his school. A group contest in which every boy is obliged to take a dash, a weight event, and one or two kinds of jumps, so arranged that an all-around development will result (and no specialization in anyone particular event) is the ideal for which all high school athletics should strive. Two numbers of exhibition work, one for each sex, furnished by each school, given bv pupils not taking part in competitive athletics, would greatly improve the day's program and attract many more parents and adults to these field days.

B.	THE HIGH SCHOOLS FOR COLORED PUPILS.

On Friday afternoon, June 2nd, the new Summer High School conducted its first Inter-class Field Day upon the athletic held connected with the school, on the street fronting the building. Thirty-nine boys divided into Juniors and Seniors, participated each in a group of three events, and a shuttle relay race of 100 yards for each boy. Each boy was obliged to take a dash, a jump and a throw. Only the three boys making the highest average in the three events received a certificate. The class making the highest number of points in all event* received a cup, which is the property of the. school. Great enthusiasm was manifested hv Ihe pupils, teachers and the neighbors for this first Field Day.

CHARLOTTE CORDAY SCHOTTISCHE.

By LEILA Z. WILLIAMS, Vineland, N. T.

Position: Gentleman to the left of lady, grasping left hands in front, right hands over lady’s right shoulder.

Measures

DAFT I.

a.	Glide diagonally left forward, close right foot to left. Repeat. ...	1

b.	Glide diagonally left forward, close right foot to left, quickly

cutting left away, jump on the left foot and hop (or glisse,

coupe, jctc, soute)................................................ 1

Repeat a. and b.....................................................  2

PART II.

Step left tor to the second position), step right in rear (or fifth position back;, step left, step right in front (or fifth front) ...	1

Same movement’Tight sideward................................. 1

PART III.

Step on left foot and hop-swing left forward; Step on right

foot and hop-^.vmg right forward..........................  1

Repeat left and right........................................ 1

In all 8 measures.

f

Digitized by CaOOQle
yt If	Published	Monthly.

iVUSP ftND B0DY' * FREIDENKER p"uBUSH.N8 CO..

Price, 91.00 per Year. Foreign 91.26.	Milwaukee. Wlscoxu&a.

«9~ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—A Great Britain correspondent of the Posse Gymnasium Journal has "been writing articles on “Gymnastics in Great Britain from a Teacher's Point of View” which have been printed in that journal. In a report on the opening of a Swedish Training School' on December first, which was celebrated by an exhibition of different kinds of gymnastic work, we find the following:—

Some twenty students in training at Madame Osterberg’s Swedish Training College, Dartford, Kent, delighted the experts who were present, with one of the most perfect demonstrations of the Swedish system' we have yet witnessed. * *

There was, however, just one feature in connection with the beautiful and uniform work submitted by these students to tvhich reasonable exception might be taken, and that was: by the aid of support, the students, standing back to back, were gradually assisted to the hand-stand position, from a stretch-strd-st,-arch flexion. Despite its novelty and value, from a spectacular standpoint, we are of opinion that it bordered somewhat on the acrobatic, and, on that account alone, should find no place in any system of rational physical training for girls and women. By encroaching on the German system, or, in sanctioning anything that at all1 savors of the acrobatic, for girls and women* we certainly lay ourselves open to the severest criticism, whilst materially annulling the refining and elevating effects of Swedish gymnastics, when practised in their purest forms. * * *

(The italics are in the original report.) Well1, well, who would have thought it possible? Twenty young women from a training school for Swedish gymnastics showing hand-stands at a public exhibition! No wonder the correspondent is lead to a mild criticism. Why do the?e people allow themselves to be corrupted by these “Germans,” and “sanction” anything that might lead to severe criticism? We often wonder what some good people understand by German gymnastics. We will, however, comfort ourselves with the thought that if (in England) teachers of a “Swedish training school” do not think it wrong (to use a very mild term) to let their young lady students show hand-stands in giving “one of the most • perfect demonstrations of the Swedish system,” other teachers of gymnastics in less responsible positions may (in England or any other country) show movements that are equally unsuitable from an educational standpoint. But why blame everything foolish on the German system? It isn't the system, but its application that makes any system of body training rational or not. Would it not be absurd for any one to speak slightinglv of the Swedish system because leaders of this system of gymnastics did things as foolish as

Digitized by C^ooQle
-26—

those spoken of in the report printed above? To us it appears to be wise for the “correspondent” to secure a leave of absence and take a trip to Europe in order to see what physical' training schools on the continent are-doing.

Personally, we have always been a little suspicious of those who at every moment are ready to make any system responsible for all that is good or bad in physical training. As a rule these people need watching—or education.

—The Klinische Wochenschrift of Berlin, Germany, in reporting on Mechanical Fastors in Digestion says that Ehrmann’s chemical and clinical research has demonstrated that the muscular contractions, the kneading and pressing, in the digestive tract have a powerful influence in promoting the action of the digestive juices. Persons with strong musculature can thus get along well even with defective secretory conditions, as also persons with atony of the muscles can digest fairly well' if the digestive juices are particularly powerful. His work emphasizes the benefit liable to be derived from massage in cases of atony, thus supplying from without, in the massage, the missing mechanical factors.

The same publication speaking of Constipation in Relation to Asthma says:—‘Ebstein does not suggest that asthma is always due to constipation, but states that he has in a number of cases found that the asthma subsided as chronic constipation was cured. In one such patient there was an interval of nine years before the asthma returned, accompanied by dyspepsia and constipation; as gastro-intestinal functioning was restored to normal the asthma disappeared anew. In every case of asthma it is a good plan to be sure that the digestive tract is functioning properlv as the first step in treatment. In one of the cases described a boy of 8 was cured of unusually severe asthma by. relief of constipation.

—Through an error the following exercises were omitted in our last issue from the wand exercises arranged bv Dr. Krogh:—

In Part III between 3 and 4 the following should be inserted:

4.	Lunge obliquely left forward and bend arms for thrust, I and 2* Thrust forward, 3 and 4. Reverse, 5 and 6. Return, 7 and 8. Repeat,. 9 to 16. The same right, I to 16.

F.	1 and 2, repeat E. 1 and 2=32 counts.

3.	Lunge left sideward and raise arms forward, 1 and 2. Place right hand on right hip, left arm over head and bend trunk right sideward, 3 and 4. Reverse, 5 and 6. Return, 7 and 8. Repeat, 9 to 16. The same opposite, 1 to 16.

NORTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA AMATEUR ATHLETIC

FEDERATION.

On Saturday, February 3rd, the following organizations met in Scranton to form a federation: Scranton Central High School; Scranton Technical High School; Lackawana Business College of Scranton; Pittston Y. M.

C.	A. and Scranton Y. M. C. A. It is expected that other organizations will come in later as soon as plans for the Federation are perfected

Digitized by CjOOQle
-27-

BOYS CAMP OF THE PLAYGROUNDS ASSOCIATION OF

In the judgment of the hoy campers and their parents Camp Stecher was a successful experiment by the Playgrounds Association. Of course a glance at the reports of the Association of the last two years will prove that every undertaking has been a success. In fact the accomplishments are beyond what anyone of the group of men, who met to form some sort of Association for Athletic work for the children of Philadelphia, could have imagined. Little did these men conceive that within a few years from the time of their first meeting splendid play,grounds would be established, an increasing number of school yards opened during the summer vacation under competent supervisors of play, swimming pools under trained instructors, and river piers where trained nurses and physicians would give medical aid and advice to the mothers and babies forced to remain in the city during the warm weather. With these public playgrounds, pools, piers and school yards thousands of boys and girls are afforded the opportunity to have wholesome pleasure under the finest of supervision.

Further, the Association has achieved municipal supervision and support for supervised play. Could there be for the boys of Philadelphia any other form of activity that could be organized by the Association? Yes, supervised play in the open country would be more ideal than play within the city. Camp Stecher was established for the season of 1911 as an experiment.

And a splendid camp it was, located among the mountains about three miles from the nearest town. Point Pleasant, Bucks County, Penna. Outside influences were not a factor in the management. The camp was a little community in itself with its two lines of khaki canvas tents (9%xl4 feet) facing on what might be properly called the camp street. A large frame house at one end of the camp ground offered a fine dining room, kitchen and stock room. If the writer adds that each tent contained four army regulation canvas cots, that each tent was placed on a board floor, that these board floors were elevated about six inches from the ground and that the ground had a gentle slope that offered natural drainage in time of storm or bad weather, even and inexperienced person will realize that the Playgrounds Association chose an ideal spot. It might be of interest to any city or association contemplating a boys' camp to know that not one of these features that the writer has mentioned should be overlooked if the camp is to be a healthful settlement.

'Poo great care can not be exercised in the matter of sanitation. Toilet facilities must be adequate. Moreover, the location of the toilet should be such that the air within a reasonable distance of the camp will not become polluted even when the wind blows toward the camp from the outhouse. Garbage must be burned or buried. Wet clothing must not remain in the tents and the tents must be kept open during the whole of every clear day.

PHILADELPHIA.

By Henry T. Moore, Philadelphia.

Digitized by
-28-

A lesson in discip1 ine may be drawn from this last statement. Tents with their sides drawn high np not only insure dry cots and bed clothing, but also otfor, at any time during the day, to the director, an unobstructed view of the interior of every tent. Little mischief occurs in the open.

A canal flows past the camp and offers ideal swimming and boating which are absolutely safe, for those enjoying these pastimes on this narrow body of water are within easy reach of a councilor at all times. Accidents on the water vdiich are likely to occur at any time are reduced to a minimum.

A large athletic field was located between this canal and the Delaware river. Usually fishing is fine in the river. The sloping shore of the river, moreover, is a splendid spot for the teaching of the nonswimmer.

Commendation is due to the officers and members of the Association who chose this camp sire and equipped it. A more ideal spot and fuller equipment for a boys’ camp could not be offered for the small amount of board charged. Ifecall the fine tents, with the flies, placed on board floors, the sloping ground, the old house with its dining room and kitchen, th° safe swimming and boating, the athletic field and the river for the fisherman and non-swimmer, and you will agree that

“Warming Up before the Game.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-29-

praise should be given to those who conceived the idea of a boys* camp for low board.

The camp management was in charge of a director, a nurse, three senior councilors, and three junior councilors.

The object of the Camp as stated above was supervised play in open country. Fun, it was all fun. One boy in exclamation summed up the situation as follows: “Fun, fun, fun and ‘cats’.” Is it not obvious that no better way can be given a healthy boy of fourteen years or over to while away several weeks in pleasure than to let him loose in a wooded country under the supervision of men who know how much of an animal a boy is and who know how to train him to realize what is fun and what is not?

At camp the boy learns to live in a community, to work with others, to respect others’ rights. He is required to share sleeping quarters with three boys. A portion of camp cleaning falls to his lot, and he does it. Anyone who knows boys will agree that a healthy boy will not shoulder the fellow camper’s duties. Every boy in every tent does just one-fourth of the wrork after he has lived at camp a few days. At the rising bell a boy is required to get out, dress, wash himself and arrange his blankets and cot. Within a certain given time the breakfast bell sounds and no boy is allowed to take his place at table until his tent is just so. If he tarries long Ihe dining room door will be closed and he will receive no breakfast. The boy learns that he must tend to his own business and let number two hustle for himself. Breakfast is a high price to pay for tardiness.

The motto at camp is, “As you do unto others, so they do unto you.” Let a boy, for instance' give poor and slow service when he is waiter and he will find the service poor and slow next day when some other fellow plays waiter for him. The boy is forced to realize that he serves to-day and is served to-morrow If your son, therefore, returns from camp and reports that lie did not receive fair treatment at the hands of his fellow campers, yon should take him aside and teach him the rules governing his conduct toward others. At home he is “our John,” J>ut at camp he is, possibly, one of ten Johns who receive just what they give others.

The writer took great pleasure in showing parents what real boys their sons were. On a visiting day when the boys were ready for swimming and the parents wrere gathered around to see their sons in action, the signal, “All in,” would be given.

Almost simultaneously twenty or thirty boys would dive or jump into the canal. Floating, diving swimming, ducking under the water, plunging each other under, riding an empty barrel, playing water polo and every form of water amusement that the vivid imaginations of a group of boys could devise represented the activities for a given period of time every morning and afternoon, every day in the week, for ten weeks during the summer of 3911. As this long sentence leaves one short of breath so did the water sports. “Here we go” is heard and three or four boys go diving together into the water. “Watch me5’ and a boy goes to the bottom to return shortly with a stone. “Here

Digitized by CjOOQle
—30—

is the depth” and a boy disappears below the surface, his arm and hand stretched full length above his head. “Get it, get it” and a group are off for the polo ball. An observer feels like one who gets to a three ring circus and laments the fact that man can not see in three directions at one time. A parent looked at this and missed that. The general comment of visitors was that if a boy could not enjoy Jife at a camp he was not a real boy.

Boys, if the writer were talking to you, he would say that a real vacation is found in rough, blood-tingling camp life. 'Phe above account of the fun in the water is only a taste of the varied life like pleasures at the camp on the Delaware under the auspices of the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia.

The director of the camp can loll back in a cozy chair in his home and draw mental pictures of the boys who came to camp and had, for a week or more, a “bully” good time. He can see those boys at baseball, basket ball or in the boats, playing tag, quoits, or what not. He can see those boys in the morning eager for a tramp of ten or more miles over the mountains. How tired they are when they return from their glorious tramp, having climbed fruit trees, having had a swim, having explored a cave, having done a thousand things during the course of their day's'fun that comes only to a group of boys with their pent up spirits let loose.

In his mind's eye he can see those boys with their keen appetite

“Pitching- and Catching on the Campus.”

Digitized by {^.ooQle
-31-

rushitig to the dining room at the sound of the bell and making the food literally vanish.

A sound sleep in the open is the fitting end to any day at camp. The tired boy of the night before is the boy in the morning who has forgotten thnt there is such a thing as fatigue.

To the reader it may be of interest to have stated the menu for a week and the total cost as prepared by the Association.

A. M.	MENU FOR A WEEK. SUNDAY.  NOON.	P. M.
Cream of Wlpeat.	Meat Cakes.	Celery.
Bacon.	Fr. Fried Potatoes.	Pot Roast.
Egg* (fried.)	Lettuce.	Canned Peas.
Bread.	Fresh Peaches.	Boiled Potatoes.
Butter.	Bread.	Watermelon or Ice Cream
Coffee or Milk.	Butter.	Bread.
	Tea or Milk.	Butter.
Oatmeal.	MONDAY. Dried Beef.	Coffee. Lamb Stew.
Fried Bread.	Baked Beans.	Mashed Potatoes.
Prunes.	Sliced Tomatoes.	Lima Beans.
Bread.	Canned Peaches.	Tapioca Pudding.
Butter.	Bread.	B & Butter.
Coffee or Milk.	Butter.	Coffee.
	Tea or Milk.	
Cream of Wheat.	TUESDAY. Pressed Ham.	Chopped Beef.
Buckwheat Cakes.	Fried Potatoes.	Buttered Beets.
Molasses.	Lettuce.	. Boiled Potatoes.
Bread.	Prunes.	Rice Pudding.
Butter.	Bread & Butter.	B&B.
Coffee or Milk.	Tea or Milk.	Coffee.
Cornflakes.	WEDNESDAY. Tomato Soup.	Beef Steak.
Ham.	Irish Stew.	Fresh Beans.
Fried Eggs.	Sliced Tomatoes.	Buttered Beets.
Bread.	Lettuce.	Baked Potatoes.
Butter.	Baked Apples.	Bread Pudding.
Coffee or Milk.	B&B.	B&B.
	Tea or Milk.	Coffee.
Shredded Wheat.	THURSDAY. Boiled Ham.	Bean Soup.
Frizzled Beef.	Sliced Tomatoes.	Canned Peas.
Bread.	Sweet Cakes.	Scalloped Potatoes.
Butter.	B&B.	Corn Starch.
Coffee or Milk.	Tea or Milk.	B&B.
	FRIDAY.	Coffee.
Puffed Wheat*	Canned Salmon.	Fish.
Boiled Eggs.	Baked Beans.	Canned Com.
Bread.	Tomatoes.	Boiled Potatoes.
Butter.	Bananas.	Fruit Pudding.
Coffee or Milk.	B&B.	B&B.
	Tea or Milk.	Coffee.
	SATURDAY.	
Oatmeal.	Ham Croquettes.	Beef Steak.
Fried Bread.	Stewed Tomatoes.	Canned Peas.
Fried Potatoes.	Lettuce.	Fr. Fried Potatoes*
Prunes.	B&B.	Fruit Cups.
B&B.	Stewed Pears.	B&B.
Coffee or Milk*	Tea or Milk.	Coffee.

Digitized by
-32-

FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF BOTH CAMPS *

A. EXPENDITURES.

1.	The cost of the equipment, consisting of 40 tents with board floors,

125 cots, 175 camp stools, cooking utensils, stoves, tableware sufficient for 125 people and accessaries.......................   $2,323.00

2.	The cost of the food supplies for 10 weeks was:

Groceries.....

Meat..........

Butter & Eggs..

Produce.......

Milk..........

Bread.........

$1,062.85

137.11

431.45

276.23

172.96

154.80

3.	Salaries of attendants, including labor in preparing camps........

4.	Miscellaneous supplies, freight, expressage and physician.........

5.	Transportation of campers, attendants and weekly visits from office..

6.	Printing 5000 copies of prospectus, receipt books, cards and circulars..

7.	Rent of camp sites................................................

Total cost of camp............................................

Weekly cost per capita, including 20% of the cost of the equipment and part transportation...........................................

2,235.40

1,280.56

363.99

978.67

353.00

200.00

$7,736.42

6.96

COMPARISON OF EXPENSES OF EACH CAMP FOR FOOD

ITEMS.

Boys: 482 Weeks.

Groceries..................

Produce....................

Bread......................

Milk.......................

Butter & Eggs..............

Meat.......................

Coal (for cooking).........

Oil (for cooking)..........

Total...................

Girls: 643 Weeks. Total 1125.

.$ 628.83V2 .	317.02%

23.63 79.01 .	227.86

27.38 7.68 7.75 .$1119.17

Groceries..........

Produce............

Bread.............

Milk...............

Butter & Eggs.....

Meat.............

Coal (for cooking)..

Oil (for cooking)..

Total..........

$ 434.01% .	159.20Va

131.17 93.95 203.59 109.73 14.80 4.84 % $1151.30%

Groceries per boy, per week... $1.30

Produce	“	44	“	“	... 0.242

Bread	“	“	“	“	... 0.049

Milk	44	4%	44	44	... 0.164

Butter & Eggs 44	44	44	... 0.472

Meat per boy, per week.......4	0.0568

Average cost per boy, per week. $2,322

Groceries	per girl,	per week......$0,674

Produce	4 4	4	4	44	“	  0.247

Bread	44	4	4	44	44	  0.203

Milk	4 4	44	44	“	  0.146

Butter & Eggs 44	44	44 ...... 0.316

Meat per girl, per week.......... 0.170

Average cost per girl, per week. $1,790

Average cost per child, per week $2,018.

B. RECEIPTS.

Total receipts from all sources $4200.00, divided as follows:

845 weeks at $4.00 per week................................ $3,380.00

373 campers transp. @ $2.00................................... 746.00

215 meals served at camp....................................... 74.00

Deficit (borne by the Playground Association)...............

Equipment cost originally.......................   $2,323.00

% charged against camp.............................   464.60

Present value of equipment for two camps.......... $1,858.40

$4,200.00

3,536.42

* See article on girls camp in the last issue of Mind and Body.

Digitized by c^ooQle
-35-

Synopsis of Actual Happenings During a Typical Week at Starr Garden Recreation Park, Philadelphia, During the Month

of January.

Philip C. Jacobus, Principal in charge.

SUNDAY

Afternoon 1.30 2.00

2.00

2.00

2.00

3.00 4.15

Evening 7.00

7.00 7.30

MONDAY

Morning

Afternoon 3.00

Evening 7.00

7.00

7.00

8.00 8.00 8.00

8.00

TUESDAY Morning Afternoon 3.00

3.30

4.00

4.30

Evening 7.00

7.00

7.00

WEDNESDAY Morning Afternoon 3.00

3.30

4.30

Evening 7.00 8.15

THURSDAY

Morning

Grounds open.

to 5.30 Game and reading room open. Magazines, books, checkers, chess, dominoes, crokinole, etc. to 5.30 Basement open. Rubber quoits, “Odd Pins” (a bowling game), checkers, crokinole, etc.

Wharton Club (Young Men) Business meeting.

Ja Beez Club

Tbeo Starr Club “

Brown’s Club “	“	“	“

to 9.30 Game and reading rooms and basement open with same activities as afternoon.

Nonpariel Club (Young Women) Business Meeting.

Starr Garden Orchestra Practice.

The grounds and outdoor apparatus used only slightly at this time of year because of wintry conditions.

Every morning, except Sunday, the grounds and building are open as a public comfort station at 8.00 o’clock.

to 5.30 Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open with same activities as on Sunday. On one session school days, open an hour earlier.

On holidays and Saturdays, open in the morning, to 9.30 Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open to those over 14 years.

Meeting of Board of Directors of Dancing Classes, to 8.00 Older Bovs’ Gymnasium Class and game in goal ball league.

Femdale Club (Older Girls) Business Meeting, to 9.30 Yonng Women’s Gymnasium Class.

Meeting of the Executive Committee of the Theo. Starr Club.

Checker Club Meeting.

As for Monday.

Game and Reading Room and Basement open as for Monday.

Class in Cut Outs and Pasting for Children, to 5.30 Boys (13—14 years) Gymnasium Class and game in goal ball league, to 5.30 Girls (10—14 years) Raffia Class, to 9.30 Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open as for Monday.

to 8.00 Older Girls’ Gymnasium Class.

Volley Ball Committe (Men) Meeting.

As for Monday, to 5.30 Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open as for

Monday.

to 4.30 Children’s (Boys and Girls 6—10 years) Gymnasium Class.

to 5.30 Younger Boys (10—12 years) Gymnasium Class, to 8.15 Beginner’s Dancing Class, to 9.45 Advanced Dancing Class.

As for Monday.

Digitized by Google
Afternoon

Evening.

FRIDAY

Morning

Afternoon

Evening

SATURDAY

Morning

Afternoon

Evening

3.00	toHkSO Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open as for

Monday.

4.00	to 6.30 Girls' (10 to 14 years)Gymnasium Class.

4.30	to 5.30 Boys' Basketry Class.

5.00	to fi.00 Starr Jrs. Soccer Club (Boys 13 to 14 years) Business

Meeting.

7.00	to 9.30 Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open as for

Monday.

7.00	to 8.00 Older Girls' Gymnasium Class.

8.00	to 9.30 Young Women's Gymnasium Class.

8.30	Melrose Athletic Club (Young Men) Business Meeting*

8.00	Starr Garden Wireless Club Business Meeting.

As for Monday.

3.00	to 5 30 Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open as for

Monday.

3.30	to 4.30 Children’s Gymnasium Class.

4.00	to 5.00 Girls* Raffia Class.

4.30	to 5.30 Boys' Gymnasium Class.

7.00	to 9.30 Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open as for

Monday.

7.00	to 8.00 Older Boys’ Gymnasium Class.

8.00	to 9.30 Young Men's Gymnasium Class.

8.00	Brown’s Club Special Meeting.

7.00	Starr Garden Park Council, Rules and By-Laws

Committee Meeting.

8.00	to 9.30 Grounds open.

9.30	to 3 2.00 Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open.

2.00	to 5.30 Game and Reading Rooms and Basement open.

2.00	to 3.00 Younger Boys’ Gymnasium Class.

3.00	to 4.00 Older Girls' Folk Dancing Class.

4.00	to 4.30 Men’s Gymnasium Class Leaders.

4.30	to 5.30 Men’s Volley Ball League Games.

7.00	to 9.30 Games and Reading Rooms and Basement open.

7.30	Meeting of Ushers' Committee.

8.00	to 9.45 Gymnastic entertainment for adults given by mem-

bers of the Men’s Gymnastic Class. Entertainment followed by several (fances.

The baths are used by men, women and children after each gymnasium class, and at other stated periods on week days.

In addition to the regular routine of games, in the Game Rooms and basement, tournaments and contests, are held several times each week for the various groups.

Activities in the afternoon are almost entirely for children under 14 years; in the evening for adults and children over 14 years.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

—Dr. Walter S. Cornell, the newly appointed chief medical inspector of the public schools of Philadelphia has organized his department and has started pl'ans for improving the health of the children in the public schools. ^ A system of efficiency and thorough work has been arranged by Dr. Cornell, who will be assisted by 55 physicians, 5 district inspectors, and 15 nurses. In a statement he outlined his plans, in part, as follows:—

“The general plan comprises the apportionment of districts to inspect? ors and nurses, the systematic examination of children, the detection of

Digitized by t^ooQle
children suffering from contagious diseases, notification of parents, following up of cases where the parents prove careless, and the instruction of poor children to use the various, free dispensaries and clinics.

“We are making a list of all feeble-minded children in the schools and intend to get them into proper institutions as soon as is possible, where they will be protected and the school system relieved.”

KING WINTER.

King Winter looked 'round the playgrounds and found All seesaws and swings put away.

“The children are sad, but I’ll make them glad By equipping the playgrounds for play!”

Then up came a squall that covered them .all With feathery snow in a trice!

Some drifted aside, disclosing a slide Of polished and glistening ice!

“O ho!” said King Winter, “You see I'm a sprinter At beating old Time in a skip.

I hold the world championship!”

For sliding and coasting, without any boasting,

—Grace F. Pennypacker in Philadelphia Press.

—The future physician's work will principally consist in telling people how to keep well.

A mother whose several small children have escaped attacks of infections and contagious diseases, argues:—“I need not wait for the future physician's lecture which will prove a help to families scourged by frequent illness. I may begin now endeavoring to learn how to prevent illness.”

The most careful mother has a difficult task in the endeavor to make a sunless house a happy or healthy home. In our cities there are rows of liouses situated in the residence portion of the city crowded close up together. The only good lighted rooms are in the front and rear of the building.

The woman whose home is dark, damp, surrounded by evils, disease-inviting, may understand the causes producing suffering and disease in her •own household. She will in many instances be unable to secure good light, •water, drainage, and the various causes which affect health.

The woman who is about to purchase a home may investigate the *building's interior, the surroundings, and not the architecture. Better search long and thoroughly for a well-lighted, clean house, than get a bargain with a drawback. Ornamental architecture pleases the eye. The lov-«er of beauty may incline to sacrifice a homely, necessary quality to outside ornamentation.—“Health ” L o ndo n.

—There appears to be a prevailing impression that men are not only less subject to ailments and diseases and are longer-lived than women; but an examination of life assurance companies' tables will show that the term of life of women is slightly longer than that of men. The difference in the mortality rates during the first few years of life is striking. During the

Digitized by Google
-36^-

first year the mortality among mate® is decidedly greater than among females. Though more boys are born than girls, the proportions are reduced to almost even terms at the end of the first year by the excessive made mortality. Even during the first four years the mortality among males exceeds that among females, notwithstanding the fact that there are practically no distinctions made in the management of the two sexes. Both are subject to the same conditions, are dressed virtually alike, and receive the same food. At about five years the comparative death-rate among girls begins to increase. This has been attributed to the fact that boys of this age are more in the open air. -The mortality in both sexes diminishes from this time to the twelfth year, when it attains its lowest point. It then steadily rises, being larger in each successive year. Between the twelfth and sixteenth years the death-rate among girls increases more rapidly than among boys, ibut after the sixteenth year for several years the rate of increase is more rapid on the male side.—"Health ” London.

—Cold water bathing and sponging the throat with cold water is very valuable in strengthening the body, and the throat especially, against taking cold. In cold climates or in winter the average person’s throat will be best protected by soft and close-fitting clothing around the neck—with men a soft shirt with a soft collar is better than a shirt with a stiff white collar, A fur collar turned up at the neck protects the ears sufficiently,from the cold. These precautions are very necessary in regions like the Adirondacks or other northern mountainous health resorts. Persons suffering from a dry catarrh or with very severe tuberculosis of the throat may be more comfortable in a warmer and moister atmosphere.

Persons who begin to take the cure seldom wear heavy enough underclothing. The endeavor to take more milk and eggs than can be digested is also an evil factor in some cases, but you had best consult your doctor before deciding that this is the trouble in your particular case.—Dr. Wm. R. Butt m “The Fresh Air Magazine.'*

—'The Dec. 1911 was the last issue of The Fresh Air Magazine. The Board of Directors of the Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, who have been publishing this periodical, have decided that the Journal of the Outdoor Life covers about the same ground as that surveyed by The Fresh Air Magazine. They deem it, therefore, a duplication of effort to continue publication. The money hitherto used for this purpose will be spent in continuing the sending of weekly health, talks to no newspapers of this State and in forwarding the other educational phases of the Society’s work.

Unexpired subscriptions to The Fresh Air Magazine will be filled by The Journal of the Outdoor Life, edited by Dr. Philip P. Jacobs, 287 Fourth avenue, New York City. It is hoped that all the readers of The Fresh Air Magazine will become subscribers to this valuable journal.

—Unnatural Drowsiness. Don’t yawn; next time you feel sleepy open the window. Go into a warm room after a brisk walk in the autumn wind. You feel sleepy. Usually you blame it on the air. You are right. It is the air—but the inside air, not the outside air, that is to blame.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-37-

Outside air is fresh and has plenty of oxygen. It makes the heart beat strongly. The blood rushes through your arteries. You feel wide awake. Inside the windows are closed. Perhaps the fire is burning. This and other people in the room use up the oxygen. You have to breathe stale air. Soon the heart is beating slowly. You become drowsy, sleepy, yawny. You feel the beginning of a headache. Then throw open the window and 6ee how soon the fresh air will wake you.

Draughts won’t hurt you unless you are overheated or rundown or not properly clothed. To have the air blowing about you means that it is fresh. Pneumonia, consumption and colds breed in unventilated rooms. So throw open your windows just as often as possible if you want to keep well' and be wide awake.—“The Fresh Air Magazine!*

—We have received a preliminary announcement of the XV International Congress on Hygiene and Demography, and the prospectus of the Exhibition on Health to be held in connection therewith at Washington,

D.	C., September next.

This is the first time that an exhibition, dealing with the general field of hygiene has ever been held in this country, and taken in conjunction with the Congress, these combined events must be regarded as of great importance in the sanitary history of the country.

This Congress and Exhibition take place by reason of an invitation extended by the President of the United States, and accepted by twenty-four foreign countries, and thirty-five states of the Union. It was also accepted by the XIV Congress held at Berlin, September 1907.

Some of the features of the preliminary program are: Group I—Vital Statistics and Demography; Group II—Growth and Nutrition, Food; Group III—The Hygiene of Infancy and Childhood, especially: Hygiene of Early Childhood, Hygiene of the School Child, Hygiene of the School Building, Hygiene of Instruction, (Reading, Writing and Drawing), Hygiene of Physical Defects, Dental Hygiene, Hygiene of Open Air Schools, Municipal Hygiene with reference to Children’s Playgrounds, Parks, Roof Gardens, etc. Group IV is especially arranged for The Physiology of Exercise.

The support of Societies, Associations and similar bodies organized in the interest of any phase of the public health, as well as that of institutes of learning and scientific research is earnestly solicited.

In view of the fact that the United States was not represented at the recent Exhibition on Hygiene at Dresden and that no general exhibition dealing with the Public Health has, as yet, been held in this country, the Exhibition to be held in connection with XV International Congress is an opportunity which should not be neglected for repairing this omission.

The Exhibition will ,be arranged on a topical basis so that the material may be shown in an orderly and instructive manner and needless reduplication avoided.

Hon. Wm. H. Taft is honorary president of the Congress; Hon. Huntington Wilson, assistant secretary o? state, is chairman on organization; and Dr. J. W. Schereschewsky is secretary of the exhibition. To him all those interested in the exhibition, or wishing to participate, should send communications.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—38—

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

EMANUEL HAUG, 463 West 159th St., New York City.

The Football Rules Committee after days of deliberation have finally settled on a few radical changes in the game. The main idea in the sweeping innovations was to give the offensive team a better chance to cross their opponent’s goal line. Football men at the meeting predict that the game has been opened up, and that next year, under this new code, the football loving public will see a faster, better and more open game. Following are the changes:—

1.	Forward pass allowed over goal line for distance of IO yards.

2.	Length of gridiron, ioo yards instead of HO yards.

3.	Touchdown counts 6 points instead of 5.

4.	Four downs permitted to gain 10 yards, instead of three downs.

5.	Onside kick eliminated.

6.	Restriction of 20-yard zone on forward pass eliminated.

7.	Intermission between first and second and third and fourth periods

reduced to I minute.

8.	Kick-off from attacking team’s 40-yard down instead of midfield.

9.	After touchback, ball goes in play on 20-yard line instead of .25-yard

line.

10.	Field judge dropped from list of officials.

11.	One coach allowed on side lines during game.

12.	Field goals which first hit the ground and bound over cross bars il-

legal.	__________________

—Athletics in Army. The importance of athletic exercise in the United States Army has been emphasized by /Col. E. R. Stewart of West Point, in a recent address before the National Collegiate Athletic Association. It is an essential feature in the service that the men should at all times be in the best physical trim. The routine of marches and exercises, of course, accomplishes this to a certain extent, but it has been found that the general participation in athletic pastimes is very advantageous to the physical welfare of the men.

Col. Stewart favors a more extensive athletic policy among the soldiers and:student bodies^in the colleges. He says in part:

The subject of the military service is one in which the physical perfection of the men is of the greatest importance. We have found this to be so. The authorities who control our destinies have recently seen the necessity for encouraging a good physical condition on the part of all of our officers. Of course, the men are expected to take physical exercises which are sufficient to keep them in good physical condition, and they insist upon the enlisted men carrying about service equipment weighing about fifty pounds and going off on practice marches, which are gradually increased in severity during the course of the training season, and which finally reach a period of three days’ marching in heavy marching order. The officers on duty with these organizations participate in all those marches, and those who have not been in such a position as to be required to participate in those marches are required to take their own daily exercises and to pass physical examinations.

All of this goes to show the importance that is attached to perfect

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—39-

physical condition. Therefore, as far as the collegiate athletics are concerned, they are of value to the National in so far as they encourage a healthy participation in athletics. Therefore, as far as it appears from a purely army standpoint, the attitude which we should encourage upon the part of the colleges is that of encouraging not a development of a small number of men who are exceedingly proficient in a given sport but to encourage, in any way that this body legitimately can, a general participation in athletic events, which will tend to elevate the general physical standard of all its student bodies.

The Committee in charge of the Fifth Olympiad to be held in Stockholm, Sweden, this summer have sent us the “Special Rules for the 1912 Olympic Games” for Athletics, Cycling, Football, Gymnastics, Lawn Tennis, Modern Pentathlon, Rowing, Shooting, Swimming and Wrestling. The rules for Fencing and Yacht Racing will be out later.

In Athletics the following events will be run off:—

I.	INDIVIDUAL EVENTS.

IOO, 200, 400, 800, 1500, 5000 and 10,000 metres Flat Races.

Marathon Race (40,200 metres), no metres Hurdle, 10,000 metres Walking, Running and Standing High Jump, Broad Jump and Hop Step and Jump, Pole Jump, Throwing the Javelin (with best hand and also with right and left hand), Discus (same as Javelin), Weight Putting (same as Javelin), Hammer; Pentathlon, comprising Running Broad Jump, Javelin (best hand), 200 metres Flat, Discus (best hand) and 1500 metres Flat; and the Decathlon, comprising 100 metres Flat, Running Broad Jump, Weight (best hand), Running High Jump, 400 metres flat, no metres Hurdle, Discus (best hand), Pole Jump, Javelin (best hand), and 1500 metres Flat. Maximum number of competitors from each nation in each event is 12.

n. TEAM COMPETITION.

Relay .Race, 400 metres, 4 men.

Relay Race, 1600 metres, 4 men.

Team* Race, 3000 metres, 5 to run, 3 to count.

Tug of War. Teams of 8.

Only one Team from each nation may be entered in each event, m. COMBINED INDIVIDUAL AND TEAM COMPETITION.

Cross Country Race, about 8000 metres.

Maximum number of competitors from each nation 12.

The Cycle Road Race will be 200 miles, around Lak^ Malar.

The Modern Pentathlon will consist of:—

Duel Shooting, distance 25 metres.

Swimming, 300^metres.

Fencing, Weapon: Epee.

Riding, 5000 metres.

Cross Country Race, 4000 metres.

One day will be reserved for each event in the order named.

The Rowing Events are as follows:—

Eights outriggers (best boats) with cox.

Foufs outriggers (best boats) with cox.

Fours inriggers, sliding seats, with cox.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-40-

Single Scull's (best boats.)

Length of course in all events, 2000 metres.

The Shooting Events are:—

Army Rifle Shooting at 200, 400, 500 and 600 metres.

Shooting with any Rifle at 300 metres.

Miniature Rifle Shooting at 25 and 50 metres.

Revolver and Pistol Shooting at 30 and 50 metres.

Clay Bird Shooting.

Running Deer Shooting at 100 metres.

All matches are for Individual and Team Competition The Swimming Events are:—

I. INDIVIDUAL.

For Men—100, 400, 1500 metres free style; 200 and 400 metres breast stroke; 100 metre back stroke; High Diving, Plain; High Diving; Plain and Variety Diving (height for both 5 and 10 metres); Spring Board Diving.

For Ladies—100 metres free style and High Diving Plain at 5 and IO metres.

II. TEAM EVENTS.

For Men—800 metres Team Race, 4 men, 200 metres; Water Polo, 7

men.

, For Ladies—400 metres Team Race, 4 ladies, 100 metres.

The Wrestling Matches will be Graeco-Roman Style, 5 weights.

(a)	Feather weight up to 60 kilos (about 132 lbs.)

(b)	Light weight up to 67^ kilos (about 149 lbs.)

(c)	Middle weight A up to 75 kilos (about 165 lbs.)

(d)	Middle weight B up to 82y2 kilos (about 182 lbs.)

(e)	Heavy weight over 82kilos.

The Lawn Tennis events will be held on both covered and out-of-door courts and consist of:—

Gentlemen’s Singles and Doubles.

Ladies’ Singles and Doubles.

Association Football will be played.

PHILADELPHIA AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATION.

Last month a movement was started to organize a federation in Philadelphia to include the following organizations: Inter-Academic Leagues; Inter Scholastic League; Public School League; Northwest Church League; Philadelphia Sunday School Association; Philadelphia District Y. M. C. A.; Camden County Y. M. C. A.; Philadelphia Playground Association; Turners; Veteran Athletics and the Department Stdre Athletic League.

PHILIPPINE AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATION.

The Philippine Federation is conducting this month an Athletic Carnival to include track and field athletics, soccer, base ball, basket ball, volley ball, hand ball, bowling, cricket, rowing, pony polo and swimming. Entries are expected from China, Singapore and Japan. At least one entrant for the tennis is expected from the United States. This Carnival is an annual affair and is expected will eventually develop into what may be called the “Far Eastern Olympiad.”

Articles of alliance between the Philippine Amateur Athletic Federa-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-41-

•tion and the Bureau of Education which has control of all schools in the Islands, have been drawn up. This Bureau represents 200,000 boys and 100,600 girls. A Guide Book has been issued by the Federation which is to be distributed by the Bureau of Education throughout the Schools.

Volley ball, which was introduced a year ago, has made such rapid -progress that more than ten thousand individuals representing business men, ^students and soldiers, are now playing the game.

THE REAL ISSUE AT STAKE IN THE PRESENT ATHLETIC

CONTROVERSY-

Henry F. Kallenberg, M. D.

The readers of this magazine have from time to time read either in its pages or in other magazines and newspapers articles having such headings as ‘“Recent Developments in the Administration of Athletics”—“Oppose the Rule of the Amateur Athletic Union”—“Organization of Amateur Athletic Federations,” etc. No doubt many have raised questions such as What is this Controversy all about?—Are these federations proposing to adopt lower standards for amateur athletics ?—Are the leaders of the new movement ambitious to secure for themselves the power and control which some other organization has?

In the attempt to reply to the inquiring mind, it would not be difficult to present so complicated a case as to befuddle the reader and confuse the whole discussion. Our effort therefore is to present the real issue at stake in this athletic controversy in the simplest possible terms.

For the sake of illustration let us take a certain city in which we will suppose there are the following groups of permanent organizations conducting amateur athletics as part of their activities:

Group A—21 high schools.

Group B—20 turner societies.

Group C—30 playgrounds.

Group D—6 Y. M. C. A’s.

Group E—160 churches.	'

Group F—8 settlements.

The relation of these groups to the Amateur Athletic Uniort we will suppose is as follows:	'

Groups A and B are not members of the Union, although individual! athletes from these groups register occasionally in the Union.

Groups C, E and F each have a blanket membership in the Amateur Athletic Union, i. e., each group is considered as one member.

The* athletes in group C for example, compete among each Other without the necessity of a sanction frOm or registration in the Amateur Athletic Union. These are called “Closed” meets. In this case the blanket membership covers all the individual playgrounds, while the playgrounds as: a system have a registration* scheme of their own for the control of their athletes. A similar Statement can be made for groups E and F, while group D is a member of the Athletic League of North America, which in turn *s affiliated with the Amateur Athletic Union (This is supposed to be the case before the alliance between’ the Amateur Athletic Union and the Athletic League of North America was terminated July 1911) and in addition three of the Y. M., C. A.s arc also members of the Union.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-42-

Groups A and B, although not members of the Amateur Athletic Union,, are on an amateur basis and have as high standards as any other recognized amateur body in the country. Nevertheless teams from Group C, D, E, or F, cannot compete with A and B unless all concerned including C or D or E or F are registered in the Amateur Athletic Union at 25 cents per man. Furthermore the moment teams representing Groups C and D or E and F wish to compete against each other, such contests are called “Open” meets and every man on both teams must register as an individual in the Amateur Athletic Union at 25 cents per registration and the game between these two teams must be sanctioned by the Amateur Athletic Union.

It is difficult to understand the philosophy of this system for are not the individuals in the above illustration members of organizations which in turn arc also members of the Atnateur Athletic Union? Why, then, is this second stamp of recognition necessary? Does the mere registering of the men in the Amateur Athletic Union mate them more competent or better amateurs? Query: Why does not the Amateur Athletic Union recognize the amateur standards of the established college conferences, high school leagues, turners and Y. M. C. A.s without insisting that the athletes from these organizations must be registered in the Amateur Athletic Union at 25. cents per individual before they are recognized as amateur by the Amateur Athletic Union f The real issue of the athletic controversy is presented in this paragraph. Simple, is it not, and yet how fundamental the principle at stake.

The group cited in this article to illustrate a situation and the condition set forth actually existed in Chicago prior to 1909. In the fall of 1909 Group C, D, E and F resigned from the Amateur Athletic Union in order to free themselves from the restrictions of that membership and with A and B organized a Cook County Amateur Athletic Federation. For_this act the Amateur Athletic Union maligned, mis-represented and threatened individuals connected with the new organization, not because the Federation was undermining amateurism, but because some men anxious to do a larger and better work chose to decide for themselves with whom they should or should not be associated.

On July 17, 1911, the alliance between the Amateur Athletic Union and the Amateur League of North America was terminated. Thereupon the Amateur Athletic Union issued a statement something like the following: “That contests between two branches of the Y. M. C. A.s shall be-considered “open” meets and that such contests must be sanctioned by the Amateur Athletic Union and furthermore every athlete (even though only Y.M. C. A. athletes entered) must register in the Amateur Athletic Union at 25 cents per man. On first reading such a statement one cannot believe' his eyes and is compelled to read again in order to be convinced that he has read correctly. The position here taken by the Amateur Athletic Union is,, to say the least, presumptuous, unreasonable and overreaching.

The statements in the preceding paragraphs show clearly the present attitude of the Amateur Athletic Union with reference to its self-imposeJ position as the national controlling body in amateur athletics. That the Amateur Athletic Union has done much for athletics, no one denies, but so have the colleges, the turners, the Y. M. C. A.s and the churches.

In subsequent articles we shall take up other phases of the athletic sit-uation.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-43-

BOOK REVIEW.

—MANUAL OP WRESTLING, by Wilfred E. Cann and Wm. W. Hastings, Pb. D. 218 pages, 5% by 8% inches, profusely illustrated. Price, postpaid, $1.90. Published by the Hygiene and Physical Education Press, Battle Creek, Mich. The book is an exhaustive work on Catch-as-Catch-Can wrestling, prepared especially for teachers of gymnastics. It is devoted mainly to descriptions of holds and breaks which are clearly illustrated by 15S excellent half page cuts. It contains also an Historical review of wrestling, a chapter on styles of wrestling and rules, one on preliminary training as well as one on training diet. A brief bibliography is also added.

The book is recommended and should be of great interest to teachers of men and boys since it presents in a progressive, logical way, a large number of excellent wrestling holds that are not usually at the command of the average teacher.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—“EXERCISE AND HEALTH” by Woods Hutchinson, M. D. 156 pages, 4% by 7% inches. Published by The Outing Publishing Company, New York Mailing price 76 cents.

The book has six chapters treating respectively of Errors in Exercise, Athletics and the Heart, Muscle maketh Man, Occupation and Exercise, The real danger of Athletics and Exercise that rests. The book is written in the breezy style that is characteristic with Dr. Hutchinson.- The book abounds with short sentences like “In the field of exercise and physical training it is safe to say that if an aefion gives us pleasure, it does us good.” When speaking of systems of physical training the doctor makes the same mistake made by many other physicians who have not received a training in raticual gymnastics,

i.	e. he does not know that modern systems of gymnastics have two aims, first educational, that is habit producing and second hygienic, this is health producing. But we will overlook that as the book is full of real love for exercise.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—“THE PSYCHOLOGY OF CONDUCT” by H. H. Schroeder, Professor of Psychology and Pedagogy. 287 pages, hV2 VV2 inches. Published by Bow, Peterson and Company, Chicago. Mailing price $1.40.

In eleven chapters Professor Schroeder presents to teachers and parents an admirable study showing how right conduct helps solve the problem of moral education. If we could get every teacher (and parent) to read only the concluding chapter of the book much of the mist that now surrounds the great aim of “moral education” would be disposed. The book is heartily recommended.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—“THE SOCIAL DIRECTION OF HUMAN EVOLUTION” by William E. Kellicott, Professor of Biology. 249 pages, 5 by 7y2 inches.
Published by D. Appleton and Company, New York. Mailing price $1.65.

This book is an outline of the modem scienoe of eugenics, “the science of being well bom/’ Galton said that “Eugenics is the study of the agencies under social control, that may improve or impair the social qualities of future generations, either physically or mentally." To teachers, social workers and also to parents the book will be of great help, as it states in easily understood terms the present status of this science.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

—“GAMES FOR THE PLAYGROUND/’ by G. S. Barker, Second Master of the Royal Deaf and Dumb School, Manchester, England. 65 pages, 5 by 7y2 inches, illustrated. Published by Longman, Green and Cov New York. Price 50 cents.

The author presents 30 playground and street games that may be played anywhere without much preparation. 25 halftone pictures help to illustrate the games. The descriptions are good, and the preface by Dr. Mumford calls attention to the great value of these games of low organization.

To be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

. Books on Physical Training aid related Subjects.

Send your orders to “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis

Add 10% for Postage.

SUBSCRIPTIONS to MIND AND BODY $l.oo per Annum (10 Copies). $1.25 to Foreign Countries.

Single Copies 16 Cents.

COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY” $i.oo; bound $1.75. (Postage paid.)

Issues No. i. 2, 9, 24, 72, 149, 170, 181 and 191 are out of print. .

Theory of Physical Training.

Bodily Exercises, The Mechanism of.—By Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S..	.75

Dancing, The Healthful Art of.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D......... 1.50

Education by Plays and Games, by G. E. Johnson....................	i.OQ

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastic Kinesiology. A Manual of the Mechanism of Gymnastic

Movements, by Wm. Skarstrom, M. D....................... ...	1.25

CJymnastics, Th^ Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen   .................................................... 1.00

Model Positions.—Ten Tablets, two feet square, showing in 32 illustrations the principal gymnastic positions both in their correct and

incorrect forms. (German.) By F. A. Schmidt, M. D........... 1.85

Muscles and How to Develop Them, by F. J. Harvey....................50

- Physical Education by Muscular Exercises, by Luther H. Gulick,

M. D........................................................    75

Physical Exercises.—A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics. By F. A. Schmidt, M. D................................... .25

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
Psychic Processes and Muscular Exercises, by Prof. Angelo Mosso. A

lecture ........................................................ .20

Training for Athletics, Health and Pleasure, Practical.—By Rud.

Faries, A. M., M. D............................................ i.oo

Tactics.

A B. C. of Swedish Gymnastics, by H. Nissen.......................   ,75

Book of Drills and Marches, by B. M. Wilson...........................30

Calisthenic Training and Musical Drills, by Geo. Cruden........... . 50

Drills, Fancy.—Illustrated, by Diagrams for Children, by Kellogg...	.30

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton..........................................   .30

Drills and Marches, by Rook...........................................25

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren...	.50

Drills and Marches, by May Dickerman...............................  .30

Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army, Infantry.........................75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen..................................................... 1.0o

Hand-book of School Gymnastics, by Baron N. Posse................  .50

Musical Drills for Little Children* by A. Alexander...............25

Prize Drills and Dances, by*M. W. Morton.........................  .30

The Special Kinesiology of Educational Gymnastics. With 267 ill.

and analitical chart, by Baron N. Posse...................... 3.00

Tactics, Gymnastic.—Part I: Tactics of the Individual, by E. H.

Arnold, M. D.........................................    ..	.35

Free Exercises, Wands, Dumbbells, Calebs, etc. Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the* Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren................................... .50

Cub Exercises, Indian—and Exhibition Drills, by H. B. Camann......75

Club Swinging, by William Schatz................................  1.00

Cub Swinging, Indian.—1, 2 and 3 Club Juggling, by Fri E. Miller. 1.00

Dick’s Dumb-Bell and Indian Club Exercises....................... .25

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gym- . nasties. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50.

Wand Drill, by R. Pertuch.......>.................................IO

Apparatus Work.

Apparatus Work, Elementary.—of the German System of Gymnastics,

by E. H. Arnold, M. D.; arranged by Frances N. Boynton........35

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By S. P. Middleton....................... 1.00

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises, by L. Puritz....................60

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50

Horizontal Bar, The.—By H. Butterworth........................ 1.00

Dames.

Book of Song Games and Ball Games, by Kate F. Bremner............ 1.25

Children’s Old and New Singing Games, by Mari R. Hofer............30

Digitized by CaOOQle
-46-

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford..................... 1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elisabeth Bur-

chenal.................................................       1.50

Games; Captainball, Dodgcball, Soccer, Football..................  .10

Games, Graded, and Rhythmic Exercises for Primary Schools.—By

Marion B. Newton............................................  1.25

Games, Physical,—for the Youth. By A. Leibold.......................25

Games, The Teaching of Gymnastic.—By Prof. W. P. Bowen..............75

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic.—By Maria Grey..............70

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer..........75

Games for the Playgrounds, House, School* and Gymnasium, by Jessie

H.	Bancroft............................................... 1.50

Gymnastic Games. Classified by E. H. Arnold, M. D...................75

Gymnastics. A Textbook \>f the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Plays and Games for Indoor and Out, by Belle Ragnor Parson...... 1.50

Play.—Games for the Kindergarten, Playground, School-room and

College. By Emmett D. Angell...............................   1.50

Schlagball, (German Bat-Ball). A Game of Ball described in four

Grades of Difficulty by Richard Pertuch........................15

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin............................    .75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder............................ 75

Dancing.

Athletic Jubilee, by G. M. Caskey...................................50

Athletic Pageant, a dance for men and boys, by G. M. Caskey.........50

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren......................................50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford....................  1.50

Dances, Drill's and Entertainments, by Gertrude Williams-Lundgren. .75 Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal...........................................*........... 1.50

Dancing, Gymnastic. By Wm. J. Davison............................ 1.00

Folk Dances, Swedish.—By Nils W. Bergquist...................... 1.50

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer..........75

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin...............................  75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder.........................   .75

The Folk Dance Book for Elementary Schools, Class Rooms, Playground and Gymnasium, by C. Ward Crampton, M. D............. 1.50

Pyramids, Swimming, Fencing, Boxing, Wrestling, Tumbling.

Athletics. How to train for Walking, Running, Rowing, Etc., by

William Wood................................................... 25

Attack and Defense, Art of.—A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing, by Major W. J. Elliott..............25

At Home in the Water, by Geo. H. Corsan.............................75

Boxing, Dick’s Art of.—A thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-

Defence; illustrated; 127 pages............................    .25

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of,—in Form of a Catechism, by Geo.

Heintz, Sr., Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.......................25

Digitized by LaOOQle
-47-

Fencing Instructor, by H. A. Colmore Dunn........................  .25

Groupings, Athletic,—Taken from Life. By Robert Nohr, M. D. .25 How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids and Games.—By

H. Butterworth............................................   1.00

Mat Exercises, by Elmer Schreiner................................. .25

Muldoon’s Wrestling................................................ 25

Pyramids for Gymnasts. Lion and Puritz. Six Parts, each.............45

(Part 1: 72 Pyr. free; Part 2: 72 Pyr. free and with wands;

Part 3: 24 Pyr. on Ladders and Chairs; Part 4: 36 Pyr. free and on apparatus; Part 5: 34 Pyr. on Ladders; Part 6: 28 Pyr. variety.)

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part I. 80 Pyramids on one Parallel Bar...................    .70

Part II. 50 Pyramids on two Parallel Bars.....................55

Part III. Pyramids on 1-6 Tables..............................85

Part IV. 70 Pyramids,on Table and Chairs......................70

Part V. 100 Free Pyramids.....................................85

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Part: 60 Pyramids on 1 and 2 Horses.....................70

Second Part: 40 Pyramids on 3 and 4 Horses....................50

50 Pyramids on 1 and on 2 Ladders........................... 1.00

Swimming, Art of.—Illustrated; by Rich. F. Nelligan................65

Swimming, by Archibald Sinclair and Wm. Henry; illustrated......2.50

Wrestling, Dick’s Art of.—A Hand-book of Thorough Instruction in

Wrestling.....................................................25

Handbooks of Lessohs for Public Schools.

Gymnastics and Tactics, Manual of Exercises in Free.—Arranged by

E.	H. Arnold, M. D...........................................35

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen...................................................... 1.00

Gymnastic Exercises for Elementary Schools, by Harriet E. Trask..	.67

Physical Education, Progressive	Lessons. By Clara G. Baer..........50

Physical Culture for Public Schools, Manual.—By Anton Leibold...	.65

Physical Culture. Primary Book, by B. F. Johnson...............   .35

Physical Training in the School Room. By Hans Ballin............ 1.00

Physical Training, Manual of.—-By T. Toepel, M. D................	.50

Physical Training, by T. Toepel, M. D. 8 Grades, each..............20

Physical Training and Games, Handbook of Lessons in.—By Wm.

A. Stecher.

Part I. First and	Second	Grades.........................  .35

Part II. Third and Fourth Grades..............................35

Part III. Fifth Grade .....................................  .50

The Public School Gymnastic Course, by Carl Betz, Book I 75c, II

out of print, III 75c, IV.....................................60

Subjects related to Physical Education.

A Brief History of the North American Gymnastic Union, by H.

Metzner. Translated from the German by Theo. Stempfel, Jr. .50

Anthropometric Chart, by Fr. Pfister, M. D....................  $	.02

Anthropometry and Physical Examination, by J. W. Seaver, M. D... 1.50

Digitized by ^.ooQle
Boy Problem, The.—A Study in Social Pedagogy, by M. B. Forbush. i.oo

Breathing Exercises, 240.—By Gertrude Wflliams-Lundgren............50

Camping for Boys, by H. W. Gibson.............................   1.00

“Confidential Chats with Boys,” by William Lee Howard.......... „. 1 .00

‘^Confidential Chats with Girls,” by William Lee Howard......... 1.00

Civics and Health, by William H. Allen.......................... 1.40

Control of Body and Mind, by F. Gulick Jewett—...................  50

Exercises in Education and Medicine, by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D. 3.50-

Efficient Life, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D.......................,1.20

Good Health, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D........................... .50

Health Through Self-Control in Thinking, Breathing, Eating; by W.

A. Spinney................................................   1.20

Hygiene and Morality, by Lavinia L. Dock........................ 1.35

Hygiene, Lectures in School.—By Robert Fischer, M. D—..............55

Hygiene, Reproduction and Sexual.—By W. S. Hall, M. D.......,. 1.00

Hygiene, School.—By Edw. R. Shaw...............................,	1.00

Inspection of Schools, Medical.—By L. H. Gulick, M. D........... 1.00

Living Things, Some.—Primary Lessons in Physiology. By Ella B.

Hallock......................................................  45

Lateral Curvature of the Spine, by Lovett....................... 1.75

Manhood, From Youth into.—By W. S. Hall, M. D.................... .60

Measurements, Manual for Physical.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D..	.75

Methods, Statistical.—By Geo. W. Moorehouse, M. L..................25

Mind and Work, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D........................ 1.20

Mind in the Making, by Edgar T. Swift.......:................... 1.50

Nomenclature, Y. M. C. A. ; illustrated........................  1.00

Nomenclature, Free Gymnastic.—Part I; illustrated; by E. H. Arnold

M. D.......................................................... 35

Open-Air Schools, by Leonard P. Ayres, Ph. D.................... 1.35

“Open Air”—A statement of what is being done and what should be done to secure right air in homes, schools, offices, factories, churches, etc., by William E. Watt, A. M., Ph. D. *...................  1.50

Outdoor Book for Boys, by J. H. Adams........................... 1.95

Pioneers of Modern Physical Training, by Fred. E. Leonard, M. D..	.75

Playgrounds, American.—By E. B. Mero............................	2.00

“Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene,” by William Lee Howard............. 1.00

Playgrounds, First Steps in Organizing.—By Lee F. Hanmer...........10

Play, The People at.—By Rollin L. Hart.......................... 1.65

Playground Technique and Playcraft, by Arthur and Loma Higbee

Leland ....................................................  2.5a

Physical Education, by D. A. Sargent, M. D...................... 1.50

Physical Nature of the Child, by S. H. Rowe..................... 1.00

Physiology of Exercises, Lectures in.—By Robert Fischer, M. D......55

Physiology of Bodily Exercises, by Ferdinand Lagrange, M. D..... 1.75

Red Cross Text-Book on First Aid and Relief Columns, by Major

Charles Lynch .............................................. 1.00

School Gardens, by M. Louise Green, Ph. D......................  1.25

Sex and Society. Studies in. the Social Psychology of Sex. By William T. TTiomas..........................................   1.50

The Body at Work, by F. Gulick Jewett..............................50

Digitized by CjOOQle