MIND AND BODY

Vol. 32	MARCH, 1926 No.	347

PUBUSBED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO. NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New "Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered ns second-class matter October	1 /p/6, at the postoffice at New ,

Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1S70.

THE EXCESSES OF BIRTH CONTROL.

By Louis I. Dublin, Ph. D., Statistician Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York.

When your President graciously extended her invitation to me to read a paper before this Congress, I very frankly reminded her that I was generally considered an “anti,” and, that in my writings I had, by implication, criticized rather severely the current propaganda of the Birth Control League; that I considered your movement in its present form a distinct social danger and that I, therefore, could not support it. Imagine my surprise when I received Mrs. Sanger’s reply urging me to accept a place on your programme for the very reason that she wanted my dissenting views placed before your Convention—“We want to be guided by facts,” she said. Of course I was completely disarmed and here I am within the ranks of the enemy and entirely at your mercy.

•Address delivered before the Sixth International New Malthusian and Birth Control Conference, New York, March, 1925.

Digitized by

Google
914

Let me say at the outset that I consider your invitation not only a fine courtesy, but a very real privilege. That I disagree with your founder does not alter my sincere respect for her. I admire her courage, her sincerity and her readiness co tackle a difficult social question in spite of the obstacles which constantly have been placed in her path. However great our disagreement may be, regarding the means of attaining the common goal—an efficient and happy society—I fully agree with her that the problem of birth control in all its ramifications is one which sincere and decent people must discuss. We can get absolutely nowhere by burying our heads in the sand and pretending that no problem exists; or that we must avoid its discussion as something unmentionable and even contaminating. Honest men and women should not avoid or fear to discuss openly any question so vital to their well-being.

Why, then, do I disagree with you? It is because your propaganda until yesterday has been based essentially on an emotional reaction and not on a scientific analysis. You have observed, as everyone else has, that there are poverty-stricken and diseased people whose families are far too large for their own good or for the good of the community in which they live. Granted; but does that justify a nationwide programme of broadcasting contraceptive information without reserve? You do not appear to have considered that the problem of birth control is only one aspect of the larger population problem. There is a bigger issue than the immediate preference of the individual. The very life of the State is involved as soon as we begin to tamper with who shall and who shall not be born. My objection has been that your programme has been elaborated prematurely, without due regard to the permanent interest of the State; without adequate consideration of the real population tendencies which today prevail; without sufficient regard to the reliability and safety of the procedures that you recommend and to the consequences on the spiritual life of those who are influenced by your advices. I am afraid that your effort will simply replace an evil of which we are fully aware and which we all deplore with even greater evils lurking less obviously in the background. There is need for caution; for you are playing with fire. Mistakes in population policy are more easily made than rectified.

I shall now proceed to consider some of my objections in detail. There is first, your disregard of the interest of the State. One would think from reading your literature that the matter of parenthood was entirely an individual affair. As one gentleman recently put it “I suit myself with regard to the number of my children. I owe the State nothing.” This attitude is obviously very short-sighted and indefensible. It serves, however, to focus attention to the conflict between the immediate interests of the individual and the more permanent interests of the State. The average man or woman generally
915

determines his or her personal conduct without much consideration to the good of the community. We are most of us rather selfish and need very little encouragement to avoid parental responsibility. It is often pleasanter and always easier to keep the number of our dependents down to a minimum. Today, we live; tomorrow, we die. But, the logical consequence of such attitudes is nothing short of a challenge to the permanence of the State. Society, accordingly, seeks to protect itself against such a contingency. It expresses a general disapproval of celibacy and proscribes the dissemination of birth control practices. On the other hand, it recognizes the dignity of parenthood and as a crudely constructive measure, it has recently begun to take into consideration the number of children as an item in fixing the amount of taxes. In some countries, as Professor Douglas has told us, the size of the family is becoming a factor in determining the amount of extra compensation of the worker. These are a few initial steps in the plan of the State to make more attractive to its people the obligation of parenthood. The States insists on its perpetuation and cannot condone or argue its own suicide. We may express our freedom as individuals only within the limitation that the continued existence of the State is assured.

The birth control problem is, secondly, only one aspect of the larger population question and will never be settled satisfactorily except as the larger issue is solved. Your propaganda to date has emphasized almost altogether the necessity for population reduction as though there could be no doubt of overpopulation in the United States. I shall be willing enough to admit when I go home by subway tonight that there are too many people in the world, and I have often felt that way in considering the congested areas of our large cities. These undoubtedly represent ineffective community organization. On the other hand, we have a problem of under-population in our open rural areas. But neither picture alone justifies a snap judgment on the present status of our population, whether it contains too many or too few people. A sound population analysis is called for, which would attempt to relate our present population structure to the natural resources of the country and the efficiency with which we utilize our resources. These are highly technical matters which cannot be decided out of hand, not even by generous and high-minded people. If there ever was a question which called for expert handling, it is this one. For this reason, the American Statistical Association at its recent meeting in Chicago gave five sessions to the consideration of the various phases of the population problem as it confronts America today. It was illuminating to note the great variety of opinion that still prevails among serious students of social science on virtually every topic under discussion. Where there are so many conflicting points of view, there is little room for easy dogmatizing. There can be, in fact, no simple solution, and no ready panaceas in a matter of this sort.

Digitized by Google
916

But, if there is no concensus of opinion on details, there is at least general agreement ‘that the population problem can be attacked only through long and intensive study of our present composition with due regard to the natural resources of the country, to our future immigration policy, to the organization of industry, the improvement of our channels of distribution, the training and direction of our labor supply and a host of other factors which will determine the limits of our future population. ' Such an approach is a hopeful and constructive one. It is a far cry from the hasty and rather depressing assumptions which havO determined the policy of your organization. Without much hesitation, you have ascribed most of our social and economic troubles to over-population and have proceeded to remedy them by striking at the very root of our procreating capacity.

This leads to my third objection, namely, that you have not read correctly the current tendencies in our population growth. Your impression that our numbers are increasing too rapidly might perhaps follow from a cursory examination of the population figures of the country, but not from a more intensive study of the facts. It is true that past decades have shown large increases; but, we most not forget that this growth certainly in recent years, has been mainly the result of immigration and the relatively high fertility of the newcomers. It is only in the southern states and in- the rural communities that the native population has much more than maintained itself in late years. Now that immigration has been almost completely cut off as a source of population increase, we must look to the fertility of the groups within the country and learn what the conditions of natural- increase are among them. After careful study of the situation, I have become convinced that we are, in fact, rapidly approaching a condition of a stationary population. Our study shows that the crude rates of natural increase in the United States are spuriolis and misleading. We have been living in a fool’s paradise heretofore, overlooking altogether the sources of our successive increases. Immigration has enormously padded the proportion of our people at the reproductive ages, and this has, in turn, resulted in increasing our crude birth rates and in decreasing our crude death rates. If, on the other hand, we determine what the present birth rate would be if the age distribution of our population were the result of a prolonged continuation Of our present rate of procreation, unaffected by padding from without, you will find that the figure would fall from 23 per 1,000, which it is approximately today, to well below 20 per 1,000; and the corresponding death rate would increase from a little over 12, the present crude figure, to well over 15. The effect of these two corrections resulting from an artificial age distribution, will be ultimately to reduce the rate of natural increase from over one per cent per annum to only one-half of one per cent. Our crude birth rate, however, is falling very rapidly. It has declined over

Digitized by Google
917

30	per cent in the last thirty years and the end is not yet in

sight. How much lower it may go, I do not know. But, even at its present level and with our current death rate, it will take over 120 years to double our numbers if we continue to depend on natural increase alone. These figures agree closely with the estimates of Professor Pearl who, on biological assumptions forecasted a population of close to two hundred millions in 2040. Certainly, no country with the wealth of natural resources of the United States will fail to provide its people with the necessities of civilized life if it continues to increase so slowly.	...

Another and perhaps more instructive approach is to. consider the number of births that it requires under present conditions of mortality to keep our population stationary. According to the mortality and mantal rates prevailing in 1920, it is necessary on the average for every ten married couples to have 26 children in order to replace the original quota from which the parents sprang. But, not all families have children; one marriage in every six is either sterile or does not lead to live issue. The burden of childbearing, therefore, falls on the remaining families, every ten of whom must have not 26 but

31	children. In other words, present conditions of mortality and fecundity require that families having children shall average better than three in order to maintain a stationary population. All groups of urban American families recently investigated have shown fewer children than this minimum. It is only because of the greater fertility of the newcomers and of those in most rural areas that our annual figures of increase show up as favorably as they do. I would venture the opinion that this very audience would, on investigation, illustrate the current tendency that those who are most able to assume the obligations of parenthood are not reproducing themselves.

This state of affairs is almost altogether a new thing. Until recently, it was the American fashion to have good-sized families. Professors Baber and Ross, investigating this subject among middle class families of the present generation in the Middle West, found a shrinkage in family size from 5.4 to 3.3 children in the course of one generation. This is equivalent to a drop of 38 per cent in the number of offspring in the space of only a relatively few years. Others have found exactly the same situation in other localities. The tendency toward small families has apparently become a fixed habit among the American people. I cannot consider the underlying causes for the decline m our birth rate except to point to the very obvious influence of the widespread knowledge of contraceptive methods. One would imagine from your literature that such methods were a recent discovery which, if only applied generally, would release a long suffering world from all its troubles. But, this is clearly a misconception. There is evidence on all sides that birth control practices are in vogue to an enormous degree in the United States. Every doctor, every nurse, every druggist, and

Digitized by Google
918

/

every social worker, will, I believe, admit as much. In no other way can we explain the falling birth rate of the country in recent years.

Knowledge of contraceptive methods is more widely practiced here than in any other country of the world, except Germany and Austria, where the aftermath of the war has taken all desire and incentive for living out of the hearts of the masses. Holland, which you consider the exemplar of voluntary parenthood, shows a birth rate of 26 per 1,000 as compared with 23 in the United States.

It is, therefore, not true that we are multiplying too rapidly and that we must resort to a nationwide policy of birth reduction to keep our population within reasonable bounds. The real danger, if there is one, lies rather in the change in our internal composition which will follow a too rapidly declining birth rate and our approach to a stationary population. There is always grave danger in such a shift of weakening the social organization by increasing the proportion of defective and dependent stock. For it is always the least desirable parents who are the last to curtail their fecundity. We, likewise, unduly increase the percentage of old people, whose support falls, more or less, upon the young who, therefore, face the prospect in coming years of carrying greater burdens. We must remember, too, that the greatness of America and of our large cities has reflected the prevailing enthusiasm and youth of our people. The spirit of adventure and of progress go well together and have Deen the outstanding characteristics of our young and vigorous nation. New York, which is the youngest large city in the world in the average age of its citizens, is a striking example of the power and ability of youth. Reducing the proportion of our young people, as we shall by curtailing birth rates, will at once modify the whole spirit of our intellectual and economic life. This is not a hypothetical but a very real danger^ confronting^ the country to which little attention has as yet been..paid. It is always amazing to me to consider how little we have learned from the perfectly obvious story of the population changes of France and how ready we are to travel her easy road to national misfortune.

Your movement has also thriven on a series of confusions of thought. Your efforts have been especially directed to the amelioration of the lot of that large number of poor people who, you say, have suffered from ignorance of contraceptive knowledge. You certainly have made no plea for those whose favorable economic and social status would readily enable them to bring into the world normal children and to give them every possible advantage for future citizenship. Yet, it is among these very people who need it least that contraceptive information is most widely disseminated and most intensively used. Such activity is distinctly anti-social; for it enables selfish people to escape their proper responsibilities, ultimately to their own detriment and certainly to the injury of the State. You have

Digitized by

Google
919

also won much sympathy for your program through the assumption that it works in he direction of social and economic improvement of the poor. But obviously economic battles cannot be fought by other than economic weapons. The way to meet low wages, bad housing and the other evidences of maladjustment is to attack them directly through a broad social programme including the better organization of industiy, more equitable means of distribution, constructive legislation and those other methods which are gradually bringing about a better day. You do not solve the worker’s problems by encouraging him to lose his greatest and noblest possession, his children. On the contrary, you help to maintain the status quo by accepting present economic maladjustments without a struggle.

The very first question which arises, then, is how best to regulate the granting of contraceptive information and not how to devise methods for its indiscriminate broadcasting. The State expresses clearly in its legislation that such information shall be restricted to cases where the life or health of the mother is in danger. There is undoubtedly a large group to whom information may be extended with propriety and to the welfare of all concerned. But how shall that group be defined? What demarcations shall be enforced? Shall contraceptive information be available to those who have already borne several children? Obviously, you would not put such information into the hands of young boys or girls. No sane community would dream of permitting it. What consideration shall be given to the economic status of families or other sociological factors in releasing such information? These and other vital questions must be faced and answered before your association* is justified in launching a nationwide programme of birth control.

My next objection is that you have proceeded without sufficient proof of the efficacy and the safety of the measures which you suggest. Have you not a moral obligation to assure those whom you wish to help that the procedures you sponsor are at once effective and harmless? The best medical opinion informs me that you are, in fact, not prepared to make any such guarantees. You have collected no evidence on which to predicate the measure of your success. Such information as is available indicates clearly that there is still a large element of uncertainty in the suggested procedures. Those who have studied the work of the so-called birth control clinics abroad have been equally unable to discover approved methods in general use. But, more vital, is the question of safety. Are contraceptive practices, in fact, without hazard to those who indulge in them? Gynecologists and obstetricians of the highest standing have been very suspicious of some of the devices in use and have traced serious affections back to them. Has that been answered?	Have you eliminated altogether the

possibility that such practices result in permanent sterility of young married women? I know nothing so tragic as the case

Digitized by ViOO^ 10
920

of young people who avoid children in the first years of their married life only to find later that they cannot have them when they want them. The number of childless marriages is rapidly increasing to the point of becoming a first-class problem, and there is good evidence that contraceptive practices by young people may have a good deal to do with it. What is your answer to the constantly recurring charge that various contraceptive practices lead to mental disorders affecting either the husband or the wife? And what is the usual effect on the spiritual life of those who, through continued control, keep their families down to next to nothing? This is probably the most serious single consequence of the current fashion. I do not put this at your door, for there are many causes. But nowhere, to my knowledge, has your voice been raised to warn those who, desiring more comfort and ease for themselves lose the greatest of all blessings and the source of our deepest inspiration, a family to provide for and to live for. Therein lies the well-spring of character development for adults which is choked and forfeited for what usually turns out to be a mess of useless pottage.

I could elaborate my objections were there more time; but I hope I have traced most of them with sufficient clearness to suggest that all is not well with the present organization and programme of your society. In closing, may I be permitted a few constructive remarks? You have, heretofore, limited yourselves almost entirely to arousing sympathy for those who have suffered from over-large families. Today, you might very well take up the other side of the picture and help arouse public sentiment in favor of fairly good-sized families among the rank and file of normal people. Help to set the fashion, not for large families—the day for that is over—but for families of at least three children and as many more as can be readily and effectively taken care of. One should expect a well balanced theory of parenthood from a society such as yours. Your organization could also enormously increase its usefulness by shifting its emphasis from the dissemination of propaganda to the organization of scientific research. What is most vitally needed today is more light on the problem of population and not wider dissemination of questionable contraceptive practices through such agencies as your current publications. Your magazines, sold promiscuously on street corners, are especially offensive and alienate the good will of many thoughtful people. Your first concern, in my judgment, should be to encourage study and investigation of the various aspects of your subject in the spirit of science which all could approve. In this way, you will win the enthusiastic support and cooperation of population experts, and especially of the medical profession. Through such an alliance, you may well be able to remove many of the obstacles which now hinder your progress. One cannot over-emphasize the necessity for adequate records >f your cases, their close followup and careful analysis. Only

Digitized by Google
921

through this means will you develop a sound policy. It is gratifying to note from the character of your present programme that you are already working along these scientific and constructive lines. It is my hope that as your programme of unbiased investigation develops, you may win the support of all forward-looking citizens and become true leaders in one of the most important movements of our time.

THE MAY DAY CALL TO ARMS

"A united front for child health—that’s what America needs. May Day is tile second call to the colors”.

That was one of the clarion messages that went forth last year in the celebration of May Day as Child Health Day. It is a big message. May Day, which has been established as a permanent festival is a call to the colors, a resounding call, but it is of even larger import than that.

May Day is an out-cropping—pertinent and picturesque— of a desire which is taking hold of us as a nation—the desire for health. It is a desire which has always been inherent in human beings, but never before has it been backed by such determination to push it to realization. The vision and lure of health have seized our imaginations and are spreading like a prairie fire before a high wind. We read the evidence on every signboard, in innumerable advertisements; lectures promise the golden secret; books without number, physiological and psychological, bear witness to the seeking, daily dozens offer short cuts. Science with the test tube and the microscope is on the still hunt. Psychology is adding its contribution.

Health! No gold rush in history ever aroused the same intensity of seeking.

Logically and soundly in our quest we turn at last to the children, for every scientist, every astute physician, every psychiatrist announces that the causes of practically all effects and defects lie at the base—in the early years of childhood, that period of acute sensitization, mentally, physically, emotionally.

If we begin with the children, inspire them with the ideal and vision of health, or rather hold their vision intact; establish these habits which reinforce that vision, build stamina and a high degree of immunity, eliminate defects, encourage sound thinking, and set the child in a community conscious of its health responsibility towards him, we have given such momentum that the stream of health is likely to go on through life.

Against the background of this greatly increasing desire for health and the realization that health in its original inheritance need never be interrupted, all life being a continuous flow, with the child at its source—against that larger background, May Day with its colorful pageantry and play presentations

Digitized by

Google
922

of this idea of health for children, appears not as a day apart but as an occasion significantly emphasizing the on-sweeping tide towards health for the nation and the race.

There have been two May Days in this new interpretation of a day to call to arms for child health. The coming May Day marks the third. The results of last year's celebration showed that the idea has penetrated the national imagination. The call, starting from the president, sifted down through governors, heads of State Health Departments, city and county health officials, through the heads of national and local organizations, teachers, ministers, and many individuals who hold at heart the welfare of children. The message carried through the medium of such far-reaching organizations as the American Legion, the American Red Cross, the Parent-Teachers Associations, the Federation of Women's Clubs, through schools and settlements and churches, moving pictures, the radio, and the press.

The picture of the accomplishments as a whole gives great encouragement that in building for national health we are ready, and sincerely anxious, to begin at the beginning, with the children, and that we are outgrowing the emotional and sentimental attitude and moving towards a fundamental approach to the whole subject.

May Day is contributing something to the permanent life of the country. There remains over from the last two May Days a residue of lasting interest and endeavor. These once-a-year celebrations in communities in every state are building a machinery through which health knowledge can filter, the weak places in health protection can be detected and greater strength evolved.

In a recent health survey which the American Child Health Association made of eighty-six of the medium sized cities of the United States, it was discovered through a very carefully evolved system of scoring that the children in these smaller cities (and there is no reason to believe that it is not so of the masses of children in many larger cities) are receiving just about fifty per cent of the health protection which, even in a conservative estimate, they are entitled to. It is clearly shown that between the findings of science and experience which make health possible to children, and the use to which those findings are being put, there lies a big gap.

One of the outstanding purposes of May Day is to make it clear to every community just how wide that gap is and how it can best be filled.

The more fundamental purpose is to stamp indelibly upon the minds of all who are responsible for children the vision of health in childhood, declaring the possibility of every child attaining normal health as his birthright and his continuous

Digitized by

Google
928

right up to maturity, as a key to attainment, self-expression and human happiness. Thus gradually this beckoning desire for health shall be translated from the ideal into realization and we shall emerge a nation sound at the core.

CHICAGO PHYSICAL EDUCATORS CLUB.

If there is anything wrong with the physical education program now used in the Public School System of Chicaigo it will not be long before it is discovered, if the policy of the Physical Educators Club of thoroughly discussing ever phase of this important work, is continued. The practice of inviting laymen to give their slant on the physical work being conducted in our schools, as well as the opinion of the experts engaged in the work, is bringing out a wealth of information that will enrich the field of service. Why, they are even planning to give the school boy a chance to be heard and give his views on the subject, which is not at all a bad idea. Mr. Franz Gerlich, Chairman of the Program Committee, presented no less than five speakers at the last session of the Club and each one gave some information or food for thought that was interesting and educational to the large gathering that attended.

Mr. H. R. Crooks, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education of the Chicago School Board, speaking on camps for boys, stated that the three principal purposes of boys camps are to develop health, character, and citizenship, and that of the 1200 or more camps conducted in this country each year many ought to be suppressed because they are operated for commercial rather than educational purposes. Too many of these so-called boys camps are conducted for profit without adequate supervision or with insufficiently trained councilors in charge and without the three most important requisites, a physician to look after the health of the patrons and the hy-genic and sanitary requirements of the camp, equipment that will properly protect and safeguard the patrons, and a suitable program. While athletic activities constitute a large part of the program the most valuable training is in the trips the boys take from the camp. That is when the boy is thrown upon his own resources and the education and experience gained in securing and cooking his food, preparing his bed, providing for his own comfort, and making sacrifices for the good of the troop, teach in a very effective manner, self reliance, self respect, respect for others, and the many other commendable qualities we like to see in boys and men. The selection of good councilors is more important than ever before because the minimum age of the patrons is lower than in former years. Boys from seven years up now attend camps where formerly twelve was

♦Report by Theo. A Gross, Chairman, Publicity Committee.

Digitized by

Google
924

usually the minimum age, and this requires greater care and responsibility on the part of those conducting the camps.

Mr. J. Burke of the Lindblom High School, speaking on girls camps said they are conducted as a rule the same as the boys’ camps. “I believe, however, that the girls receive more value out of camp life than the boys do. I do not think there is any better training a girl can get than that received in a well conducted camp,” said Mr. Burke.

Mr. Benjamin F. Buck, principal of the Senn High School, said in part; “I view the physical education program in the schools from three angles, teaching the game, the boy’s attitude and the development of a sense of responsibility. In considering these three phases of your work you men have a wonderful opportunity not only to develop health by exercise but also to inculcate health habits which will influence the life of the boy after he leaves school. The most important part of your work as I see it is the teaching of those things that the boy will be likely to carry on; activities and health habits that will be pursued in later life. We should have more fundamental exercise that will keep the body toned up, a more definite effort than mere exercise. I wish we could have a better scheme of keeping records of progress; something that would register by definite measurement the progress made in physical education so that we might make stronger claims than merely the accepted theory that exercise is good for the health.”

Mr. Charles H. Perrin, principal of the Lake View High School, said; “If I have any message to bring to you men who are engaged in physical work, I might begin by asking what is your influence, and why? Are we emphasizing too much the winning of games? Our ideal is to get every one in the game, and yet it seems we all like to be on the winning side, and are very apt in our enthusiasm to overlook fairness; we side for our school, regardless of how impartial we try to be. I am glad that the Board of Control of the Chicago High Schools is selecting impartial judges for the competitive games and is exercising greatest care to secure fairness in playing. Your principal work is to teach citizenship, respect, and responsibility, and I do not believe that there is any group of men doing more to put over the spirit of fair play than the men who are doing the physical education work in the schools. Your influence will do much to counteract the tendency toward unfairness in the heat of the game and to develop that respect and sense of responsibility conducive to good citizenship.”

Mr. E. C. Delaporte, Supervisor of Physical Education of the Chicago Public Schools, reporting on the physical education convention recently held in California, stated that it was the sense of the convention that physical education is sold to the people, and that even revocation of the compulsory physical education laws adopted in many states, would not dampen the enthusiasm of the people for physical education in the schools. Another thing that struck him rather strongly was

Digitized by

Google
925

the apparant tendency to swing back to a greater recognition of the value of heavy gymnastics. The pendulum that had swung far to the play and recreational side of physical education is beginning to swing back and point to a more varied and substantial educational program. There is also a tendency to standardize normal courses of physical education throughout the country, with recommendations to increase the courses to four and five-year courses, and to place more emphasis upon practical ability. Too many men and women who have received two and three year normal courses but who have not had sufficient practical ability to become proficient teachers, are engaged in the schools, and it is being recognized generally that practical ability to perform is a necessary requisite.

PLAYGROUNDS GAINING IN BEAUTY

Barren playgrounds all over America are blooming into beauty spots this year. One hundred and eighty-two cities in 42 states have entered 312 playgrounds and athletic fields in the national playground beautification contest conducted by the Playground and Recreation Association of America. The $3,000 in cash awards offered by the Harmon Foundation and $1,650 further awards in the form of nursery stock have stimulated entries. But cities have adopted the idea with enthusiasm for reasons other than awards and national fame. They realize that the bleak, ugly play space is a poor advertisement and that the contest provides an excellent objective for civic endeavor.

The South leads all other sections in the number of entries to the contest. One hundred fourteen play fields were entered by 53 cities. New York leads the states, with 27 entries from 16 cities, Illinois being second with 26 entries from 15 cities. Memphis gained the distinction of entering more playgrounds than any other city, with 17 entries. New Orleans entered ten grounds, Forth Worth, nine, and Reading, eight.

An interesting feature of the contest is the number of small communities enlisting. Nine villages of less than 500 population have elected to beautify playgrounds, which in most cases are connected with rural schools. Antreville and Coward,

S.	C., each boasting 100 residents, are the smallest. There are many other entries from towns of one or two thousand. New York City is the largest city to enter.

The small cities will not have to compete with the larger, as the awards will be equally distributed among three population groups, as follows: less than 8,000 population, 8,000-25,000, more than 25,000. The leading playground in each of these groups will receive $550, the ten playgrounds next highest, $100. Not the most beautiful playgrounds will win, but those which have made the greatest progress in beautification by Novem-

Digitized by Google
926

ber, 1926. Hence the most unsightly ground stands a better chance to win than one which is somewhat attractive at the outset.

Children are being enlisted in the campaign as a means of encouraging nature study and pride in the playground. Shutting in playground noises through skillful planting and adapting the ground to the neighborhood are considerations.

Among the organizations cooperating are women's clubs, Parent-Teacher groups, the American Legion, men’s luncheon clubs and various horticultural societies.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR CONVENTION AT ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.

The last two conventions have endorsed the work of the Playground and Recreation Association of America and the Executive Council in its May meeting endorsed in principle the program of fundamentals advocated by this association. This program and the whole problem and opportunity which leisure presents to wage earners were referred to the committee on education for study and future report.

Even first efforts to survey the scope of the problem and find sources of information and agencies concerned, reveal the ramifications involved and the fundamental importance to the undertaking. Recreation or more properly, re-creation, is essential to completeness of life. Play is something more than a pastime—for the child it is a creative method of which one learns about things and people; for older persons it combines imagination, pleasure and the satisfaction of individual desires and aspiration. But for all ages play is necessary to balance and for re-creation, and play should make it possible for every individual to meet the threefold needs of his nature—physical, mental and spiritual. Constructive use of leisure is preparation for creative work.

Our modem municipal life through both its work and its home environment makes necessary collective planning and endeavor to make available opportunities for recreation. The obviously primary steps are to provide school and municipal playgrounds and recreation centers. These should be provided both for present needs and with regard to probable future population, growth and city development. In addition to planning for the material side, there must be centers through which recreation activities are organized and directed. This phase of the problem brings us to consideration of the primary elements of city life. Modem cities are demonstrations of our mechanical triumphs, material progress and quantity production. But they have lost unity of living and coherence of group life. Size forbids a community center in the real sense. Unless there is some way for people to do together the same things, think

Digitized by Google
927

the same things, or together to consider mutual problems, there can be no real spirit of community.

The problem divides into two main parts: One providing recreation opportunities that will counteract the effects of the modem city, and the other looking to future developments of community life.

With the rapidly increasing production of electric power and the perfecting of long-distance transmission technique so that distance is practically a negligible factor, a revolutionary development is initiated. Power and machine tools will be as available on the farm as in the town. The farm will apply the practices of a machine shop and the factory may be located in green meadows. We are in the beginning of a technical revolution that will work as far-reaching reorganization of society as did the industrial revolution of the eighteenth century.

In order to meet this transition in a constructive way we must have all of the facts of industrial and social life upon which to base recreation plans. For recreation in the largest sense concerns not only leisure hours, but the spirit and surroundings under which we live and work. There are groups and undertakings concerned with city planning, regional planning, garden cities, that are now developing policies and plans that will determine future developments.

Recreation is only one of the uses for which leisure time may be utilized. There are innumerable cultural opportunities which people of all groups desire and need. To realize our democratic ideals, we must provide equality for such opportunities for all. This involves planning the material side of municipal growth as well as for cultural institutions. Much of municipal planning has been left to commercial interests. More recently we have seen the necessity of planning on a basis that comprehends the whole life of a region that possesses a unity of fundamental elements.

With material and industrial development should go the enrichment of the lives of the human agents. In addition to planning for efficient development, labor is anxious that there should be thought for beauty of surroundings in living and in industrial environment. We want our community life to have balance, fitness, purpose and culture that can grow only out of intelligent control over the environment and forces of life. We realize that we need to conserve natural resources and beauty as the essential environment for civilized life which comprehends both work and leisure.

The Executive Council has directed the committee on education to study this whole problem.

Digitized by CjOOQle
928

AIR CONDITIONS DURING SLEEPING HOURS

By Paul W. Goldsbury. M. D.

In summer during the night. Nature seems to adjust atmospheric conditions in two principal ways which promote rest. The air has usually a lower temperature and is not so dry as during the day. The coolness and softness of the air is favorable to relaxation of body tissues and so promotes sleep. We recall the soft coolness of a July morning, especially with the dew still on the grass, and of the growing warmth as the sun ascends. We are stimulated by the electric dryness of the midday hours but welcome the returning softness and coolness of the evening atmosphere. Perhaps we are more conscious of the daily flow and ebb of heat during the summer season than we are of the ebb and flow of the moisture condition of the atmosphere.

Air, as we know, when heated, expands and rises. The warmer the air gets, the more moisture or water vapor it absorbs and can hold. The nearer the ground, the heavier is the air and early in the morning, after a dew, the air at the surface is practically saturated with moisture. As the air is heated by the sun it picks up the dew and absorbs moisture from lake, stream, foliage and vegetation, in fact, from every surface which can yield up or evaporate moisture.

The day air, taking up so much moisture, may hold absolutely more water vapor than night air, that is, have a higher absolute humidity, and still the former will feel dry when the latter seems damp and soft. The increasing capacity of warm air for vapor accounts for this. The cooling of the air at night diminishes its vapor-holding capacity and when the chilling goes below saturation point, vapor, of course, condenses and settles as dew.

Indoor Conditions in Winter and Summer

In summer with windows all open, the atmosphere indoors as to temperature and moisture does not depart very far from that outdoors. How is it in winter or during seasons of closed windows? We require our buildings in January to be heated to a temperature which averages that of July. Now in our northern latitudes, Nature gives January a temperature which averages about 50 degrees lower than that of July.

With that difference in temperature, the capacity of the January air would be only about one-eighth that of July, or, to put it another way, July air has an absolute humidity several times that of January. When we take air in winter at a temperature of 20 degrees and heat it 50 degrees, we increase its water vapor capacity eight times.

The problem of raising the temperature indoors is a very simple one as compared with that of giving such air ample

Digitized by Google
929

vapor. Unless special vaporizing methods and agencies are used with artificial heating, the indoor atmosphere is very dry. One has only to test such air by the wet and dry-bulb thermometers to verify this. Often a difference of 20 degrees will be registered between the two.

We find throughout the whole winter season, in fact, during that part of the year when windows are closed and artificial heating is used, that the moisture content of the heated air is low although the absolute humidity of the heated air is but little above the non-heated outdoors. Artificial heat is not allowed to die down during the night, so as to give, say, the contrast between night and day temperatures that we get in the summer months.

No Surfaces To Yield Moisture, As In Summer

Indoors, where artificial heat is used for giving a July temperature, there are no surfaces yielding up moisture by evaporation, such as have been mentioned. If there is no special agency or evaporating media for softening and moistening the air, what is to prevent it from being dry, night as well as day? Such air must draw moisture wherever it can find it, from walls, woodwork, furniture, furnishings and from the delicate tissues of human occupants.

There may be little or no harm done by such dry air to the skin and membranous linings of the human body for short periods of time. Dry air may seem to have a stimulating effect upon persons in offices, school and work rooms, as a contrast to the chill and dampness of the outside which those persons feel in coming and going thither.

Activities of the Day Make People Oblivious to Unwholesome Environment.

The various activities and employments of the day, of conscious hours, tend to make one insensible of many discomforts and hardships and of perhaps an unwholesome environment. During these daylight hours, there is a general drive and urge of business and social life and affairs which too often throw individual preference and feeling into the background. The hours of the night afford time for recreation, for relaxation, for privacy, for getting one's self together; mental and other reconstruction, and refreshment and quiet sleep must be had for the tired frame and anxious mind if the individual is to best maintain himself.

A room kept at a temperature during the day of 65 degrees or above and having a relative humidity of 35 percent or less, that is, with the moisture, content one-third of saturation, would provoke possibly few, if any, symptoms of distress. The lips might become a little parched and there might be a little nasal irritation. But there are so many movements of the body, plays of muscles about the head and face and the use of the voice is such that these seem to counteract the little irritations to the skin and mucous membranes caused by dry air,
980

At night during sleep there are no such voluntary and counteracting little movements. The voluntary muscles about the face, as elsewhere, are in a passive state and ordinarily more or less relaxed. The air about the bed, even if not as dry as that above referred to, would irritate the membrane of the nose and perhaps cause swelling and thickening enough to interfere with free breathing through its normal channel. The mouth would thus be opened in order to get more room for the passage of air and thus lips, mouth and throat would be affected by the dry air and become parched and irritable.

A hot current of air pouring into a sleeping chamber from an open register or hall door often makes these symptoms of distress very marked, so that throat and mouth feel stiff and raw. The effect of this parching air upon the skin is not as obvious as upon the mucous surfaces of nose, throat and mouth but it is far from soothing to nerves at a time when wholesome sleep demands a reduction of whatever may be irritating.

Low Humidity of Indoor Air Long Continued In Winter Time.

The average of our winter indoor relative humidity as we have seen, will compare with the relative humidity of the driest midday hours of summer days. There are summer days in northern latitudes where the relative humidity will register below 30 percent, but not for long and such days are preceded and followed by night hours where the relative humidity may be anywhere from 50 percent to 100 percent.

Take, for example, a summer day where at 2 p.m. the thermometer registers 94 degrees and the relative humidity is a little under 30 per cent of saturation. The temperature would only have to fall about 10 degrees (which is aoout the minimum daily temperature variation to bring the relative humidity up to 50 per cent of saturation.

If on such a day the temperature should fall 20 degrees, which is about the average of daily variations, the air would be about four-fifths saturated with vapor and would have a relative humidity of 80 per cent. This is a theoretical estimate but serves for practical purposes.

As the heated summer air contains so great a quantity of vapor in suspension and so much moisture is accessible, low relative humidity is a matter of but a few hours and, with lowering of temperature, that percentage rises. The dryness of a few hours, followed by a softer atmosphere, does not put the skin or delicate membranes to undue tension. It is another matter to subject them for long hours to the pulling of moisture from them by an air of such a temperature that it is in fact very greedy for moisture wherever it can abstract the same.
931

Atmospheric Conditions In A Boston Apartment During

January

For the past few years the writer has been making a study of temperatures and relative humidities at the rising hour to determine something of the quality of air about his pillow during the hours of sleep. Considering the fact that the temperature on retiring would probably be substantially higher than that during the hours following midnight, he thought an early morning reading of these might give a fair average of both temperature and humidity for the night as a whole.

The first chart (Fig. 1) shows the early morning relative humidity readings in a Boston suite, indicated by dashes for a typical winter period. The average of these readings is about 38 percent. This apartment had two rooms, kitchenette and a bath and was shared with two other persons. The heat was turned off from one room and sometimes both. The writer occupied a room facing the street and these windows were more or less freely opened.

Fig. 1. Early Winter Moraine RoUtivo Hwnidilf Rending* in n Boatoa Apartment

Cantinuoua Line Show* Outdoor lUUttvo HomMktr Variation* Purina Sam* Meath.

Attempt was made whenever possible to keep open the window in kitchenette, the window open into the other chamber which opened on air court, and all doors open, in order to get thorough ventilation. Of course, there was always more or less of a handicap in getting the other occupants to accept a program without some modifications, due to weather variations, etc. The beds were so placed as to be out of drafts.

If the writer had been able to place the head of his bed nearer the windows, an improved reading, lower temperature and higher relative humidity, would undoubtedly have been obtained. It must be remembered that the continued upkeep of heat in the hall and whatever heat there was in suites about this tended to sustain heat here in spite of efforts to reduce such. In short, the humidity readings are the best the writer could obtain in a situation where he could not have things as he would plan.

Digitized by CjOOQlC
932

The continuous line in same chart shows the range of relative humidity readings outdoors from government records. We find there were daily ranges of relative humidity from about 10 percent up to 60 percent, that the average for month, night and day outdoor readings approached 70 percent, and that on less than one-third of the days did the lowest outdoor reading go below the highest obtained in the suite.

To sum up, while the writer was occupying a suite in which the range of temperature ran from 90 degrees down to 50 degrees or 55 degrees and the relative humidity from 12 per cent up to 52 percent (extremes for the month, not the day) with artificial heating and ventilation. Nature outdoors showed a temperature range of from 50 per cent down to 10 degrees below zero and a relative humidity range from 19 per cent (extremely low) up to 100 percent.

Summer Temperature and Humidity Readings In A

Country Lodge

Contrast this chart of humidities taken through the month of January in a Boston suite with those taken in a small lodge where the writer spent the summer, six months later (Fig. 2).

Fig. X. Early Ssamr Marmiag Relative HqgaidHy Readiagi ia a Ceuatry Lodge

This building was fixed up by him a number of years ago in a way to obtain free and thorough ventilation. It is set about 100 ft. back of a farm house, is well shaded during the heat of the day by an ample maple tree directly south of it. The building is about 10x14 ft., has windows on each side and a door, all of which are screened. It is set about a foot above the ground, standing on posts, and never seems damp except as windows are open and it gets damp outside. The windows are never closed during the warm months except to keep out a driving rain or on the windward side during a severe wind. The land on the northeast and west sides slopes gently away from this building and there are no trees or other obstructions to free ventilation.

This place lies somewhat in a valley, so early morning mists are not uncommon with often a registering of 100 per cent relative humidity just outside of this lodge. This dampness rarely penetrates the building.

Temperatures here inside the building averaged 2 1-2 degrees Jiigher in the early morning than those outside. The, relative

Digitized by VjjOO^IV^
988

humidities average 8 percent lower in the morning and about that much higher at midday. The relative humidities averaged about 74 percent for the month' (about double that obtained in the unwieldy suite) and the air condition was certainly conducive to restful sleep.

An outdoor sleeping chamber can be arranged to approximate very satisfactorily Nature’s arrangement of temperature and moisture. With the head of the bed between open windows (avoiding, of course, strong drafts) and a practical reduction of heat in the rest of the sleeping chamber very satisfactory air conditions for sleeping hours are often obtained. Any improvement in lowering unnecessary moisture abstraction from body tissues during sleeping hours means, of course, increasing the value of such rest. The human frame seems to respond to tonic flows and ebbs of heat and ebbs and flows of relative humidity. These harmonic rhythms of change seem to be necessary to the promotion of the best service from all its functions and activities.— Heating & Ventilating Magazine.

SWIMMING*

By J. Herbert.

It must not be thought that since summer has left us and we are again faced with one of our usual cold, damp and muggy winters, we are forced to put aside all thoughts of swimming for the next eight months. On the contrary much can be done in preparation for the few months usually devoted to water drill.

We should remember that the movements of the limbs, the correct timing of the strokes and the correct action of the muscles are not easy to acquire, and in fact the learning of swimming comes as difficult to some children as does the learning of walking to most babies. Walking in its early stages is a difficult act, requiring much mental concentration, and only when the movements have been performed for many months does any degree of skill become apparent. The act of walking is performed correctly and successfully only when the individual movements have become automatic. This, of course, is known to everyone, but that the same principle underlies every such movement is not always realised, and in particular with regard to swimming it must be clear that once the movements have been learnt so that they can be performed without conscious thought, then three parts of the battle will be won.

It is not essential that the strokes should be learnt in water. In fact to start with a class by taking water drill is often to

•From “Physical Education,” England.

Digitized by

Google
934

lengthen the period of learning, for it must be remembered that in the first place the children are in a new atmosphere, which often produces fear in the boldest; in the second place, difficult movements have to be learnt; and thirdly harmonious movement is essential. To expect the child to overcome all these difficulties at the same time is ridiculous. Let us concentrate, therefore, upon one or two of the essentials and introduce new things when the children are ready for them.

The movements of the arms and legs in the breast stroke can be taught with exactitude on land, forming what is termed the “Land Drill’’ of swimming.

Land Drill

Children arranged in four files or ranks well spaced out.

Stage 1.—Children taught the correct movements of the arms at first by numbers, later judging the time.

Stage 2.—Children taught the correct leg movements, one leg at a time (hips firm position). Take at first by numbers, later judging the time.

Stage 3.—Combined leg and arm movements, at first by numbers later judging the time.

Stage 4.—Combined leg and arm movements with correct breathing.

Stage 5.—The children are paired off, number I takes a prone position across a bench or form whilst number 2 takes up a position kneeling at the feet of number I and grasping his ankles. The teacher faces his class and commands it by numbers 1,2,3,4, and the number I's perform the leg movements by the number 2’s. Later this is performed without the assistance of number 2.

Stage 6.—Combined leg and arm movements, supported on bench, etc.

Stage 7.—Ditto and add correct breathing.

This should be performed until the children can perform the movements in their own time, correctly and without effort.

Water Drill

The children should be paired off and care be taken that a bullying type of child is not paired with a nervous child. It is generally best to leave the pairing to the children themselves, they usually select their own friends and will work with them happily. The children must then be shown on land what is expected of them in the water; that is to say; they will be shown the methods of helping one another.

Stage 1.—Number I takes up his position at the bath rail, holds the rail with the left hand and places the right hand against the side of the bath below the rail, with the fingers pointing downwards. Number 2 stands behind number 1 and grasping his ankles pulls the legs up until the body is at the surface of the water. The teacher standing on the bank directs the class and the children perform the movements with the assistance of the number 2's, The l’s and 2’s change places.
935

Stage 2.—As for Stage 1, but number 2 stands and supports 1 under the stomach whilst number 1 performs the movement without assistance.

Stage 3.—Number 2 stands facing the side of the bath. Number 1 places his arms right round the middle of number 2, who pushes his arms down and places his hands under the stomach of number 1 and raises his (No. l’s) legs off the ground. Number 1 now performs the leg movements whilst number 2 walks backwards.

Stage 3.—The children practise the movements of the arms in the water.

Stage 4.—Number 2 stands at the side of Number 1, places his hands under his body, and thus gives him support. Number 1 performs the movements of die arms and legs whilst number 2 counts for him. After considerable practice the support given by number 2 should be reduced until number 1 can go on his own.

The children should be encouraged at all times to secure perfect style; speed will come later. If the child has only an imperfect stroke, speeding up will merely tend to accentuate the faults. Once the stroke has been mastered the children should practise covering a specified distance in as few strokes as possible, this will encourage them to get the maximum power out of each stroke and will also tend to correct the poise of the body in the water.

APPARATUS EXERCISES FOR THE 33rd NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

TO BE HELD AT LOUISVILLE, KY.

JUNE 16-20, 1926.

EXERCISES FOR MEN — LOWER GRADE

a From a side stand frontways jump to hang with upper grip and immediately b Hip swing up to support frontways c Under swing, and at the end of the next forward swing squat through right and crotch swing up to side stride su

d Ha m left with regrasping to side stride support with left leg in front e Fall backward with hips bent, knees straight (heel of left foot and instep of right at bar) and with the return swing crotch swing up left to side stride support f Leg swing left backward under the left hand to support frontways

g Underswing and on next forward swing kip to support h Hip circle backward and underswing to a side stand rearways.

Horizontal Bar

Digitized by

Google
a

b

c

d

e

f

g

h

a

b

c

d

e

f

g

h

a

b

986

Parallel Bar

From a cross stand frontways with running start, jump to an upper arm hang and swing rise stem forward to a momentary straddle seat in front of the hands Swing backward and scissors to a straddle seat in front of the hands

Swing backward to support lying frontways With a slow bending of the arms, place the shoulders (upper arms) on the bars at the same time lifting the hips and sliding the feet towards the hands, knees straight rising to an upper arm stand;

Roll forward with bent hips to a straddle seat in front of the hands;

Leg swing right between the bars with one-fourth turn right to side support lying frontways on left thigh (left hand graps right bar upper grip)

With a legswing right sideward between the bars, rear vault left to an outer cross seat in front of the left hand (right hand graps opposite bar—outer grip) Rear vault right to a cross stand left sideways.

Long Horse

From a cross stand frontways with running start, straddle vault forward with double support (first' on croup then on neck) to a cross stand rearways.

MIDDLE GRADE Horizontal Bar

From a side stand frontways jump to a hang with upper grip and

Hip swing up to support frontways

Underswing and at the end of the next forward swing

squat between hands with both feet; with the return

swing squat forward again to the hand hang kipping

position and kip to support frontways and

Hip circle forward and immediately

Swing off backward to a long hang and hip swing

up at end of forward swing to support frontways

Drop kip to

A momentary squat stand on the bar (feet and knees together between the hands)

Underswing (the knees straighten as the body drops) to a side stand rearways.

Parallel Bar

From a cross stand frontways with a running start jump to an upperarm hang and swing rise (stem) forward to support

A high swing backward with lowering to the upper-arms at the end of the backward swing and roll backward to an upperarm stand

Digitized by VjOOQIC
c

d

e

f

g

h

a

b

c

d

e

f

g

a

b

c

d

c

f

g

h

937

Rise to a bent arm support and dip swing forward with straightening the arms at the end of the forward swing and

Fall backward to a hand hang kipping position and

kip to a straddle seat in front of the hands

Swing backward to an upperarm stand

Turn over forward with bent hips, hands grasping

forward to the upperarm kipping position

Upperarm kip to support

And with the backward swing front vault left with one-half turn left to cross stand left sideways (front to rear vault.)

Long Horse

From a cross stand frontways with running start, long squat vault to a cross stand rearways (support is on the neck.)

Upper Grade Horizontal Bar

From a side stand frontways, jump to a hang with

upper grip and hip swing over to a hang

At the end of the forward swing squat through and

hip swing up rearways to a balance support

Fall backward with squatting forward to the hand

hang kipping position and kip to a

Hip circle forward

Swing out backward and giant circle backward to a momentary hand stand

Continue the circle but at the end of the forward swing, turn swing rise (stem) to free support frontways, with upper grip

Free hip swing over to a side stand frontways.

Parallel Bar

From a cross stand frontways at the end of bar, grasp bars with inner grip; straddle vault mount over both bars to a balance support;

Swing backward to handstand;

Lower slowly to an upperarm stand 1-1 Roll forward; grasp forward with both hands, and turn over forward with bent hips to an upper-arm kipping position Upper arm kip to support

With the forward swing legswing right forward under the right hand to an immediate flank swing right to support rearways on left bar; swing both legs sideward under the left hand with one-fourth turn left to cross support to a high backward swing lowering to an upper arm hang.

Roll backward to an upperarm stand;

Dip swing forward to straight arm support;

Digitized by Google
938

i Swing backward with leg swing left back under the left hand to a double rear vault left to cross stand right sideways.

Long Horse

From a cross stand frontways with running start, long stoop vault (Buecke) support on neck, arms swing foreupward to a cross stand rearways.

EXERCISES FOR WOMEN

Parallel Bar

From an inner cross stand jump to a forearm support and

a Swing forward, backward, forward and on end of next backward swing, swing rise (stem) to straight arm support;

b Swing forward to cross support lying rearways; c Swing backward and at end of backward swing, squat mount left behind the right hand, the right leg swings forward outside the right bar; d One-half turn left on left foot with the right leg raised forward to a straddle seat in front of the hands (the left leg is straightened with completion of turn); e Grasp forward with both hands and roll forward with bent hips (knees straight and feet closed) to a straddle seat in front of the hands; f Intermediate swing and on end of forward swing, swing the left leg in front of the right hand; with cne-fourth turn left about the left arm; continue swing of the right leg backward between the bars, grasp left bar upper grip with right hand finshing in side support lying frontways on left thigh; g Swing the right leg between the bars and to the left with regrasping left hand under grip; h Return swing right to right side and front vault dismount right to cross stand left sideways.

Side Horse

From	a side	stand frontways with a running start

jump with outer grip on pommels to a a	Squat	mount	left, with right leg squatting through

to position right leg raised horizontally in front; b Slowly carry the right leg backward under the right hand with straightening the left leg forward to side stride support left in the saddle; c Legswing right forward under the right hand to support rearways with a side swing to the left; d	Return swing	with legswing right back under the right

hand	to side	stride support with side swinging to the

left.

e Return swing with scissors sideward right;

Digitized by VjOO^lC
939

f	Turnmount right to cross riding seat on the croup;

g	Place the hands on croup in rear of body with swing-

ing the legs high in front closing feet; / h Lower legs with grasping near pommel outer grip left hand, far pommel reverse inner grip with right hand; with a return swing left to momentary support frontways, circle the right leg over the neck and saddle with three-quarter turn about the right arm to a cross stand left sideways at the neck (the right leg swings over the neck with a half turn about right arm, the left releases its grasp and support on the neck to a momentaiy side stride support left on neck; then with a leg swing right forward under the right hand dismount with quarter turn about left arm.)

SECOND NATIONAL OUTDOOR RECREATION CONFERENCE, JANUARY 20, 1926

A Report by Ethelbert Stewart, Commissioner of Labor Statistics.

I can hardly say that my remarks should be construed as a report of the committee; there is no committee report to make. I was able to persuade the Association of Governmental Labor Officials of the United States and Canada at its convention in Salt Lake City last summer, to pass a resolution calling upon the various State Labor Departments, to aid this committee in its work in every way possible whenever called upon to do so. This is an organization of State Commissioners and this action at Salt Lake City will open contacts for us practically everywhere. Aside from this, we have been actively engaged in watchful waiting. Sort of parked on the side street waiting for a chance to turn into the flowing traffic on the main thoroughfare, as it were.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics began the field survey of industrial recreation plans last October. I had hoped that the field work would be finished by February, but it will not be completed before April. Enough information is at hand, how ever, so that I am able to state to you definitely that establishment industrial parks and recreation grounds are losing out. In morejthan half of the establishments where we found them in our last survey we now find they have been abandoned. Briefly, the reason is this. Establishment baseball teams are being abandoned. The same thing has happened with the industrial establishments that is happening with many of our schools. In the establishments having baseball teams it gradually developed that the foreman was so interested in having his factory team beat the other factory team that he kept on the pay roll men whose value was largely in their ability to play baseball. As the manager and directors slowly realized this fact the factory baseball team was abolished. As the es-

Digitized by VjOOQ IC
940

tablishment recreation grounds had been originally and principally a baseball training park, these recreation grounds were abandoned with the abandonment of the baseball teams, and the private employing corporation or firm has consciously or unconsciously shifted the burden of furnishing recreation facilities to the municipalities.

The value of establishment recreation grounds for recreation purposes, while thoroughly understood and appreciated by a few firms that have no intention of decreasing their recreation space, was never seriously considered by a great many other firms who looked upon it simply as a baseball proposition, and this education of the employer to open and maintain recreation grounds for his employees is progressing very, very slowly. On the other hand, the cities instead of meeting this new requirement, thrown upon them by the abandonment of establishment recreation spaces, by establishing more industrial parks are really tending in an entirely opposite direction. Open spaces municipally owned, that were formerly public parks in the broad sense of the word are now being turned into flower beds.

The “City Beautiful" slogan and the “Beautify the City" . drive- are operating to curtail the public park space just at a time when the abandonment of industrial recreation grounds by the large industrial establishments makes such curtailment of public parks especially inopportune and unfortunate. Do not infer from this that we are opposed to the “City Beautiful” idea. I am simply making a plea for the education of the municipal officials to the fact that for every park that is turned into a flower bed they should open other parks farther out and in the industrial centers, and that such parks should be really and in the best sense public and social recreation and restproviding parks.

Through the committees of the President’s National Conference on Outdoor Recreation, particularly at the last meeting, several rays of hope shot through the clouds that hung over the picture as we saw it. One thing in particular—it was intimated that in the movement now on foot to sell national land holdings to State and municipal governments, it might be- possible to induce the various departments, where they already have the power to do so, to sell lands to cities with an agreement that so much of the land so transferred as the city would agree to maintain as a public park for a series of 50 or 99 years, would be sold to the city or State at a considerably lower price than other lands. In other words, encourage the cities to provide popular recreation spaces by selling them public lands at a very low figure. Of course, the trouble with this is that the public has very little or no land to transfer in the case of most of the cities. The psychological effect and the educational value to municipal administrators of these sales, even though few in number, would doubtless be great.

Digitized by Google
941

We certainly need education along the human side of the subject for which this organization was brought into existence. It has seemed to me all along as though the Department of Labor was being put in a rather unfair position. Whenever ' we attempt to insist upon our point of view we seem to be put in the attitude of opposing the beautiful pictures and beautiful dreams of those coming at the problem from an entirely different standpoint. We are doing nothing of the kind. We are in entire sympathy with everything that makes for national parks like the Yellowstone. We would help you double and treble the national park space. We are in thorough sympathy with the movement to increase the bird shelters and to make of every nationally owned forest or woodland a bird shelter and a nesting place. We are willing to do everything that we can to help you in every one of your projects, but we do feel that we ought to be permitted a place on the band wagon to sit comfortably and fly our own Department banner in the same wind that flaps yours, and that you ought to be willing to make our side of the story an integral part of any educational scheme, and give it just as prominent a place as any other.

We are entirely willing to help you establish bird shelters for blue jays, but we must insist that our main interest is in providing resting places in public parks for blue jeans. We want you to say in your program that 51 per cent of our population live in cities, and of the workers in manufacturing industries, of course, a much greater percentage than this, that not one-half of one per cent of these will ever see Yellowstone Park or the Grand Canyon; that side by side with this increase in the growth of city population we have a movement which is just as rapidly decreasing the real rest parks within these cities. You will probably be surprised to know how many cities, particularly in the East, are turning what few open spaces they have into flower gardens, taking the seats out of the public parks, and in addition to the multiplication of “Keep off the Grass” signs they are adding "Stay on the Walk” signs. At the same time they are making no provision for a replacement elsewhere of these spots that have been taken away from human beings and given over to the tulip, crocus, pansy, and more permanent flowers. Our slogan is and must be that for every acre of park so dedicated to the aesthetic instincts, two acres must be opened up somewhere else and devoted to practical human use.

We sympathize with you in your desire to protect wild life, but we ask you to sympathize with us in our attempt to furnish some sort of outdoor recreation for the factory girl and the factory man—the vamp matcher in a shoe factory who must handle 720 pairs of shoes an hour which means 1,-440 operations all exactly alike every 60 minutes for eight hours a day; the toe-cutter-off in the sheep killing beds in our slaughter houses who must handle 400 sheep an hour which|means cutting off 1,600 toes every 60 minutes for nine hours a day—

Digitized by

Google
942

this is the wild life with which we have to deal and whom we would like to save from the insanity that follows industrial fatigue, by providing them a place where they can get a little fresh air in the evening, where they can eat a picnic dinner Saturday afternoon or on Sunday with no “Keep off the Grass” sign to molest or make them afraid. Perhaps I should have said, “to make them mad.”

The labor turnover of something over 3,500,000 men who quit their jobs and go elsewhere to get away from the monotony of modern factories only to get into the monotony of some other factory—these are the migratory birds that we have to deal with, and our problem is to prevent the migration as much as possible; to get these employees to stay put for at least one year in the hope that they will form new habits.

In closing I simply want to plead with you to incorporate something of our point of view in your educational plans.

THE PROPHYLAXIS OF COMMON COLDS AND INFECTIOUS CATARRHS*.

By Dr. Simey (Rugby)

Prophylaxy of the Common Cold and Febrile Catarrh concerns those affections of the respiratory passages ranging from file common cold or coryza, to “Chill,” “Febricula” or “Influenza,” which, however much they differ in their manifestations, are all infectious and begin in the upper respiratory passages, causing malaise, often pyrexia, and a set back in the normal healthy progress of adolescence. We deal with the prevention of these diseases in schools, especially the boarding schools, in which infection is more likely to spread because the pupils feed, work and sleep in common dining halls, studies, class-rooms and dormitories. It is in these schools that great difficulty is experienced in finding adequate sanatorium accommodation for the patients who so often require skilled nursing and attention in large numbers at the same time. I shall use the term “Influenza” loosely to cover all those febrile manifestations already mentioned.

The appearance of these diseases in epidemic form is a matter of very great importance to schools for two main reasons —(1) Because, even tho they run a normal uncomplicated course, they interfere with the work of the individual, whilst if complications arise they may jeopardise his future health and even his life. (2) Because they disorganise the whole life of the school and are most expensive both of time and money. The

♦This subject was introduced at the meeting of the Medical Officers of Schools Association on November 6th.

Reprint “Journal of School Hygiene” England.

Digitized by

Google
943

work of a school medical officer would be reduced by one-half at least, if such epidemics could be eliminated. We know this disease with all its Protean manifestations, and can go straight forward to consider how it may be prevented. Aiming at brevity, I hope that I may not succumb to the difficulty which Horace felt when he wrote: “Brevis esse laboro, obscurus fio.”

All are agreed that the phenomena of this disease are due to micro-organisms and that they are acutely infectious. It would be out of place now to enter into a discussion as to the particular organisms concerned; at present this question has not been finally settled, but when cultures are made from the sputum or mucus of affected patients a variety of organisms are usually isolated which, if not the prime or deciding cause, are, at any rate, aiders and abettors or accomplices of the arch offender who or whatever he may be. Their entry into the body is by the upper respiratory passages. As to predisposing causes, it is well known that the vigorous and healthy are attacked almost as readily as those who are less blessed with a healthy constitution; tho deformities of the nasal septum and turbinate bones and the presence of unhealthy adenoid and tonsillar tissues no doubt weigh to some extent in the balance.

Very little is known about predisposing causes. The prevention of the disease depends largely on the degree of immunity in any community. This does not mean that it counts for nothing if a child sits in a draught, or goes about in wet clothes or imperfectly clad, for these conditions temporarily depress vitality, but in the majority of patients we cannot lay much stress on any of those conditions as a contributing cause. Some blame the inclemency of the weather and lay stress on seasonal incidence; others point out a certain periodicity in the waves of visitation; but the probability is that we can say little more than that the bodies of mankind have been discovered to be a first rate culture medium by certain bacteria, which go on increasing in numbers and in virulence until the soil is temporarily exhausted or made untenable for their activities.

Climate and season may influence the outbreak and decline of epidemics, but it is more likely that the bacteria are victims of their own activity and require fresh feeding ground or a rotation of bacterial crops before they can thrive again in the same host.

Attempts have been made to make the human soil untenable by disinfecting the upper respiratory passages by means of sprays, gargles, nasal douches; but two considerations make it improbable that these measures can be of avail. (1) The disinfectants used, if strong enough to kill the germs, will damage the epithelium, with which our throats and nostrils are provided to deal with infection. (2). Their contact with the micro-organisms is so short (for they are soon washed away or diluted), that the protection is likely to last for a question of minutes only.

Digitized by kjOOQle
944

Where there is much nasal catarrh, constitutional symptoms do not seem to develop so often or so severely. For by the catarrh Nature fixes and localises the disease to the naso-pharynx and ‘deals with it’ in situ. The patient beginning with influenza, often has recently had an ordinary cold for some time without feeling ill, but when the catarrh ceased, his constitutional symptoms, with malaise and pyrexia, first appeared. A former remedy for colds was the ‘‘Carbolic smoke-ball.” Its virtue, no doubt, consisted, not in the antiseptic power of the carbolic acid, but in an aseptic irritation of the nasal muscosa, causing an excess of mucus to be formed which dealt with the invading infection.

With the same object, some medical officers have tried to educate their pupils to breathe habitually and entirely through their noses by teaching them a kind of “nasal drill.” This expedient has not met -with signal success: it has a psychical rather than a physical result. The suggestion that all pupils should have their throats and nasal passages disinfected periodically by passing through a chamber in which a saturated spray of some vaporised disinfectant is circulated, is open to the criticism that the effect is too temporary and superficial to be efficacious.

The Prophylaxis of these diseases then resolves itself into the following rules—

1.	Keep out of infection's way

2.	Raise the immunity of the body.

(1). How can school children keep out of infection’s way? This is a large and far-reaching question. The infection is usually brought into schools at the beginning of a term by boys or girls who have left home with a cold or cough which seems too trivial to detain them at home, or who during the last week of the holidays have gone through a concentrated tour of amusements at cinemas, theatres, dances, etc., and return to school somewhat tired and out of sorts with the diseases incubating. The way to tackle this source of infection is to “educate” the parents, or rather take them into our confidence, and point out the folly of indulgence of this kind. It is of no avail to send out a printed form, saying: “You are requested not to send your boy back to school with a heavy cold,” for the circular is probably perused once only during a boy’s school career, then put aside and forgotten. To be of any use, a special letter or communication must be sent periodically, written in reasonable terms, with explanations, and an appeal for cooperation on the part of the parents. Even then it may fail until the public in general understands the danger that the individual may be to the community. “Behold how small a leaven leaveneth the whole lump.”

In schools situated in or near a town, there is a constant risk of the infection being introduced into the school by dayboys or by boarders who must needs enter shops; hotels,, and other town buildings to replenish their wardrobes, meet their

Digitized by

Google
945

parents, or go to theatrical or musical entertainments. Stringent rules as to bounds and hours and providing the school with a food-shop of its own may lessen the risk, but, inasmuch as the strength of a chain is that of its weakest link, all such efforts at surveillance and restrictions break down, as it is enough for one pupil to introduce the infection.

If we ask for preliminary care on the part of parents we, too, must leave no stone unturned to avoid infection when the pupils assemble at the beginning of each term. Precautions should be taken by school authorities to ensure that all school premises are in as suitable condition as possible for pupils who have come from comfortable home-quarters to the severer rigour of the school establishments. In addition to the thorough routine cleaning and ventilation of school premises, class-rooms and other meeting places should be warmed by the lighting of fires a few days before the pupils return, and the school routine should be entered upon gradually, not plunging at once into early hours, but gradually training the pupils to adapt themselves to their change of environment.

No doubt, colds and febrile catarrhs spread more quickly amongst boys and girls when living in their school community, because they are packed into close quarters, both by day and night. It is chiefly in the big dormitory and small study where two or more boys live, and work together, that infection most easily spreads. This means that they are overcrowded, but it would not be possible or desirable to house boys at school as young men live at the Universities, each with his own sitting-room and bed-room apart from his neighbours. Such an arrangement would materially alter the value of boarding-schools where close contact and publicity of life are important social and moral factors.

Text books will say that there must be so many cubic feet with so much air space to each bed, but they do not state what will be the result to health if these requirements are carried out, and even in dormitories where ample space is allowed, infection is carried directly from boy to boy.

There are only two remedies for these difficulties:—

(1)	. To re-build or re-arrange existing accommodation so that there are fewer boys in each dormitory, after the plan adopted in some fever hospitals, where separate infections are nursed in the same ward without obvious ill-effects.

So long as boys are boys this theory would break down in practice. Sick patients in bed in a ward under supervision are very different from healthy children in a dormitory with little or modified restraint.

This means that the minimum space provided should at least be in accordance with the accepted rules, and care should be taken that the ventilation is as good as possible.

(2)	To make the best use of what space is available in studies and dormitories.

Digitized by LjOOQie
946

Here more could be done if attention were paid to tidiness, both of place and person. Pupils should be paraded every morning to see that they begin the day, tidy in appearance and apparel, and their quarters should likewise be inspected daily by a selected master or officer to see that they are clean and well-ventilated. This is necessary where boys live and sleep in the same room, and such rooms should be kept free from unnecessary furniture, draperies, and other dust-collecting materials. Class-rooms and other meeting places likewise require to be kept clean, warm, well-ventilated, and adequately lighted. In the holiday following an epidemic, care should be taken to begin cleaning and decorating operations early. The burning of sulphur or formalin, as usually employed, has no germicidal action; it is an unnecessary and extravagant performance in which too much trust is placed.

Girls’ schools apparently suffer less from influenzoid epidemics than boys’ schools of the same grade. It is probably due to the greater care spent upon tidiness and general supervision of living-quarters rather than to their being less closely packed. Surely 100 tidy pupils will occupy the same space as 80 untidy pupils without a corresponding increase in the incidence of febrile complaints. Many other small, but important considerations, such as the kind and amount of food, the laundry arrangements, the hours of sleep, bear indirectly on our subject and could be discussed with advantage on another occasion, and indeed have already received the attention of this society.

Insufficient attention is usually given in schools to the provision of adequate foot-gear. Why should cold and damp feet predispose to catarrhal conditions any more than coldness and dampness of any other part of the body, except that it is more often overlooked? Shoes have a habit of becoming damp and leaky at school, and one of the inconveniences of adolescence is a tendency to poor circulation in the extremities. So far as the feet are concerned, this can be overcome by seeing that pupils are well shod and that their boots and shoes are kept in good repair.

The second method of Prophylaxis against colds and febrile catarrhs is raising the immunity of the pupils. There are some individuals who seem to have a high natural immunity to infections of all kinds. A second class, possessing less natural immunity, suffer from occasional attacks of influenza, but acquire after each attack an immunity which lasts them for a considerable length of time. There remain, however, a large number of school age who acquire very short lived immunity after an attack of influenza, and succumb whenever the so-called “wave” passes. Two well marked attacks of influenza or fe-bricula may occur in the same individual within the space of three months, but usually even the most susceptible do not contract more than one or two attacks in twelve months, each necessitating a minimum of ten to fourteen days out of school,

Digitized by VjOO^lC
947

that is if they escape the manifold possible complications which in various kind attach to the prevailing epidemic.

In a school of six hundred boys, two hundred have been on the sick list at one time, and a total of over three hundred cases in a term, which implies the loss of about 4,000 school days in a term of twelve weeks.

The varied complications of the disease are outside the scope of this paper, but the longer the epidemic lasts the greater is the virulence of the infection, and the more serious the nature of the complications. As medical officers we must therefore consider the raising of immunity of the community by the method of Prophylactic Vaccination. Evidence in its favour, is based upon statistics taken under most different circumstances. There has been no combined attempt of the medical officers of schools to tackle a given epidemic systematically and by methods and on lines on which they have previously arrived at an agreement.

Such evidence as can be collected is fragmentary and unco-ordinated in nature.

There is on the one hand:—

(1)	The evidence of individual patients who think they have or have not benefited by a “course” of prophylactic vaccines, and who praise or belittle this vaccination according to the result they imagine it has produced in themselves.

(2)	There is the evidence of medical men who have dealt with communities such as detachments of troops, schools, and other societies whose evidence if we were able to collect it would in some cases be enthusiastic, in others luke-warm, but in no case convincing because they have not been carried out on a large enough scale and with sufficient control material.

Statistics are capable of such varying interpretation that what to me seems to be a favourable result may to you seem inconclusive. A combined test-effort is needed on the part cf medical officers of schools to tackle the problem thoroughly by agreeing as to the method of preparation and details of administrating a vaccine at a time chosen by the doctors calculated to immunise pupils against a likely, or one may say, almost certain outbreak of iiifluenzoid epidemic at a given season, e. p., the coming Lent term.

Whether we know the responsible organism or hot we know that certain accessory organisms play a part, both in the disease and in its complications, and possibly there is no one

Particular responsible germ, but the disease is due to the comined activity of several organisms, for instance the \irulent form of streptococcus, which is so frequently isolated from otor-rhoea, following influenza.

Raising the immunity of the body against one or more of such organisms is immunising in part or in whole against the complex disease. In the case of pulmonary tuberculosis, although the tubercle bacillus is the causative bacillus present, its action is intensified and enhanced by the presence of other

Digitized by VjOO^lC
948

contaminating micro-organisms such as	staphylo-

cocci, and probably accessory organisms play a corresponding part in the production of influenza, acting in combination or supplementing the activity of an unknown causative agent.

The nature of the vaccine to be employed resolves itself primarily into a consideration of the merits of stock vaccine versus a specially prepared vaccine of local origin.

Stock Vaccine. In an experiment tried in September, 1919, in a boarding house of a large public school, each child received five injections in the course of the year of the Anti-Catarrh Vaccine, made in the inoculation department of St. Mary’s Hospital. The report says:—“The results were so encouraging that the procedure has been continued regularly, and the record for the past four years shows that not one girl who had been duly inoculated missed a single day at school owing to colds or influenza, whereas of those girls who were not inoculated a considerable number were confined to bed with colds and influenza and two contracted pneumonia. The number of girls averaged forty and they mixed freely with other un-inoculated pupils in their class-rooms.

The vaccine here used is composed of Micrococcus Bacillus pneumoniae, Pneumococcus, Bacillus septus, Bacillus influenzae, and streptococcus in certain proportions and is, no doubt, constantly reinforced at headquarters by fresh cultures taken from cases of the disease. The recorded results are so excellent, that I would be glad to hear that other boarding houses in the same school felt bound to accept the evidence and adopt the same plan.

It would be better if those schools which determined to join in one big concerted experiment should send to a prearranged laboratory or pathologist cultures from the naso-pharynx and throat and specimens of sputum by a given date in order to have a vaccine of local origin made for them> leaving it to the discretion of the pathologist to incorporate such and as many strains as his experience led him to think necessary.

Such vaccipe would combine the advantages of being easily procurable and of being made from local material. This concerted experiment would have two sources of control: first, schools which, for some reason, did not adopt the plan, and second, individuals in any school whose parents preferred not to have their children inoculated.

The time for administering the vaccine would be during the Christmas holidays, immediately preceding the Lent term, and again during the last three weeks of the summer holidays so as to precede the two school winter terms in which the influenzas are usually most prevalent. The details of the plan should be in the hands of a special committee of this Society, responsible for all arrangements and communications with the headmasters and headmistresses of schools, and with the pathologist.

Digitized by

Google
949

Some, who doubt the efficacy of prophylactic vaccines would look unfavourably on such a wholesale attempt as I have proposed. The reason is, that vaccine therapy has fallen into disfavour owing to a certain amount of disappointment following on its being used somewhat indiscriminately and in unsuitable conditions. The same kind of disappointment followed the introduction of tuberculin, but we did not therefore condemn it wholesale and its value is now recognised, both for therapeutic and prophylactic treatment.

We have before us a great opportunity for testing the efficacy of vaccine prophylactic treatment in the case of a disease which has become a national danger and expense and the time has now come to give it a careful trial. Is this society satisfied with the use made of material for the study of the diseases of adolescence—as seen in our boarding schools, and is it content that the case sheets and records of pupils laboriously compiled during their four or five years of school life should be lost to the medical world when they leave school?

Work as medical officer of a big public school can only be judged when the boys steered through adolescence, reach the fourth and fifth decade of their life. The proof of this pudding is not in the eating, but in the digesting. The success of education at our schools cannot be judged by lists of scholastic distinctions so much as by the mentality and usefulness of their pupils when they attain middle age.

The same is true in medical matters and we medical officers of schools hold in our hands the invisible keys which could open many secrets of the future health of our patients. This society should, I think, start a laboratory of research into adolescent hygiene and its bearings on the diseases of maturity, either in connection with some one of the schools or in some central place which should keep in touch with all of our medical officers.

PROFESSIONALISM IN SPORTS

Thousands of schoolboys under sixteen are competing in athletics for money and imperiling their standing as amateur athletes, according to Gugtavus T. Kirby, chairman of the advisory board of the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America and vice-president of the Public Schools Athletic League.

Mr. Kirby told the annual meeting of the National Amateur Athletic Federation, held at the Hotel Astor December 30, that because of this condition he was strongly opposed to a motion made by John L. Griffith, commissioner of athletics in the Western Conference and executive vice-president of the federation, to deal leniently with small boys found guilty of violating the amateur rules. The motion was not adopted.

Digitized by

Google
960

Baseball Interest Wanes

Mr. Griffith’s motion followed the submission of a survey of athletics he had made for the federation, in which he declared that interest in baseball among the boys of the country had fallen off 50 per cent in the last three years, a condition frequently deplored by owners and managers of major league baseball clubs. So far as is known, Mr. Griffith’s survey did not include a recommendation for putting the youngsters back on the sand lots or reviving their worship for the heroes of the diamond.

The discussion of professionalism in sports, which has been under fire recently by many organizations, occupied most of the time at the meeting, Henry Breckinridge, president of the federation and formerly Assistant Secretary of War, calling it the "bugaboo of American athletics.” He declared he had no quarrel with professional sports except where they threatened to make inroads in amateur athletics.

Paid Gladiators Scored

"The professional athlete is perfectly all right in his own sphere,” said Colonel Breckinridge, "but when you have amateur and professional spheres of athletics mixing it is like the economic law of bad money driving good money out of circulation.

“Our colleges are not to train gladiators. College athletic training is a means, not an end. I object to the college-trained athlete who sells his services all over the country.”

This would hit at all football, baseball, basketball coaches practically all of whom gained their coaching experience as college athletes, but it was not explained whether or not the N.

A.	A. F. or Colonel Breckinridge was opposed to college-trained coaches who sell their knowledge and their services.

To keep the professional and amateur spheres as wide apart as possible Colonel Breckinridge appointed a committee to deal with the professional-amateur problem, which is vexing so many authorities. This committee consists of Major Griffith, Mr. Kirby, Brigadier General Palmer E. Pierce, president of the National Collegiate A. A.; Mathew Woll, president of the Sportsmanship Brotherhood and vice-president of the American Federation of Labor; Frank C. Cross, director of Americanism of the American Legion; Major W. C. Rose, athletic director of the 2nd Corps Area of the Army, and Dr. L. H. Smith, executive of the National Federation of High School Athletic Associations.

Dr. Joseph E. Raycroft, professor of physical education at Princeton, was appointed representative of the N. C. A. A. at the meeting of the committee of outdoor recreation indorsed by President Coolidge, to be held in Washington in January.

Digitized by LjOOQle
961

> ■ 1 «• News, notes and comments

We wish to call particular attention to the report made by the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Mr. Stewart, upon the status of industrial recreation. The report which appears in this issue of “Mind and Body,” should give all persons interested in the recreation of the masses food for much thought. The report shows how easily all forms of recreation may be commercialized, and how the aesthetic endeavors of some over-zealous enthusiasts may harm the healthful muscular activity of adults as well as of children.

In the “Newark Call” we read President Coolidge will be invited to speak before the American Physical Education Association, which will meet in Newark May 12, 13, 14 and 15. Dr. Paul Phillips, the head of the physical education department of Amherst College, of which the president is an alumnus has been appointed a committee to urge the presence of Mr. Coolidge.

Most of the opening day will be devoted to visiting Newark schools and corrective clinics and an inspection of health classes and gymnasium work.

For Thursday night, May 13, there will be demonstration centers, where visitors may find all phases of the practical side of physical education. Drills, dancing, tumbling and apparatus work will be taught by instructors specially fitted to demonstrate the various phases of physical education. A corrective clinic will be under way at one of these centers.

A big public school deomonstration of physical education and athletics is planned for Friday afternoon, May 14, with thousands of Newark school children taking part.

CONVENTION OF THE MID-WEST SOCIETY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Date of convention: Thursday, Friday, Saturday, March 11-13.

Place: Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Hotel: headquarters: Nicollet Hotel, within three blocks of both railroad stations, within four blocks of shopping district, convenient for all car lines, fifteen minute care ride from the University of Minnesota.

Program (While this is partly tentative, most of it is fixed).

Thursday: Registration begins at Nicollet Hotel at 9:00 A. M. Carefully arranged program of visitation of interesting Physical Education activities for morning and afternoon.

Digitized by Google
952

Evening: Informal dinner at Shevlin Hall, University of Minnesota, followed by a short period of social recreation, and adjournment to the Women’s Gymnasium to view the annual demonstration of the indoor work of the Department of Physical Education for Women, or to the Arena to the Minnesota-Wisconsin ice hockey game.

Friday: (All meetings occur at Nicollet Hotel)

Morning: General Session. Dr. William H. Burton, Professor of Education, University of Cincinnati, Topic—"Psychology of Motivation”. Miss Elizabeth Halsey, University of Iowa, Topic—"Recent Developments in the teachings of Gymnastics”. Miss Margaret McKee, City Supervisor of Des Moines, will discuss Miss Halsey’s paper.

Business meeting of the Society.

Noon—12:30 Annual luncheon of the Society. President L. D. Coffman of the University of Minnesota will be the speaker.

Afternoon: Section meetings, followed by business meeting for each section. N. B. Mr. R. C. Tapp, chairman of the Public School Section, is arranging for a round table meeting of supervisors of Physical Education for further and more intimate discussion, which will probably merge into a dinner meeting for the group.

The General Arrangements Committee suggests that other section chairmen may wish to make similar round table arrangements and recommends taking up with Mr. W. R. Smith, chairman of the Hotels Committee, the question of private dining rooms. Mr. Smith should be addressed at the University of Minnesota, Dept, of P. E. Athletics.

Evening: General Session. Miss Ethel Perrin, American Child Health Association, Topic—“Opportunity for the Physical Director in Health Education”. (This is tentative).

“Tests and Measurements in Physical Education”—Mr. Thomas Neal, Western Reserve University, Cleveland, has been invited to be the speaker. Miss Alice Brownell, University of Wisconsin, will discuss this last article.

Saturday: Morning: University of Minnesota, Demonstrations and classes for delegates will occupy entire morning. Three sets of activities will be going on at once. These will all occur in the Women’s Gymnasium, the program will show the hour of occurrence for each, and delegates may go from one to the other.

A. General Program:

1.	Primitive Gymnastics, Jefferson Junior High School.

2.	Staging Pageants, using small stage and puppets. Park Board.

3.	Gymnastic Dancing by men. Minneapolis Athletic Club.

4.	Folk dancing. Foreign born groups.

Digitized by

Google
953

B.	Orthopedic and Remedial Gymnastics, for (a) children, (b) men, (c) women.

C.	Classes for delegates:

1.	Primitive Gymnastics

2.	Simple recreative group games.

3.	Social games (Ice Breakers)

4.	The teaching of highly organized games.

5.	Clog dancing.

6.	Danish Gymnastics

Afternoon: Sight seeing drives in the Twin Cities.

Evening: Northwestern Gymnastic Meet. Conference basket ball game—Minnesota vs Iowa.

Please urge all out-of-town delegates, no matter from how near to Minneapolis, to get railroad certificates so that reduced fare for all can be secured. Those living near by will thus help those coming from a distance.

THIRTY-THIRD ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION AT NEWARK, N. J. MAY 12—15

The Physical Education and Recreation Department of the Newark city schools, herewith extends a cordial invitation to all physical directors, superintendents and members of the boards of education interested in the field of physical and health education, to attend the thirty-third National Convention. Tentative Program

Wed. May

12, 9:00 a. m. 9:15 a.m-4:00 p. m. 8:00 p. m.

Thur. May 13, 9:30 a.m. of Physical Education

Registration p.m. Visitation of Schools. Swimming Meet Official opening of Convention.

Reception followed by social dancing.

General Session. Topic “Effect on Character”

“Character Values in Competitive Athletics”—Prof. C. W. Kennedy.

“The Fighting Instinct”—Prof. George E. Johnson.

12:30-2:00 p. m. Luncheon—Five minute speeches 2:00-4:00 p. m. Sectional Meetings.

Therapeutic Section—R. Tait McKenzie Men’s Athletics—Prof. E. D. Mitchell Women’s Athletics—Miss Katharine Sibley Y. M. C. A.—Dr. R. A. Allen Y. W. C. A.—Miss Jane Bellews.

4:15-5:30 p. m. Health Programs (Shown by pupils) at Burnet Street School.

8:00-10:00 p. m. Practical Work in which the delegates take part. (Come prepared with gym. cos-

Digitized by Google
954

tume) Lessons will be given in corrective gymnastics, dancing Bukh gymnastics, singing games, and games for high school and grammar school pupils—by specialists in these subjects.

Fri. May 14	9:30	a.	m. General Seseion. Public School

Section—Dr. A. G. Ireland, chairman.

Health Education or Kindred Topics to be selected. Definite information will be given in an ensuing issue of the Review and Mind and Body.

2:00 p. m. Great Outdoor Gymnastic Exhibition and Athletic Meet combined. 10,000 pupils of the Newark Public Schools will take part. Will be held in the new stadium.

6:30 p. m. Dinner—Governor A. Harry Moore, Ex-Governor. Breckenridge and other speakers will help to make this dinner a memorable affair.

Sat. May 15,	9-11:00	a. m. General Session Topic

“What contributions is the present day type of Physical Education making toward fitting individuals for tasks of later life?” Playing Fair with the Coming Generation— Dr. James S. Heberling.

Other addresses will be added.

11-	12:00 a. m. Business Meeting.

12-	1:30 p.m. Council meeting.

Hotel Accommodations And Rates

Write to Ernest H. Seibert, City Hall, Newark, N. J.

Visitation of Schools, Wednesday, May 12.

Delegates will select the routes containing the type of physical and health education they desire to observe. Automobiles will be furnished for transportation.

Route I High Schools—Boys. In charge of Mr. Carl Bauman, Barringer High School. Lunch at Barringer High School.

1.	East Side High School. Boys’ gymnasium unfinished —outdoor activities.

2.	South Side High School. One gymnasium. Annex at Charlton St. School.

3.	Barringer High School. One gymnasium.

4. Central High School. Two gymnasiums, special corrective room.

5. Robert Treat Junior High School. One gymnasium and outdoor court.

Route 2. High Schools—Girls. In charge of Mr. Ernest Seibert, Ass’t Supervisor. Lunch at Central High School.

1.

2.

rective

East Side High School—One gymnasium.

Central High School. Two gymnasiums, special cor-room.

Digitized by

Google
3.	South Side High School. One gymnasium, Annex at Charlton St. School.

4.	Barringer High School. Swedish and Danish gymnastics.	'

Route 3. Junior High Schools. In charge of Mr. Samuel

H.	Mcllroy, Principal, Madison Avenue Junior High School.

1.	Robert Treat Junior High School. One gymnasium, open air court.

2.	Cleveland Junior High School. One gymnasium, two playrooms.

3.	Bergen Street School. Outdoor activities, classroom physical education and health work.

4.	Madison Junior High School. Two gymnasiums, classroom physical and health education.

Route 4. Elementary Schools. In charge of Mr. E. Fred Moller, Supervisor of Athletics.

1.	Sussex Ave. School. Classroom gymnastics—old building.

2.	So. 8th St. School. Outdoor athletics, classroom physical and health education.

3.	Central Ave. School. One gymnasium, one playroom.

4.	Garfield School. One gymnasium, classroom physical and health education, primary folk dancing.

5.	Abington Ave. School. Two gymnasiums. Acrobatics.

Route 5. Elementary Schools. In charge of Mr. Harold H. Phillips, Principal, Montgomery St. School.

1.	Miller Street School. Two gymnasiums, classroom physical and health education.

2.	Waverly Ave. School. Classroom physical and health education.

3.	Avon Ave. School. One gymnasium, classroom physical and health education.

4.	Peshone Ave. School. Two gymnasiums, classroom physical and health education.

5.	Hawthorne Ave. School. Two gymnasiums, classroom physical and health education.

Route 6. In charge of Mr. John N. Richards, Ass’t. Supervisor.

1.	Waverly Ave. School. Classroom physical and health education.

2.	18th Ave. School. One gymnasium, classroom and health education, one corrective room, milk service.

3.	Charlton St. School. One gymnasium classroom and health education, organized recess in playground.

4.	Belmont Ave. School. One gymnasium, classroon and health education, mass recess.

5.	Morton Street School. One gymnasium, classroom physical and health education, playground rec^R*

Digitized by
966

Route 7. Classroom gymnastics. In charge of Mr. Mathias H. Macherey, Ass't. Supervisor.

1.	South Street School. Classroom physical and health education.

2.	Washington Street School. Classroom physical and health education. Swedish Box.

3.	Monmouth Street School. Classroom physical and health education. Outdoor work. Table exercises.

4.	So. 10th Street.. Classroom physical and health education.

5.	Montgomery St. School., One gymnasium, classroom physical and health education.

6.	Morton St.,	One gymnasium, classroom physical and

health education, playground recess.

Route 8. Gymnasium and classroom. In charge of Mr. Charles Gleason, Ass’t Superintendent.

1.	Lafayette St. School. Two gymnasiums.

2.	Oliver Street	School.	One	gymnasium, one	corrective

room, classroom physical and health education.

3.	Wilson Ave.	School.	Two	gymnasiums.

4.	Hawkins St	School.	One	gymnasium, one	playroom.

5.	Ann Street School. Two gymnasiums, one playroom.

Route 9. Special Schools. In charge of Miss Florence A. Meyer, Ass’t Supervistor.

1.	School forthe Deaf—Gymnasium.

2.	Binet School—Gymnasium.

3.	Disciplinary School—Gymnasium.

4.	Franklin School. Two gymnasiums, corrective room.

5.	School for Crippled—Outdoor and indoor playroom.

Route 10. Gymnasium and classroom. In charge of Miss Charlotte Barton, Ass’t Supervisor of Penmanship.

1.	Burnet St. School. Two gymnasiums, classroom gymnastics and health education.

2.	Franklin School. Two gymnasiums.

3.	Summer Ave. School. Classroom physical and health education.

4.	Ridge Street School. One gymnasium, classroom physical and health education.

5.	Elliott Street School. One gymnasium, classroom physical and health education.

Route 11. Elementary Schools. In charge of Mr. James Dugan, Ass’t Superintendent.

1.	Webster St. School. One' gymnasium, playground.

2.	McKinley School. Two gymnasiums, classroom physical and health education and playground.

3.	Barringer High School. One gymnasium.

4.	Crippled Children. Outdoor and indoor playroom.

5.	Abington Ave. School. Two gymnasiums. Acrobatics.
957

Route 12. Elementary Schools. In charge of Mr. Claude

L.	West, Principal of Newton St. School.

1.	Alexander St. School. One gymnasium, classroom physical and health education.

2.	So. 17th St. School. Gymnasium, classroom physical and health education.

3.	15th Ave. School. One gymnasium, classroom physical and health education.

4.	14th Ave. School. One auditorium gymnasium, classroom physical and health education.

5. Newton St. School. One gymnasium, classrooms and health education.

6. Warren St. School. One gymnasium, one playroom. Auditorium health education.

Modesty is a virtue. We have often seen extravagant statements regarding the effects of exercise, or of diet, or of fastings, etc. The following clipping from the New York City Graphic, bearing the signature of Bemarr Macfadden, however, deserves first place in the array of extravagant statements fed to the unthinking. Here it is, paste it in your scrapbook.

The Graphic has been published a little over a year.

It has circulated among and influences the lives of millions of New Yorkers during this period.

The health building lessons that it presents daily undoubtedly are assisting to a very marked extent in bringing about decreases in mortality records. In this it is carrying on the campaign of Physical Culture which I have long been waging.

How the well being of the people of New York city has improved as Physical Culture doctrines have spread is shown in the following statistics. These indicate the death rate now, ten years ago and fifteen years ago:—

Total	Rate

1925................................69,011	11.52

Ten years ago:—

1915	 .76,193

14.58

Fifteen years ago:—

1910	 76,742	16.04

Of course, the death rate is what really counts, because it is based on increase in population, while the total number of deaths is not.

The Playground and Recreation Association in its Bulletin No. 1301 has the following admirable statement.

The State of California has been conducting through its schools a series of tests on the subject of children’s reading. As a result of the study evidence has been presented to the effect that more reading is done between the ages of 12 and 14 years than in the two years following. This is borne out by Professor Lewis M. Terman of Leland Stanford University

Digitized by
958

and Margaret Lima, Psychologist of Minnesota State Board of Control, in their new book entitled ‘^Children’s Reading.” Of this period in the mental life of the child they write:

"The twelfth or the thirteenth year usually marks the beginning of what is commonly called the “reading craze.” Never again in this life does the average individual read so many books in one year as he reads at 12 or 13. Boys generally reach this maximum amount at 13. but girls, who mature more rapidly than boys, usually read their greatest number of books at 12. Fortunate indeed are the parents who have succeeded by this time in developing in their child a taste for good literature. If they have failed in this purpose the period of maximum reading will mean a plague of ‘Series” books and of sentimental or sensational stories that may well give cause for anxiety.”

The question of right reading for children of 12 and 13 is one that is very important for the playground leader since so many children of this age are playground attendants. What are recreation systems doing to provide books for children and to guide their reading? How far do you feel the problem of children’s reading is the responsibility of the recreation system? Have you a branch library at your play center? Do you work in cooperation with the Public Library? What suggestions have you to offer on the subject as a whole?

The American Prison Congress at its Annual Meeting, Nov. 1925, adopted the following resolution.

"Be it resolved that we express our conviction that the value of constructive, supervised play and recreation needs to be more largely understood by those who are dealing with problems of delinquency, and that if in every community really adequate facilities for the recreational needs of young people were provided, many of their wayward tendencies could be effectively averted and at the same time health, morality, joy, and good citizenship be promoted, and we further believe that recreational activities, properly conducted, may be made a powerful instrument for the restoration to normal living of delinquents who may be upon probation or in the custody of correctional institutions.”

In the Heating and Ventilating Magazine we find the following:

There is a widespread interest in the effects produced by various radiator finishes upon the amount of heat emitted from steam radiators. The common inquiries received by heating engineers concern the relative efficiencies of colored paints or enamels and those of either gold or aluminum bronze.

It is true that changing the radiator finish will change the amount of heat that may be given off by the radiator per unit of time, other conditions being the same. Some finishes applied to the radiating surfaces will increase the amount of heat transmitted, others will reduce it. This change in the

Digitized by

Google
959

quantity of heat emitted is caused by the physical properties of the finish. The color plays only a very small part in the change and may be neglected. The effect is determined by the final texture or physical condition of the radiating surface.

1.	Bare iron, free fron rust, loose scale, and dirt transmits 100 percent.

2.	Aluminum bronze one coat transmits 90.1 percent.

3.	Gray paint dipped transmits 100.6 per cent.

If bare iron be taken as the basic standard it will be seen that the gray paint finish showed an increase of 0.6 pa* cent in the amount of transmitted heat. The aluminum bronze caused a reduction of 9.9 per cent in the amount of heat given out.

HOW LONG TO LIVE?

The question is frequently asked, “Just when does old age begin?” There follows, usually, much hesitation in giving an answer. It is a hesitation that is pardonable. Pardonable— and quite to be expected—in that there are innumerable reasons why it is hard to reply, innumerable puzzling exceptions to any arbitrary “rule” in the matter.

On every side one sees men who are young at sixty. At even more advanced ages than that there are many who demonstrate the futility of any dictum that years actually count. So far, that is, as concerns a scale of relative capability and continued service. They are men whose productive faculties are unimpaired, whose minds, if not their bodies, are younger in activity and alertness than those of countless others one half their age.

Judge Elbert H. Gary is 79, Eilhu Root 81, Thomas A. Edison 84. An even older group is represented by such prominent American figures as Chauncey M. Depew, and Charles W. Elliot, both of whom are 91. Such men as these have earned their long years of health and public helpfulness not simply through a trick of chance but by their own foresight and intelligent preparation. At least, so it appears; for the arm of coincidence at its longest could hardly alone account for the collective mental superiority of these particular notables at the age which all of them have reached.

In the case of such a man as Judge Gary, for instance, the doctrine of “fitness” has been of importance to him throughout his life. In other words, he has always held the conviction that the business of health—and of living—is of greater consequence than any other business the world affords. He has given it its due share of attention in the scheme of his daily life, a thing which innumerable other men, in positions of far less responsibility, are invariably “too busy” to do.

In her recent book, “The Life of Judge Gary,” Ida M. Tarbell presents a thoroughly human picture of her subject's childhood and early years in Illinois. The forces and influence

Digitized by

Google
§60 '

which combined to shape his youth all had their source in the sturdy pioneer spirit of his parents, who figured among the first settlers in their section of the state. Thus the boy lived in a world where the body must be trained to meet every demand of a hard, unyielding daily existence. Physical activity of every sort was essential to the making and sustaining of a home. Each member of the family carried his share of the burden. All were uncommonly sturdy and well.

Since that day Judge Gary has never permitted these early, unconscious lessons in physical well-being to relax their hold on him. To-day, at 79, he illustrates with good effect the benefits of having followed consistently a regular, though never extreme, program of exercise, together with proper rest, proper diet, and so on.

According to Miss Tarbell, Judge Gary, in his own words, was given “strength, vigor, courage, confidence in himself” as the result of his early and later training.

The traditional argument" of the man who does nothing to keep physically well-balanced, his plea of “I cant find the time,” has grown familiar to everybody. But the men who have solved the problem of living a long life seem to have done so by making as much of a business of health as of their “careers.” This has not been done by setting out mechanically to fulfill a tiresome duty in achieving physical fitness, but by combining the pursuit of it with recreation. Medical men plead for the adoption of this principle. To derive the fullest benefit, they say, the individual must forget himself, must live for a time in an imaginary world outside the one through which he moves every day. Action must be directed into forms in which self-consciousness is allowed to slip away and in which a consciousness of action is absent also. In “Byways to Health,” a recent book written in an amusing and anecdotal vein by two eminent physicians, the man who'is always “too busy” finds his alibis and arguments good-naturedly demolished until not a shred remains. The authors do, however, deplore the idea of “over-doing it” quite as much as the failure to try at all. It is fully as dangerous, to their view. The “happy medium,” the middle ground, affords the safest-course in this, as in everything else life offers. '

Yet, first of all, it is wise to* pause for the sake of a little “stock-taking”. Self-inventory, with an eye on the future, will suffice to show most of us whether we are attempting too much, too little or managing rationally to avoid either extreme. Drs. Wood and Dansdill, the authors mentioned above, tell the story of a small and frightened southern darky who awoke abruptly from sleep in a northern church, calling “Wha’ am I at?” When he did so, “he asked a question which every one interested in health and happiness might well ask himself. Upon the answer to this question, in its relation to a wholesome use of leisure time, partly depends the presence or the absence of stress and tension.”

Digitized by

Google
BOOK REVIEWS

“Mother’s Manual; The Coming and Care of the Baby

by Dorothy Bocker, A. M., M. D.

247 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Price $2.00. Published by Brentano’s, New York City.

As the name implies, “Mother’s Manual” is designed to be used as a reference book answering clearly and concisely all questions that arise before the baby comes and after it arrives. The whole trend of the book is to emphasize the prevention of disease and unnecessary discomforts by proper hygiene. The book is liberally illustrated which helps to stress the clarity of text. Weight charts, layette patterns, and baby biography are included in this most informative book.

Doctor Bocker, the author of this work, which combines the utmost simplicity and clarity with the most authoritative medical knowledge, is Master of Arts, Columbia University; Doctor of Medicine, Long Island Medical College.

She has been a director of physical education in the New York public schools, instructor in physical education at Columbia University, medical director at Georgia State College for Women; director, Division of Child Hygiene, Georgia State Board of Health; A. A. Surgeon, U. S. Public Health Service.

Doctor Bocker is the author of several books on nutrition and the general hygiene of maternity and infancy.

“Massage and Therapeutic Exercise” by Mary McMillan, second edition, 316 pages, linen bound, 5 1-2” by 8”. Published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia and London, 1925, price $2.50.

A rather thorough and well arranged book containing all the essential information in this field for a student of Physical and Health Education. It should prove an excellent supplemental text for a course in Physio-Therapy.

It includes all the fundamental massage movements and also a chapter devoted to the physiologic objectives of the same. Further on the necessary massage for indicated conditions is covered in some detail with many valuable suggestions pertaining to helpful treatment. All of which demonstrates the author has had a wealth of experience in this field and thus speaks from the practical point of view.

A sound background of good medico-surgical advice and practice assures the student a freedom from “quackery” and glowing assumptions. The whole tone of the book is conservative, but hopeful.

The later chapters are devoted to application of certain splint appliances for the various fractures with a thorough discussion of the routine employed in the treatment, along with a conscientious and extensive amount of subject matter concerning corrective gymnastics and convalescent physio-therapy.

This book will undoubtedly receive the hearty endorsement of all students and teachers in this field. It is clearly printed, well bound, and amply illustrated.

Digitized b Howard* &. Conrad