MIND AND BODY

Vol. 33	JUNE, 1926	No.	350

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

' Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered es second-class matter October 14* 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^

EARLY HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF AMERICA

By A. G. Kindervater, St. Louis, Mo.

The subject that has been assigned to me is one of such wide scope that I find the time allotted all too short to do it justice. Instead of presenting it in detail, as I should like, I shall be compelled to limit my remarks to general facts, and only a small number of these.

To help get the topic before you as quickly as possible and in a comprehensive way, I shall speak of it under the following five heads:

(a)	Time and place of the beginning of physical education in the public schools.

'Read at the Convention of the Middle West Society held in Minneapolis, Minn., March 12th, 1926.

Digitized by Google
98

(b)	Individuals and associations responsible for its introduction.

(c)	Types of activities first practiced.

(d)	Physical directors first in charge of the work.

(e)	Development and progress made during the first forty years.

(a)	Time and place.

In 1896 the National Executive Board of the American Gymnastic Union sent out a questionnaire to all of the educational institutions of our country in regard to physical training in their curriculum. Eight hundred replied, among which we find one hundred and sixty-one public school systems listed as having regular work of this kind on their program.

Time will not permit me to mention the names of all of these. The principal ones, together with the year in which this training was introduced, are as follows: Cincinnati holds the place of honor, for it was there that a course in this work was first adopted. This was in the year 1860. Philadelphia was second. It began by offering the work in one of its girls’ high schools in 1869. Milwaukee came third in 1876, followed by Chicago in 1885. Kansas City took it up in 1886, while Davenport was added to the list in 1887. Cleveland and St. Louis began it in 1888, Denver followed in 1889, while Detroit, Sandusky, and Indianapolis were included in 1890. Boston was next in 1891, with Columbus and Dayton in 1892. St. Paul came in in 1894, San Francisco in the same period and finally New York in 1895.

(b)	Individuals and associations instrumental in the introduction of physical education into the public schools of the above named cities.

In fifteen of the following cities prominent members of the local Tumvereins (gymnastic societies) convinced the Boards of Education of the necessity and value of systematic physical training in a well balanced curriculum. In the most cases the Turners furnished their own instructors as demonstrators of such work as was possible to be conducted in the class room, corridor or assembly hall in the school buildings of that time. Many of these Tumverein teachers gave their services to the schools for months without pay. This was the case in Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Davenport, Dayton, Denver, Detroit, Indianapolis, Kansas City, Milwaukee, St. Louis, St. Paul, and San Francisco.

In Boston Mrs. Mary Hemminway, a wealthy lady whose son was a graduate of Harvard who later was responsible for the Hemminway Gymnasium as a gift to Harvard, and the well known Swede, Baron Nils Posse, deserve the credit for introducing this work into the public schools. In Philadelphia Dr. Grace E. Spiegle began this movement in one of the girls’ high schools in 1869; a boys’ high school followed in 1903. The elementary schools of that city, however, did not take up the
99

work until 1907 when it was brought about by the influence of the local Tumgemeinde and Dr. Hexamer at that time the president of the National German-American Alliance. At that time Wm. A. Stecher of Indianapolis was placed in charge. In New York City Dr. I. G. Smith and Jessie Bancroft must be given the main credit for being the prime movers in the cause.

The fact that the American Gymnastic Union, at that time an organization having a membership of 41,877 forming 316 groups or branches distributed over the United States, embodied in its constitution and principles as one of its main objectives, the making of physical education its contribution to the physical up-building of the American people, may not be familiar to many of you here today. The combined efforts of the advocates of the German and Swedish systems, giving due credit to Dr. Dio Lewis and the most valuable support of such eminent physical educators as Dr. Edward Hitchcock of Amherst, Dr. D. A. Sargent of Harvard, Dr. W. G. Anderson of Yale, Dr. Edward Mussey Hartwell of Boston aided much in bringing about the recognition of physical training as a necessary and valuable part of a public school curriculum.

Numerous and extensive papers upon this subject, as well as the particular advantages of both the German and Swedish systems for public school purposes, were presented and vigorously discussed at the second and third conventions of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education in Adelphi Hall, Brooklyn, in 1886 and 1887. The above association, our present A. P. E. A. was born in Brooklyn in 1885 and the men mentioned above are its godfathers and charter members. The American Gymnastic Union was represented at both meetings by some of its outstanding and sincere advocates; among them such men as Dr. Hugo Starkloff, its national president, and Carl G. Rathmann, its national secretary—both of St. Louis; also Carl Betz of Kansas City and Carl Kroh of Cincinnati; the latter head of the Department of Physical Education in the Cook County Normal School from 1891 to 1899.

(c)	Type* of Activities first introduced and practiced in tne school systems mentioned.

In fourteen of the school systems named above graded exercises of the German type, later supplemented with dumbbells, wands, and Indian clubs made up the course offered. The school buildings at that time not being provided with rooms for physical training, the lesson material used had to be adjusted to the existing conditions: the class room, corridor, or assembly hall. After a time some cities adopted a definite program.

In the Boston schools the Swedish system, including free exercises for general and corrective purposes was made official. Detroit started with a mixed program of German and Swedish free exercises. New York City used drills in free exercises prepared by Dr. I. G. Smith and Jessie Bancroft. The Philadel-

Digitized by UaOOQle
100

phia high school for girls, mentioned above, started with the Dr. Dio Lewis system.

(d)	The Physical Directors first in charge in the cities listed.

Among the men and women who started as pioneers and leaders in preparing this fertile field for our children’s physical preparedness and recreation, may be named the following, together with the cities in which they labored:

In Boston we find Dr. Edward Mussey Hartwell, one of the best qualified and most efficient men of his time in this field of endeavor, as the first director of the work in the public schools.

In Cleveland it was my long-time friend Dr. Carl Zapp.

In Chicago our well known pioneer Henry Suder started the work in 1885 and conducted the same for nearly forty years.

In Cincinnati a very popular German teacher, Louis Graser started physical exercises in the public schools in 1860. Thirty-two years later Dr. Ziegler, the present director, took up the work there.

In Columbus it was Anton Leibold, one of your Minnesota (New Ulm) boys that started the work in 1892 and conducted it successfully for many years.

In Davenport Wm. Reuter has been most successful through a period of 39 years.

In Dayton Dr. Robert Nohr was the first director.

Robert Barth introduced the work in the Denver schools.

In Detroit two women, Miss Kinney and Miss Carn are on record as the first in charge.

In Indianapolis Miss Frances Mueller (at present Mrs. Albert Metzger) also a Minnesota (New Ulm) girl was the first supervisor.

In Kansas City we find Carl Betz a most successful pioneer.

In Milwaukee it was our so-called “Father Jahn of America,” George Brosius that introduced the work into the public schools. Mr. Brosius at that time was the director of the Turners’ Normal School of Physical Training, also teacher in the German-English Academy and in the Tumverein of that city. On account of the many duties his work in the public schools had to be dropped but was taken up again in 1892 under the direction of Dr. Hans Rassmussen.

In New York City Jessie Bancroft is recognized as the first official director of physical education in the public school system.

In Philadelphia Lilia Partridge, Dr. Grace Speigle and Dr. M. C. O’Brien are recognized as the pioneers.

In San Francisco Dr. Max Magnus was the first to take up the burden.

In St. Paul, C. Julius Herrmann introduced the work and supervised it from 1894 until his death.

In St. Louis George Wittich was the first official supervisor appointed in 1890. When Mr. Wittich was called to Milwau-

Digitized by UjOOQle
101

kee to become the director of the A. G. U. Normal School in 1902, your speaker became his successor and has held the position ever since. It is with pleasure that I can add two additional cities to this honor list namely: Peoria and Duluth of which the two pioneer directors, Mr. Graner and Mr. Alletzhauser are here with us to day.

Fifteen of the 19 pioneers mentioned are graduates of the A. G. U. Normal School.

In 1889 the Boston Normal School, established with the financial assistance of Mrs. Mary Hemminway, was first directed by Baron Nils Posse. In the annual report of Supt. Seaver of the Boston Schools in 1890 we find the following statement: “360 class teachers are fully prepared to teach' the Ling system in their classes.” In addition there were 97 graduates of the Boston Normal School prepared to teach the Swedish system. Baron Nils Posse must be remembered as the most popular and successful exponent of the Swedish system of physical training in America.

Through his efforts and ability as director of his own Normal School in Boston he developed and educated many thorough and enthusiastic disciples of the system which he advocated. Gymnastics based on his method was at that time introduced and practiced in the public school systems of 51 cities and towns, most of which were located in the east.

It may surprise you to learn that in 1897 there existed in this country 34 so-called normal schools of physical training in which numerous kinds of systems were taught. One hundred and ninety-two graduates of these institutions were reported to be teaching physical training in the public schools of America. Nearly as many different systems as schools wete represented, among which the Swedish, German, Military, and Delsarte furnished the largest number of graduates.

Some of the early literature, in the shape of lesson material for the use of class teachers, published in the American language at that time must be credited to Carl Betz, Anton Leibold, Hans Baffin, Dr. Hans Rassmussen, Henry Suder, Nils Posse, Dr. Enebuske, Dr. Sargent, Dr. Anderson, Harvick Nissen, Wm. A. Stecher, Dr. Dio Lewis, Dr. Gulick, Jessie Bancroft and Dr.

I.	G. Smith. There is no doubt that graded exercises for the class teacher’s use was prepared by every one of the leaders in charge of the work in the school system listed above. I refer here only to the authors of material that was placed on the book market.

(e)	Development and progress made during the first forty years.

Despite all the efforts made by the associations and individuals mentioned above proving the value and necessity of physical training in our public schools, for many years only slight encouragement was offered by educators and school boards in general. In many cases the work was looked upon as a mere
102

fad which had to be endured. Besides this indifference there were many other obstacles. The lack of suitable space and equipment, the absence of well prepared teachers, and the slight cooperation between the school faculty and the physical director, all of these handicaps contributed to the slow progress made. But the opposition, the criticism and the indifference were gradually overcome when games and dances were added to the formal work, and the children derived real joy and interest during their physical training period.

The playground movement which started its official life in Boston with the Charles River Bank Playground in 1885, and which made such immense progress throughout our country in the following years, was a great aid in stimulating the interest of the people in general for the value and necessity of physical training for children. The continued and interesting efforts of the highly educated, efficient and sincere men and women in our profession working for our cause at the educational conventions, in the public press, and through the numerous mass demonstrations of the work on public school field days, auditorium exhibitions, and the professional propaganda made in publications like The Physical Education Review, Mind and Body, Physical Education, and other educational magazines have finally succeeded in overcoming most of the obstacles mentioned above.

The addition of play activities, athletics and folk dances to the formal work have largely been responsible in gradually winning the sympathetic attention of the educational world, so that at present most school boards are backing our efforts and are providing suitable places and the necessary equipment for this work, thereby making the same more effective and popular among teachers and pupils.

Of the great and continued progress made in public school physical education since 1900 as to recognition and valuation by educators, school boards and the public in general, the increase in well trained and educated teachers, supervisors and directors, as well as the more liberal provisions for time, space and equipment I need not speak about; all of you have watched it grow with great satisfaction.

In closing I call your attention to the fact that it took a World War to prove to the educational and medical profession of our country how sadly the physical development has been neglected in our growing generation. When through a physical and medical examination of some four million men in their prime of life, drafted for this war it was discovered that over 33% were physically NOT fit to serve their country in this time of need, and that at least fifty per cent of these could have been made fit through physical training during their school life, the eyes and minds of our former opponents and critics were at last opened and today Health and Physical Education in our public schools has at last earned the long looked for place and importance we pioneers have fought for during the last fifty years.

Digitized by Google
103

Bibliography

I used the Annual Reports of the Turnerbund, the special reports of the second and third Conventions of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education in Brooklyn, and Leonard's History of Physical Education as a basis for this paper.	—A. G. K.

SOME ESSENTIAL VIEWPOINTS IN A SCHOOL PROGRAM OF HEALTH EDUCATION*

W. G. Moorhead, Harrisburg, Pa.

When I accepted the invitation to appear on this program, it was with the understanding that I should use the time given to me to present to you some viewpoints that are essential to the promotion of a School Program in Health Education. It is somewhat of a temptation to me, and perhaps it is to all of us, when discussing, for example, the subject of physical education to enter into the more controversial questions that are constant ly claiming our attention and challenging our fundamental beliefs and theories which, after all, are the results of our training and our practical experience. Irrespective of the claims of Hie conservatives and the more liberal group in any department of educational activity, we, as teachers, are confronted with many practical problems of organization and administration in whose solution undoubtedly is found the answer to our most important theoretical problems.

All that is worth saying on the subject of health education has probably already been said and the thoughts of the best minds are to be found embodied in a considerable literature which is already accessible to all who are interested. In this literature is to be found as much material as will ever be needed by any of us in the thoughtful consideration of the theoretical and inspirational side of health education. I am more particularly interested in the practical side of the question and it is a source of gratification to find an increasing demand for a practical program that will generate within itself sufficient energy to permit it to realize and attain certain well-defined objectives.

In the State Department of Public Instruction, we are trying to organize and administer our health program so as to integrate and coordinate all activities that are concerned with the health of the child. We, as health education teachers, have too much specialization within our own group, and the tendency seems to be to measure the efficiency of our health program by the standard of our own immediate interests—be that health instruction, schodl nursing, physical education or health examination.

•Delivered at Schoolmen's Week, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, March, 1926,

Digitized by L^ooQle
104

There are two problems in American education at the present time that are related directly to our program in health education and whose solution can be found very largely in our program in health education. The first one involves the selection of subject matter of instruction so that it may function practically in the realization of social needs and purposes. The second problem is concerned with the securing of methods of instruction that will make sure to us that the subject matter shall function more adequately in the everyday life of the school child—both at home and in school. Contrary to the commonly accepted notion, health is not dependent upon the physician, the nurse, or some medical specialist. It comes to each of us as a by-product of the activities that produce it and is, therefore, related to the practices of the individual. It is what one does that keeps up one's vitality, that wards off disease, and protects one from infections of various kinds. These practices of the individual are moreover dependent upon one’s knowledge, habits and attitudes. We acquire and develop these in the school, in the home, and in all contacts with life and they are, therefore, a matter of education. It is the realization of these socially desirable habits, attitudes and knowledge that is the aim of the school with its curriculum, its organization and its methods. They are not objectives to be attained through extra curricular activities, “drives” and the like, but through daily classroom instruction and through, regular school activities.

It is probably true that our objectives have not been very clearly defined and that we frequently go through the motions of the activity without being entirely sure of our goal. Mr. George R. Staley, Superintendent of Schools, Rome, New York, in his paper “The Major Objectives of Physical	,”	tells

the following story that seems to be apropos at this time:

“There was once a railroad president who had laid on his desk the report of an employee showing unusual application and fidelity to duty. This man, the report showed, had worked for the company continuously for twenty years in the same position without the loss of a single day. The next time the president rode over the line which passed through the town where this man was engaged, he made it a point to stop and look him up. He inquired for “Bill” Jackson. “Bill,” he was informed was out in the yard. He went out and found him busy—also colored. “Is your name William Jackson?” he said. “Yes, Sah, my name is Bill Jackson.” “And how long have you worked here?” “Twenty years, Sah. Never lost a day, Sah. Not a day.” “What kind of work do you do?” “Well, Sah, every time a train comes in I takes my hammah and goes over all the wheels on every car. Taps ’em with my hammah like this, Sah. Never misses a single car. Never misses a single wheel.”

The president said:	“That’s	fine,” and as he mentally cal-

culated what kind of reward such a man should have, he asked his final question. “And now what do you tap those wheels for?” And the faithful Bill answered cheerfully:	“Damfino.”
105

Have you ever wondered, as you watched some phase of health education practice, whether or not some of our teachers in health education have some slight relation to the redoubtable “Bill.” Are they getting anywhere, or are they simply going through the motions? If there does exist some cloudiness regarding their objectives, I feel that it is as much the fault of us who are directing and supervising the work as of those who are actually doing it. Health education is a subject that very readily lends itself to routine to such an extent that objectives are easily lost sight of.

To return to the consideration of our State program in health, may we assume that our field includes all agencies whose chief concern is the health of the child. It is an organization in the school for the correction of defects, the prevention of disease and injury, and the development of proper health appreciations and attitudes. Such an organization must provide for a real program of health supervision and of health instruction.

During the past six months the members of our Bureau of Health Education have been working very definitely to establish certain essential viewpoints and objectives in regard to the organization and administration of our school health activities. These activities, together with our policy with reference to each of them, I wish at this time to place before you for your consideration. Briefly they are as follows:

1.	Provision for a healthful environment which means a thoughtful consideration of all agencies that have to do with the sanitation of school plant; ventilation, lighting, heating, proper seating, use of proper color for walls and shades, the location and construction of school buildings, and the procurement of ample playground space which shall be properly drained, graded and equipped.

2.	A medical inspection program that shall mean a real health examination and supervision of all pupils and not, as in so many cases, an accumulation of information gathered apparently for filing purposes only. It is not so important that we have the information that 300 pupils have serious physical defects, but that these defects shall be remedied. The true measure of our examination program in this respect is to be found in the percentage of defects corrected. A real health supervision of pupils should be organized which shall make medical inspection worth something near what it costs. Such a supervision should provide for the services of nurses, dentists, dental hygienists and special classes.

3.	An adequate force of properly trained school nurses. The nurse is the laisson officer between the school and the home and her most important function is found in her interpretation of health to the home. Supplementing the work of the school physician, the value of her efforts in reducing the number of exclusions from school and increasing the percentage of defects corrected is too well recognized to need comment. The number of school nurses employed by boards of education in Pennsyl-
106

vania is 67% greater than the number employed in 1921 when a supervisor of school nursing was first employed by the State Department of Public Instruction. Philadelphia has more than doubled her force of school nurses in this period of time. There are, at the present time, 226 full time, and 131 part time school nurses employed in the schools of the Commonwealth. Probably the most important factor in helping the nurse to secure a broader viewpoint and a wider appreciation of her field has been the regional conferences for school nurses which we have conducted for the past three years. Our supervisor of school nursing is at the present time preparing a manual covering the field of school nursing which we trust will be ready for distribution next fall. We are also conducting definite courses covering the principles of public school nursing at the summer sessions at State College.

4.	While dental service for school children does not come under the supervision of our Bureau, yet it is a part of health work to which we are giving every encouragement. Such service has been established during the past few years in 60 communities of the State. One hundred school districts are employing 120 dental hygienists. It is to be hoped that this service will soon be extended to all communities. This can be done in fourth class school districts by traveling county dental clinics working directly under the supervision of the county superintendent of schools. Three counties are now planning to organize on this basis.

5.	Health training and instruction, or what has heretofore been known as hygiene and physiology. Health is never an academic subject. The demand for content in school subjects has reached the health education field. In many instances it has become a content subject concerned with offering information. We have had too much of this one-sided health instruction. Informational text book hygiene and physiology has not trained the child in health habits. Discovery and occasional correction of defects in children has not improved the vitality of the great majority of normally healthy children. What the child knows about bodily processes is not, comparatively speaking, very important, but what the child is and practices is extremely significant. Our Courses of Study in Hygiene and Physiology have been grouped around four main thoughts:

1. The establishment of proper health habits.

2. The teaching of facts regarding the need of proper health as it relates itself to food, cleanliness, sleep, play, posture, etc.

3.	The causes of preventable diseases and the means of checking their spread.

4.	The formation of proper appreciation with regard to health and physical efficiency and the building up of proper attitudes in the individual as regards his responsibility for the health of the community.

The ability to select essential material to be used in our health instruction work is probably one of our first problems.

Digitized by CjOOQle
107

The needs of each classroom may vary, but nevertheless there remain certain principles and facts which have a general and nationwide application. Our policy is to include in such a program all factors which promote good health and that are modifiable by education. We are issuing, in the very near future, a course of study in health instruction for the one-teacher school. This material very definitely indicates “outcomes” in terms of knowledge, habits and attitudes. It offers “situations” that will provide purposeful health activities and “subject matter” that shall include the modern texts in the field of health instruction. In other words, it provides for a direct tie-up between the child, the school, and the home. Opportunities are provided for healthful practices within the school. We are presenting in this bulletin a method of health habit formation based upon essential information and secured through opportunities for the practices that will lead to the establishment of such worthwhile habits.

6.	The place of nutrition in a complete program of health education is today well recognized. The mistakes that have been made, and the mistakes that are being made, in the administration of a program in nutrition have doubtless come to us because of a lack of appreciation of the fact that the under-nourished child is not necessarily the child who is deprived of a sufficient amount of food. The failure to grasp this fact has led to some doubtful practices in the care of the under-nourished child, Nutrition is a matter cf the proper assimilation of food and is promoted by proper foods in sufficient amounts; by a body free from physical defects; by sanitary surroundings, and by practicing proper health habits. There is a big field of opportunity in the improvement of school lunches through the employment of people who are trained in nutrition to supervise the selection and preparation of food. We are urging that those who are responsible for the administration of lunches within the school shall give more attention to this most important subject. The noon school lunch has, in many instances, been placed under the supervision of people who are more interested in the financial renumeration than in the choice and preparation of proper foods. The nutrition movement in relation to the child’s health strikes at the root of our problem and will assist us in solving it through training of the child as regards food habits and through the education of his responsible parent or guardian as to his individual needs. It has a very definite tie-up with the home which is so important in securing results which we wish to secure in all of our health work.

7.	Physical Education

Dr. Staley has stated, and perhaps with an element of truth that “all courses in physical training look well on paper but in actual operation they are likely to be weak on one end, crazy on the other, and clock-worked in the middle.” There is probably no other field of health education endeavor that is so much in need of integration as that of physical education. Existing

Digitized by v^ooQle
108

conditions are due very largely to the fact that physical education has over-reached itself in its field of activity. The instructor in physical education is expected to teach a full day in the gymnasium, to do special work for those who need special corrective attention, to coach athletic teams, and to have charge of the health instruction program as well.

It simply cannot be done and there are very few men or women who are capable of spreading their energy out over so many fields of activity. We must come to a clearer recognition of the maximum load of the individual teacher. There must be more attention given to the size of the classes that are sent to the gymnasium. My experience has been that they will vary from 10 to 150 in one group and mixed indiscriminately without regard to physiological age or classes. Freshmen are given work with the seniors. If a pupil has a vacant period he is sent to the gymnasium. I make the statement advisedly, that no other teacher in our public schools would permit such conditions to exist if they had to do with the teaching of their own subjects. First of all, let us organize our physical education program on the same basis as any other subject in our curriculum. Let us organize it for the benefit of all pupils in our school and let it express itself in good character as well as in terms of muscular activity. The physical education program, so called, that places its emphasis on interschool athletics, or depends upon Camp’s dozen, or the Mini Eleven for its success, is a misnomer and should not have a place in any scheme of education. Nor, as I have mentioned before, is a program sufficient that devotes itself entirely to the normal child to the exclusion of the physically unfit. We must offer a program that will benefit all.

We must give to the child the opportunity of participating in wholesome recreation under wholesome conditions. A poorly lighted, poorly ventilated gymnasium or playroom defeats the very ends for which we are striving. Above all, let us be careful that we are not justly criticised for permitting unhealthful practices to enter into any of our work concerned with the health education of children.

8.	Athletics

I appreciate the fact the he who would be so bold as to discuss the matter of athletics has an unusual amount of courage and is treading upon dangerous ground. Our so-called athletic problems have been greatly over-emphasized and they can be solved if we consider them as a contributing factor in education and look upon them as problems in education, and measure their value as an integral part of our school program. With this in mind, I believe we can state the promise that athletics should not be promoted in the public schools to produce teams for exhibition purposes. Athletics is, and by rights should be, an integral part of our program in physical education and rightfully used has an educational value. Just as soon as it is looked upon as a means for public entertainment—a student amusement

Digitized by

Google
109

activity—and promoted for the benefit of the alumni with sporting proclivities, just so soon are expenditures of public money for its support more than questionable. The same would be true if we would apply the same measure to other subjects in our curriculum. Concerned in all of this agitation for or against inter-school athletics, the average educator has one guide that should enable him to decide if the game should be played or not. That is, try to determine why athletics is wanted. Whether it is being advocated to give every boy and girl in school the opportunity to play vigorous, competitive games under proper physical conditions and under fair standards of scholarship, or whether it is being offered in order to present opportunities for the sporting element of the community to win wagers on the outcome of the game; to put the school on the map; to defeat another school and be acclaimed sectional, inter-sectional or national champions, or to prepare players for senior high school— as I regret to say is being done in many of our junior high schools. If for the former reason, its development should be encouraged. If for the latter reason, its continuance should be looked upon as questionable. In the consideration of our administrative problems in athletics we have three very clearly defined things to be considered. First, the boy; second, the school; third, the general public. I am stating these in the order of their importance from an educational viewpoint. We have given too much attention to the wishes of outside interests and supporters and not enough attention to the boy himself. We must reverse ourselves if we are ever to go forward in a constructive-way. We have too much athletics and not enough sports. Athletics has become a business and the boy or girl participating has become only a cog, and I am sure you will agree with me that the function of a cog in a machine is not a very pleasant one. Most of our problems in athletics are a natural outgrowth inherent in the history and development of athletics in our secondary schools. It has been recognized, and is still being so recognized, as an extra curricular activity and has not been given its proper consideration and place as a real and vital part of a program in sportsmanship training. The importance of athletics in this respect is largely due to the fact that it lies very close to the boy’s nature. As one professor of ethics has stated—“In my classroom my students learn the theory of right living, but on the athletic field they put the theory into practice and form the habit of right living.”

The importance of the coach should have our careful consideration. In an increasing number of schools the part-time professional coach is being legislated out of business. The great need now is for coaches who have the training and ideals of a teacher. If we wish to make athletics a means—not an end; if we want our boys and girls to play for the sake of playing rather than for the sake of winning; if we wish them to develop finer social and moral qualities, we will place them under the direction of a teacher who has high educational ideals. As one
110

writer has said: “We cannot expect unpedagogical, undemocratic, driving, profane coaches under the sanction of institutions of learning and goaded on by ambitious alumni to demonstrate to the world that athletics has social, moral or even mental value."

I have before me a poem written by Chas. Van Housen within whose lines can be found the expression of the ultimate values that can come to any of us from participation in athletics competition. It is entitled—On The Square, and reads as follows:

When the hard gruelling contest is ended.

And the air is full of the cries

Of the lads in the stand who beat the glad hand,

As the judges award you the prize,

While you push out your chest proud and peppy,

In the glow of the spot-light’s bright glare,—

If they laiew every play that you made would they say:

“He won,—and he won on the square?”

And what matter if it be your ill fortune To stand with the team which has lost,

And to struggle like sin to stage a brave grin As you figure just all that it cost?

Won't it lighten the pain of your losing And make it far easier to bear,

If you truly can say, as you check every play;

“I lost,—but I lost on the square?”

•

There are plays the best referee misses In spite of the best he can do,

If the dust of the fight keeps you out of his sight,

And he can’t keep his peepers on you!

’Tis then comes the test of your honor!

It’s a test that no other can share!

God grant you may say at the end of the play:

“I played;—and I played on the square!”

Old man!—in this battle called “living”

What matter the praise or the blame?

Keep your eye on the prize that’s awarded the ones Who are true to the rules of the game!

It’s the prize of a conscience unsullied,

And a record that’s spotless and fair!

So here’s to the toast: “Be it ever our boast,—

“Win or Lose,—but we play on the square!”

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
Ill

THE HONOR OF A SPORTSMAN THE MISSOURI CODE.

Henry S. Curtis

1. A good sportsman does not misrepresent his eligibility.

2. A good sportsman will avoid unnecessary roughness that

might injure an opponent.

3.	A good sportsman plays fair at all times.

4.	A good sportsman plays his best to the end whether he is winning or losing.

5.	A good sportsman plays for the fun of playing and the success of his team.

6.	A good sportsman regards visiting contestants as guests and treats them accordingly.

7.	A good sportsman is courteous to officials, accepts their adverse decisions graciously and expects them to enforce the rules.

8.	A good sportsman congratulates the winners, gives them full credit, does not explain or make excuses.

9.	A good sportsman is modest in victory, does not brag or “rub it in.”

10.	A good sportsman observes training rules and seeks in all ways to represent his school worthily.

11.	A good sportsman among his fellows is fair and courteous and determined, a gentleman or a lady.

Where there is good sportsmanship between rival teams, it always leads to mutual respect and usually to friendship.

A Sportsman’s Code of Honor

1.	I will keep the rules

2.	I will keep faith with my comrades and play the game for my side.

3.	I will keep myself fit.

4.	I will keep my temper.

5.	I will keep my play from brutality.

6.	I will not boast in victory.

7.	I will keep a stout heart in defeat and accept it with good grace.

8.	I will strive to keep a sound soul and a clean mind in a healthy body.

Code of the Sportsmanship Brotherhood.

(slightly modified)

Sportsmanship is the golden rule applied to contests. It is one of the distinctive qualities of a gentleman or lady of spirit, of the cave man civilized. It represents the virile fighting courage of the past restrained by modern ideals. It has come to us from chivalry and is essentially an attitude of mind. It

"Bulletin of the State of Missouri, Department of Hygiene and Physica Education,

Digitized by LjOOQle
112

means determination, fairness, modesty and courtesy. It is shown about equally in intra-mural and inter-school athletics, in business, politics and society. But the great opportunity for sportsmanship training is the matched game of the high school and college periods. There is no form of character training that is more important and no form of education which the school is giving that is more far reaching and practical. Doing your level best to the end of a losing game is a form of training that life requires. It is not less valuable than being on a winning team. Sportsmanship must not be sacrificed for victories. The hero's is the Spartan spirit that is not conquered by defeat.

Sportsmanship is the good form of an athletic contest. It should be taught as a part of all games. Examples of good and bad sportsmanship should be pointed out and discussed with the teams. Cheer leaders should be required to familiarize themselves with the code, and instructed to cheer both teams and good play and sportsmanship on both sides. Students should be urged to work out sportsmanship codes for the different games, and to dramatize sportsmanship episodes in the assembly. The Missouri Sportsmanship Code should be printed in all high school papers and discussed in physical education classes. Examples of good sportsmanship taken from school life, athletics, business and literature should be dwelt upon in assembly periods and written up for school and local papers. If the high school is to train the leaders of a great and worthy nation, it must lionize heroes of the right sort.

Here are a few examples. Chivalry and sportsmanship are nearly synonomous. They stand primarily for four virtues, truthfulness, courage, loyalty and courtesy. The knight as a gentleman of leisure was always an amateur in spirit. Du Bois Gilbert says to Rebecca at Torquilstone “Many a law, many a commandment have I broken, but my word never.” In the list of Ashby, Ivanhoe charges down on DeGrantmesnell. As he does so, the latter’s horse slips, putting him at Ivanhoe’s mercy. Ivanhoe can easily ride on and overthrow him and win the prize of the tourney, as he has a perfect right to do, but instead he raises his lance, rides by to the other end and offers his opponent another chance.

Fitz James, surrounded by the hostile clan of Roderick Dhu proclaims himself the mortal enemy of the latter. Nevertheless they lie down side by side and sleep soundly until the morning, when Roderick guides him out into neutral territory, throws down his shield and demands that his foeman answer to him alone for what he has said and done.

The modern knight likewise does not misrepresent his eligibility. He does not claim his opponent’s ball was “out” in tennis or volley ball when it was really in, or that his was “in” when-it was really out. In baseball the player should Usually be a better judge than the umpire whether he was safe or out, whether he was touched or not touched. The umpire should be able to refer doubtful cases to him.

Digitized by C^ooQle
113

In England it has long been the custom for the home team to entertain the visiting team, to give them a dinner and an evening’s entertainment. Some member of the home team should meet the visiting team at the station, guide them to the hotel, see that they have suitable lockers and dressing rooms and show any features of the school that might be of interest. Visiting teams should be cheered when they come on and leave the field and congratulated when they win. Every attention and courtesy should be shown an injured opponent.

One of the striking differences between the “climber” and newly rich and the one “to the manor born” is the modesty of the latter and the ostentation and display of the former.

It is easy to do your best when you are winning, but it takes grit to hold on when the score is twenty to nothing against you. For many years Yale beat Harvard in football. But Harvard was usually ahead in the first half, and often the winning score was made in the last three minutes of play.

In society, the sportsman is loyal to his friends. He defends the weak and does not readily give up his opinions or a line of conduct, based on principle on account of opposition. In business, the good sportsman does not misrepresent his goods or disparage those of his rivals. He is trusted by the community and is ready on occasion to champion an unpopular cause and fight it through to the end. (He needs the training of the losing team). He becomes the natural leader in community enterprises. (Compare the Missouri Code with the Rotary Code of Ethics.)

During the political campaign of 1916 Ex-President Roosevelt was shot in the city of Milwaukee and had to cancel all his speaking engagements. When this was reported to President Wilson, he sent Roosevelt a wire, deploring his injury and saying that he had likewise cancelled his engagements until such time as Roosevelt was able to appear again in public. To this Roosevelt replied with equally good sportsmanship “Go ahead, don't mind me.”

Recommendations in Regard to Granting Athletic

Letters.

The letter man is usually the hero of the high school, more copied than any one else. He should be a good copy. The school letter, which is the insignia of the school, should be granted only to those who represent its ideals. The candidate should be required to meet the three following conditions:

1. He must be a member of the regular school team, playing the required number of games.

2.	There should be no valid complaint against his sportsmanship from competing teams.

3.	He should receive a nine tenths vote of the student body as a good sportsman, with not more than two negative votes from the faculty, or a three-quarters vote from the student body and a unanimous vote from the faculty, or in lieu of this
114

a four-fifths vote of the sportsmanship committee, consisting of three faculty members and two students or two faculty members and three students.

At the close of the season the principal or superintendent should read to the high school the State Sportsmanship Code, pointing out that this applies to conduct of the life of the school as well as in contests, and mentioning examples of good sportsmanship known to him. A sheet containing the names of those eligible for high school letters, as recommended by the athletic association, should be given out, or the names read to the student body for a sportsmanship vote. Attention should be called to the fact that this is a major opportunity for a real worth while election, as the one elected will not merely represent the school but also wear its colors. If they vote against a man as a poor sportsman because they dislike him without considering his real sportsmanship, they are showing poor sportsmanship themselves. Likewise if they vote for him because they like him, disregarding unsportsmanlike playing, they will also be showing poor sportsmanship.

Students vote “yes” or “no” on each candidate and, without signing their names, turn their papers over and pass them in. Impartial tellers should be appointed to count all votes. When a candidate receives more than ten per cent negative votes he should not receive a letter for the current school year, unless he receives a three-quarters vote of the student body and a unanimous vote of the faculty.

The faculty, taking into account all complaints and the votes of the student body, should confer all letters. They should consider primarily whether or not the student is the right type to represent the school. If he neglects his studies, is not cooperative in school enterprises, or has a low moral standard, he should not receive a letter. The vote should be by secret ballot. Three negatives in the faculty vote should be sufficient to reject any candidate and a unanimous vote should be required of all candidates for the State M (if this method is followed) and for the high school letter who receive a negative vote that is less than a quarter and more than one-tenth of the students voting.

In the smaller high schools the vote may be by the entire student body. In the larger high schools the vote may well be confined to the juniors and seniors who will be more familiar with the players, or to a sportsmanship committee.

The purpose of this vote is three-fold. It will discourage the student who comes to high school only to play football or basket ball and make the team really represent the school. It will familiarize the student body with the principles of sportsmanship and set a standard which will more or less unconsciously determine the conduct of players.

Digitized by v^ooQle
115

Training Rules

1.	Use no tobacco in any form.

2.	Use no alcoholic liquors.

3.	Attend your classes and athletic practice regularly.

4.	Go to bed not later than 10:30 and sleep at least eight

hours every night.

5.	Have your meals at regular hours.

6.	Eat slowly and chew your food thoroughly, with no eating between meals.

7.	Avoid tea, coffee, candy, cake, most kinds of pie, pancakes, food fried in grease, or any other food that does not agree with you.

8.	Eat some fruit and one or two green vegetables every day and drink plenty of water and milk.

9.	Strive for cheerfulness, especially at meals, and avoid nervousness and worry.

10.	Watch your appetite, weight and sleep for evidence of overtraining.

These rules apply not merely to teams but all athletes and others who care enough to train.

REPORT OF MENTAL HEALTH SURVEY OF STATEN ISLAND BY THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR MENTAL HYGIENE

“What is Staten Island doing to decrease mental disease,

Erevent delinquency and criminality, protect the feebleminded, issen dependency, and help solve its problems of social maladjustment and social inefficiency?" This question was asked a short time ago by a representative body of residents of the Borough of Richmond, New York City, interested in the mental health of their community.

The answer has just been published in the form of a comprehensive and challenging report by the National Committee for Mental Hygiene, which was engaged to study the situation, formulate the community’s needs and recommend the necessary constructive measures.

One in every 73 children passed through the Children’s Court of Staten Island during the period of a year; one in every 167 persons served time in the County Jail; one out of every 332 residents of the Borough was a patient in a state hospital for mental diseases; one in every 10 school children was found to need the help of a mental-health service for some form of mental, nervous, physical, emotional, personality, educational, or social difficulty. “These are the figures, vital statistics in every sense of the word, that we estimate,” says the report, “as a result of an intensive study of the social problems on the Island arising from the presence of mental abnormality of various kinds and degrees.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
116

Abnormal mental conditions were found among two-thirds of the 44 county jail prisoners studied; and most of the group of 100 juvenile delinquents exhibited more or less serious mental, physical or personality defects. Of 2,340 children studied in the public schools, 3.6 per cent were found to be feebleminded; 9.2 per cent borderline mental defectives; and 16.9 per cent dullards.

Of 702 boys and girls studied in the continuation and vocational schools, 16.7 per cent were found to be feebleminded; 25.9 per cent of borderline intelligence; and 28.1 per cent dullards. Altogether about 60 per cent of the school children were found to be mentally handicapped in greater or less degree. Of a special group of 366 children brought to the attention of the investigators by teachers as “problem cases,” 8.5 per cent were psychopathic; 30.6 per cent neuropathic; 1.6 per cent constitutionally inferior; 1.1 per cent psychoneurotic; and 1.1 per cent epileptic.

Facilities for Preventive Work Great Need

The Committee found great inadequacy of facilities in the Borough for dealing with these conditions, due, no doubt, partly to its geographical isolation from the rest of New York City. It is noted, for example, that of the hundreds of children brought before the Juvenile Court on the Island in one year, only 17, or 4.7 per cent, received what they needed most urgently; a physical and mental examination; whereas, of the delinquents appearing in the Juvenile Court in the Borough of Manhattan during the same period, 13.9 per cent, or three times as many, received special study.

There is a similar dearth of provision for the mentally defective. Staten Island has only one special class for every 4,200 school children; while Manhattan has one special class for every 1,750 school children, and even in Manhattan there is great need of additional special classes. During the survey it was estimated that Staten Island has spent over a million and a half dollars in the past ten years in teaching children who repeated grades.

The economic significance of the various forms of abnormality found among the school children of the Borough is further observed by the National Committee for Mental Hygiene in the fact that there are now approximately 400 adult residents of Staten Island in New York state hospitals with mental diseases that began to develop, for the most part, when they were children, and when these conditions could have been largely prevented. Each patient is costing about $400 a year to maintain, to say nothing of the much greater loss from economic unproductiveness. All this because of the lack of mental hygiene organization.

The key-note of the Committee’s recommendations for dealing with this situation is prevention: largely by means of an educational program for the early recognition of abnormal men-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
117

tal conditions, and the provision of community facilities for dealing promptly with these conditions. Only so, in the opinion of the Committee, can they be prevented from developing into the serious mental diseases that make it necessary for people to go to state hospitals or private sanitariums, or into behavior disorders that bring persons into conflict with the law, or into social or individual ineffectiveness that makes them the burdens of their families or throws them upon the charity of the community.

Mental Hygiene Clinics Chief Recommendation

Specifically, the National Committee recommends periodic medical examinations of all children attending the public schools in the Borough; systematic mental studies of all problem children; extensive enlargement of special-class facilities for mentally retarded children; the establishment of a probationary school, with a capacity for 300 pupils, for special behavior cases; the provision of a mental ward in the general hospital for the prompt care and treatment of acute cases; and a psychiatric social service for all exceptional children, whether mentally defective, or exhibiting the beginnings of mental or nervous diseases, or showing behavior or personality disorders of any kind in school or at home.

The best mechanism for providing such facilities, the Committee holds, is the mental-hygiene clinic, in which the psychiatrist, the psychologist, and the psychiatric social worker join in making careful and thorough medical, mental, emotional, educational and social study, diagnosis and treatment. The broad scope of a mental hygiene clinic as an agency for community service is indicated in the intent that it should be used by the courts from which problem cases may be sent for special study; by the schools whose principals and teachers are constantly encountering puzzling situations in dealing with which they could secure valuable assistance from the clinic; by social agencies for advice in the disposition of nervous and mental clients; by physicians and lay persons who are struggling with individual problems that need special attention and require more time than they have at their disposal; and by parents troubled with difficult children at home.

“Such a clinic,” the report states, “should be available for the needs of every family and should be an intimate part of the medical resources of the community, since it is impossible to separate the mental from the physical, and quite necessary to study the individual as a whole. The majority of children at some time or other need help in problems of personality and social adjustment. Mental health is not a prescription for the poor, the inadequate, and the antisocial alone. It is the goal toward which everyone is striving.

Crime, Delinquency, and Dependency

“Crime and delinquency,” the Committee believes, “are largely mental-hygiene problems and require the attention of

Digitized by ^.ooQle
118

the mental clinic just as mental and nervous disorders do. The studies made of juvenile and adult offenders show unmistakably what an excellent opportunity the clinic affords to help unsocial and maladjusted individuals in their mental and social reconstruction. They point, moreover, to the preventive work that would have been possible had the significance of their unsocial tendencies been recognized in early life. The nursery and kindergarten studies show that even very young children develop harmful mental and emotional habits and personality difficulties that have everything to do with the disorders and problems of youth and maturity and must be corrected early to avoid later serious trouble.

“In the case of the delinquents studied at the county jail, the life histories of all of them showed that antisocial and maladjusted attitudes developed at an early age. The control and prevention of crime is, therefore, a matter of right training of the individual and the wise management of the individual’s personal problems. But it is also,” the Committee points out, “a matter of social organization and the concern of the community in which the individual is growing up, and which must provide the means needed for the solution of these problems. The issue, however, is not as between crime and no crime. It is not so simple as that. The crimes that come so shockingly to the attention of the community represent in reality only the small part of the iceberg of social problems that is visible above the surface of community waters. What of the waves of mutiny against authority that are to be found in every community? What of the movements that seek their selfish ends by highhanded methods instead of through the orderly processes of the law? What of the attitudes of youth toward obligation and responsibility, and our methods of bringing up children? These are the things that we find if we look for the seven-eighths of the iceberg below the surface, and they are parts of the problem that we recognize at the top as delinquency and crime. To such tendencies in individuals and trends in communities must we look if we would discover the hidden springs of criminal behavior, Merely detecting crime, apprehending the criminal, and punishing according to the deed is not enough.

“Dependency, too, and other forms of social inadequacy are frequently the result of poor social adjustment, even where there is no clear cut mental disease or defect or organic deficiency, and the power to adjust satisfactorily to social conditions and to make the most of the opportunities that are available depends on the personality development that takes place during childhood and adolescence. Thirty per cent of the 366 problem children give special study in the public schools of Staten Island showed some maladjustment to social conditions that already was proving detrimental to educational and social efficiency, and^many more showed abnormal personality trends.”

Digitized by (^.ooQle
119

THE CHILD’S FIRST YEARS*

It has become almost axiomatic within the past decade that the foundations of a healthy, efficient adult life must be built upon a healthy, efficient childhood. It must also be recognized that childhood is extremely important in itself and forms a valuable and distinct period of life quite apart from its significance as a preparatory school for life itself, that is, adult life.

To this end the attention of the thoughtful parent has been shifted gradually from' the school period of the baby days and then to the intervening or pre-school period. We need no longer feel that we can have little or no part in the development of our small children beyond the building up of their physical health. Our opportunities and our responsibilities concern every phase of the child’s life. Naturally physical well-being is of prime importance. We can determine through the careful findings of scientists what a healthy baby really is, how to maintain this condition and how by constant prevision to avoid many of the ills that have beset a less fortunate generation. We have come to look upon certain deviations from the normal as symptoms, and have been encouraged to seek to remove causes rather than apathetically wait for developments and then only attempt a cure.

This principle is equally applicable to all other phases of the small child’s being. Just as we are concerned with securing for him a healthy, robust body in babyhood and childhood, as an end in itself and not merely as a stepping stone to his vigorous adult physique, we are increasingly concerning ourselves with securing for him a happy and well-adjusted mind and nervous system which will enable him to live his early years as fully as possible. If we take good care of the child, the man will, in all probability, take good care of himself.

It is necessary, of course, to perfect the standards and measures by which our little children are rated. To this end, students of psychology have been at work for some years. We know now for example more accurately than formerly, what may reasonably be expected of the average two or three-year-old in the matter of motor control and motor skills. We know that undue significance has often been placed on specific evidences of retardation or acceleration at some periods. We have learned that a child’s emotional stability depends very greatly on the contacts he makes— even at two or three the influence of his companions is of importance. A child who is constantly surrounded by adults is likely either to be over-stimulated or overbabied. In either case there is great danger of creating an emotional imbalance which will inevitably interfere with his successful functioning.

*Reprint from “Child Study.”

Digitized by (^.ooQle
120

The quality of the home relationships determines in large measure his attitude toward relationship^ outside the home, for he will always interpret his later experiences in the light of those which he has known most intimately and over the longest stretch of time. The home, moreover, is the one continuous influence in the child’s experience—he may go forth from it for periods of longer or shorter duration but he invariably returns to it and uses it as his standard of comparison. The kind of obedience that he is accustomed to at home, the attitude expressed there toward other people, the family’s conception of money values, all will be reflected in the behavior of the child outside the home.

Whatever contributes to the parents’ knowledge and understanding is to be eagerly welcomed. Thus, the psychological clinic has done a great service in establishing norms of development along many lines. The nursery school, in addition to its splendid educational procedure, has shown parents how their children measure up in relation to other children of the same age, and in the study group the parent has an opportunity to interpret, discuss and apply these newer scientific findings regarding the welfare of the child.

CHARACTER BUILDING VALUES OF PLAY.

The Playground and Recreation Association of America in its Bulletin No. 1348 has the following: A public-spirited business man of large experience in political and civic life recently made the statement given below. How would scientific men change this statement? What can be said at the present time as to the character-building values of play?

First is given the statement, and then the comment by the Professor of Physical Education, School of Education, New York University.

Statement.

“I look upon law as being the man-made rules of the Game of Life, rules under which we must live and do business. If children can be taught to play according to the rules they will be most apt to observe the requirements of law when they get out into the real business of life. In other words, a child that plays rightly is more apt to live rightly, and to the right-living citizen we must look for the maintenance of order within the community and the progress of our civilization.”

Comment by Professor Clark W. Hetherington.

“The first part and the last part of this statement may be approved or looked upon with tolerance, I think, by even the most critical. It is the statement in between these two statements that the psychologists object to. It is:

‘If children can be taught to play according to the rules they will be most apt to observe the requirements of law when they get out into the real business of life.'

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
121

“There are two fundamental assumptions in that statement that any scientific observer of child life in its relationships to adult life will object to. ‘The real business of life’ is not confined to adult life. The real business of life begins with the first kick and squawk and waving of the arm 'of the infant. The real business of life is living, at every age from birth to death, and it is not confined to the performance of the functions of the adult citizen.

“The second assumption is a very common one, which is stated that

‘If children can be taught to play according to the rules they will be most apt to observe the requirements of law’ in adult life.

"The difficulty with this statement is that there is frequently no necessary relationship whatever between the activities of child life and the activities of adult life. Many educators will object to the statement just made. What I mean is that as adults, we do not do stunts on the apparatus or play tag games, or even enter into athletic activities as a part of that life which is referred to as ‘the real business of life’. The so-called serious activities of adult life do not grow out of the child activities quoted. Even the athletic activities are carried over into the adult life only as one phase of adult recreation, the big muscle recreative activities.

“The significance of the children’s playground activities is that they in connection with other activities, exercise powers and develop powers which make it possible for the children to enter into the specific activities of adult life, economic, civic, or what not. The connection is not in the specific nature of the activity but in the developmental results which are carried over into the more specialized activities of adult life.

“The connection between the rules of the game, and the rules of economic, civic, political and fellowship relationships in adult life, is somewhat of the same character. A boy may cooperate in basketball for years, and there be no guarantee that he will cooperate in business. On the other hand, every time a child enters into the social relationships of play-ground activities, and obeys or disobeys rules, he is exercising character traits, and he is developing character traits. This exercise of character traits and development of character traits, in thousands of instances, makes the character of the adult. There is no character, as we think of it in adult life, except as a product of the activities of children and youth which exercise character traits. The play activities are among the most profoundly influential of all children’s activities, in their character-forming influence.

“Educators and psychologists who are still under the sway of aesthetic, scholastic and puritanical prejudices make sweeping denials of even such a guarded statement as I have just made.

Digitized by LaOOQle
122

“If the statement were not true, however, it would be perfectly legitimate to say that it is useless for us to worry about the play activities of children all through childhood and youth. We might just, as well let them come up, like Topsy, and then after they are mature enough to enter into the so-called serious functions of adult life, we may discipline their character traits so they will cooperate, be loyal, etc.

“Character is not made that way. It is a product of development through activity. The anxiety of parents concerning the play activities of their children and their companionship is proof of the significance of play.

‘K)n the other hand, it is foolish for us to talk about the development of cooperation, loyalty, etc. in play activities as though this exercise of traits of cooperation and loyalty in the games of children and youths were a guarantee that they were going to be cooperative and loyal in the enterprises of adult life. These are the claims that are attacked by psychologists and educators. The claims are susceptible of attack. We ought to describe our character-training function in terms that line up with scientific truth.

“I hope this analysis is sufficiently clear to indicate the difference in point of view.”

PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR BOYS

By Jack Houghton

I do not intend to make this article a further edition to the many excellent ones on physical exercises or the methods of teaching, with which we have been favoured. Neither do I desire to repeat learned articles on hygiene. My desire is simply to stress the need of approaching the boy as an individual and not as one of a number; also to suggest the necessity of so instructing boys as to make each one personally responsible for his own health, strength, and hygienic living.

I feel sure that modern physical educationists have got beyond the notion of generalising in such a way as to demand that every adolescent requires physical training. The boy who is infatuated by love of himself may require special treatment— probably to make him realise his place in the whole, by a development of the team spirit. Also a boy who by nature tends to be brutal, needs, not physical education, for this may lead to further brutality, but encouragement to interest himself in social or educational activities. In the main, however, with those qualifications, most boys need physical exercise, and this should be given in such a way as to make him take an interest in his own physical well-being.

•“Physical Education Bulletin.” England.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
123

This may sound quite well in theory, but in practice this main difficulty arises, how can one man, responsible for a large group of boys, hope to cope with each individual boy separately, when nearly all his time is spent in dealing with the whole. I can only say that results will accrue in accordance with the method by which the boys are taught. If they are expected to do “jerks” daily with no idea of what they are attempting to achieve, then results will be unsatisfactory. If, however, a boy is taught that to be fit and well in order to take his place in the world he must so exercise himself as to make his heart strong to pump blood all over his body; to make his stomach work (he won’t understand digestive system) to enrich his blood; to make his skin perspire and his bowels active so that impurities shall be removed; to work all his muscles in order to strengthen himself “.all over,” then his exercises will have a purpose and surely he will be on the way towards true physical education.

What more is required from the individual boy? Well, if the boy is to live the fullest possible life he must not have any physical defects. Some defects need special treatment, such as flat foot, knock knee, curvature of spine, wry neck, adenoids, etc. These things need a specialist, but a boy should be made to realise these matters are mainly preventable, and nearly always curable IF HE SO DESIRES. In some things, however, the boy should be instructed in self-care, as for example, the care of eyes, ears, nose, teeth, etc. Strong eyes are more important than big biceps. Point out that close reading by lamplight or by facing a light is harmful, but that looking long distances is strengthening to the eyes. With reference to his nose, make it quite clear to him that it is not on his face as an ornament, but to be used for smelling and breathing. More important, of course, is the breathing, for by nose breathing we decrease the possibilities of adenoids, and consequent deafness: also by breathing through the nose germs of disease are prevented from entering die throat from the air. He should be taught that the ears are delicate instruments and can be easily damaged by cleaning with hard cotton-wool, hairpins, etc. One final word is this paragraph. Even to-day with all modern hygienic education the number of boys and girls with decayed and unclean teeth is appalling. A physical director, or a psycho-analyst for that matter, who fails to stress the care of teeth is failing in a most important particular. What is the good of excreting impurities by perspiration, etc., if such impurities are being more than replaced by decayed or unclean teeth. Once again, then, I must stress the need for that type of physical education that gives to each boy a personal respect and a wholesome desire for a physically fit body.

So far in this article I have deliberately kept to the positive arguments. Before I close, however, I feel that I must mention one or two other matters. First, then, I would advise a boy to trust in fresh air and exercise, and not patent pills, medicines, etc. I would advise him always to keep clean, wash all over

Digitized by (^.ooQle
124

every day, drink pure water and take a daily rear. Next I would encourage a "don't smoke” policy. Anyway smoking isn't at all wonderful and usually it makes a boy look a sloppy individual. Certainly it will poison his blood, and prevent his blood picking up oxygen, thus causing shortwindedness. He can smoke a pipe when he is full grown—meanwhile urge him to keep as fit and healthy as possible by doing without smoking. If drink is ever a problem, and I think happily that this is decreasingly so, then the physical educationist must be very careful. Every case needs its own treatment. In the main, however, a boy would leave it alone if he understood its results, so teach him what the results are. There is not space in this article to enter fully into this problem, but an hour with “Alcohol—Its effects upon the Human Body” (H. M. Stationery Office) will throw any amount of light upon the subject. I further wish to emphasise the need in individual physical education of laughter, early rising, and continence. A good laugh is healthy, mentally and physically. The old adage “Early to bed, early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise” is true, but physical fitness depends as much upon this, as upon an hour’s gym in the evening.

Finally, in regard to continence. Every boy is conscious, it may be slightly or with intensity, of the sex forces asserting themselves within him. This should not be treated as something perverse and impure. It is not. It is a part of nature and God is responsible for nature, so if you decry this you decry God's handiwork, and a most beautiful part of His handiwork, too. Let us be sane in this matter. Let boys feel that they can discuss this question with absolute confidence and freedom without being snubbed or laughed at. Answer quite frankly any questions, and let boys learn to realise what a wonderful trust they have each had placed upon them to conserve this beautiful procreative function. Physical training helps this immensely, but do not threaten dire results for any failings—much harm may thus be done.

All this I hope will prove the need for a close personal contact with all our boys, and the need for a sane method of teaching them to be personally responsible for themselves. “It is better to build a fine character in a boy than to build a cathedral”—go on building.

VACATIONS

Nature tries hard to protect all life and especially human beings, by endowing them with natural and impelling instincts. When the body needs nourishment nature causes the sensation of hunger and gives pleasure when eating. When the body needs rest nature causes the feeling of drowsiness and makes sleep a great pleasure. When the body needs recreation and a change nature causes a desire to play and gives enjoyment with the playing.

Digitized by v^ooQle
125

So strong are these natural instincts that their gratification is really the only motive usually considered. The child seldom sleeps because it understands that its body needs rest but because it is sleepy and enjoys sleeping. People seldom eat for any purpose other than that they are hungry and enjoy eating. People seldom take a vacation for other purpose than to enjoy the play and pleasure. Nature has given to human beings not only these natural impelling instincts but also a will-power to choose and decide. Sometimes these decisions are in harmony with nature’s needs and sometimes they are not. By force of will power one may keep awake until the body becomes absolutely exhausted for lack of rest. Sometimes one refrains from eating until the body is exhausted for lack of nourishment. Sometimes one continues a routine activity without change until there is a mental or physical break because of the unbalanced routine of life.

By using the will power and intelligence to cooperate with nature and to utilize as well as direct these natural impelling instincts, nature is aided in her efforts by just that much. The pleasure of gratifying these natural desires is not minimized but increased. The needs of the body can be considered and supplied without in any sense curtailing pleasure.

As human activity varies, so human needs vary. What is food for one may be poison to another. The kind of recreation you need depends upon the kind of life you live.

The man who does hard physical labor in the shop or field can better spend his evening reading or at a show. The man who does only mental work sitting at his desk can profit most by recreation demanding physical exercise such as walking, golf, fishing, hunting or better still, develop a hobby for flowers and garden, doing the actual labor himself.

Nature abhors monotony which is proven by the fact that she seldom makes two of anything alike—no two people alike, no two flowers alike, no two days alike, and no two seasons alike.

That person who makes each day a monotonous grind, grind, repeating exactly day after day the things of the day before, is not following nature’s example and sooner or later must pay the price of lost interest in living or broken health.

Neither is the benefit or pleasure of a vacation determined by place or expense. Vacation is a state of mind and body. If one carries with him his work and his worry, a trip to Europe is no vacation, while if these things are left behind, a trip to a neighboring village is.

Choose the environment that will be both pleasant and the greatest change and then having made this choice, do not defeat your purpose by carrying with you the routine of life which should be left behind.

Carolina Health Bulletin.

Digitized by CjOOQle
126

REPORT OF THE RESOLUTIONS COMMITTEE OF THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON OUTDOOR RECREATION

The Resolutions Committee of the National Conference on Outdoor Recreation, assembled in its second convention, “in its effort to work out a national policy which will coordinate the interests of Federal, State, County, Municipal and unofficial agencies in the field of out door recreation and to promote the development of the recreational resources of the country and stimulate their use” recommends the following action:

Extension of National Forests

This Conference heartily endorses the Ten-Year Program which has in prospect a chain of national forests encircling the large centers of population and industry and involving the acquisition of

(a)	2,500,000 acres in economic units in the Great Lakes region;

(b)	3,000,000 to 4,000,000 acres in the White and the Appalachian Mountain regions;

(c)	2,500,000 acres of the remaining pine forests in the South,

and pledges its support of the McNary-Woodruff Bill to make this broad program effective.

This Conference believes that National Forests were created to secure to the nation all benefits from the growth of forest trees, their use as forest products, their protection to forested slopes and their recreational values.

The grazing of livestock has not been specifically authorized by law as a coordinate use but it has been permitted under administrative regulations on ninety million acres of National Forest lands.

Certain interests in the grazing industry now seek legislation to secure legal rights to graze in the National Forests that would release this industry from the present strict administrative control. Such unregulated grazing has been the primary cause of forest destruction in many countries and in every portion of America where it has been permitted, and such unregulated grazing would eventually destroy the National Forests and defeat the purposes of their establishment.

The use of National Forest lands for the grazing of livestock, if permitted, should remain under the rigid administrative control of the Forest Service. No legal recognition should be given to such use which will tend to perpetuate this use in a manner adverse to public welfare.

Adjustment of National Park Boundaries

This Conference goes on record as endorsing the report of the Coordinating Commission on National Parks and Forests under date of October 19, 1925, which if approved will mean the adjustment of boundaries of Mount Ranier National Park
127

and the enlargement and adjustment of boundaries of the Sequoia National Park, the Yellowstone National Park, the Grand Canyon National Park and the Rocky Mountain National Park; and as opposed to the adoption of any general or arbitrary policy which would restrict the proper extension of National Parks in this country.

Use of Public Lands by all People

This Conference believes, inasmuch as all Federal Public Lands are the property of all the people and maintained by the Federal Government at the expense of the people as a whole and for their benefit without discretion in favor of individuals or groups of individuals, it is undesirable and inconsistent with the principles of democracy and public ownership to allow any individual or group, corporate or otherwise, to acquire rights of occupancy or rights of user, except where authorized by specific act of Congress, for commercial, recreational, or other purposes on any public lands of the United ‘States however classified, when such rights tend to disestablish the rights of all the citizens to an equal enjoyment of the facilities and benefits inherent in such lands.

Stream Pollution

The Conference emphasizes the importance of making a preliminary survey of the extent, causes and growth of aquatic pollution for the especial purpose of formulating and recommending the most effective means for the reduction of this rapidly growing menace.

The Conference expresses its approval of the progress made in elimination of aquatic pollution by the adoption of a law covering our coastal waters; urges the prompt enforcement of this measure in adequate fashion; and recommends the adoption of similar measures covering inland streams and lakes.

Federal Aid for Highways

This Conference goes on record as endorsing the wise policy of the Federal Government in its Federal Aid Highway Program and urges the Congress of the United States to continue Federal participation without curtailment of appropriations at least until the Natiorial Highway System has been completed, as one of the effective means of promoting outdoor recreation.

Game Refuge Bill

The Conference reaffirms its former endorsement of the proposed measure known as the Migratory Bird Refuge and Marshland Conservation Act now pending in Congress.

Nature Study

This Conference goes on record as favoring the program of Nature Study, the establishment of outdoor museums, the extension of field excursions and camping trips conducted by qualified nature leaders.

The Conference approves the continuance of Nature Study courses in the normal and public schools.

Digitized by CjOOQle
128

Firearms

The Conference asks the active cooperation of every sportsmen’s organization in helping to reduce hunting accidents resulting from the use of firearms.

A NEW BUILDING MATERIAL WITH INSULATING

QUALITIES

A new building material, known as Stockade, composed of a fibrous block which serves both as the wall material and also as a mould for reinforced concrete construction, has been brought out by the Stockade Building System, Inc., 103 Park Ave., New York.

Stockage is manufactured under patented processes out of fibers of palmetto or saw grass. It is chemically treated during manufacture. In finished form, the block is described as very dense and strong so that it may be cut, when necessary, with a cross-cut saw.

The block measures 4 by 16 in. Although dense, it is to a certain extent porous. Its 8 in. dimension, naturally, is the thickness of the wall, and with its insulating qualities, this is offered as an effective material for minimizing heat losses through the wall as well as protecting the house against sun’s rays in summer. The material is also notable for its sound-deadening qualities.

The exterior finish used with Stockade may be stucco, clapboard, shingle or brick veneer. Plaster for interior finish is applied directly to the blocks, since the wall combines furring, lath and scratch-coat in one. The wall is fire-proof, as the chemical treatment during manufacture destroys the natural combustible quality of vegetable fibers.

Stockade is offered as a particularly cheap form of construction.

The cost of 1000 ft. of laid-up wall surface is given as $632.50, which is a little under frame cost and considerably under cost of other general types of construction. One of the reasons for this economy of expense is the fact that' Stockade combines in itself several hitherto separate elements of a wall. Another reason is that Stockade construction brings about a saving in labor costs, due to the simplicity of its use and the speed with which it is laid up. It is stated that three men, not skilled masons, can lay up 1000 sq. ft. of wall surface in Stockade in three and a fraction days. Thus, if the walls of a planned construction are to have a surface of 5000 sq. ft. the contractor can figure that six men will complete the work in eight or nine days at a labor cost of a little over $400 at current wages.

The system was invented and perfected by an architect, James Monroe Hewlett. The blocks are tunneled through vertically, by 4-in. circular holes, two to each block. Laid up.

Digitized by LaOOQle
129

these holes are over those of the blocks below, but since the blocks are laid in the manner of bricks, the left-hand holes in the blocks of one course are over the right-hand holes of the course below. Concrete, reinforced by steel, is poured down these holes as into a mould. The moisture-proof blocks provide suitable conditions for the concrete to harden and the final wall is actually a solid, continuous unit of concrete pillars embedded in the protective wall of Stockade blocks.

<>	—	A

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

<>— - —	i>

SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHING APPARATUS EXERCISES

George J. Altmann, Indianapolis, Ind.

Exercises on gymnastic apparatus have been condemned by many as uninteresting and formal. In many cases, this is unfortunately true but the fault is not inherent in apparatus exercises, but is rather the result of the method employed in presenting them. That such exercises and stunts have a strong appeal to boys and to young girls is evidenced by the great number of children who enjoy them in the free play periods on the play ground and in the gymnasium. That it is possible to destroy the spirit of joy even in games is shown in many so called game periods which are so formalized and devitalized by teachers who over emphasize the element of the analysis in teaching a game that the activity loses its play form and atmosphere and becomes drill rather than play. So with apparatus exercises, excessive use of the class method tends to lessen interest, while judicious use of the squad and self-directed methods will serve to stimulate interest and lead to greater spontaneity and enjoyment. The problem is one of adaptation, of using the method best suited to the situation and of selecting exercises which have a natural appeal such as vaulting and swinging and introducing them as stunts or in play form.

Each of the following methods has its advantages and can be used successfully at the proper time:

The Class or Group method: This is a formal method in which the instructor names or demonstrates the exercise, then has the pupils do it in rotation, usually with one pupil on each piece of apparatus, the instructor giving the starting signal and possibly also giving a command or count for each movement of the exercise.

Advantages: Ease in handling large groups and in presenting considerable material.

The simpler fundamental exercises are quickly taught to the entire class; these to serve as a basis for more advanced individual exercises.

Digitized by kjOOQle
130

Objections: The formal aspect lessens the elements of freedom, initiative, and interest.

Only the simpler exercises can be taught advantageously; that is, those which can be done by practically all the pupils.

The Squad Method: Pupils of approximately equal ability placed in squads of ten or less, exercise under a pupil leader who demonstrates the exercise and assists each pupil in his squad in turn. (Some instruction by the class method is desirable before the squad method is used.)

Advantages: Greater freedom, interest, enjoyment and individual progress. Pupils receive practice as leaders, also as followers of one of their peers. Apparatus of various kinds can be used simultaneously, this giving opportunity for more pupils to exercise at one time.

Objections: Opportunity for spontaneity and initiative lacking.

Progress limited somewhat by the ability of the squad leader.

The Self Directed or Free Method: This is an informal method in which the only requirement is that the pupil “keeps busy” at some piece of apparatus, doing any safe exercise he wishes. He is assisted by the pupil leader in charge of his apparatus, or by the instructor who circulates about from apparatus to apparatus. (It is very desirable to have class instruction precede this method, in order that pupils first receive from the instructor suggestions and corrections, and become acquainted with exercises to be practiced and developed during the self-directed period. This class method may well consume the entire period during the first few lessons; later it may be limited to six or eight minutes, followed by self-directed exercise.)

Advantages: Opportunity is given for spontaneous, joyful activity, self initiated and directed.

Interest is increased and becomes an increasingly powerful motive to greater proficiency.

The number of pupils exercising at one time is limited only by the floor space or apparatus available.

Objections: Certain pupils may “specialize” on one piece of apparatus. Tendency to try dangerous exercises or silly stunts.

(The instructor and pupil leaders can guard against these tendencies by keeping the pupils supplied with new exercises to be learned and by setting certain required exercises on each piece of apparatus.)

As an added incentive to practicing apparatus exercises, the instructor may arrange one rather simple required exercise and one more difficult optional exercise for each apparatus. A pupil at each apparatus checks the pupils who perform exercises on each piece of apparatus. The instructor takes away a point from the pupil’s grade for each required exercise not learned and gives an extra point for each optional exercise learned.
131

In order to put this plan into effect, the instructor should post the required and extra point exercises and provide each pupil leader with a check sheet with a list of the names of all the pupils in the class. The instructor should also have a master sheet on which is written each required and optional exercise. On this sheet he enters credit for the exercises learned. Keeping the sheet posted will enable the pupils to see their standing and will serve as a stimulus to further efforts.

Competition between individuals or squads of the classes or with gymnastic teams representing other schools serves to stimulate interest and leads to greater practice and efficiency.

Very pleasing and effective exhibition numbers can be arranged using single pieces of apparatus or combinations of two or three pieces or by using one or more pieces of apparatus as a base for pyramids.

The apparatus best suited for large classes of boys or young men in order of value in a descending scale are: horse (or bucks) ladders, parallel bars, climbing poles or ropes, jumping standards, rings, horizontal bars, stall bars. There should be at least four pieces of each type of apparatus to be used for class exercise, also at least eight mats, size about four or six feet painted with an elastic oil paint to keep out dust.

CLASS WORK ON FOUR SIDE HORSES*

(In three degrees of difficulty)

GROUP I.

1.	Simple

Run, kneel left in saddle, right leg extended sideward to rest on group (1) Bend trunk sideward left right arm upward (2) stretch trunk, regrasp pommel with right hand

(3)	lower legs to support frontways (4) kneel, hips flexed arms extended backward, (5) swing arms forward, stretch at hips and knee jump off (6).

2.	Medium

Run, kneel right left leg extended sideward to rest on neck

(1)	Bend trunk sideward right, left arm upward (2) 1-4 turn right, to support lying frontways, hands on right pommel (3) straddle seat in saddle (4) 1-4 turn left (5) Screw dismount (swing right leg forward and 1-4 turn left to stand) (6)

3.	Advanced

Run, kneel left, right leg extended backward. (1) Right leg sideward (2) Right leg forward (3) Lower legs to stride support (4) 1-2 circle left forward to support rearways (5) Swing legs forward and dismount far forward (6).

•Arranged by Mathias H. Macherey, Supt. Newark, N. J. Taught and directed by Miss Margaret Laird, Dir. of Phys. Ed. Hawthorne School. Performed by 24 girls of Hawthorne Ave. School.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
1S2 GROUP II.

1.	Simple

Run. Place left hand on neck, R. hand reversed on pommel and jump with 1-2 turn left to rest rearways (1). 1-2 circle left backward (2) 1-2 circle R. backward (3) 1-2 circle left forward (4) both hands on left pommel and 3-4 screw turn left to straddle seat on croup (5) Swing forward, backward and front vault sideward right (6) Position (7).

2.	Medium

Run. Place left hand on neck, right hand reversed on pommel, jump with 1-2 circle right forward and 1-2 turn left to stride support in saddle (1) 3-4 screw turn to straddle seat on croup (2) Swing forward, backward and Scissors backward (3) Rear vault dismount sideward left (4) Position (5)

3.	Advanced

Run. Take count 1 and 2 of previous exercise without stop. Count faster One! Two!

Left hand on near pommel, right hand on far pommel, swing to straddle seat on neck (3) swing forward, backward and scissors backward (4) Scissors forward (5) Front vault dismount left with 1-4 turn left. (6).

GROUP III.

1.	Simple

Run, grip pommels, jump with 1-4 turn left to squat stand on croup (1) left hand on near pommel, 1-4 turn left, right foot on neck to straddle stand, right hand on far pommel

(2)	Lower legs to support frontways (3) 1-2 circle right forward (4) Screw turn dismount with 1-2 turn right to stand in front of saddle (5) Squat vault (6)

2.	Medium

As above, but squat stand on left foot, right leg suspended on far side of horse (1) Change grip on pommels as above, 1-4 turn left, right foot on neck to straddle stand (2) Raise right hand, swing right leg forward, bend left knee, grasp right pommel, release left pommel, circle right backward underneath left hand to support front ways (3) 1-2 circle right forward (4) Screw turn dismount with 1-2 turn (5) Squat vault with 1-2 turn left (6)

3.	Advanced.

Run, jump to squatstand left as in 2 and immediately continue to straddle stand (1) complete circle right leg outward to support frontways (2). 1-2 circle right forward (3) Screw turn circling left leg with 1-2 turn right to support frontways on pommels (4) Squat vault with 1-2 turn left (5) Position (6).

GROUP IV

1.	Simple

Run, grip left pommel outergrasp, right pommel reversed grasp, jump and screw turn mount on croup with 3-4 turn
133

left to straddle seat (1) Scissors forward (2) Right hand grip near pommel, left hand far pommel, swing right leg backward and circle underneath left arm to straddle seat

(3)	Hands behind back, grip pommels (4) Rear vault dismount sideward right (5) Position (6)

2.	Medium

Screw mount as in 1. (1)

1-4 turn left to stride seat (2) Screwtum (1-2 turn left) to support frontways on pommels (3) 1-2 circle right forward

(4)	1-2 circle right backward underneath left hand with 1-4 turn left to stand (5) Position (6).

3.	Advanced.

Screw mount as in 2 (1)

Combine 1-4 turn and screw turn to support frontways. (2 and 3) 1 full circle right outward, continue to straddle seat on neck (4) 1-2 swing left leg forward underneath both hands to join the right, swing backward and front vault left (5 and 6) Position (7.)

ASSEMBLY FREE-HAND DRILL

By Fritz Krimmel, New York City.

Note: Mr. Krimmel has had much experience in conducting mass exercises in assembly periods. The editor, therefore, has asked him to write several exercises that can be performed in assembly halls or auditoriums where many pupils congregate. First Exercise	Counts

a.	Facing to the left (four counts)	1-4

b.	Bending arms in front of chest	5-8

c.	Facing left	5 -12

d.	Placing hands on shoulder	13-16

Repeat a, b, c, d

Repeat all, beginning by facing right Second Exercise

a.	Placing hands on shoulders	1-2

b.	Rising on toes, straightening arms upward	3-4

c.	Lower heels, placing hands on shoulders	5-6

d.	Starting position	7-8

Repeat three times	9	-32

Third Exercise

a.	Placing hands at sides of shoulder

b.	Bending knees (1-2) straightening arms forward

- 2

-	4

-	6 - 8 -32

c.	Straighten knees, placing hands at sides of shoulder

d.	Starting position Repeat three times

Fourth Exercise	Counts

a.	Placing hands on hips	1-2

b.	Bending trunk sideways left, straightening right arm

sideways obliquely upward,	tern head right	3-4

Digitized by kjOOQle
184

c.	Straighten trunk, turn head, placing hands on hips 5-6

d.	Starting position	7-8

Aternate left & right	9 -32

Fifth Exercise

a.	Placing hands on hips	1-2

b.	Turning trunk left, straightening arms forward

obliquely upward	3-4

c.	Turning trunk forward, placing hands on hips	5-6

d.	Starting position	7-8

Alternate, left & right	9 -32

Sixth Exercise

a.	Placing hands on hips	1-2

b.	Bending trunk forward (hands on hips)	3-4

• c.	Straighten trunk	5-6

d.	Starting position	7-8

Alternate with:

a.	Placing hands on hips	9 -10

b.	Bending trunk slightly backward raising arms to

circle of head	11-12

c.	Straighten trunk placing hands on hips	13-14

d.	Starting position	15-16

Repeat	17-32

Seventh Exercise.

a.	With hands on hips: Two follow steps sideways

left	1 - 4

b.	Rising on toes, straightening arms upward	5-6

c.	Lower heels, hands on hips	7-8

Alternate left & right

9 -32

ELEMENTARY SKIPPING*

By Mias O. M. Newmarch, M. B. A. P. T.

The length of the rope should be measured by standing on it with one foot and raising the arms sideways, the length should enable the arms to be held straight out at shoulders level.

Exercise I.—Plain Skipping. In plain skipping the spring can be made over the rope on the first beat and a rebound taken while the rope is overhead—this will be called "Common time”—that is, two beats to one turn of the rope, or the rope may swing twice as quickly and pass under the feet at each spring—this will be called “Quick time.”

During the spring and while the body is in the air the chest should be well expanded, head and body kept erect, knees straight and toes well pointed downwards.

The feet may be closed, or open at an angle of about 60 degrees.

’Reprint from “Physical Education,” England.

Digitized by LjOOQle
136

The arms should be nearly straight and on a line with the shoulders.

Plain skipping may be practised in backward and forward skipping.

Exercise 2.—“Stepping." The spring is made from one foot to the other as in running, on the spot; the knees should be well turned out and raised in front just below the horizontal line, toes well pointed in a direct line from the knee.

As in plain skipping, this exercise may be practised in backward and forward skipping, also in common and quick time.

Exercise 3.—Arms Crossing in Front. —In backward skipping the arms are quickly crossed in front of the body immediately the spring has been made over the rope. In forward skipping the arms are crossed in front of the body as the rope descends in front; this makes the loop through which to spring.

Practise first arms crossing with a plain skip alternately. The arms should be well stretched sideways with the plain skip, then well crossed over in front. This is a splendid chest-expanding exercise, especially in backward skipping. The exercise can be varied by using plain or stepping, common or quick time, also by taking two or more arms crossing in succession.

Exercise 4.—Rope Swinging. This is a graceful movement and can be practised first as a separate exercise, without any alternate skipping. Commence with the arms sideways, then swing them forwards and upwards raising the hands high and bringing both hands together on left side of head. The rope is swung at the side of the body, left and right alternately without changing the direction of the rope. The body should be slightly bent sideways to the side of the swing and the opposite arm curved well over the top of the head and the movement of swinging the rope is made from the wrist.

Care must be taken that the body is held in a good standing position; the tendency is to lean backward from the waist and hips. The eyes should be directed straight forward.

When the movement of swinging has been well mastered the exercise may be combined with alternate plain skipping or stepping.

Exercise 5.—Tapping Step. The position is the same as in Irish jig. The spring is made on one leg while the other is stretched well forwards with the toe slightly touching the floor. The body is bent sideways towards the side on which the toe is pointed.

COMBINED EXERCISES

Exercise I.—Common time, skipping backwards.

Counts

1-2 Plain, reverse rope after 2 to forward skipping.

3-4 Plain, forwards

5-8 Stepping, crossing arms in front on 6 and 8.

9-10 Plain, reverse rope after 10 to backward skipping 11-12 Plain, backwards.

Digitized by C^ooQle
136

13-16 Stepping, crossing arms in front on 14 and 16.

17-18 Tap left foot forwards four times.

19-20 Tap right foot forwards four times.

21	Tap left foot forwards twice.

22	Tap right foot forwards twice.

23-24 Stepping, starting on right foot.

25-30 Repeat 17-22, starting with right foot.

31-32 Stepping, starting on left foot.

Exercise 2.—Common time, backwards.

1-4 Stepping.

5-8 Swing rope on left and right side alternately four times (with feet stationary).

9-12 Plain.

13-16 Plain, quick time.

Exercise 3.—Common time, forwards.

1-4	Plain, crossing arms in front on 2 and 4.

5-8	Plain, swinging rope on left side on 6 and on right side

on 8.

9-12 Stepping.

13-16 Stepping, quick time.

Exercise 4.—Common time, backwards.

1-2	Tap left foot forward four times, crossing arms on 2.

3-4	Tap right foot forward four times, crossing arms on 4.

5-8	Stepping, swinging rope on left side on 6 and right

side on 7. Reverse rope after 8.

9-16 Repeat 1-8 in forward skipping reverse rope after 16. 17-20 Plain, slowly making 1-4 left turn.

21-24	Stepping, travelling forwards (to left side of Hall),

swinging rope on left side on 22 and on right side on 23. 25-28 Stepping, slowly making 1-4 right turn (to face front again).

29-32	Stepping, quick time, crossing arms in front on each

alternate skip.

This last exercise is very effective, taken with the class in two files, then they will turn and face inwards on counts 17-20, and run—files changing places on 21-24. The whole exercise can be repeated to bring files back in their former places.

BOOK REVIEWS

“A Gymnastic Nomenclature” by E. H. Arnold, M. D. Published by Hugo Brokelschen, New Haven, Conn.

There is a large need for a standardization of gymnastic terminology, and Dr. Arnold endeavors to fill that need to some extent. Physical education activities as taught by the various normal departments and schools in the country, has developed its own nomenclature. Graduates often leave their training schools thinking that nomenclature is not important and are careless of their use of it. Motor Tests (Free Exercises) recently published

Digitized by kjOOQle
137

by the American Physical Education Association are an example of this. The descriptive terms are vague and inconsistent.

Language training is an important part of all phases of education. Many teachers of physical education totally disregard this in the use of their terminology. Many inconsistencies are evident in the terminology used today. Commands which are arbitrary and for which there are no logical bases are used.

A terminology for light gymnastics, including tactics, free exercises, dumbbells, wands and clubs that are descriptive, correct as to their English form, and applicable to all forms of these activities are presented in “A Gymnastic Nomenclature”. No matter in what connection they are used, they always convey the same idea and are self-explanatory. A series of pictures which clearly illustrate the various positions is found at the close of book.

If there is any adverse criticism to be offered, it is that some of the terms in club-swinging are too lengthy and require too much talking on the part of the teacher. It would seem that some of the commands for arm circles and part circles could be made more brief and still be descriptive and logical.	—V.	U.

Comment on “The College and Physical Fitness—Report of a Year’s Work.” by William R. P. Emerson, M. D.

Starting in September 1924, Dr. Emerson, of nutrition fame, led the “first definite attack upon physical unfitness by a college.” Dartmouth College is the scene of this epochal attack. Although Normal Physical Education Schools have been stressing this type of work more or less for many years, health educators will welcome this first attack in a large way on the health "smugness” of the American College.

We are astonished—shocked—at the conditions revealed by Dr. Emerson’s first survey. When "average” weights for heights were used, 30% of these picked men were seriously underweight, and when the “optimum” standards were used, 55% could be classed as seriously underweight. This point leads to a question which I have habitually raised concerning Dr. Emerson’s malnourished data. He classes one as seriously underweight if there is a weight for height deficiency of 7% or more. Some of us “have to be shown” before we accept such a narrow marginal allowance for individual differences. We cannot quite conceive of Nature going out of her way to select a single item, weight, to break her own curve of normal distribution.

To carry Dr. Emerson’s margin of normality to the field of intelligence, we would be in the position of saying that all people with I. Q’s of 93 or less are “seriously” backward. This is obviously ridiculous—as the comparison itself may well be.

Dr. Emerson’s health intelligence quotient we find to be no quotient at all. It is a score, and a very unreliable one at that. It is gotten by the self-questioning method and many of the questions put are too general in character.

Digitized by Google
138

But we are not noting this "Year’s Work” to make seemingly picayune criticisms. It is because this work is so necessary, so worth while, so productive of good, permanent results, that the reviewer feels the work itself should not be open to criticism from any angle.

In this campaign to bring the students up to a better individual weight through a hygienic regimen, we are not at all surprised that the methods used correspond in large measure to those used with primary grade pupils. The keeping of a weight chart, the comparison of gains with classmates, the commendation of the large gainers (the well known motive of social approval) can well be used in any grade for this type of objective.

The reader will note, perhaps incredulously, that the underweight group scored high scholastically. Dr. Emerson attributes this to such students "working upon their nerve.” The present writer also has data showing that weight has little effect on scholastic standing.

We note with interest and semi-approval the provision that was made during the gymnasium period for a rest period for those students who needed the rest to reduce over-fatigue.

The report is enlightened by a number of “case studies”. It is always helpful to go from the general to the specific.

Dr: Emerson states that the most serious obstacle to gaining weight is in uncared for physical defects, especially naso-pharyngeal obstructions, such as diseased tonsils, adenoid tissue or sinus infection. However we cannot follow him when he claims that low health intelligence, in the sense he uses the term, can- be listed among the major causes of underweight.

Again only an enthusiast will state, “it is possible in almost any environment so to adjust the day’s program as to secure the essentials of health: sufficient food, good air, exercise, the rest and sleep required by nature to bring one up to the highest grade of health. As a test, we suggest trying to raise 4 or 5 children on a family income of $20 a week.

This “Year’s Work” shows clearly that a decided gain, about 300% above normal gain, was made by the students as a result of the campaign and that on one hand violation of, and on the other strict compliance with, the health rules eliminated the weight gain in the first instance and increased the gain in the second instance.

This type of health work should be universal.

—Reinhold W. Goll.

‘^Athletics For Women And Girls—How To Be An Athlete and Why”—by Sophie C. Eliott-Lynn, A. D. C. Sc. I. Published in London: Robert Scott, Roxburghe House, Paternoster Row, E. C. 122 pages, cloth bound, 7 1-2x5 inches. Price

2-6 net.

Here is a book written by one who, an athlete herself, is ready to give first hand information on training for women’s events. About half the book deals with running events,—

Digitized by t^ooQle
139

short, middle and long distance races, cross country running and hurdles; the remainder with jumping and throwing events, including shot putting, discus and javelin throwing.

The book gives very specifically the author’s ideas of training for these events, and each is described very clearly. These descriptions are accompanied by excellent photographs.

Though we may not approve all the events for women, we cannot but admit the book is an unique contribution. The book will be useful to teachers of physical education in the presentation of track and field work, even though they do not train pupils to be athletes.

—Janet B. Walter.

♦ ■ ------------------------------------ -

News, notes and comments

4	<l>

America has awakened to the need of saving the sight of its people; the National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness, which 10 years ago consisted of three philanthropically inclined individuals, now includes in its roster of members and contributors more than 14,000 men and women representing practically every section of the country; the work of the Committee which for years was financed by the Rockefeller and Russell Sage Foundations is now supported entirely by volunteer public contributions.

"There are still in the United States 100,000 blind persons, at least half of whom need never have lost their sight,” declared Mr. Carris, managing director. "The depressing effect of this fact, however, is largely counteracted by the fact that without any special drives, without spectacular campaigns, and without personal solicitation of funds, the research, the preventive and the educational work of the National Committee for the -Prevention of Blindness are now financed entirely by the public.

"The means of safeguarding the sight of children at birth, of conserving the eyes of school children, and of protecting the eyes of industrial workers are becoming more and more generally mown. The frequency of babies’ sore eyes (ophthalmai neonatorum), once the cause of approximately 28 per cent of all blindness in schools for the blind has been cut in half in the last decade. The roller towel, another prolific source of blindness has been legislated out of existence in most communities. Sight saving classes for children with seriously defective vision are being established in public schools, and the publishers of newspapers, magazines and books are giving greater attention to the use of larger and clearer type. On the whole, the outlook

Digitized by CjOOQle
140

for the organized effort of preventing blindness in the United States is more promising today than ever before, though a great deal remains to be done.”

The movement for the prevention of blindness received new stimulus when the National Committee moved its headquarters to the building occupied by the other active members of the National Health Council at 370 Seventh Avenue, New York City. Here the Committee will have as its immediate neighbors 13 health organizations, the activities of which are frequently interrelated with its research, educational and preventive work.

Superintendent Jones, of Cleveland in a recent note to the teachers of the city said something that should be of interest to all teachers of physical education that “have a story to tell” through the manner in which they conduct their work.

Everyone in the world is possessed of a desire to tell a story. The statesman, the architect, the orator, the scientist, the manufacturer, all at least who have an interest in their life’s work, tell a story.

Pericles told his story, which is one of the greatest in history, through the agency of his selection, inspiration, training and management of men. Phidias, in turn, told his story in setting up the scenery for the play being staged by Pericles. Thucydides was the publicity man for all time. Perhaps no better modern day example is in evidence than in the case of Cleveland’s own Tom Johnson. The men of his inspiration and creation are here today, and distinguished.

The stories are told in the buildings, homes, lands, songs, inventions, laws, ideals. All these are the manifestations of our inner selves. Where imagination is shot through with technique we have genius.

Let us hope that our craftsmen, our tradesmen, and all who work shall never be deprived of a trained insight that will fill them with a story to tell, together with the art, skill, and opportunity to tell it through whatever medium of expression they may choose.

IMITATION PRESERVES, BUT IT DOES NOT CREATE

Imitation preserves, but it does not create. It does not bring unity of outlook, for human culture is full of conflicting elements, and imitation cannot discriminate in its selection. A person who gains his life outlook by accepting beliefs and opinions on authority always holds masses of conflicting beliefs, seldom realizing their incongruity. He is spoken of as having a mind with “water-tight compartments”. As environment changes and knowledge grows, old customs and beliefs not only may lose their value, but may thwart progress.

Digitized by CaOOQle
141

**New Occasions teach new duties. Time makes ancient good uncouth.

“They must upward still, and onward, who would keep abreast of Truth.”

The spirit of critical inquiry is necessary. It tries, discriminates, explores. It tests all things. The spirit and capacity for critical inquiry do not come suddenly with maturity, but grow as all human faculties grow. From earliest childhood they respond to nurture, encouragement, and education.

Intelligent, educated men substantially agree as to the value of integrity, of physical health, of moral control, of human brotherhood, of the universality of law. These and other universally held beliefs provide an adequate code and incentive for great and noble living. With freedom of inquiry preserved in all fields, the inevitable shifts of various beliefs from certainty to uncertainty, or vice versa would be made without violence.

To use indoctrination for inculcating controversial or uncertain beliefs and outlooks is immoral. Competitive indoctrination of controversial matters is general in religion, economics, nationalism, and in social issues. It is an ancient crime against humanity and a chief source of human discord. It is not sanctified by the terms “religious” and “patriotic”.

In determining the weight to be given to beliefs and opinions, it is important to know how they are propagated and maintained. Belief in the infallibility of the Koran, though held by millions, deserves little consideration, because “true believers” hold its infallibility to be above examination or test, and strive to prevent open-minded inquiry concerning it. A belief deserves little consideration if it is generally abandoned by men who respect and pursue open-minded inquiry.

When a man undertakes to look at the world anew for himself, he finds it already colored and interpreted for him by the beliefs and outlooks with which he has been indoctrinated. These have become so much a part of his nature that, strive as he will he cannot see except through the eyes of his predecessors. He observes the same condition everywhere. Even the greatest men win intellectual freedom slowly. Scientists, disciplined and strong in their own fields, often remain credulous where early beliefs are involved.	—Antioch College Notes.

IN THE DRIFTWAY

When the Drifter went to school, football was played by young men in blazers and shorts who kicked a theoretically round though imperfectly inflated ball from one to another along the ground, accompained by a lot of shouting and a lot of fun. The game was played for the joy of it, and the few spectators who stood along the sidelines—in bustles or in standing collars which crossed over in front—did not matter very much. Winning, as ever in human history, was sweet, but even losing was

Digitized by <^.ooQle
142

a jolly goodFgame. There were no hired coaches, there were no towering stadia, there were no hired Nijinski cheer leaders, there was no press box, there were no butter-and-egg men, over ginned and over-raccoon coated, waving the flags of colleges they had never attended, there were no gate receipts, no scouts among the high schools, no odds upon the stock exchanges, no endowment funds embossed on pigskin, no electrically controlled score boards, no mass formation on the field, and no massed capital in the background.

It was an open game.

Now the Drifter does not doubt that applying to football the soundly tested rules upon which the Steel Corporation was formed makes for bigger and better business. The railroads add to their passenger earnings, the manufacturers of bunting and rattan cannot but rejoice, the hot-dog industry is greatly stimulated, the curve of gasoline consumption rises sharply, innkeepers prepare to add their quota to investments in Florida real estate, and bootleggers make merry in Rolls Royces. Nor does the Drifter doubt that the Roman holiday gives pleasure to vastly more people than ever lined the playing fields of his youth. But of the game, and particularly the players of the game, he must confess to some perplexity. When , Master George Owen of Harvard College says that all the fun has vanished, the Drifter feels a load upon his heart. While Master Harold Grange, late of the University of Illinois, with a half million in his pocket, remains somehow a lost and tragic figure. What can a young man do when he faces intrenched commercialism, the mob, and the newspapers who live by inflaming the mob? Where shall the joy of the game, aye, the very freedom of the soul itself, find surcease here? Down he must go, under the heels of the mob, under the muddy boots of the money changers, under the nameless obscenities of newspaper publicity. And down into the dust goes all that is clean and fine in sportsmanship. With the passage to official professionalism, the story becomes even sadder. Was Master Grange ever booed from the field while he played with his college mates? He was not. But in Boston and Pittsburgh, playing as a professional, he has been booed and jeered. Why? Because the trade goods he had to offer did not warrant the price paid, in the opinion of the consumer. As an incorporated business service furnishing raw material for moving-picture producers, cigarette manufacturers, garment makers, and radio distributors, at a scale of tariff almost fabulous; as the next friend of all the headline writers in the land, he must face the quite terrible responsibility of meeting the demands of the market.

For sport that is spontaneous and unfettered, the Drifter has only the most profound respect. For the massed phalanxes of big business he must, if he is to remain a citizen of the greatest republic ever heard of, maintain an attitude of respectful attention, if not of unqualified applause. But when

Digitized by UaOOQle
143

the new wine of business enterprise is poured into the old bottles of sportsmanship the result, from the standpoint of one who knows his vintages, can only be disaster and the destruction of values.—From The Nation.

Military training under another name. In the daily press we find the following note from Italy.

The Cabinet today established another instrument for the development of national cultural and moral life under strict Fascist control. This is the “National Organization for Assisting the Physical and Moral Education of Youth.” This will be an institution operated by the Government, replacing the present Fascist organizations known as "Balilla,” for boys from 8 to 14 years old, and “Vanguardists,” for youths between 14 and 18. The intention is to co-ordinate mental, physical and religious training under Fascist auspices, until the boys are of age to enter the Fascist militia.

According to another telegram even the Boy Scouts are to be militarized.

In the same issues we find the following notes from the United States, from that country that is being denounced by Italy (and oiher European nations) as being materialistic and without ideals.

Disapproval of war and all things military was expressed in recommendations before the Interdenominational Students’ Conference in Evanston, 111., today.

The recommendations asked for resolutions favoring:

Discontinuance of the “Defense Day” test.

Elimination of compulsory military training in the schools and colleges.

Elimination of the war emphasis in school textbooks.

Entrance of the United States into the World Court and into the League of Nations.

Removal of discriminatory legislation from the immigration policy.

Promotion of universal disarmament.

Contributing toward world peace, not standing aloof and letting the Monroe Doctrine stand in the way.

Greater participation of youth in missionary work was urged by Dr. James M. Woodruff, Boston, Mass. He said:

“Missionary leaders and organizations have appealed to the idealism of youth to invest itself in the mission enterprise. Youth must not only be appealed to for an investment of life, but it must be informed as to the actual problems faced by the mission boards.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
144

Attention I instructors:

As stated in the rules governing National Festivals of the American Turnerbund the official rules for volley ball shall govern the volley ball contests at the Louisville Turnfest, June 15-20, 1926. I wish to call your attention to the following:

1.	Since we are playing outside we decided to use the heavier ball (10 oz.) for the contest.

2.	The players shall wear their registration numbers on the back plainly visible to the officials.

3.	The rotation of the players shall be clock-wise.

4. In case of a tie at the end of ten minutes each team shall have a serve until “side out” and so on, until one team is declared the winner.

For any other information concerning volley ball rules, please address, Dr. Carl B. Sputh, 20 Stokes Bldg., Indianapolis, Indiana.

An important development in the house-humidifying field, is the organization of the Universal Humidifying Company, 2013 Sansom Street, Philadelphia, to manufacture and sell the Braemer portable humidifier, which is in the invention of William G. R. Braemer, and the Thicao humidifier, designed by T. H. Ireland, mechanical engineer with Crane Company.

In spite of the elements of simplicity required in a house humidifier, comparatively little progress has been made in the perfecting of a suitable type of convenient size. Mr. Braemer, who is well known in engineering circles as a pioneer in humidifying and air-conditioning work, hit upon an idea for such a device. The humidifier he has deveolped consists of a double brass tank, a combination disc and fan, a circular atomizer, a small universal electric motor and a speed regulator.

The double circular tank contains approximately 3 gal. of water, which is supplied automatically as required to the revolving disc and atomizer, placed at the bottom of the central part of the tank. The tank is provided with an ingenious filling device, which is fool-proof in that it prevents any possibility of water overflowing. Air is supplied to the fan through a suitable opening in the bottom of the tank, and the fan and atomizing disc is revolved by a small direct connected electric motor.

As the air volume and the weight of moisture generated is in direct proportion to the speed of the fan and the atomizing disc, a speed controller is provided which enables one to vary the amount of moisture discharged and the air volume circulated in the room as desired, within the capacity of the humidifier, which atomizes from 1-2 lb. to 1 1-4 lbs. per hour. The entire humidifier as at present developed is about 14 in. in diameter and 9 in. high, although larger sizes of greater capacity, of course, may be made.

Digitized by LjOOQle