MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	FEBRUARY 1936	No.	433

Competition and \ or Cooperation?

By Frederick Rand Rogers.

I

It is no exaggeration to say that the antipathy between competition and cooperation is the most challenging and important subject now before modern peoples. This is no problem to resolve into a phrase or settle by appeal to emotions, or becloud by specious analogies, for it is present in the minds of thinking people everywhere and needs reasonable treatment. Moreover, it has defenders and detractors in the highest places. On one hand are those who continue to say “competition is the life of trade and the greatest spur to progress.” On the other are such men as John Dewey who insists that we “must substitute cooperation for competition;” President Compton of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who advises “the era of competition is dead, and only waits decent burial;” President Hopkins of Dartmouth College who urges us to “abandon competition and put the Golden Rule in its place” and President Butler of Columbia University who insists that “international competition must give way to cooperation or western civilization is doomed.” These men — and they are to be found in the very highest positions of intellectual and political and economic and spiritual leadership — observe that western civilization is at the point of collapse because of various forms of competition: wars, trade barriers, international jealousies, the costs of armaments, and cut-throat commercial competition. Are they right, or is their vision warped by hysteria and overwhelmed by desire to keep abreast of passing fancies?

But our basic problem is the possible antithesis between cooperation and competition.

Now, everyone agrees that cooperation is good and should be encouraged. Then if competition is antithetical, competition is bad and should be eliminated. Keeping to educational applications, this would mean the practical elimination of championships and all partisan cheering in sports, prize contests, personal awards for superior virtues or accomplishments, the virtual abandonment of varsity emblems in athletics, no Olympic Games — oh dear!

In academic activities there would be no more prize essays no more decision-debates, no more cum laude’s, no more loving cups for the best attendance or best poster or best tooth brush-

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
282

ing or best scholarship. Extending the applications to industrial life would result in no more competition between salesmen for our money — and possibly no more progress in invention or manu'acture or distribution of goofs!

Obviously this is a serious situation for, as one writer put it, “what sort of a watery individual would this process develop?” The question is pertinent, for the values of competition and cooperation are today being appraised by everyone — and competition loses friends almost hourly. In the face of this danger to the integrity and preservation of a social principle, perhaps believers in “red-blooded manhood” need more than ever to protect civilization’s advances; for the inroads of soft pedagogy, humanitarianism and “abundant living” may be threatening our very characters as self-respecting and independent men and women.

II

But, we repeat, so challenging a proposal as the possible antithesis of competition and cooperation cannot be explained in a jiffy. In pursuit of an adequate understanding of fundamentals the present writer for example has struggled through ten years of more or less continuous study and experimentation; and this essay is only a condensation of a 12,000 word exposition and therefore woefully inadequate. Unfortunately too, there is a tendency nowadays to rust into argument without bothering with embarassing or restricting preliminaries, as one might attempt to play football without first understanding the rules, /.s Gilbert Chesterton reminded Americans recently, “the art of debate has been lost. For in order to disagree, we must first agree on the meaning of our terms. But today nobody takes time to define his terms.”

It happens that the bare definitions of competition and cooperation serve to solve the problem for most individuals. Perhaps this is why we almost instinctively avoid definitions: we would rather argue and prove the other fellow wrong, and ourselves superior, than agree on anything. For agreement means equality, which your typical competitor passes by hastily and full of trepidation. Before defining our terms, however, a warning is necessary. [It will become increasingly clear as we proceed why a brief exposition gets the sincere proponent into hot water.] If the reader does not like our definitions he has several recourses. He may appeal to the dictionary. He may simply refuse to consider the problem as posed by the definitions given. Or he may discuss the concepts revealed in the definitions and let the particular words go hang; but in fairness to the subject, he should choose and abide by his choice.

The present writer is no lexicographer and therefore is not interested in words per se. He is, ho wever, vitally interested in concepts. Therefore he proposes, in order to avoid pointless discussion, occasionally to substitute alpha for competition and omega for cooperation. By this means the reader is warned that
283

the subject of discussion is a contrast type of human behavior, not mere words. Nevertheless, it should be recorded that the following definitions agree with those given in standard dictionaries.

Competition or alpha is defined as the conscious and separate or antagonistic striving of two or more persons for a prize or goal which cannot be shared. We compete for medals, honors, championships, to win games or races, to be acclaimed the “best,” or “better than,” etc. Obviously one competitor and not the other wins the prize or attains the goal.

So stated it becomes painfully clear that competition is supremely selfish behavior. Not that selfishness is bad — we could hardly live without it. But competition is more than simple selfishness. Competition takes into account another person’s contrary desire or need and proceeds to its then doubly selfish end. In competition I want something; you want it too; I know you want it; nevertheless I proceed to deprive you of it, if possible. For every victory there is a defeat; and the joy of the victor is almost equally matched, in the long run, by the sorrow of the vanquished.

Essentially, then, competition is an intensely psychic process — the struggle of personalities to overcome and humiliate each other. It is a war between me and thee for the preservation of our self-respect.

And what are the fruits of this conflict? They are all, without exception, dead sea fruits. The classic example is a duel to the death, in which one competitor saves his life, the other loses his. All other competition is of the same character — is cutthroat by nature and intent. The contestants may be multiplied, the prize be less valuable: the “throat” may be the pride, the purse, the job, the life of the loser.

From this we conclude that competition is essentially, always and everywhere destructive. It is indeed the underlying explanation for civilization’s precarious position today. What else could happen from the indulgence of heartless, reckless and determined double-selfishness?

Ill

Cooperation or omega, on the other hand, is the conscious and freely co-ordinated striving of two or more persons for a prize or goal which may be shared; or at least for the comsumation of a project desired by the cooperating parties. Cooperation is thus a social process. It is more than selfish, for each cooperator is aware of others’ like desires, their mutual helpfulness and friendship and satisfactions in results. Cooperation is, in fact, highly social behavior.

Of course cooperation is essentially creative. More goods, or understanding or happiness are produced when people cooperate than when they work separately. The classic example is the mutual striving of a man and woman for the health and happiness of a child. All other forms are modifications or supple-

Digitized by t^ooQie
284

ments or perversions of this. Even if no other creation accrues to cooperators there is always the precious joy bom of knowledge of mutual interest and effort and sympathy, which may be the greatest of all the gifts of civilization, or indeed of any form of social intercourse.

In effect, then, competition and cooperation are antithetical. But their contrary consequences have been so obscured by their simultaneous pursuit that the reader may still be sceptical of our emerging thesis. Therefore let us contrast them. And since competition alone is impossible in civilization let us apply it in the wilderness. Shall we begin with Robinson Crusoe and Friday? The end is easily seen: the death of one of them.

Then apply competition to the New England pilgrims. Suppose the Fathers to have been thoroughgoing competitors. They might have offered a prize of a hundred bushels of grain to the pilgrim who first completed his log house, at Plymouth, say.

What would transpire? It is safe to say that the only good result would be the earlier completion of one or two or three houses than if the prize had not been offered. Negatively, the houses would be badly placed and carelessly constructed, tools would not be exchanged, inventions would have been kept secret, women and children overworked, etc. etc. Finally, the prize would go to the man who least needed it [the strongest and most skillful] and who could never use it all for himself. Meanwhile the colony would be tom by jealousies, thefts, depredations and illness and decimated by Indians attacking colonists.

Likewise, it needs no great imagination to construct the history of a cooperative program in village-building. Each man would agree to do what he could do best. Inventions would be exchanged. Tools would be freely loaned. The weak and ill would be cared for. The village would be planned and houses carefully constructed. In the end a happy, cooperative group would move into its new quarters with increased health, loyalty and mutual respect to meet the inroads of man’s mortal enemies — accident, diseases, famine, death. Of course, the grain would long since have been planted —• for the good of all.

But this is communism? Or collectivism? Or totalitarianism? No, merely a thumbnail historical sketch of any colonial enterprise. Competition comes later, to handicap the growing organism.

Is there no middle ground? For it is sometimes urged that extremes are to be avoided by normal men. [Some say the world is flat, others that it is round, or an oblate spheroid. Well — let’s choose the middle path: it must be oval like a football or a deep pie dish!] Yes there is a “mean” between competition and cooperation: the man who refuses to cooperate or to compete. His life is a curious abandonment of his powers of communication and mutal aid. The classic example is the hermit.

Digitized by V^OOQle
285

IV

We are now ready to state our proposition, though considerable more explanation would render it safer. Alpha or competition is selfish or antisocial; omega or cooperation is social. Alpha is destructive; omega is constructive. Alpha stimulates fear, envy and hate; omega fosters confidence, generosity and love. Alpha leads to international war; omega to international harmony. Alpha changes strangers and friends into enemies; omega transforms enemies and strangers into friends. Alpha is as anti-Christian as omega is Christ-like. Alpha may or may not be the first law of the jungle; but certainly omega is the highest law of civilization.

Thus these two are as mutually opposed as the poles of a magnetic field. To move toward one is to move away from the other. One may no more become more cooperative and more competitive simultaneously than more social and more antisocial at once. One may alternate, though, as one may travel north and then south, or serve God and then Mammon.

With these concepts as background it is possible to view human activities critically. Obviously most men are intricate complexes of both cooperative and competitive desires and practices. John is highly cooperative at home but competitive in business. George is cooperative in mountain climbing but compet-titive in tennis. Jane is cooperative towards Mary but compe-itive towards Helen. Harry is cooperative towards his fellow basketballers but competitive towards opponents.

These are facts today. But if our thesis is sound [and it isn’t the writer’s but that of leading philosophers, educators, financiers, industrialists and statesmen everywhere] then the function of social leaders must be to eliminate the contradictions, in favor of cooperation. Nor is the magnitude of the task any excuse for dodging it. The statement “the world is competitive and has been for a thousand years” [a palpable half-truth — civilization is overwhelmingly cooperative. If it were otherwise — whenever it becomes more competitive — civilization falls] is no argument at all for continuing in the same rut. Quite the reverse, particularly for educators, whose whole duty it is to lead children into more sozializing paths — to encourage the good and discourage the bad. Let each man and woman begin at home: in his own heart. This is the great task. The rest is easy; it is even momentarily pleasurable and permanently satisfying.

But what kind of a man would wholly cooperative behavior produce? Let us parade some of the Great Cooperators. Jesus, Gandhi, Gorgas, Einstein, Koch, Pasteur, Edison — men whose great passion was or is to advance knowledge or change behavior in the interests of social welfare — men who give their lives in pursuit of humane ideals.

If these men lack “red-bloodedness” make the most of it. It is difficult to understand how yielding to the desire to take

Digitized by v^ooQle
286

from others what they want develops good social attitudes. If dog-eat-dog impulses are good, if jungle ethics are to be exalted, if international warfare is the proper condition of man, then yes! competition is good, for competition and these are one in spirit.

Nor is there any more virtue in practicing or teaching both competition and cooperation than in practicing and teaching both killing and curing, or both giving to others and stealing from others. “Let a man be either a hero or a saint. In between lies, not wisdom, but banality.”

V

Proponents of cooperation derive considerable satisfaction from history, whether biologic, sociologic or psychologic. They observe that if there is one principle of evolution more obvious than any other it is the tendency of organic life to become even more complex and more highly coordinated. From amoeba to man is a long jump: it is an unbroken history of more and more intricate division of function and coordination of effort. Cooperation is the next great step: the conscious and wilful coordination of separate microcosms in the interests of joy and security and survival.

Sociologically, too, the trend of society is towards the world state. Beginning with what Giddings used to call “consciousness of kind” animals have clung together; first in families, then in tribes now in nations. If the cohesiveness is not closer it is because man cannot subordinate self to socius or socius to race or race to religion. But the trend is there and it is a misleading boast at best to claim for competition any proper or permanent place in society. Let us hasten to add that the world state itself is desired chiefly because it eliminates international depredations and promotes cooperation to the end that men shall live happier and fuller lives.

Psychologically, too, the beginning of cooperation — the first movement away from self — comes when the child discovers that pure selfishness and competition do not pay. From this discovery children move on to greater and more intricate cooperativeness or they die quick or violent deaths, most of them, and their works with them. But the highest psychological expressions of cooperation may be witnessed in the greatest philosophies and religions and in the actions of martyrs. — whose works are more likely to live after them.

Where do you and I stand in cooperativeness? Let us conceive a social scale. At one end is the last word in competition: the murderer. Take Cain for example. In the middle is the hermit. He must be nameless for he is, as Spengler says, inane. At the other end are the great cooperators. Shall we take as practical examples the members of an inspired symphony orchestra?_____Or of almost any polar expedition?... Or of the hap-

piest families?....

Digitized by CjOOQle
287

Now count up your own cooperative and competitive impulses and habits, and place yourself on the social scale. The process will be salutary and perhaps even complimentary. But as to all of us in modern civilization it is a serious question whether we are not today dangerously far down the competitive arm of the scale.

VI

At this point it is necessary further to define our terms. For example, the phrase “all life is competitive” is current and popular but absurdly fallacious. We may say that most interesting phases of life involve conflict —• struggles with nature to earn a living, avoid disease, enjoy games and sports, bring up children; in a word struggle to overcome obstacles. But competition is only one form of conflict, which produces little but hate, and without which the struggle for existence would remain essentially what it is today. Robinson Crusoe had plenty of struggle to “develop his character” before Friday appeared. We might well shudder to think of what would have become of either man if competition had been their God.

Likewise cooperation is only one form of coordination. Coordination may be free or forced, but cooperation is essentially free and friendly. The ants are coordinated by instinct •— and see what marvelously successful creatures are the hymenoptera: they constitute the one serious threat to humanity, for they coordinate. If their coordination were — or is? — conscious and wilful it would be —« or is? — cooperation. Let no one betray nature in this sphere: she is supremely interested in cooperation. As Wilhelm Van Loon observes, “of all animal life man is the only one that regularly destroys its own kind.”

Again, physical educators are prone to use the phrase “competition with oneself.” This is meaningless in the terms of our definition. One does not struggle with oneself to deprive oneself of anything. What we really mean is “struggle for self-improvement.” Then let us use this combination of words when this is what we mean.

The phrase cooperative-competition or competitive-cooperation is current also, meaning the performance of a team of individuals working together to defeat an opposing team. This phenomenon is exalted by many physical educators because the process involves cooperation. But the end product is likely to be heightened selfishness. The classic example of cooperative-competition is kidnappers in pursuit of their vocation.

One further distinction must be made before leaving this phase of our problem. Rivalry or desire to surpass another person is a first step toward active competition, and is therefore bad. Emulation, or desire to approach or equal a personal ideal, on the other hand, is a first step toward self-improvement and is therefore good. Now, the dividing line between emulation and rivalry is a fine one: how shall we keep the one and avoid the other? This is the only serious question bothering cooperators.
288

VII

Novices in philosophical cooperation inevitably ask other questions. Is all competition bad? Is rivalry really dangerous? How will men improve without the prod of competition? Aren’t we all naturally lazy? Can games be played without competition?

Of these only the last will be answered here, and even this only sketchily. The key is found in distinguishing between competition and opposition. Opposition is the purposeful meeting of forces, and is of the essence of football, tennis, etc. But opposition — the trying of conflicting powers — is possible without desire to humiliate opponents, which is competition. Overcoming obstacles is the acme of male existence and the source and builder of manly qualities, but opposition does not become competition until the obstacle is the ego of a human opponent.

It is a pleasure to record the fact that the early Tumverein program, and to a somewhat lesser extent the early Y.M.C.A. activities, fostered these ideals. Competition was at a discount: opposition, demonstration and cooperation were the outstanding characteristics of Turners and Y men in their gymnastic as well as their social and cultural activities.

Of course the most effective means of eliminating competition from sports are to keep no score and have no spectators. But these are ideals progressive physical educators already strive to attain! Thus physical education is potentially in agreement with highest social principle, and may contribute more to socialization than other educational methods, because interests of pupils are keener and lessons are more obvious.

Steps along, this path are the elimination of state championships and then of local rivalries, the equalization of opposing teams, the practical elimination of spectators, the refusal to compute “team standings,” the abolition of all prizes. Every one of these steps has already been taken in some cities, notably in the junior high schools of Albany, blew York. Cooperation is heightened and the competitive spirit very greatly reduced in these schools, at least for sports. Similar steps have been taken for all games and contests in the settlement houses of Boston which serve 25,000 red-blooded boys and girls, and in numerous summer camps the writer could name. [The history of cooperation in finance and industry, including the progressive elimination of competition, would fill several volumes.]

With what results? Reporters are well-nigh overwhelmed by the good results and so far report none that are bad. Attendance at contests is multiplied several fold. Interest is heightened. Opposition and efforts are keen. Discipline is reduced to nil: there is nothing left to quarrel over. Money for prizes is saved, to be spent on paraphernalia for increasing participation, while self-respect and respect for opponents [not competitors] are very greatly increased.
289

Wishy-washy? Not unless “forceful but gentlemanly behavior in the framework of opposed human powers” is so to be described. Those who are incredulous ought to inquire, or better, experiment. The theory of cooperation calls for such results. Experience proves its integrity.

VIII

The greatest challenge of history to modem society is precisely this: can you eliminate competition before it eliminates ? To this challenge public schools at least can have only one answer: we will try. In this trial between the cancer of competition on the one hand which threatens in the relatively near future to destroy the race itself, and the ideal of cooperation on the other, which promises, in a future millennial, an infinitely active and happy people - in this trial physical education can play a tremendously great or a shamefully little part.

Fortunately education has many allies. For example, big business, which has no use for competition when it can be avoided. And religion. For competition, as we have defined it, is anathema maranatha to the spirit of Christianity, while cooperation is just this: a practical and active application of brotherly love.

Field Hockey Teams of Other Countries Will Visit United States

Gertrude Hooper, President, United States Field Hockey Association.

The year 1936 will stand as a milestone in the history of the United States Field Hockey Association, for in October the Association is to be the hostess to the International Federation of Women’s Hockey Associations. This organization was founded in 1927 to promote friendly intercourse among the nations on the hockey field and to foster the playing of international matches. Every three years, a Conference of the member nations is held. The first was in Geneva in 1930 and the most recent in Copenhagen in 1933. Now it is America’s turn to repay the hospitality it has received abroad and to do its part in cementing international good will.

Two things stand out particularly in the minds of those who attended the Copenhagen Conference: the marked feeling of friendliness, even where language differences made conversation difficult, and the very high standard of sportsm.anship. The former was the keynote of the Banquet which closed the Conference. Teams were present from England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Denmark, and the United States; especially invited elevens from the non-member countries of Holland and Germany; and representatives from Australia and Egypt. At the head table sat the Ministers of England, Germany, and the United States, all of whom made speeches complimenting the Federation on its

Digitized by v^ooQle
290

ability to bring nations together for a common purpose and still part friends — an achievement which so few international conferences find possible. The various national anthems and well known songs of the different countries were sung and the Conference ended on a high note of companionship and a strong feeling that whatever our language or form of government might be, we were all one in our ability to enjoy and appreciate good hockey and the fine sportsmanship it engenders.

An example of this second outstanding characteristic of the Conference came in the match between England and Denmark. This was played in the late afternoon and throughout the first half the rays of the setting sun all but blinded the English goalkeeper. Instead of joining her team between the halves for discussion and refreshment, she spent the interval getting an eye-shade so that her Danish opponent would not be similarly handicapped in the final period. To my mind, this typifies the spirit that is found everywhere on the hockey field: the desire for fair play far outshines the desire to win at all costs. It is found alike on school playgrounds and on international pitches and is a feature of hockey that is all too rare in sport today. This spirit even carries over to the spectators, who are as quick to applaud good play by the opposing team as they are to cheer on their own side.

It is because these qualities of understanding and fairmind-edness are so dominant in the work of the Federation that the

U.S.F.H.A. feels very proud indeed to have been chosen as the hostess of the 1936 Triennial Conference and to be given this opportunity to bring its members and its players into first hand contact with the Federation’s work. It is a challenge to us to live up to the standards that have been set us abroad, but a challenge that we feel proud and honored to accept.

The Conference will be held at Philadelphia Cricket Club, St. Martin’s, Philadelphia, from October 20 to November 1. It will be attended by teams and delegates from the member countries of England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Australia, South Africa, and of course the United States. Denmark, the only other nation which belongs, is unhappily unable to come this year. In order to interest non-member countries in the work of the Federation, teams have also been invited from Canada and British Guiana.

Six days of the Conference will be devoted to a round-robin series of matches, which will give American players an unexcelled chance to observe the very finest hockey that is played anywhere in the world today. Everyone who has ever seen one of these foreign teams in action will agree that we still have much to learn from them in the way of technique, stickwork, and team play. In addition, there will be interspersed meetings, lectures, and discussions on such subjects as training, costume, rules, umpiring, coaching, and other topics of mutual interest.

Digitized by LjOOQle
291

Since only a comparatively small number of American players will be able to go to Philadelphia, tours have been arranged for the six member-country teams, either before or after the Conference, so that each of the sixteen Local Associations, and many of the Active Clubs, will have the opportunity either of playing against our visitors or of watching them from the sidelines. The plans for these tours are still only tentative, since the Clubs have been given until February 15 to sign up for inclusion in the itinerary, and also definite word has still to be received from several of the countries in regard to their sailing dates. Probably, however, the Irish will play in New York, Boston, Providence, and Worcester; the South Africans in New Jersey, Long Island, and Stuyvesant [western Connecticut and eastern New York]; the Scots, Detroit, Cleveland, and two Chicago teams; the Welsh Iowa City, Wichita, St. Louis, Pittsburgh, and another Chicago team; while the English will visit Virginia, Baltimore, Washington and the Philadelphia Association. The more elaborate tour of the Australians starts with two matches in British Columbia, games in Madison, Milwaukee, and Chicago, and visits to Niagara Falls and New York City on their way to Philadelphia. They return via the Grand Canyon and will play in both Los Angeles and San Francisco before they sail for home. For their first official visit to the United States, they are going to see many of our most interesting places.

From this outline of the tours it will be seen how 1936 should prove a banner year to every player in America as well as to the Association itself. Every hockey enthusiast will be given a chance to benefit by witnessing the play of a least one of our visiting teams and consequently hockey throughout the United States should improve markedly, if the results from single touring teams in the past are any criterion. In addition, all members of the Association who can go to Philadelphia will be admitted at reduced rates to the matches and club players will be given a chance to play while there. It is the earnest wish of the Association that a great many people will be able to avail themselves of this opportunity, not only to meet our visitors and to see the Federation in action, but also to lend their active support to the Association in its role of hostess. The U.S.F.H.A. is particularly anxious to make the Conference a great success because two of its former Presidents are officers of the Federation. Mrs. Edward B. Krumbhaar is the President and Miss Anne B. Townsend, Captain of the United States Team for thirteen years, is the Secretary. The Association is indeed proud of the honor that comes to it through them, and wants to hold a successful Conference for their sakes as well as for the Federation which they lead.

Pennsylvania, New York, and Ohio lead other States in number of colleges and universities with 51, 45, and 45 respectively. Illinois, New York, and Pennsylvania have more professional schools than any other States.
292

Let’s Go to the Olympics.

Martha A. Gable.

From all reports, the Olympics Games which will be held in Berlin from August 1 to 16, promises to be largest in number of participants, the most elaborately staged, and the most keenly contested in the history of the Games. Forty-nine nations already have declared their intention of sending participants, the total number of which is expected to approximate five thousand.

Exhaustive preparations were trade in Garmisch-Partenkir-chen for the Winter Games which took place in February; and the attention of the world has been focused for months on the gigantic program of construction which has been carried out in Berlin.

However, to those who have witnessed the Games of past Olympiads, the allure is not only in the elaborateness of ultramodern settings, nor in breath-taking performances. These world meetings are filled with drama, ceremony, and an indefinable but ever-present spirit which is the Olympic heritage from the Ancients. The great white Olympic banner, bearing its five linked rings of blue, yellow, black, green, and red symbolzies the spirit of brotherhood among the peoples of the five continents, and under which all Olympic activities take place.

The Olympic oath, which is administered to all participants during the opening ceremony is more than an oath — it is an expression of the Olympic ideal.

In order to fully appreciate the full significance of these Games, something of their history must be understood. They originated in Greece, about 776 B. C., for the purpose of encouraging the youth of the land to greater development through competition. Because the ancient Greeks believed in cultural and intellectual development as well as physical development, there was competition in the arts—'music, literature, poetry, painting, and sculpture, as well as in running, jumping, boxing, and wrestling.

The ancient Games were held on the sacred plain of Olympia, overlooked by Mount Olympus, believed to be the sanctuary of the Grecian God, Zeus. During the Games, a truce was declared, the violation of which was considered sacrilege. Only those who were judged morally and spiritually clean were permitted to represent their respective states, and the title “Olympic Victor” was the greatest honor to be earned by Grecian youth. For eleven centuries these Games were held every four years, until 394 A. D. when they were discontinued because of the taint of commercialization.

In 1896, due to the efforts of Pierre de Coubertin, a Frenchman, the first of the modem Olympic games was held in Athens, Greece, the cradle of the ancient Games. They have been held

Digitized by Google
293

every four years since, with the exception of 1916, during the World War. True to the ancient Olympic idea, competition in the arts as well as in events of physical prowess is included.

In Berlin, 327 acres of plateau, situated fifteen minutes from the center of the city, has been transformed into the Reich Sport Field. Construction was begun in 1933, and the estimated cost of the outlay is 16 millions of dollars.

A gigantic stadium has been completed, which will accomodate 100,0,00 persons on thirty miles of seats! The facade of the stadium, which stands forty feet high, is made of shell limestone, which had to be carried from Wuertzburg, and which is more beautiful than the concrete from which the remainder of the stadium is made.

The Leader Tower, 243 feet high, will support the immense Olympic Bell. The bell is cast from steel, weighs 16 tons, and bears the five linked rings, below which is inscribed the words: “I call the youth of the world.”

On the facade of the stadium stands the Fuehrer Tower, 247 feet high, from which the Olympic torch will bum during the 16 days of the Games.

Close to the stadium is the swimming pool, twenty meters by fifty meters in size. It is separated from the diving pool which is twenty meters by twenty meters. Seating capacity of the swimming stadium is 20,000.

A smaller stadium for field hockey, a polo field, a tennis and basketball stadium, also have been constructed. The Diet-rick-Eckart open air theatre, which accomodates 20,000 persons will be the scene of the gymnastic events. The fencing will take place in the gymnasium. Deutschland Hall, close to the Reich Sport Field, will be the site of the boxing, wrestling and weight lifting.

In addition to this field, which also bears parking space for 10,000 automobiles, a rowing course at Grunau has been constructed, which is considered one of the finest as well as one of the most beautiful in the world.

Special types of equipment have been designed to insure safety, as well as accuracy of judgment. A slow motion picture apparatus has been perfected, which will show an accurate reproduction of the finish of the races, so that there can be no dispute or doubt as to the winners.

The Olympic Village, which first came into existance in Los Angeles, will accomodate between four and five thousand participants and officials. A tremendous reception room, the Hall of Nations, opens into the compartments assigned to the teams of each nation. Forty kitchens and dining halls will provide the type of meals to which the visiting teams are accustomed. Post-offices, laundries, stores, tailors, barbers, and banking facilities have been set up within the Village so that its residents will be able to fulfill practically every want without leaving its environs.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
294

The personnel of the Village, which will be entirely womanless, will be made up of employees of the North German Lloyd. The women will reside in a home designated for them near the Field.

Close to the Village, an exact duplicate of the track and field of the Olympic stadium is constructed, to permit unlimited practice. Also, a gymnasium, and swimming pool are at the disposal of the residents of the Village.

German boys of more than average ability are being tutored in foreign languages, so that an abundance of interpreters will make possible a wide social contact among the visiting contestants.

The music which will be rendered during the various ceremonies of the Games is being rehearsed all over Germany by 10,000 people. Hundreds of victrola records have been made and sent out to the various cities, so that the final result will be as nearly perfect as possible.

The main street leading from Berlin to the stadium has been widened, and has been named the “The Thoroughfare of Triumph.” It is over this route that the participants will march on their way to the stadium on the day of the opening ceremony.

The art galleries of Berlin are beginning to amass the various compositions and works which will form a part of the arts competition and exhibition. In Los Angeles much of the painting and sculpture was of the human body in the act of performing various athletic events. The study of such an exhibition gives one a new appreciation of the beauty to be found in the rhythmical grace and harmony of movement of the trained human mechanism.

A great army of clerks has been busy for months filling orders for tickets. They can be procured in various parts of the stadium for 40, 60 and 100 marks. The exchange rate for tickets is approximately forty-one dollars per hundred marks. The stadium seats have been assigned according to nations, so that ticket holders from one country will find themselves seated together. A great demand for stadium passes has been reported, and orders are on the increase. Prices for single tickets range from one to thirty-five marks.

The opening ceremony of the Olympic Games on August 1 promises to be an unforgettable event. The torch on the Fuehrer Tower will be lighted by the final torch bearer of a gigantic relay run. The first of 3000 runners will leave Olympis, Greece, on July 20. His torch will be lighted by the sun through a burning glass. The run will proceed through Greece, Yugoslavia, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Germany, continuously during eleven days and nights. Each runner will ignite the torch of the next runner, and the final runner will enter the stadium on August 1, bearing the flame from the sun of ancient Hellas, with which the Olympic torch will be lighted.

Digitized by t^ooQle
295

At the same time Loues, the winner of the marathon race in the first modem Olympics in 1896, will enter the stadium bearing an olive branch, the symbol of peace. The Olympic Bell will peal out its message for the first time, calling the youth of the world; and the massed participants, each in a colorful garb distinctive of his country,, will take the Olympic Oath before one hundred thousand spectators!

This is no mere sporting event — it is an international festival dedicated to the finest development of youth, and perform-, ed before an altar of fair play, symbolizing the brotherhood of man!

Who can resist—LET’S GO TO THE OLYMPICS!

The Nicotine Fallacy

P. Charles Green, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa.

In recent years scientific cigarette research has occupied the attention of more and more physicians and scientists. As yet we are in the initial stage in our results; however, one big fact has been discovered that has had an enormous effect on cigarette sales. It has been revealed that it is in the second half of a cigarette where the most active and deleterious effects are produced. Dr. Emil Bogen of Olive View, California, brought this fact to the attention of the profession in a paper read before the section on Pharmacology and Therapeutics of the American Medical Association at Portland, Oregon, July 12, 1929. Many investigators have concurred in this finding. As a result, physicians everywhere are now recommending that only the first half of a cigarette be smoked.

Cigarette consumption is just as vital a consideration to the physician, the biochemist and the physicist as food, drink and air. In fact it should be more so because we know so little about the subject. When smoke is inhaled into the lungs it has taken the most direct approach to the blood stream that is possible in a human economy. This being so, the paramount question is, what does the tobacco smoke contain and what effect will it have on the human system? The answer from all sides has been that the most important, the most dangerous, and most lethal poison in the smoke is nicotine. This belief has been held by scientists and laity alike ever since smoking became a habit.

Always nicotine and only nicotine is held responsible for every untoward effect of tobacco smoking. If there is a rise in blood sugar after smoking a cigarette it is nicotine. If there is a cyanosis of the peripheral circulation it is nicotine; if there is a fall in the peripheral temperature it is nicotine. These are largely laboratory questions but the hundred odd symptoms that are supposed to be caused by smoking are all attributed to nicotine. This is well illustrated by the blame attached to nicotine for

Digitized by
296

tobacco staining, tobacco odor and tobacco breath. The truth is that when nicotine is present in the smoke it causes none of these things. The one thing that we research workers in tobacco have apparently not been aware of is that in the smoke of some cigarettes there is absolutely no nicotine at all. In others it is present in a diversity of chemical forms that have not the slightest relation to the poison nicotine sulphate, which is the test tube nicotine that investigators use in their test tube experiments and draw conclusions from.

Of the hundreds of investigations that have been reported in cigarette research not a single one of them has ever been scientifically correct because each and every one started out by committing a fundamental error.

This fundamental error is the failure to take into consideration the widely varying chemical formulas of different cigarettes. Chemicals are used in cigarettes for very specific purposes and are placed there apart from the manufacturing and natural chemicals present in all tobacco. The first chemical used in all package cigarettes is potassium nitrate for ignition. This chemical is not used in the “roll your own” or pipe tobacco for the free access of the oxygen of the air would cause miniature explosions to take place, as well as scattered sparks. The second set of chemicals is used for adhesion and sweetening. They are gun arabic, licorice, starch, and glucose products. The next set of chemicals are essential oils used for flavoring. Finally, glycerine is almost universally used as a hygroscopic agent. Within the last year one of the prominent cigarette manufacturers has advertised to the profession that he is using a substitute for glycerine, diethylene glycol. This chemical is also the technical name for Prestone, which is used as an anti-freeze in automobile radiators. It is a dihydric alcohol and when used in a cigareette develops an excess of a gas that is quite the opposite from what any manufacturer would want.

When you make a formula from any or all of the chemicals place the combination in a confined space, add a heavy moisture content of ten to twenty per cent of water, and then ignite it, what do you get in the resultant combustion? You get, as anyone can surmise, a widely varying array of chemical reactions, no two of which are alike. Therein is contained the first error in cigarette research, for every last cigarette will give you a different chemical combination and a different chemical result. Weighed in the scales of scientific accuracy, there has never been an analysis of cigarette or cigar smoke that could be standardized.

One of the results of all this chemical action on the tobacco vehicle is the destruction and change of the nicotine content in the cigarettes. Just ho w easy this may be can be readily understood by taking the report of the Connecticut Experimental Station as reported in the Journal of the American Medical As-sociation, July 29, 1933.

Digitized by CjOOQle
297

It will be noted in the report that this is the nicotine content of the tobacco and not of the tobacco smoke. Heat will not only change nicotine, it will also completely destroy it, so you start off by figuring that only 10 per cent of nicotine can reach the smoker and that never as the nicotine sulphate of the laboratory, but one of the twenty-five different varieties of nicotine which chemists have succeeded in isolating.

Cigarette tobacco and cigar tobacco differ widely in their chemical composition. W. W. Gamer and his two associates report in Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, September, 1934, that cigarette tobacco contains a much higher percentage of starch and sugar than cigar tobacco. The catalytic action that results in the destruction of glucose is very intense. In addition, cigars have a much larger surface exposed to the air, and the resultant oxidation gives to their smoke an entirely different chemical reaction and one that can come closer to being standardized. All of this may be interesting but how am I going to prove that the nicotine in cigarette smoke is not the active poison, or in fact is not present at all? The answer is by talang from tobacco smoke the one concrete element that is always present and will always reveal, through an accurate chemical analysis, just what was present in the smoke. This element is— tar.

Cigarette tar has become increasingly important by reason of the studies that have been made of it as a possible cancer agent. Dr. W. D. McNally, of Chicago, in a report published in the American Journal of Cancer, November, 1932, gives an analysis of the tar taken from 33 different cigarettes, and in no two cigarettes was the percentage or the composition of the tar found to be the same. This completely proves my statement regarding the differences in cigarette analysis. However, I am prepared to offer direct proof of the nicotine fallacy by showing how it is possible for any physician to take the tar out of any cigarette smoke he may desire. He can then send it to an analytical chemist for a detailed report of its composition. If the chemist does not find evidence of nicotine in the tar then there was no nicotine present in the smoke. It is also importqnt to identify the particular nicotine that is found, for in no single instance will it ever be nicotine sulphate.

While in this instance we are only endeavoring to prove that nicotine is not the head devil it is always supposed to be, it will be well to re.rember the other poisons that may be present in cigarette smoke: carbon monoxide, wood alcohol, pyridine, nitrous fumes, and narcotine.

Why is anyone able to smoke cigarettes if any or all of these poisons are taken into the system? The answer is that one could not if it were not for the air that is breathed into the lungs at the same time. With every puff of a cigarette a deeper inspiration is taken and, in the case of one who inhales, the depth of inspiration is triple or more the ordinary breathing rate.'
298

Every physician remembers Sir Humphry Davy’s classic experiment on himself. In testing out the effects of nitrous oxide with his nostrils completely plugged, he was rendered unconscious after the second deep inspiration and almost died from the effects.

The next question is, how much of the tar and of other deleterious ingredients is retained in the system when the smoke is exhaled? Dr. Morris Fishbein in the	_	American,

March, 1928, reported the results of two German cigarette research workers, Dr. C. Neuberg and Dr. Maria Kobel of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Bio-Chemistry, Berlin. These workers reported on the wood alcohol in cigarette smoke, and stated that, not more than one-tenth inhaled was again exhaled. Smoking of twenty cigarettes containing twenty grams of tobacco a day, a smoker would inhale 40 mg. of wood alcohol, and this would not be particularly dangerous unless, the smoker were afflicted with heart or lung disease.

Dr. Emil Bogen in the same number of the American Journal of Cancer as Dr. McNally’s study, November, 1932, stated that he found the tar residue in cigarettes to be 4.84% to 15.29% and that retained in the body 6.56% to 11.58%.

Early in my cigarette research study some five years ago I discovered how easy it was for a non-smoker not only to smoke but to do it in a graphic way that enabled the investigator to keep the resultant smoke in sight and control all the time. I began with the simplest of tests as to acidity, odor, stain, etcetera, when I was startled by the discovery how tobacco smoke could be reduced to its last component. After that it was only a question of the assistance of a competent analytical chemist to solve any tobacco problem that existed. This has been greatly added to recently by x-ray studies, as the smoke reveals surprising evidence of unsuspected elements.

The first physician to call attention to the importance of other factors than nicotine in tobacco smoke was Dr. W. E. Dixon of Cambridge, England, whose special lecture, “The Tobacco Habit,” was printed in full in the British Medical Journal, October 22, 1927. Therein he stated that if the tar containing pyridine, ammonia gas, odor, nicotine, and other objectionable elements could be eliminated from the smoke, very much of benefit to the smoker would result.

Much rationalization of this problem is being worked out in England where the	British	Tobacco Control	Board	rigidly

censors the kind and character	of chemicals that	can be added

to tobacco. A sensitized smoker can tell the difference between Canadian, English and American cigarettes. The assumption that stains means nicotine is well illustrated in the use by English manufactuters of so-called filter tips for cigarettes. They have even invented a machine to make them, as a patent was recently granted at Washington to the English Filter Tip Company, Ltd., of London.	They	are sold in New	York	by the

American branch of an	English firm. . The filter	tip is	simply

Digitized by CjOOQle
299

the old cubeb paper mouthpiece with a cotton insert that dates back over fifty years. This is labeled “non-nicotine mouthpiece.”

It is only fair to state that the knowledge regarding the total or almost total absence of nicotine in Oriental tobaccos is not new.

To find out what is in a cigarette before smoking requires an entirely different method of procedure. It is' best done in a specially equipped laboratory by a competent chemist. However, a physician can learn much with a test tube and a Bunsen burner through destructive distillation. In the early attempts many test tubes can easily be broken but three zones of separation will be apparent from the start. At the top, 'the crystal clear drops of moisture and the gases, in the middle, the tar and oils, and at the bottom, the carbon. Sir James Barrie wrote most eloquently of the charms of Lady Nicotine in the smoke that came from the ends of the cigarettes and cigars and the bowl of the pipe. There is only one thing wrong with this picture. No investigator or analyst or research worker has ever found the faintest trace of nicotine in this end-smoke. So passes another legend into the vapors of yesterday.

This paper has been written for one purpose, and one purpose only, and that is to bring out the fact that not only does every brand of cigarettes differ in its chemical formula from every other brand, but cigarettes of the same brand may differ over a few months time in manufacture. Furthermore, that this chemical formula in the catalytic action of heat, moisture and the inhaled air of the smoke may and does change the smoke of the tobacco vehicle so that no nicotine may reach the lungs of the smoker. What does reach the lungs of the smoker is tar, for it is absolutely impossible for any one to take even the lightest puff without some of that smoke being taken into the lungs. With every puff the smoker unconsciously takes a deeper breath, and the air that comes through the nose mixes with the smoke and so both enter the lungs at the same time. So much is this the case that if iodine is added to a cigarette and that cigarette smoked, an x-ray of the lungs will outline its presence clearly. Not only cigarette but all tobacco smoking is not a minor but a major concern of every physician.—Long Island Med.

41st ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

St. Louis, Missouri, April 15-18,	1936

Headquarters: Hotel Statler, Ninth and Washington Avenues Convention Theme: Physical Education and the Enrichment

of Living

Section Meetings

Women's Athletics Men's Athletics Teacher Training Health Education Public Schools Administrative Directors Therapeutics Recreation College Men’s Physical Edu. Camping	Dance	Research

Digitized by
300

Pre-Convention Program and Visitations

Public demonstrations will take place in St. Louis and St. Louis County, public and private schools, Y’s, tumvereins colleges and recreation group work agencies.

Railroad Identification Certificates

A certificate is sent to all members of the American Physical Education Association. If you fail to receive your certificate, notify the Convention Chairman, Mr. P. J. Hickey, Secretary, Board of Education, 911 Locust Street, St. Louis, Mo. The identification slip entitles you to a fare and one-third for round trip.

Exhibits

Educational exhibits on Art in Physical Education, Rural Schools, Camming, Outings, Hobbies, Health, etc.—together with outstanding commercial products.

Registration

Register at Headquarters Hotel—Hotel Statler, Ninth and Washington Avenue.

Fees

Members, $1.00—Non-Members, $2.00—Physical Education Students, 50 cents. Convention badges or tickets will be required for admittance to all meetings, demonstrations and social events.

Affiliated Organizations

American Academy of Physical Education. Society of State Directors of Physical Education. National Collegiate Athletic Association. Y. W. C. A. Physical Directors. Y. M.

C.'A. Physical Directors Society. Women's Division of the N. A. A. F. College Physical Education Association. National Association of Directors of Physical Education for College Women. Administrative Directors of Physical Education. Intra-Mural Directors. Tests and Measurements.

State’s Greater Share

Educational legislation during the year 1935 shows a vigorous extension of the principle that the State should assume increased responsibility for the financial support of education. This principle evidently won legislative favor in the following States: Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Illinois, Minnesota, Montana, New Jersey, North Dakota, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, Washington, West Virginia, and Wyoming.

Increased State control over school budgets or expenditures were noted in Alabama, Colorado, Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island.

Methods of distributing school funds were altered in many states; and an unusual number of states reorganized their equalization systems or established minimum foundation programs-, among, some of these states are: Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, New Jersey, Ohio, Oklahoma, Wyoming and North Carolina.
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	February 193#	No*	433

PUBLISHED MONTHLY FROM OCTOBER TO JUNE BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.» NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

New York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Normal

College

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Short ridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on His* tory of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney Higju School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin H. Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High*School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public Schools

William A. Nicolai, Teacher, Central High School, Philadelphia

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor;

504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Competition or — and Cooperation

Most modern educators have been flaying the competitive spirit which has been developed and fostered for many years in the classrooms of schools. They point out, rightly, that cooperative rather than competitive spirit and habits should be developed.

This philosophy has been emphasized so strongly and insistently that physical educators everywhere are wondering just where and how our individual and group competitive activities fit into the picture. Ought competitive activities to be eliminated from our programs?

In order to aid in clarifying and guiding the thought of teachers in our field, an invitation was extended to Dr. Jesse F. Williams to write an article on the subject for Mind and Body. Dr. Williams kindly consented to do this, and his views appeared in the November 1935 issue.

It became evident at once that all of our readers are not in agreement with the ideas expressed by Dr. Williams. Of those readers who wrote to us we

Digitized by v^ooQie
302

selected one of the Jyetter known_of our colleagues and invited him to present his opposing views for publication. Dr. Frederick R. Rogers welcomed the opportunity to do this. For his article in this issue of Mind and Body we are grateful.

It should be interesting to our readers to retread Dr. William's article before or after absorbing the views of Dr! Rogers. While the fundamental premises of the two men are contradictory, they both conclude that competitive physical activities are valuable when properly conducted.

Life Expectancy

On the basis of the United States census of 1930, Dr. L. I. Dublin showed that gains from decade to decade in life expectancy decrease rapidly with advancing age until at the age of 40 they virtually disappear altogether. After the age of 40 there is evidence of a slight decrease in the expectation of life.

What can physical and health education do to improve the situation? Development of a healthy body before maturity, health information and practices, and the development of play habits undoubtedly would bring about great improvement.

A New Method?

The Phi Delta Kappan reports that “a new method of preparing themselves to teach" has been adopted for women who are students in the department of physical education in a certain mid-western state college. Under the new method the women “are going to learn the games and activities by actually taking part in various activities. Activities include singing games, folk games, ground stunts, rope stunts, apparatus stunts, and individual and team games." Can it be possible that teachers have actually been turned loose without such preparation ?

Worthy Of Emulation

There is evidence of a healthy condition in education when specialists in the field of physical education are so broadly educated that they are eligible for positions as principals of schools, and when teachers and principals are so well trained in play and recreation that they are eligible for positions as playground teachers. In Philadelphia, where eligibility requirements are high, ten of the elementary school principals are former teachers and supervisors in physical and health education. Many classroom teachers and several principals are teachers in summer playgrounds. One of the district superintendents was formerly a playground teacher. This condition is one of the important reasons for the strong position of physical and health education in Philadelphia.

Federal Student Aid. There are 1,602 institutions of higher education in the United States participating in the Federal Student Aid Program and approximately 109,000 students receiving an average of $15 per month to assist them in working their way through college. [School Life.]

Digitized by UjOOQle
303

SUGGESTED HOME AND HOME GAME PLAN FOR INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETIC COMPETITION IN LOS ANGELES

It is proposed that the Class A and Class B leagues be combined into one large group — each school having a sufficiently large membership to provide two Class A teams and two Class B teams. It is understood, of course, that each team has equal status and that neither will be classified as the first or second team within each classification. It is further proposed that all games be played on Friday. On the days the games are played each school will send a Class A team and a Class B team to the opponent’s field. It should be noted that each team of each classification will play one-half of a game at each location [two fifteen minute quarters]. The standing in the league of the schools will be based on the number of HALF GAMES won and lost by the Class A and Class B teams. By this procedure the football standing of each school will be determined in terms of the ability of both A and B teams.

This plan has the following advantages:

All games will be played on Friday afternoons thereby disrupting the school only once during the week.

It will be unnecessary to shorten the scholastic day on the day of the contest.

Class B games will be as important in the minds of the players as those of Class A.

With the assurance of an important game at home each time the teams play, increased attendance will no doubt result.

It eliminates the ncessity of student body travel.

It offers opportunity for more boys to participate in football.

Group and Couple Dances for H. S. Girls

Fred E. Foortsch

This is the eighth installment of a series of group and couple dances designed for high school girls. The first installment appeared in the March 1934 issue. These dances are not necessarily restricted to the grade indicated. They may be used at any junior cr senior high school level and may also be found suitable for adult classes.

The primary purpose is to provide vigorous muscular activity by means of a series of interesting combinations of dance steps and figures in various rhythms. The floor patterns and the combinations of steps are similar to 1 those found in folk dances. The dances are short and the combinations aie not difficult. This adds much to the recreational values of the dances.

Flexibility with respect to flGor space, size of classes, and musical compositions has also besn considered in arianging the dances. Large classes may readily be broken up into several circles in order to conserve floor space. In the open formations the range of movement in any given direction has been limitsd for the same reason. In connection with the music it will be noted

Digitized by kjOOQle
304

that any standard composition may be used, provided the rhythm is appropriate. This permits the choice of sheet music, piano-player rolls, or victrola records.

The following dances have been arranged for Grade 9 B [“B” representing the second semester of the grade].

GOOD OLDE TIMES

Music*: “The Motor March” by George Rosey, Published by Jerome H. Remick and Co.

Formation: Column of front lines composed of 2 or 3 couples each, the column forming a circle. The alternate lines are facing each other. Two lines [4 or 6 couples] form a “set.” See diagram below:

Diagram

A **

C	D

-	H	H

h	H	<*>

w	j-	H	**

*	H	H	-

£

A

Note: Only 3 “sets” are shown in the diagram above. As many “sets” as the space will permit may be used. With large classes two circles may be formed.

PART I

All begin left. Neighbors’ hands are joined

1.	Three steps forward and a short curtsey [lines

in each set move toward each other], 4 counts .... 2 Measures

2.	Four steps backward to original places, 4 counts 2 Measures

3.	Four steps forward boys and girls of opposite lines joining right hands, then y mill wheel right, release hands and return to original places in four

steps— 8 counts in all ...................... 4	Measures

4.	All join hands [8 in each set] face left and skip 16 steps clockwise in a circle returning to original

places [forming in two lines again] ......... 8	Measures

Total .......................................16	Measures

*]Any good real composition may be used in connection with this dance. The above composition will be found to be especially well adapted.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
305

PART II

1.	No’s 1 and 4 [on the inner side of the large circle] step forward, join hands and execute 4 glides sideward [between the lines] to the opposite ends -1-4, then return in 4 glides -5-5 [see diagram

“set” E-F-].................................. 4	Measures

2.	No’s 1 and 4 form the opposite ends join hands and glide sideward and return similar to No.

1 above ..................................... 4	Measures

3.	All join hands [8 in each set] face right and skip 16 steps counter-clockwise in a circle returning

to original places but retain the circle formation .. 8 Measures

Total ...................................... 16	Measures

PART III

1. Partners face each other, give right hands and pass each other to the next person to whom they give the left hands alternately until the circuit is completed. This is the “Grand Right and Left” and requires 32 skip steps. At the completion of the “Grand Right and Left” the two lines are again formed .............................................16	Measures

Total .........................................16	Measures

PART IV

1.	The girls skip forward join hands with the girls from the opposite lines execute Yi millwheel and

return to original places in 8 skip steps ..... 4	Measures

2.	The boys come forward and millwheel as in No.

1 above ....................................... 4	Measures

3.	Three steps forward and a curtsy [lines move toward each other] -1-4, four steps backward -5-8 .... 4 Measures

4.	Eight short steps forward, the lines passing

through each other to meet a ne w line approaching from the opposite direction ............... 4	Measures

Total .........................................16	Measures

Note: With the lines passing through new “sets” are formed and the whole dance is repeated.

MAZURKA VARSOVIE

A Couple Dance

Music*: “Varsovianna” in Old Familiar Dance [p. 35] compiled and arranged by George C. Gott [Oliver Ditson Co.] published by Theodore Presser Co.

*]-Any good mazurka composition may be used in connection with this dance. The above composition will be found especially well adapted.

Digitized by CjOOQle
306

Formation: Column of front couples; boy on left, girl on the right.

Note: The redowa polka left consists of a glide left on count 1, cut right on count 2, leap left raising right foot at side of left ankle on count 3. To simplify the dance a change step in three counts or three running steps may be substituted where the redowa polka is indicated.

PART I

Partners join left hands in front; the right hands are joined over the right shoulder of the partner on the right. Both begin left.

1.	Redowa polka [glide, cut, leap] left obliquely forward -1-3, point right forward -4, pause -5-6 ....... 2	Measures

2. Repeat No. 1 above right obliquely forward -2 . .. 2 Measures

3. Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 above ............................... 4	Measures

At this point both face each other, raise arrrs sideward and join hands.

Note: In the next step the partner on the right [girl] must execute a quick change, shifting the weight from right to left foot in order to begin the mazurka hop right.

4.	Two mazurka hops sideward in the directioi of the leading couple [the one on the left begirs left

and the one on the right begins right] ......... 2	Measures

5.	Three small running steps [or a redowa polka step] exchanging places with partner [turn clockwise -1-3, then point sideward in the cirectio i of

the leading couple -4, pause -5-6. ............. 2	Measures

Note: Partners are now on opposite sides.

6.	Repeat No. 4 and No. 5 both returning to original sides .......................................... 4	Measures

Total ..........................:...........  .....16	Measures

Note: In order to start Part II with the left foot the partner on the right [girl] must execute a quick change, shifting the weight from left to the right foot.

PART II

Partners join hands as in PART I, Section A.

1.	The boy executes a redowa polka left in place

1-3, and points right obliquely forward -4, and pauses -5-6; the girls execute a redowa polka left sideward crossing in front of the boy and to his left side -1-3; she then points right obliquely forward -4, and pauses -5-6 ....................... 2 Measures

Note: The hands remain joined during the crossing over. After having crossed over, the left hands are over the girls’ left shoulder, with the right hands joined in front.

2.	Repeat steps under No. 1 to the right returning

to original sides .............................. 2 Measures

Digitized by

Google
307

3. Repeat steps under No. 1 and No. 2 ........ 4	Measures

4. Repeat No. 4, No. 5, and No. 6 of Part I .. 8	Measures

Total ....................................16	Measures

PART III

Section A

Partners join hands in front- front chain.

1.	The boy executes a redowa polka in place and points right as in PART 2, Section A No. 1; while the girl crosses in front of the boy to his left side with a three step turn left [4-4] turn]

-1-3 and points right obliquely forward -4, and

pauses	on 5-6	............................. 2	Measures

Note: The three steps turn should be executed with a leap turn on the 2nd count. The hands remain joined.

2.	Repeat steps under No. 1 to the right, the girl

returning to the right side ................ ;..	2	Measures

3.	Repeat	steps under No.	1	and	No.	2 .......... 4	Measures

4.	Repeat	No. 4,	No. 5,	and	No.	6 of	Part I ..... 8	Measures

Total	........................................16	Measures

CASTELLO WALTZ

[A Spanish Couple Dance]

The following compositions are recommended for use with this dance:

Music: “Espanita” by George Rosey Published by Edward B. Marks Music Co., N. Y. “Castello” by H. Engel; published by T. Presser Co.

Formation: Column of front couples, inner hands grasped.

PART I Begin with the outer foot.

1.	Step swing-hop forward with outer foot ......... 1 Measure

2.	Swing the inner arms forward [hands joined] turning back to back and a waltz-balance step in

the direction of the leading couple ............ 1 Measure

Remaining back to back, two draw-closing steps [Spanish draws] in the direction of the last couple [The second “draw” is unfinished the foot remaining in a pointing position].,................... 2 Measures

With a quick % turn inward swinging the arms with joined hands downward and in the direction of the last couple, release the hands and grasp opposite hands, [the couples are now facing in the direction of the last couple] and without interruption execute the steps under No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 above in the opposite direction........... 4 Measures

3.

4.

Total ..................................... 8	Measures

Digitized by Google
308

PART II.

Facing original direction again

1.	Two step-swing-hops forward, beginning with

outer foot ................................... 2	Measures

2.	Face partner, raise arms sideward hands grasped,

and two waltz-change-steps, the couples completing a full turn	clockwise .................2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 and	No. 2 ...................... 4	Measures

Total ........................................ 8	Measures

PART III

Begin with the outer foot 1.	Step-swing-hop forward with the outer foot ... 1	Measure

2.	Step forward with the inner foot and swing the outer leg forward [facing partner grasping both hands, arms sideward -1-2, cut backward with the outer foot [in the direction of the last couple]

-3 ............................................. 1	Measure

Note: This step is executed in one flowing movement, without any sharp demarkations leading directly into the next steps.

3.	Two draw-closing-steps [Spanish draws] in the direction of the last couple [The second “draw"

is completed	with	feet together] .............. 2	Measure

4.	Then face in the direction of the last couple and

repeat No. 1,	No.	2,	and No.	3 .......... 4	Measures

Total .......................................... 8	Measures

PART IV

Repeat the steps in Part II .Total	  8	Measures

BODILY TRAINING WITH THE JUMPING ROPE

Arranged as an exhibition for young women or older girls. Composed by Emmy Hollandt, Leipzig Normal School Translation by William A. Nicolai

FOREWORD

In these exercise combinations, the rope is not used for jumping and hopping as is usual, but stretching, pulling and swinging figures are executed. Such exrecises, properly performed, offer a thorough activity of the entire body. They are, therefore, not only adaptable for exhibition purposes, but in the conduct of the daily gymnastic work for women and older girl's classes, constituting valuable, suitable and pleasant exercise material.

Each of the three exercise Groups consists of three parts which are built up systematically and symmetrically. Part A

Digitized by v^ooQle
309

is always a tension and stretching exercise; Part B is always a swinging exercise; Part C is always a companion figure with a partner.

A good march of other 4-4 music suitable for a free exercise drill may be used. The exercises are given in counts, each measure having four counts.

In order to ascertain the correct length of the rope for the particular height and build of each girl, pass the rope under the soles of both feet; the grasped ends should reach up to the hips, arms being slightly bent while standing erect.

The girls are aligned in four columns in open order, same as for setting up work. For the companion figures, the columns are divided into two double rows, counting 1, 2, 1, 2, from left to right.

I Group

Introduction [2 measures — 8 counts]

Counts:

1- 4. Standing at attention! Both ends of rope are grasped in left hand, the loop in right hand [rope held doubled]

5- 8. With high leg raising stride left sideward and raise rope high over head and then lower it in rear of neck. Elbows are pressed well backward.

Part A: Stretching Figure .	8	measures-32 counts

1.	Turn trunk left and stretch arms forward, fists touching, head lowered backward, rope pulled tense.

2.	Return to starting position with forced backward movement [recoil] of arms and shoulder girdles.

3- 4. Same as 1-2 to opposite side [right]

5- 8. Repeat 1-4.

9.	Deep trunk bending forward, arms moving fore-downward between legs, rope pulling head almost between knees.

Digitized by CaOOQle
310

10.	Return to starting position.

11-12. Repeat 9-10 13-16. Repeat 9-12 17-32. Repeat 1-16.

Intermission [2 measures-8 counts]

1- 4. Right hand releases loop of rope and is placed on hip, the left hand grasping both ends of rope is raised obliquely left sideupward.

5- 8. Pause in this position [1-4]

Part B: Swinging Exercise With repetition, 16 measures-64 counts 1- 2. Circle rope in front of body, beginning left, with a springy knee bending and hip swinging re-inforce ment. Elbow remains bent, eyes directed toward left hand. [Illus. 1]

3-30. Continuous repetition of 1-2. Always 2 counts to each rope circle.

31-32. Rope is swung to the right, the right hand grasping both ends. The change is made in fluent motion without interrupting the course of the swing.

33-60. As 1-30, but opposite side.

61-64. Close left foot to right, preceded by high leg raising. Rope hangs downward.

Intermission [2 measures-8 counts]

1- 4. With quarter turns inward, first and second rows face each other.

5- 8. Rope loops are tossed toward, and grasped by, the mutual partners.

Part C: Companion Figure 8 measures-32 counts 1- 2. Lower slowly to a squat seat, the arms are slightly bent and pull strongly on ropes. [Illus. 2]

3- 4. Rise to a stand. Feet are close together, bodies straight, leaning away from partners with strong pull on ropes.

5- 6. As 1-2 7- 8. As 3-4

9-10. Bend and pull back the raised left elbow, left shoulder drawn back, looking straight ahead [jerk elbow back sharply].

11-12. As 9-10, but pull right backward [left straightens forward]

13-14. As 9-10 15-16. As 11-12 17-30. As repeat 1-14

31-32. Face front, releasing loop of partner’s rope. Stand at attention, rope hanging downward.

The entire I Group may be repeated.

II GROUP Introduction [2 measures-8 counts]

1- 4. Grasp rope with an end in each hand, and place loop

Digitized by L^OOQle
311

under left foot, which remains flat on floor beside right foot.

Rope pulled taut, hands hip high, elbows slightly bent. 5- 8. Pause in this position.

Part A: Stretching Figure 8 measures-32 counts

1.	Pulling arms backward and sideward, rope taut, raise left leg foreupward, the rope pull increasing leg height. At the same time, rise on the toes of the right foot [Illus. 3]

2.	Lower the leg and arms to starting pos'.t'on

3- 4.	As 1-2

5- 8. Repeat 1-4

9.	Raise right knee forward [high].

10.	Stride right forward, right leg passing forward between the rope.

11-12. Slowly lower body forward to horizontal balance on right leg. The sideward raised arms pulling rope taut against the sole of the backward raised left leg. [Illus. 4]

13-14. Raise body and lower left leg to position described under count 10.

15.	Place right foot beside	left	within	the	rope	loop.

16.	Left foot vacates loop	and	is placed	beside	right foot

17-32.	As 1-16 but opposite	[to	right].

Intermission [2 measures-8 counts]

1- 4. Grasp both rope ends in the left hand 5- 8. Raise left arm forward, right hand on hip.

Part B: Swinging Exercise 16 Measures-64 counts 1- 2. Left arm describes a rope circle forward passing at right side of body, elbow held high, and springy knee bending and straightening and hip movement accompanying the rope swing.

3- 4. Rope circle forward at left side of body, trunk turning left, eyes following rope. [Note—'Movements 1-4 must be a smooth rope swinging, combining to form a continuous Figure “8”]

5-32. Repeat 1-4 six times [every Figure “8” requiring 4 counts]. On 32nd count, the right hand grasps both rope ends without retarding the swing, left hand on hip.

33-62. As 1-30, but opposite [right]

63-64. Lower right arm, rope hanging downward.

Intermission [2 measures-8 counts]

1- 4. Partners face each other, tossing rope loops to one another [as in I Group]

5- 8. Jump to a sidestride stand.

Part C: Companion figure 8 measures-32 counts 1- 2. All Nos. 1: lower trunk forward, arms well bent, pulling rope firmly, head raised.

Digitized by Google
312

3- 4. 5- 6.

7- 8. 9.

10.

11-16.

17-28.

29-30.

31-32.

1- 4. 5- 8.

1.

2.

3- 4. 5- 8. 9.

10.

11-14.

15.

16.

17-32.

1- 4. 5- 8.

1-16.

All Nos. 2: deep trunk bending backward, hands tightly grasping ropes at height of hips. Movements of both girls must be done slowly and evenly as the one bending backward might lose balance. [Illus. 5]

Straighten up to starting position.

As 1-2, but with change of direction, No. 1 bending backward; No. 2 lowering forward.

As 3-4.

Both girls: Rapid deep trunk lowering forward with pulling back of left arm and immediately trunk raising upward [recoil]

As 9, but with right arm pulling back Repeat 9-10 six times.

Repeat 1-14.

Release partner’s rope loop

With a high jump, close feet and face front to starting position.

Repeat entire II Group.

Ill Group

Introduction [2 measures-8 counts]

Place left foot in loop, each hand grasping a rope end Quickly lie down on the back, body extended, hands at hips, arms slightly bent, rope taut.

Part A: Stretching Figure 8 measures-32 counts Raise left leg upward and draw both arms sideward, hands touching floor [Illus. 6]

Return to starting position Same as 1-2 Repeat 1-4

Place right foot in loop Raise trunk upward to a seat

Four successive forced forward bendings of trunk, arms raised sideward and with a strong pull on the rope. The head should come in contact with knees at end of each forward movement. Trunk recoils [like a spring] to erect position after each forward bending.

Lower backward to lying position rearways.

Remove left foot from loop Repeat 1-16, but opposite.

Intermission [2 measures-8 counts]

Rise to a seat, spread legs to straddle seat Grasp both rope ends in left hand, right arm is braced in rear on floor, left arm with rope is extended obliquely upward.

Part B: Swinging Exercise With repetition, 16 measures-64 counts Circle rope horizontally overhead 8 times, beginning right. The arm remains stretched, circling is executed mostly by wrist movement. Eyes directed toward left hand. Two counts for each circle.

Digitized by

Google
313

17-28. Six additional circles as above, but raise body to support lying rearways on right hand.

29-30. Return to seat ana change both rope ends from left to right hands.

31-32. Left arm braced in rear on floor, right arm extended obliquely upward.

33-64. Repeat 1-32, but opposite.

Intermission [2 measures-8 counts]

1- 2. Draw up knees to squat seat

3- 4. While seated, quarter turn, facing partner

5- 8. Open legs to straddle seat and toss rope loops to partners.

Part C: Companion Figure 8 measures-32 counts 1-	2.	Nos. 1:	lower backward to rear lying position	with

strong pull ropes.

Nos. 2:	lower trunk horizontally forward with	arms

stretched forward, followed by return movement. Head almost touches floor between knees. Knees fully extended. 3- 4. As 1-2, but opposite [No. 1 lower forward, No. 2 backward]

5- 6. As 1-2

7-	8.	As 3-4.	At finish, trunk returns to erect position.	Pull

on left rope with full extension of left arm backward. The trunk rebounds forward vigorously, the right arm being drawn forward by partner’s rope.

10.	As 9, but opposite

11-12. As 9-10

13-15. Repeat 9-11

16. Trunk again erect

17-28. Repeat 1-12

29.	Draw up knees to a squat seat, and bend arms till rope is taut.

30.	Rise to a stand

31-32. Release partner's rope and with a high hop, quarter turn facing front.

Repeat III Group.

Health Education Notes

Most Infantile Paralysis Cases Cured. After three years’ study of the cases of infantile paralysis occurring in the Philadelphia outbreak in 1932, it was found that 88 per cent of a series of 616 who survived the immediate effects of the disease have been cured, much improved or have made marked progress toward ultimate recovery from their infirmities.

This is the deduction made from the report just submitted to the Director of the Department of Public Health by the Division of Child Hygiene which has supervised the after-care and treatment of those children who contracted infantile paralysis during the epidemic of 1932. The report reveals the most as-

Digitized by kjOOQle
314

founding and interesting fact that infantile paralysis, although a treacherous disease, does not have the crippling effect upon children as generally believed. More particularly is this true when there is supervision of their after-care, and adequate orthopedic and physical therapeutic measures are available.

A detailed analysis of the report shows that 136 of a group of 616 children who survived the acute stage of the disease developed no muscle paralysis. They had what is known as the abortive type of infantile paralysis without muscle palsies, but with clinical manifestations and laboratory findings which warrant the diagnosis of this infectious disease.

It is most gratifying to leam that 170 children who had paralysis of various kinds were completely cured of their infirmities— 28 were graded as almost cured—147 much improved and 61 moderately improved. There were 35 patients who showed only slight improvement.

The conclusion, reached from the report made by the Division of Child Hygiene, is that co-operation between the parents of children who have contracted the disease, the medical profession and the various medical institutions is essential in making available all the measures of treatment which have proved so effective in bringing about so many cures and favorable recoveries. —Bull. Phila. Dept. Health.

Physical Preparation For School Admission. Year after year we continue routine physical examinations of children on school entrance. We find practically the same defects in about the same percentage of cases. Hampered by his defects it takes the child a year or two to adjust himself to the new order of things. This is decidedly harmful to the child as well as expensive to the school. The problem resolves itself not into technical medical, dental, and nursing procedures, but info a program of community organization along socio-medical lines. AJ.P.H.

International Health Indices Planned by Health Section of League of Nations.-As a part of their 1935 program, the Health Organization of the League of Nations, has been sponsoring the development of a series of health indices which can be used internationally in the measurement of public health procedures. The basic program for the project was prepared by Dr. I. S. Falk. Dr. K. Stouman, formerly a member of the health secretarist of the League, is now in the United States, completing the indices with the technical assistance of members of the Fund’s. staff and of Professor C. E. A. Winslow, Professor Ira V. His-cock, and their associates at Yale University. It is expected that the health indices will later be tested in New Haven or in some other American city before Dr. Stouman returns to Geneva for further practical experimentation in European countries.

The Dick Test.—For testing for susceptibility to scarlet fever is very delicate and consists of the intradermal injection

Digitized by ^ooQie
315

of 0.1 of a c. c. of a dilution of scarlet fever toxin which varies in strength of dilution according to the potency of the toxin contained. The 0.1 of a c. c. dose of testing material represents the smallest amount of the toxin filtrate which in 24 hours or less will give an erythematous reaction of at least 1 centimeter in diameter when injected intradermally into a susceptible human being.

The broths employed in the preparation of the testing material and the material for active immunizing purposes differ, but in neither preparation is animal serum used and there is only a minimum amount of foreign protein present.

Up to the present time, unlike the diphtheria toxin, it has been impossible to standardize fully the scarlet fever toxin, due to the fact that no animal gives a satisfactory skin test. The human being seems to be the only available test animal and testing now has to be carried out on susceptible human volunteers.

Scarlet fever toxin is a more stable product than diphtheria toxin. The skin test is performed usually two or three times so that a comparison of results may be made. Because of the small number of pseudo-reactions, controls are rarely used. Subjects should be watched closely for early reactions. In some individuals the Dick test results in a mature reaction in the course of 18 or 20 hours and may fade away entirely at the end of 24 hours, when most susceptible individuals show reaction.— Bull. Phila. Dept. Health.

Chronic Constipation.—Chronic constipation is one of the commonest ailments of the present age.

Hard Of Hearing.—Approximately 11 percent of the school children in the United States are hard of hearing.

Foreign Notes

NATIONALIZED PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN MODERN

GERMANY

A Summary Translation of Speech by the Reichssportfuehrer.

Bodily training in every phase was scientifically systematized early in 1934 by the “Reichs Federation of Bodily Exercises.” By the end of that year the system was in operation in Prussia and by Easter, 1935, it was thoroughly grounded thruout the entire nation.

Every society, club and educational institution which fosters physical education is directed by a federal Bureau which governs the various activities, prescribing definite methodology and teaching procedure.

Physical education activities have been divided into 21

Digitized by v^ooQle
316

branches, each branch under the direct supervision of a federal bureau [Fachamt]. The director of each branch is a specialist in his particular field and applies all his energies to improve the technique, development and fostering of the activity under his direction.

The 21 federal bureaus are: Nos. 1] Gymnastics, Apparatus Work, Summer Games. 2] Football, Rugby, Cricket. 3] Track and Field. 4] Handball, 5] Swimming and Diving. 6] Wrestling, Weight Lifting, Jiu Jitsu. 7] Boxing. 8] Fencing. 9] Marksmanship. 10] Hockey. 11] Tennis, Table Tennis. 12] Golf. 13] Bicycling Sport. 14] Rowing. 15] Canoe Sports. 16] Sailing and Speed Motor Boat Sports. 17] Ice Sports, Roller Skating. 18] Bob and Sledding Sports. 19] Skiing. 20] Alpine Mountain Climbing, Hiking, Nomadics [Wander Clubs]. 21] Bowling and Billiards.

All the bureau directors are directly responsible to the Realm Sport Leader [Reichssportftihrer] with whom they cooperate to bring about a national unit of coordinated scientific physical education.

Scientific research is a prominent factor in Germany’s modern system of physical education. Technicians, physicians, physiologists, therapeutists, etc., pool their efforts with the sport authorities to bring about the best pedagogical procedure in meeting the individual physical needs of every man, woman and child.

Research also devises the best training procedure in developing-champions in each activity among the more talented individuals. These specially trained athletes are the ones entered in inter-State, inter-city and international sport meets, the Olympics, and other nationwide competitions.

Dissolution of the German dueling organization, the Bur-schenschafte, composed of 36,000 students belonging to 110 fraternities, was accomplished formally at Wartburg castle, near Eisenach, in October 1935. Members will be absorbed into the Nazi organization, but will retain their gay caps and sashes, and the individual fraternities will retain their names, and become “comradeships.”

News Notes

Measurement of Leadership.—Rankings of a selected group of cadets at the United States Military Academy at West Point in “leadership” as determined by annual ratings of the senior class and the commissioned officer with each cadet company bear closer relationship to “bearing and appearance” than to any other subject considered. “Tactics” and “Athletics” were next in order in relation to leadership. Other classifications considered were “activities” and “academic standing.”

Leaders who have achieved military and civil distinction appear to be fairly representative of the whole classes, based on

Digitized by t^ooQle
317

standing at graduation. That is, almost as many in the lower tenths of the classes were found to have achieved distinction as in the upper tenths.

“Bearing and appearance” refers to carriage and physique, not to features. Handsomeness is given no premium in the army.

Contrary to common notions, leadership and height showed but slight relation; in fact, the mean height of leaders 'was a small fraction below that of the class as a whole. Leadership and athletics showed a less marked relation than usually expected. Data seemed to indicate that athletes and those in other activities composed two fairly distinct groups.—Am. J’L.	Socioloogy.

Children Showing Effects of Economic Depression.—Children between six and nine years of age in depression-poor families are showing, in their weights the results of the change in their families’ decreased income, according to an analysis by Dr. Carroll E. Palmer, consultant in child hygiene of the United States Public Health Service, which was published in the PUBLIC HEALTH REPORTS for August 16, 1935.

Studying the relative change in height and weight of some 5,000 city children from families who remained in comfortable economic circumstances during the period 1929 to 1933, from families who remained poor during the period, and from families who had been comfortable in 1929 and had become poor by 1933, Dr. Palmer found that the average weight of children from the continuously comfortable families was about 4 per cent greater than the average weight of all the children taken together. The average weight of the children of poor families was roughly from 1 to 2 per cent below the average for the group as a whole, while the average weight for the children of the depression-poor was in between.

Dr. Palmer obtained the material for his study from the data collected by the joint survey of “Health and the Depression” carried on in ten cities by the United States Public Health Service and the Milbank Memorial Fund.

National “Health Inventory.”—A national survey of chronic illness is to be undertaken with funds from the Works Progress Administration. This health inventory is expected to yield information as to the extent to which ailments such as heart disease, rheumatism, diabetes, cancer, and digestive disturbance prevail in the United States, and the effect of such illnesses on economic and social conditions. The study will later be correlated with data obtained previously by the Public Health Service in an intensive study of the importance and effect of chronic ailments on the capacity of the patient and family to remain self-supporting.

It is planned to obtain some of the necessary information from the records of hospitals and sick-benefit associations, and also to make a house-to-house canvass of 750,000 families in nineteen states, selected as representative of the general popula-

Digitized by LjOOQle
318

tion of various income levels. Besides chronic illness, data will be collected on physical disabilities, such as blindness, deafness, loss of limbs, or other crippling handicaps. In addition, an inventory will be made of the medical and nursing facilities available thru-out the country, and information gathered as to the extent to which the canvassed population availed themselves of the existing public health and medical services. The states to be included in the inventory are Washington, Oregon, California, Utah, Minnesota, Missouri, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas.—■	Digest, Milbank Memorial

Fund.

A new journal, Educational Abstracts» has been launched, the first issue appearing this month. Its name indicates that its contents will be made up of abstracts from outstanding educational articles published during each month. It would seem that such a journal must be of great value to all hurried school workers of whatever field in education. Harold Benjamin of the School of Education, University of Minnesota says of the proposed publication: “This journal will be especially valuable to me in locating articles which I would not ordinarily see and in following the development of a problem in fields related to my own special interest without the enormous labor of reading everything to find the one particular lead I want.”

Survey of Visual Aids. The Federal Office of Education is undertaking the most exhaustive survey of visual aids ever made in this country. The purpose of this survey will be to determine the nature and use of visual aids in elementary and secondary schools with a view to guiding national agencies such as the American Council on Education, the National Education Association, the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, the United States Office of Education, and others in extending and improving their services to schools. This study has been made possible by a grant from the American Council on Education, of which Dr. George F. Zook, former United States Commissioner of Education is president.

Report blanks have been mailed to more than 20,000 superintendents of schools throughout the United States. School officials can assist in this study by filling in the blanks and returning them promptly to the Commissioner of Education. Pertinent data collected in this study will be published by the Office of Education.—School Life.

Fiftieth Anniversary.—Through these pages William Kopp wishes to extend his best wishes to his classmates of the Normal College, A. G. U., on the fiftieth anniversary of their graduation as members of the ninth class. To all these men, true pioneers of physical education in the United States, we extend our hearty congratulations.

Digitized by CjOOQle
319

Federal Legislation

As a rule no great amount of legislation is enacted at a single Congressional session which affects education in the different states. ft owever, in 1935 there were at least three educational enactments by the United States Congress which are of Nation-wide concern. They are briefly summarized below.

1.	The Bankhead-Jones Act [Public, No. 182, June 29, 1935]. Under this act, for the purpose of further development of cooperative extension work and the more complete endowment of landgrant colleges in the several States, Congress appropriated $9,980,000 for the year 1935-36, with increasing amounts each year until 1934-40 when the amount shall be $19,480,000 and annually thereafter.

2.	Public, No. 325 [Aug. 24, 1935]. This act authorized the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to loan as much as $10,000,-000 to school districts in the various States to enable them to reduce and refinance previous outstanding indebtedness.

3.	The Social Security Act authorized increased amount for vocational rehabilitation for each of the fiscal years ending in 1936 and 1937, by $841,000. For each year thereafter the total authorization for this purpose will be $1,938,000. The last session failed to make the appropriation called for by this act, but the Congress now in session has made the appropriation.— School Life.

The School Board of West Springfield, Massachusetts, has sanctioned a program of swimming instruction in school hours. The schools have no pool, but with the cooperation of theY.M.-C.A., the Red Cross, a P.W.A. Project, members of the Red Cross Life Saving Corps, and the school physical education staff, there is every hope that the goal “every boy and girl above the sixth grade a swimmer” may be realized.

Free Physical Education Attire For Pupils.—With the opening of schools in September 1935 the Philadelphia Board of Public Education began to supply free complete gymnasium suits to alt pupils entering the junior high, vocational, and senior high schools. In addition, suits were issued to pupils in higher school grades who could not afford to purchase them. This policy will be continued each semester.

Signal Lights For Fencers.—An ingenious device has recently been introduced for fencers in which short spikes at the point of the duelling, sword, or epee, are not rigidly fixed to the blade but form what may be likened to the press button of an electric bell, so that at every hit an electric contact is made which causes a bell to ring and a lamp to be lighted.

College Credit.—Approximately 81 colleges and universities give credit for health education and for physical education.

Digitized by v^ooQie
320

The interscholastic League of Texas has adopted a rule whereby the upper age limit of pupils eligible to compete in interscholastic events has been lowered from twenty to eighteen years. The league was commended in a resolution passed at a recent meeting of the State Board of Education.

Conventions.—Programs for the national convention of the A. P. E. A. and the conventions of the several district societies are rapidly nearing completion. Are you planning to attend?

Book Reviews

Fred E. Foertsch.

Personal and Community Hygiene Guidebook by H. L.

Conrad and J. F. Meister, Temple University; published December 1935 by Edwards Brothers, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Photo-lithoprinted, paper bound, 64 pages; 8 1-2” by 11”; cost 85 cents.

This is a guidebook in hygiene similar in purpose to laboratory manuals in science, and workbooks in various other subjects. It consists of fourteen assignments, covering one semester of work, each assignment functioning as preview of the lecture topic. The topics covered include Modern Health Problems; Food and Nutrition; Common “Stimulants” and Narcotics; Hygiene of Nervous System; Bathing, Clothing, and Exercise; Prevention of Communicable Disease; Occupational Hygiene; Professional Service; and Social Hygiene.

The guidebook follows certain basic and supplementary texts, but is elastic enough to be adapted to any modem texts in Hygiene. Supplementary problems are present in each assignment for enrichment, original investigation, and as a grading device for the instructor. There is some illustrative material and six information quizzes which may be used as self-checking devices.

An eppendix of suggested topics for oral or written reports and an extensive bibliography conclude this practical and valuable study guide.	B.	I.	L.

Interpretations of Physical Education* Edited by Jay B. Nash, Volume V, Professional Preparation; published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1935, New York; clothbound, 5” x 7 1-2”, 423 pages; cost $2.

This book effectively rounds out the series of five volumes of Interpretations Of Physical Education. It is devoted primarily to the professional selection and preparation of teachers. The editor expresses the hope that this material, together with suggestions on methodology and administration, will be helpful in placing physical education alongside the many learned professions which are serving society. We believe the editor’s hopes will be realized in great measure. The five volumes represent an outstanding contribution to our profession.	B.	I.	L.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Book Reviews

Fred E. Foertsch

Sex Instructions in Public Schools, by Willard W. Beatty, Benjamin C. Gruenberg, and Herbert W. Smith; published by the American Social Hygiene Association, 50 West Fiftieth St., New York, N. Y.; price ten cents.

This is a practical and helpful pamphlet recently issued for the especial interest of educators by the American Social Hygiene Association. Professor Beatty, Superintendent of Schools of Bronxville, New York, writing from his twenty years' experience In social hygiene education, gives a clear description of classroom methods and ways of securing parent and community cooperation, handling special cases, et cetera, as well as an exposition of the whole underlying theory of sex instruction. His conclusions are reinforced by Dr. Gruenberg, well-known educator, and Professor Smith, principal of the Fieldston School, New York. All who have to deal with this phase of education should be familiar with this pamphlet.

A. S. H. A.

Spencer, Mary Elisabeth. Health Education for Teachers. New York: Teachers College, Columbia University, 1933. viii—118 pp. {Teachers College, Columbia University, Contributions to Education, No. 589]

Although teachers’ colleges aud normal schools have made real progress during the last ten years in their programs of school health and health education, yet a survey of the practices in health education and in health service of these institutions indicates that this phase of teacher training has in the main been rather neglected. One-seventh still do not require a health examination of students in training. Less than one-fourth require correction of remedial defects for graduation or for placement. Mental health is given slight attention- There was little evidence of direct attempts to train teachers for the teaching of health, either through methods coursos or through practiceteaching opportunities. Little co-ordination was found between the college and the practice school in the matter of health education.

These findings came from a survey of the present-day programs in health education for teachers in 44 normal schools and teachers' colleges. Twenty-one of these institutions were visited personally. A check list uv'd j. . institutions not visited was set up with the aid of a number of specialise -aid the findings were evaluated against 11 ¥ standards for such a program, ^ ! ^tho: recommend* a reorganisation of the subject-matter into one or two pwftf L-Sona! courses to give the teacher a larger or more adequate prep-tr-Uion for he. school health work'am-	r	the	college	.

in this area. A number of problem* for whim th*vrc Ls needed re&^r.rch . re listed.—Earl IV. Aiulcrtan in Edu. Hcseurch Ohtv SloJ? Urtiveni'y.

WANTED t—Cvpfes of	)9?4-	teM	of	Mmd	ard

Body. Our supply- Is	and	we have eeve: u\ -oulU. Drop

ub a card and ay v/hat price you want far your copy, blind and Body, New ( lm, Midn.

Note-We are. incliidiiig 'in this S&me-’tl e ixiUo^ frr V.>l\mx* 40. Index for YoJonie 41, juet completed will hv indud^u in Jxt l)^; issue.
Have You Paid Your Subscription To Mind and Body since Jan. 1, 1935?

If not, send in your remittance now for two, three or more years at special reduced rate of $1.75 per year. Regular Price one year is $2.00 What does your date label tell you?

RATH’S BOOKS

At Greatly Reduced Prices

Every Teacher and Student of Physical Education Needs These Books

Theory and Practice of Physical Education

By Emil Rath, Formerly Director of the Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union

Vol. 1—Gymnastic Dancing. Second revised edition. 160 pages, 45 illustrations. Was $1.50......Now	$1.00

Vol. 2—-Open Order Work [The Various Kinds of Free Exercises with and without hand apparatus.] Third revised edition. 20 pages; 95 illustrations. Was $2.00 ................................. Now	$1.25

Liberal Discount to Colleges.

Check, money order or stamps.

No C. O. D.

Order from Normal College, A. G. U.y 417 East Michigan St«. Indianapolis, Ind.

Digitized by