MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.	JANUARY,	1918	No.	265

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Uim, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMII. RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14. 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

j ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS j

o	'	  i	i	  '6

A RESUME OF A TIMELY CONTRIBUTION TO HYGIENE*.

By LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL, Head of the Department of School Hygiene and Educational Psychology in the Massachusetts State Normal School, Worcester, Massachusetts.

One of the most recent as well as significant contributions to the subject of hygiene is a 210-page work, entitled Hygiene and War, compiled by George Ellis Jones, Ph. D., Assistant Professor of Educational Psychology in the University of Pittsburgh, and published,* under the general editorship of Professor Paul Monroe, by the Division of Intercourse and Education of the Carnegie Ed-dowment for International Peace. About one-sixth of the bulletin is in the form of An Introductory Statement, by William Henry Burnham, Ph. D., Professor of Pedagogy and School Hygiene in Clark University.

The chief purpose of this bulletin is, in the words of the editor, “to present to the school children of the United States materials showing the futility and burden of militarism and the destructiveness and barbarism of modern war, or materials relating to the

* Reprint from “The American Journal of School Hgyiene.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
390

heroism and patriotic services of deeds of everyday life.” The accomplishment of this purpose is sought through two means:—

First, it is hoped to interest text-book writers in the feasibility and desirability of incorporating some of the materials published in this pamphlet, or materials of a similar nature suggested by them, in the textbooks to be written for our schools.

Second, awaiting such more or less remote results, it is sought to place in the hands of the teachers of the special subjects in the schools the appropriate pamphlets that they may use them in their regular class instruction. There is no desire to deny the heroism 'called for by war or the necessity of the patriotism and the sacrifices demanded by war. Yet it is hoped to develop a broad and tolerant conception of patriotism and higher idealism through the incorporation of the matter suggested into the materials of instruction.

It is the purpose of this resume merely to make mention of some of the more important conclusions reached by Professors Jones and Burnham. Obviously a study of the nature of Hygiene and, War contains much of a general hygiene nature which, although extremely valuable and opportune in the present crisis, has no direct relationship to school and child hygiene. We shall therefore endeavor to summarize only those findings of the investigators that are of immediate significance for the hygiene of the child.

PROFESSOR BURNHAM The general effects of war on hygiene are three-fold:	(1)	War

emphasizes certain essential hygiene truths, such as, for example, the fact that those trained in habits of health and cleanliness have a great advantage in war; that after all the requirements for a good recruit do not differ materially from those for a good businessman or a good workman; and that a vast war literature bearing more or less upon health has been produced. (2) War contributes to hygiene by stimulating the discovery of many important sanitary measures and methods. Attention is called earnestly to a consideration of food values and alcoholic beverages; discoveries of many important hygienic truths are favored by the conditions and the necessities of camp life. Notwithstanding the stimulus given to hygiene by war, however, peace and the laboratory have proven in times past far more favorable to real advancement along these lines. (3) War is actually detrimental to the cause of hygiene in that it enforces a serious setback to the battle which hygiene is constantly waging against the enemies of man’s health. Mr. Ealand in his new book, Insects and Man, goes so far as to say that the outcome of man’s perennial conflict with the arthropod is nearly as much in doubt as is the result of the present European conflict,* and yet in the face of this the world has allowed itself to turn aside from the pursuance of the battle, and the enemy, taking advantage of a division of forces among his opponents, is making great inroads all along the line of the war in Europe. The insect-destroying birds

* The materials of this pamphlet were collected a year or more ago, and therefore considerably before our own entry into the war.

Digitized by v^ooQie
391

have been frightened away from France and Belgium by the artillery; soldier and citizen alike have felt that they could not take the time for important hygienic measures which would have otherwise been observed; the money and equipment otherwise available have been turned aside to meet the exigencies of the more imminent ... war; physicians and nurses have been called to the front; home and school sanitation are consequently neglected at a time when the need is greater than ever before. Again, the progress of hygiene after the war will be retarded by the burden of a vast number of cripples, invalids, consequent poor housing and poverty; by the probable migration into this country of hundreds of thousands of Europeans who must in some way find relief from heavy taxes; by the inception into this country of many and perhaps new infectious diseases; and by many other problems with which our department of health and hygiene must ultimately cope.

As to military preparations for war, four things are essential: (1) a good physique and hygienic personal habits in the individual soldier; (2) ability of the soldier to co-operate and obey orders;

(3)	ability of a country to support itself; and (4) adequate military preparedness, including the ability to manufacture the necessary munitions of war. All but the last of these are obviously essential to the welfare of any country quite as much in times of peace as in times of war. For all the crises of life the only preparedness of prime worth is a moral preparedness. Military preparedness is after all a misnomer, for adequate military preparedness over a considerable period is practically impossible. “As soon as a dreadnought is built it begins to deteriorate. As soon as a submarine is built a better form is invented. As soon as a superior form of armor is derived a more powerful explosive is in vented/’

As a more logical type of preparedness, Professor Burnham would suggest as one of the best outlets for the fighting instinct in a man and as a natural substitute for war the enlisting of all school children in a life-long war against disease. In so doing, the teacher will not only be appealing to a fundamental instinct and directing it into a humanitarian channel, but she will also be stimulating both a moral and a physical preparedness which will stand the citizen of the future in good stead whenever the great crises of life come. In the words of the writer:—

As one of the best outlets for the so-called fighting instinct and a natural substitute for war, the writer would suggest enlistment in the warfare against the disease-carrying insects, as well as the greater development of the hygienic side of the soldier’s training.

While this hygienic warfare is not so spectacular and does not at first appeal so strongly to the youth as military warfare, it would not be difficult for tactful teachers to stimulate an interest in this conflict. Not merely can the importance and practical utility of it be shown to the young, but it would even not be without appeal to the instincts of chivalry and romance. That it gives opportunity for protecting one’s friends from sickness and death, that it is service of the most significant sort for women and children and the weak and defective, make such warfare appeal even to the higher altruistic instincts.

Digitized by CjOOQle
392

The warfare against disease gives opportunity for appeal to the same fundamental instincts. If at present such occupation seems vapid and dull, it is because it is judged from the outside, where as yet there is no beating of drums, no manual of drill, no organized hierarchy of grades, no insignia of rank, no official rewards, and the like. But those who have actually done work of this kind, who have actually engaged in this warfare against disease, have found the same or higher interests and rewards. Even the incidentals of occasional opportunity to encounter danger and to use one’s wits in invention and strategy, as well as opportunities for sacrifice and devotion, are not lacking. Those who enter the service acquire the interest.....

As regards hygiene the plain facts strangely ignored are these. Mankind, engaged in a continual life-and-death struggle with disease-carrying organisms, was making noteworthy progress, especially in the cities of Europe and America. A great victory was achieved in Havana and Panama and the key to the conquest of the tropics was acquired. Then the nations withdrew from the common enemy and began to fight among themselves, spending in two years an amount of money sufficient practically to eliminate malaria, yellow fever, and other tropical diseases from the mere densely populated tropical centers. The fighting impulse that should find legitimate expression in physical training, in sport, and . in fighting our common disease-bearing enemies, is turned to man’s butchery of man. The neutral nations, aroused to the need of preparedness, are largely forgetting the prime condition of preparedness for both peace and war, namely, physical health and training in personal hygiene.

PROFESSOR JONES The main body of the work, that compiled by Professor Jones, is divided into six sections, as follows:—

I.	Introduction.

II. Destruction of War Through Diseases and Wounds.

III.	Economic Results of War.

IV.	The Civilian Population and War.

V.	The Elimination of the Most Fit.

VI.	Benefits to the General Population if:	(a)	it should fol-

low as efficiently as soldiers the training and care the latter have in hygiene; and (b) the efforts now expended upon soldiers alone were expended upon the general public.

To summarize some of the conclusions reached under each caption:—

I. Introduction. Professor Jones at the very outset charges war with inadequacy in attaining the purpose for which it is started or supposed to be waged — that is, as an economic adjuster, as a promoter of ethics, and as a developer of the race. He concludes also that “the health and strength of the general population is the greatest preparedness of the nation, not armor, ships, etc.” In substantiation of this position he quotes freely from the report of that first real attempt to study the effects of war from a thoroughly unbiased and scientific viewpoint, namely The International Commission of Inquiry into the Balkan Wars, in which he finds ample proof. For instance, we read:

On a close view of what happened in Macedonia, as the Balkan armies '

Digitized by t^ooQle
393

marched southward, this War of Liberation assumes a more sordid and familiar aspect. It unleashed the accumulated hatreds, the inherited revenges of centuries. It made the oppressed Christians for several months the masters and judges of their Moslem overlords. It gave opportunity of vengeance to every peasant who cherished a grudge against a harsh landlord or a brutal neighbor. Every Bulgarian village in northern Macedonia had its memory of sufferings and wrongs. For a generation the insurgent organization had been busy and the normal condition of these villages had been one of intermittent revolt. The inevitable Turkish reprisals had fallen now on one village and now on another. Search for arms, beatings, tortures, wholesale arrests, and occasional massacres were the price which these peasants paid for their incessant struggle toward self-government, In all these incidents of repression, the local Moslems had played their part, marching behind the Turkish troops as bashi-bazouks and joining in their work of pillage and slaughter. The record was not forgotten when the Bulgarian victories brought the chance for revenge. To the hatred of the races there was added the resentment of the peasantry against the overlords (Beys) who for generations had levied a heavy tribute on their labor and their harvests. The defeat of the Turkish armies meant something more than a political change. It reversed the relation of conquerer and serf; it promised a social revolution.	*

II. Destructiveness of War Through Disease and Wounds. Part II of the study is devoted to a discussion of the principal diseases from which soldiers suffer in time of war. Much interesting and instructive material has been collected from various sources and here presented on such diseases and affections as beri-beri; scurvy; cholera; plague; diarrhoea; kala zaar; typhus; typhoid; polyneuritis; tetanus; dementia praecox; hysteria; venereal diseases; crippled feet and other pedal infirmities; frost-bite; vermin, called by Shipley 'The minor horrors of war”; etc., etc.

In discussing the nature and variety of wounds received in battle, Dr. Jones quotes from Keefer.* It is presumed that:

Of 100 men hit, there will be one dead to each four wounded; that:

20 will be killed

15 require transportation lying down

35 require transportation sitting up

5 will be too wounded for transportation 25 will be able to walk

A very significant paragraph in this section of the study is headed:	Role of Diseases in War:—

The head and neck will be wounded in 16 per cent of cases

Trunk will be wounded in 30 per cent of cases

Upper extremities will be wounded in 26 per cent of cases

Lower extremities will be wounded in 28 percent of cases

* Keefer, Frank. A Text book of Military Hygiene. Philadelphia, W. B. Saunders Co., 1914

Digitized by (^.ooQle
394

Major Lelean* states that yellow fever carried off 50,000 out of 58,000 men in the San Domingo Campaign of 1802; that in 1812 the Bavarian force mustered only 3,000 out of 28,000, owing to loss from typhus fever that the Russians lost one half of 120,000 men after Plevna from the same cause; that the allies lost 10,000 from cholera in the Crimean War; that in the last Balkan War the Turks lost daily from cholera, 500; that in 1828 the plague took 6,000 in one month from the Russian army; that dysentery caused 1,342 deaths and 38,000 cases of sickness in the South African War and in the same war England had 57,000 cases of enteric with 8,000 deaths; in the war of 1870-71 Germany had 73,000 enteric cases with 8,900 deaths; in the Spanish American War 66 per cent of the typhoid cases could be traced to contact infection.

III.	Economic Remits of War. A chapter upon the subject of war finance and taxation. The author shows the enormous per capita cost of war, taking the Balkan Wars and our war with Spain as bases. There are also comparative tables of rates of taxation in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United States.

IV.	The Civilian Population and War.

Not only doe§ the soldier at the front suffer hardship and privation, but the entire civilian population appears to suffer in proportion. Indeed, Dr. Jones concludes that the deaths due to overwork, starvation, deprivations and mental uncertainty among the women and children and those left at home closely approximate those among the soldiers.

Says Dr. Joues:—

..............Such	facts	as	are	available have warranted a positive conclusion as to the evil influence of war upon the morals -and heredity of the nations. In our first table we have shown the losses due to some of the great wars. But these do not reveal the number of widows, of orphans, of cripples—an increased tax upon the state—nor of women capable of mating deprived of fitting mates. We have quoted at length from the Balkan report the facts which show the similar disgenic and unmoral effects of present wars. We have presented facts showing the spread of diseases due to occupation of territory by infected troops—diseases of such a nature that they impair the germ plasm itself, thus affecting the entire population. We have shown that such economic and social adjustments are forced upon the people that it is impossible during war times and for some time after their close to provide proper environment for the complete development of the capabilities of heredity. We have pointed out the various diseases which were already getting a foothold in new territories, largely European. Since * writing that section, the various nations of the Balkans have become more largely involved and with them will enter, more and more, the diseases mentioned. . . .

During war, all agencies are occupied in its pursuit. Schools are often suspended (Balkan report p. 268), the curriculum interfered with, medical inspection of them given up (see Introduction), children occupied in war business, school plants even taken for hospital purposes, muni-

*Lelean, Major. P. S. Sanitation in War. London, J. and E. Churchill, 1915

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
395

cipal sanitation, milk supply, etc., neglected. This affects adversely the babes and the mothers as well as the older children. There is no time to provide adequate open-air schools, forest schools, lunches, etc., even if there were means and people to operate them.

Again, referring to the morale among the soldiers, whether in times of war or in times of peace:—

The Balkan Commission has well said, “Widespread and almost universal maltreatment of women and girls by the soldiers of the three nations has left behind moral consequences which cannot be overestimated.”

And again, “It is to be feared that many a young man learned for the first time to commit acts of violence and crime not permitted in civilized warfare.” We might add that, judging from the facts of the present war, there probably is no such thing as “civilized warfare.”

Living, breathing, thinking, this atmosphere of hate, rapine, vengeance, there must follow a psychological reflex whose moral tone is conducive to the lowest standards—decidedly immoral.

No one has ever judged that the life of the soldier in time of peace is conducive to highest morals. Only where he has sufficient work to keep him busy is it possible for him to control the human passion. A large standing army, except in time of war, is necessarily idle much of the time.

The result of this is the same whether in soldier or in civilian — letting down of the inhibition necessary to the best interests of society. A community is inclined to suffer morally from the presence of idle troops no matter how fine a body of men these may have been in their private lives, outside of the army.

V.	The Elimination of the Most Fit. The theme developed in section V is the fact that (1) the conditions and requirements of a good recruit and good soldier are the products of peace and are such as many of our business and occupationes demand, and <2) from the very nature of warfare it is never those who are selected as the fittest among the fit that inevitably fall in action or are grievously wounded and permanently disabled.

To quote:—

From those who claim that war takes away the best to those who claim that it provides for their survival is certainly a wide range. And the data are conspicuous by their absence. In view of the fact that we cannot have data as to the accomplishments of the non-survivors had they survived, our conclusions must be inferential at the best. If the canons of selection used in recruiting are fulfilled, it would seem self-evident that many of the best, judged, by every eugenic standard known, do perish, do not survive, do not propagate their kind. Yet in spite of wars the population has increased, even in war-ridden countries.

It is difficult to believe that the taking of so many young men and those in the prime of life from their homes, as happened in our Civil War, affects the country favorably in promoting the survival of the fittest. Though it is impossible to measure the effect by any standard known it would seem that the destruction of a large part of the productive force of the land must deter progress, must at least result in a sort of plateau.

Digitized by CjOOQle
893

on which the nation rests until it has recuperated and gathered momentum.

We know of no sufficient data either to substantiate or refute this assertion. In fact, as suggested in our introduction, machinery for the gathering of data has been absent........

The wars of today are not the tribal affairs of yore. The latter did in a way eliminate the weaker, the cowardly. But the modern war, in which we have the volunteer, eliminates the virile, the strong. . . . Thomson* rightly claims that environment is hardly comparable with war as a natural selective agency. As Dr. Sargent f has pointed out, struggle is a biological necessity, for the life of the body as a whole depends upon it.

But war is not such a struggle and is not necessary unless the life of the nation is threat need by starvation, internal uprisings, or invasion of an avowed enemy.

The aeroplane, submarine, machine guns, long range cannon, have changed the character of war. Now there is little opportunity for personal prowess. Burrowing, trenching, ditching, shooting from under cover have made engagements now stupid and dull. Naval battles are at long range. This, he states, tends to promote Asiatic fatalism. It is not'fit material for the development of courage. This can be done better through proper exercise and athletics.

VI.	Benefits to the General Population if (a) It should follow as efficiently as soldiers the training and care the latter have in hygiene; and (b) the efforts now expended upon soldiers alone were expended upon the general public.

These benefits would be almost beyond comprehension. If every citizen possessed the facilities for carrying out and was required to practice the more obvious requirements of hygiene, for example in such matters as bathing, care of the teeth, diet, fresh air, physical exercise and general medical attention, the world would be well-nigh rejuvenated in a remarkably short period of time.

War serves to point out the particular hygienic and sanitary factors which reduce its horrors and make possible the successful accomplishment of its purposes. In this sense, it is a benefit to mankind, but at such a fearful cost that it would seem that calm, careful consideration of the same factors and daily observance of them would accomplish much more with less effort and expenditure.

.... Advocates of militarism have pointed to the great benefits to be derived from military training. The conditions under which this training is taken have warranted such a conclusion. It should be observed, however, that should civilians follow the same methods with the same degree of tenacity and spirit—as many do—the result would be even greater than is possible under the stress of war. For as we have already shown, the previous hygienic training of the general population of Germany and Great Britain has resulted in the acceptance of more applicants under

* Thomson, Prof. J. Arthur, Eugenics and War. Lancet London, 1915, V. 1, p. 450.

f Sargent, Dr. Dudley. Am. Phys. Ed. Rev.,• Springfield, Mass., 1915 V. 20, No. 3.

Digitized by Google
397

most strenuous physical requirements and has lessened the amount of preliminary practice necessary to make efficient soldiers of active men whose lives have been spent in labor, business professions, etc. War serves but to emphasize the factors which should function at all times. It shows how costly the neglect of health may be, not only in war but in peace. The warrior of today of necessity must have been the citizen of yesterday. War serves to show forcibly the need of following simple laws of health, of obeying the seemingly trite rules of hygiene.

.... While these injunctions are particularly apropos for the nations at war, it certainly would seem that the opportunity for their most efficient functioning is in times of peace. The real preparedness for the struggle of life, whether it be war or peace, public or private, is made through the formation of correct habits of conduct during the plastic years. If instruction really functions, it would seem that the logical conclusion for pedagogy is that a large part of all our instruction should at all times be given under the same principle, namely, the actual training through action under conditions correlated with the home and civic environments of the child.

A bibliography of 267 titles upon the general theme of war and disease is appended to the subject matter of the bulletin. Complete copies of the work may probably be obtained from the Endowment as its New York City address, at 407 West 117th Street.

GENERAL PEDAGOGY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Demonstrations.

(Continued)

An instructor who can demonstrate with skill and finish the activities he is teaching will always find favor in the eyes of his-pupils. It gains for him their admiration and respect and becomes an invaluable aid in discipline and management.

There is probably no other means, unless it be the contagious enthusiasm of an energetic instructor for his work, which will arouse as much enthusiasm for and awaken as much interest in the work in hand as a demonstration performed with elegance and polish. It is a splendid incentive. The instinct of emulation which underlies this enthusiastic response is actively aroused and spurs on the pupil to repeated efforts. No instructor can afford to ignore the wonderful force contained here. It should be utilized to its fullest extent.

If the instructor himself lacks the ability to demonstrate any of the work a capable pupil can generally be found. Should this be necessary it is advisable to select different pupils and not have the same one always demonstrate, and even if the instructor himself is a most finished performer the value of having pupils demonstrate should not be overlooked. (See Pupils as Assistants.)

The demonstration of any exercise should be done in the spirit of an artist, it should be model-like and perfect in every detail. The instructor (or pupil) should never permit himself to become

Digitized by ^.ooQle
398

slovenly in his execution or present work in a slipshod fashion. It is unworthy of one who takes his work seriously. The details of an exercise should be shown with photographic clearness and the whole rounded off into a performance suggestive of consummate skill and cleverness. This applies as well to a track or field event, a trick play, or some exercise of formal work.

Such demonstrations give the pupils a clear and correct concept of the desired activity and make for quick results. Poor and faulty demonstrations arouse wrong conceptions, lead to faulty, sluggish and slovenly execution and make teaching difficult and tedious; the end in view is not so readily attained as many things must constantly be undone. First impressions are hard to eradicate and always insist on recurring.

Of course, pupils do not on first presentation grasp the correct form of the stunt. They can see but vaguely the rough outline. Attention must be called to the details and the whole gradually unfolded to them part after part as demonstrations are repeated. Age and experience, however, modify the procedure somewhat.

The instructor’s place of demonstrating should always be the most conspicuous spot so that every member of the class can see him (or the pupil) without difficulty when he performs. He must, furthermore, present all activities counterlike when facing the pupils using his right side when the class is expected to use the left. This is true in free exercises and dancing in open order and also in some apparatus work (as free exercises on apparatus), in fact, whenever a front view demonstration is given.

On the other hand demonstrating while the class is moving about a space is best done in the line of march followed by the class and far enough away so every one may see. One also faces as the class would face while working, during demonstrating many of the fundamental apparatus exercises, although no ironclad rule can here be observed.

Occasionally one finds that the class can get the best view of an exercise by presenting the side view of it. This is true of many though not all, such activities as are done in the antero-pos-terior plane as trunk lowering, upper trunk bending, leg raising forward, balance hop or the swing hop forward, etc., etc. The instructor must select an appropriate position before his class to get the best results from his demonstration.

The demonstration may also be used for correcting faulty postures and executions by showing these in an exaggerated way to pupils. Tact must, however, be employed when doing this since one may unconsciously hurt the feelings of the pupils. It, however, frequently enables the pupil to overcome the mistake in his exercise.

Exercising with the class in rythmic activities aids in getting more energetic executions and perhaps also better form. It spurs on to vigorous action. One can not, however, do much of this particularly if from five to seven classes are to be taught daily as is the case in many high schools. One must save his energy for

Digitized by kjOOQle
399

criticism, suggestions and observation and use it judiciously if the work is to be done properly and a breakdown avoided.

Forms of Presentation.

Physical education activities may be presented to students in a practical manner in three ways:—analytically, synthetically, and in a free manner.

The analytical method of presentation consists of separating a complex activity into its component parts and presenting each part carefully to the class with appropriate pause before the next part of the exercise is given, as, swing arms sideward — 1, upward — 2, return movements — 3 and 4. This method finds its use in every branch of physical education from athletics to dancing and apparatus work, but only when the work is possible of being given on response. Examples of its application for various types of exercises are given in “Terminology and Command”. It paves the way for synthetic (rhythmic) presentation.

The response command, i. e., the command of execution (see Terminology and Command) consists of either a numeral or a word and must be adapted to the nature of the activity. If the movement demands short and quick muscular contraction, the instructor must endeavor to have it performed suddenly and immediately upon the saying of the command.

It should be his object to constantly shorten the reaction time, that is, the period elapsing between the Word of command and the initiation of the movement. A great difference in ability to react quickly is at first noticeable among new pupils. The time required for the impulse to travel from the ear to the brain, spinal cord and muscles after the stimulus has struck the ear-drum is clearly perceptible and easily measurable in some pupils. With effort on their part and admonitions by the teacher, this soon improves and the execution of the class as a whole becomes more uniform. The reaction need not always be to the stimulus of sound; sight may also be used, the class being asked to react upon a movement of the instructor's arm.

Concentration is an associated factor of this procedure, for a lack of close attention is at once discovered in the late reaction and sometimes in doing the wrong thing, the offender bringing punishment on himself by the conspicuousness of his blunder.

The development of the kinesthetic sense is a further object in this style of work. Complex co-ordinations can not be mastered by synthetic presentation. They must be gone through piecemeal with a sufficient pause in each position so that the muscular feel will impress itself on the mind and give rise to muscular memories (mental images) later made permanent by rhythmic repetitions. When thus learned the memory of the movements makes reproduction easy and faultless.

If, on the other hand, one begins with rhythmic (synthetic) presentation, unless it be so simple an activity that it must have been previously acquired in the common experiences of the pupil, the exercise leaves a blurred, muddled and vague memory since muscular feelings enter which are not essential to the work, the

Digitized by (^.ooQle
40Q

nervous impulses diffusing themselves to many groups of muscles not needed; obstructive associations are set up and the recall always reproduces these faults. Who is there that has not experienced the .difficulty of eradicating movements wrong to a finished execution? In analytical presentation there is sufficient time to inhibit nonessential contractions and prevent their entering into the concept of the exercise. This economizing of energy, performing any given activity with just those muscular contractions essential, is the ultimate test of a graceful performance.

The more memories one has of movements the more readily can one perform complex movements synthetically. Thus a well trained individual possessing a large repertoir of such memories can at once perform complex activities in rhythm. It is this well-developed kinesthetic sense that makes for what we commonly call grace, skill, cleverness, agility. Its absence is the cause of awkwardness, ungainliness and leads to many accidents. It establishes correct habits of movements, there being a close economy observed, no energy being wasted on useless or uncontrolled movements which shoot beyond the mark. It develops in the individual clean-cut action and the habit of precision. In all types of exercises where clearly defined movements and accurately outlined positions occur, particularly in free exercises and certain apparatus exercises, rhythmic execution should not be attempted until they have been faultlessly performed on response. But the rhythmic execution must follow (unless the object of the exercise forbids it) and continue an appreciable time (the length depending on two factors, the complexity of the exercise and the average ability of the class) so that the nerve impulses and muscular contractions take place frequently and become permanently memorized.

The synthetic method consists of the immediate presentation of an activity in its entirety (without analysis) and is based upon the analytic. It is the repetition at a future time of exercises analytically learned. Most of these are possible of rhythmic execution as free exercises without and with hand apparatus, various forms of dancing, the learning of field events and swimming as free exercises, and such apparatus exercises as are performed in certain positions. They are, of course, preceded by analytical presentation. All, however, do not demand the sudden response nor clearly defined and precise execution.

Then again there are some not performed in rhythmic repetition as the fundamental exercises on apparatus. They have been developed by a series of preparatory exercises and require but a short period for their execution which, however, is fluent and uninterrupted. Some apparatus stunts do not permit of development and must at once be attempted synthetically by the ‘Trial and error” method, as the kipp on the horizontal bar, for instance. This requires constant practice and consequently a long time to acquire.

The value of synthetic presentation consists principally in the many muscular contractions produced. This is true both of rhythmic work and of such activities as stunts on apparatus and field

Digitized by ^ooQle
events which are repeated at intervals. In the former the nature of the contractions is different, generally speaking, from that of the latter. It is milder and not so forceful. Although certain rhythmic contractions may be made rather strong this is not so on the whole. On the other hand, the stunts and field events always demand rather forceful and even maximum contractions. If the activities involve large groups of muscles a wholesome influence is produced which results in increased muscular tone, in-increased metabolism and consequently increased vitality and resistance to disease. The details of these effects are given under the physiology of exercise. There is, furthermore, a saving of nervous energy with each future repetition. The nerve paths accurately marked out for a certain stunt by the analytical presentation are traversed with less difficulty by the impulses with each repetition and the movements eventually approach the analytic type. There is no longer any need of concentrating on the complexity of the exercise. It has become part of the nervous system, the higher brain cells are relieved of their duty and have transferred it to cells of a lower level.

Presentation in a free manner consists of permitting pupils to try for themselves, after their own fashion, an exercise which has just been analytically presented to the class. It is used as a variation of synthetic work and before it is attempted in rhythm by the class, but not for all types of exercises. Usually for such as are difficult or have a peculiar knack hard to get, as some club swings, wand exercises, dance steps, apparatus stunts, etc., the class remains in the alignment while the individuals are trying the exercise. The instructor can not make use of this method in all formations. It gives the pupil a chance to work out for himself the problems in co-ordination (the instructor, of course, being ready to give assistance when needed) and makes him surer of his work when class work in unison is resumed. It breaks the prevailing formality and is often a welcome change.

FUNDAMENTALS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND THEIR

ATTAINMENT*

CHARLES V. P. YOUNG, Cornell University, N. Y.

The scientist tells us that the evolution of man has been by a series of advances through countless ages from lower planes of life to higher. First the protozoon, in which all functions are performed by a single cell; then the zoophyte in which we have two systems fairly well developed, the digestive and reproductive; then comes the worm in which we have the development of muscular tissue, rtiaking possible movement from place to place and bringing in its train visceral and sensory organs. The swimming worm developed an internal locomotive skeleton and entered upon

*Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, Pittsburgh, Pa., April 1917.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
402

a higher plane, first as a fish and then, in the course of time, emerging upon the land as a reptile. Mammals point toward family and social life, and find their highest form in man, steadily advancing through the lowest stages of savagery and barbarism to civilization with its customs and laws, arts, sciences and religions.

Every age has thus contributed to man’s structure and powers, one age contributing the cell, another the beginnings of the digestive and reproductive systems, another the trunk from which, with the gradual development of muscular system, emerge legs and arms, carrying with the increased powers of locomotion the development of heart, lungs, and kidneys, and laying the foundation for the development of a nervous system and the brain itself. Throughout all these series of advances it was the animal which developed muscle and the power of locomotion that survived and replaced the form which developed digestion only. It was the development of muscle tissue which stimulated the development of respiratory, circulatory, and excretory organs, skeleton, nervous system and brain. It was the development of muscle tissue which made possible a tough, vigorous, flexible, complex, organism which could endure the rigors of changing seasons and conditions of living, and which with modifications and additions would in time be able to respond to the demands and execute the orders of a thinking brain.

The old trunk muscles were heavy, fitted only for work of the hardest and crudest sort. Locomotion, search for food, new surroundings with their wider possibilities and greater dangers, made successive additions imperative and inevitable, as well as better sense organs, which in turn required the development of a nervous system, inasmuch as life must now become, in a sense, merely one continuous series of responses to stimuli, i. e. there must be a muscular or motor reaction suited to each and every emergency. From all that we know of the science of evolution today, it can be stated as an absolute, incontrovertible fact, that the development and complexity of the lower and higher nerve centers of the body, including the brain, have their foundation in motion and sensation, not in thought and learning, although in thought and learning they find their highest form of expression.

In the history of evolution, therefore, we have three dynasties, as someone has expressed it. First, we have ingestion and reproduction, without which no life can exist or be perpetuated; second, we have the muscular system, which alone makes change and progress possible, and which is therefore bound up with the evolution of the race; finally, we have the nervous system and the thinking brain which is enlarged and developed from it. Each higher power is ushered in by the lower and begins its career as the servant of the lower, while on the other hand the lower only attains its highest growth and usefulness through the growth and development of the higher. Without a muscular system, the digestive system is feeble, easily disturbed, and quickly succumbs to adverse conditions. Without a thinking brain, the lighter, finer, more precise and complicated muscle movements are unattainable.

Digitized by Google
403

Motor control of vocal organs and facial expression, free and complete movements of fingers, concerted and simultaneous action of unrelated muscle groups, all are characteristic of man and make possible the manifestation of mental activity and the higher achievements of art and sciences.

The study of biological history thus shows us certain laws and tendencies which have been operating throughout the eons of the past, and which we believe must continue to guide and urge man on in the future. Possibly the era of mental evolution upon which we have entered, the discoveries of science and invention, may open up new and hitherto undiscovered possibilities, and the physical organism which heretofore has required exercise and oxygen for its growth and development may adjust itself to sedentary living in the “caves and pigeon holes of our modern dwelling houses” and become more or less immune to the degenerative influences which are now so apparent. It has even been suggested as a possible (although hardly probable) explanation of the present downward tendency shown by mortality statistics that when our ancestors left the trees for the caves they had a high mortality experience until they had become adjusted to their new living conditions. However, that may be and whatever the future may have in store for the race, we know that at present growth and development are dependent upon certain chemical and physical forces and processes which simply cannot be ignored, and that the brain cannot show its power and capacity unless and until the bodily organism is mature and is capable and fit for the execution of its decrees.

One of the great discoveries of modern science is the law that the development of the individual, in some measure and more or less completely, recapitulates the evolution of the race. Not only does the embryo show in outline this development process through its various stages, but the infant and child carry on the simile. The baby lives in a stage of almost vegetative life, his chief business is to eat, sleep, and grow. His education consists largely in making his surroundings as favorable to bodily growth as possible. When he begins to grasp and handle, to kick and wriggle, to creep and walk and run, we see the muscular system gradually becoming the seat and center of his development. Its demands are imperative and insistent. Without sufficient exercise the tissues degenerate and die, digestion is obstructed and enfeebled, growth is stunted, the brain shrivels. With exercise digestion is stimulated, tissues fed, heart and lungs strengthened and mental growth accelerated. The capacity for logical thought is still small, and moral and religious conceptions are crude, if present at all, but curiosity and wonder are alive, and the child gradually passes out of the halfhuman period into a period where, with the further building up of physical health and vigor, there is unfolded the budding power, courage and hope of the young man who delights to run a race; who revels in games of the chase and in feats of knight-errantry, thereby fostering the nobler virtues, and stimulating the nascent mental powers which are henceforth to hold sway.

The chief business of the adult is the supremacy of the higher

Digitized by LjOOQle
404

powers of his being, the controlling and directing of all his actions and energies toward an end which he has consciously and intelligently chosen. Arrest of development at this point, as at any earlier period, is fatal to progress and achievement, and yet it is so common that we have almost come to look upon it as a matter of course, as constituting the rule and not the exception. Furthermore, arrest of development in the middle aged adult is so frequently associated with defective digestion or an inefficient muscular organism, as to create the presumption that they are related as cause and effect. Creative brain power is seldom found in conjunction with dyspepsia, anemia, enfeebled muscular organism, or subnormal vitality, and however we may explain the exceptions which stand out here and there, we must accept the hypothesis, if we are sensible people, that the life and activity of the mind are absolutely dependent upon bodily condition and that only by maintaining these in a high state of health and vigor can the higher powers be developed to their full standard. The arrested individual contributes nothing essential to progress, and therefore becomes a drag upon civilization which must be compensated for by a new influx of vigor and vitality from those physically and mentally fit, else the race will stagnate, degenerate and ultimately die out.

The goal of human evolution, therefore, is not a massive body with heavy and unwieldly muscles, even though capable of tremendous exertion; it is not a machine delicately attuned and perfectly adjusted solely or even chiefly for the manifestation of physical energy; rather the goal of evolution, as has been well said, is a “complete manhood, where the tough body, clear and cool mind, warm heart with its intense feelings, and iron will set on the highest ends are all combined in one royal life”. It is a race of vigorous, healthy, well-balanced men and women, for which the essential requisites are a full grown and well developed body, a digestive system capable of furnishing abundant material for growth and repair and fuel for the use of muscles and nerve tissue, a stout heart driving well-oxygenated blood through eyery organ and out-post of the body. All the attributes of civilization, wealth, learning, inventive genius, are important chiefly as they contribute to the realization of that ideal.

If we can only secure general recognition and understanding of this great principle and motive power of life, the interdependence and inseparableness of all parts and functions of mind and body, the first great step in the battle is won. It only remains to determine how the goal is to be best attained, how each part of our organism is to be treated so that as it emerges, develops, and matures, it will best serve and support that which is higher. Physical education, in this broad sense, comprehends everything which serves to stimulate growth and development throughout the entire life cycle. It seeks to cultivate brain power, for which a calm, steady, well trained nervous system is essential, which means bodily health, power, and efficiency, for the securing and maintenance of which rules and regulations and habits of living must be prescribed and suitable exercises selected for every period and every condition.

Digitized by kaOOQle
405

These are the fundamental purposes of physical education, as I see them, and the determining principles by which we must be guided in their attainment have, in a measure, already been indicated. The great teachers of the physical educator are nature and history as expressed in terms of racial evolution. The chief business of the kindergarten and the lower grades is to promote healthy physical growth. The body of the child demands more care and attention than the mind. The muscles and sense organs are more efficient means of intellectual development than thought or memory. Normal physical growth and development give greater promise of future usefulness than mental precocity, which usually means that some essential stage of growth or development is being neglected or over-leaped, and that a defective or ill-balanced body or mind will result.

Mental stimulation and training must have a place in the educational scheme of course, but it should largely be as a result of contact with nature and through natural channels of activity, and until the tenth or twelfth year, desk work and recitation should be restricted so far as may be consistent with that end. Until this age and afterthe child is passing through periods of growth now of one part or organ, now of another, and it is the business of the educator to discover and put into the daily curriculum the kind and amount of exercise suitable for each period. With the acquisition of new parts and functions, new brain centers are developing, and only with physical maturity or afterwards do we reach the highest intellectual centers of the brain, so that, to my mind,'too much emphasis cannot be laid upon the improvement of circulation, digestion and musculature of our school children.

While this principle is better understood today than ever before, and recent years have seen marked progress in its application in the realm of primary school education, in our secondary schools and colleges there is still much to be desired. In the first place, we need to agree among ourselves as to just what constitutes a rational system of physical education, just what forms of exercise are best suited to the motor mechanism of the pupils of the various grades, what forms of exercise will give the best opportunity for the expression of instinctive impulses and develop habits of feeling and action which will form the basis of mental and moral growth. This applies not only to our secondary schools, but also to our colleges, in which we find every sort of haphazard, hit or miss, system of physical education, owing for the most part to the differences and disagreements of directors as to just what they are striving for and how their objects are to be attained. In almost no college or university in this country do we find a thoroughly worked out, definite, progressive system of physical education carried through the college course as the co-partner of the mental education and containing within itself its great possibilities for educative, social and ethical training.

In the second place we need to carry on a campaign of education not only among the general public, but much more among school and educational authorities, where change is notoriously

Digitized by

Google
406

difficult to bring about. Strange as it may seem, a great many teachers who ignore the demands of their system for exercise, and decry its merits, fail to realize that they owe their health, such as it is, and their ability to endure unremitting mental toil, to a constitution inherited from a rugged ancestry, or built up in youth under rational parental ^supervision, and that they are handing down an impaired vitality and, in spite of their learning, contributing to the deterioration of the race. A glance at almost any professorial group will make apparent their failure to appreciate the significance of Professor Hurley's definition of a liberal education as involving first of all, a “body which is the willing servant of the will, and does with ease and pleasure all the work that, as a mechanism, it is capable of.”

All this places before us a large program, and one worthy of our concerted and highest endeavors. Our efforts in the past have been largely futile and misdirected in the first place, as it seems to me, because of our failure to appreciate the significance and value of our work in its larger aspects, and in the second place because of the superficial and ineffectual sort of training that has gone under the name of physical education. The burden of our song, in season and out, must be that the real purpose of education is racial progress, and that only by maintaining and developing the physical as well as the mental health and vigor of the child, youth, and man can we strengthen his will and purpose and make possible a well rounded and complete life, and the handing down of an improved germplasm.

OZONE DISINFECTION* OF SWIMMING POOLS.*

WALLACE A. MANHEIMER, Ph. D. Research Laboratory, Dept, of Health, N. Y. City. (Secretary, American Association for Promoting Hygiene and Public Baths.)

Since the swimming pool has come to stay, and because of its well recognized value in recreation, it becomes a matter of importance to properly safeguard it so that no injury to the public health will result; indeed if it be properly safeguarded so.as to present no source of infectious disease, it represents, in itself no mean instrument of public health. It affords opportunity for salubrious exercise and healthful recreation, both of which are essential to the production and maintenance of the public welfare. In years gone by, when infections traceable on strong evidence, to the pool, were published, the pool was properly frowned upon.

The progress of pool disinfection and control in recent years has overcome the objections which were then advanced and there remains today no further excuse for infections originating from this source.

*Read before the American Association for Promoting Hygiene and Public Baths, Pittsburgh, Pa., May 9, 1917.

Digitized by Tooele
407

Disinfection.

In the purification of a drinking water supply the engineer disinfects the water once and then safeguards it against subsequent pollution. The very nature of a swimming pool, however, makes this impossible. Here an initial purification is of small value since effete matter is being continuously added, and it becomes necessary therefore to counteract this pollution constantly. Furthermore, the load of organic matter and bacteria in a swimming pool varies with the number and type of people using it, while the load of such substances in drinking water remains fairly constant or fluctuates slowly. It is therefore not a very difficult matter, presupposing proper design to adjust the apparatus so as to destroy the average load of pollution which is in a drinking water supply. In pools this adjustment would involve constant modification if a nice balance is to be struck and no objectionable odors produced through the use of an excess of the chemical reagent.

The addition to the water of chemicals in concentrations greater than necessary to effect initial purification for the purpose of disinfecting all subsequently added pollution unfortunately has not worked out in practice; and because of the astringent condition of the water resulting all attempts in this direction have been discontinued. In order to overcome as far as possible the continuously added polluted matter the recourse has been to dilution. At first, reliance was placed on the addition of fresh, warm, filtered water, but the cost of this procedure was so high that it had to be abandoned. Furthermore, when a turbid city water supply was used, it was found that to add the dilution water in sufficient quantities to counteract the pollution in the pool the filters had to be operated beyond their capacity, and thus the water became dangerous on account of its opacity, in that a submerged person could not be seen. As a matter of fact several deaths have unnecessarily occurred as a result of sqch opacity. For the reasons just set forth it was deemed better to refilter the pool water which is already fairly clear, and to rely on disinfection for further purification. Accordingly, I have recommended as a standard procedure the refiltration of the water for the purpose of clarification and the chemical treatment of the water for purification.

Now, the only objections that have been urged by the sensitive to the practices of refiltration and disinfection are on the esthetic side. It is claimed that the water after refiltration and disinfection contains urine, dissolved organic substances and fecal matter. This I believe is not so. The filters if properly operated will remove solid substances, and the process of disinfection if properly carried out can be relied on to bleach the dissolved coloring matter and to reduce any dissolved effete substances to chem-cal entities far removed from the sources from which they have sprung. Indeed, after a little careful study these sensitive people would feel that not only is the danger from refiltered and disinfected water far less than it is from the average town water supply, but they would agree that the average water supply is likely to contain

Digitized by Google
498

even more actual waste products although perhapsjnot so much of their oxidizable derivatives.

If I have carried my point concerning the feasibility and desirability of the practices of refiltration and chemical disinfection there remains merely the selection of the best method of disinfection.

Methods of Disinfection,

In the preliminary attempts to purify water, strong disinfectant chemicals were used and subsequently neutralized or precipitated. These attempts worked out satisfactorily in the laboratory but were not applicable on a large scale to the pool, especially in the hands of untrained attendants. As a result, it became necessary to select suitable chemicals and use only as much as was required for disinfection. Here again technical ability is needed for the determination of the exact amount of those chemicals usable only in minimum quantities.

Up to now the chemicals used for water purification in pools have been the hypochlorites and copper sulphate. The hypochlorites from all points of view are superior to copper sulphate, but are themselves objectionable on account of the alteration in the taste of the water, and because of their irritating properties.

Although this objection can be somewhat overcome by proper management of the water, we again need the technical knowledge which is not usually obtainable under conditions of practical application.

More recently ultra violet light has come into the field. Ultra violet light however is not capable of penetrating turbid water and its efficiency is reduced in water containing coloring matter or colloidal substances. These deficiencies are part of nature and cannot be overcome by man. Moreover, in application the -exposure given the water by the average ultra violet light machine is insufficient to produce any marked bacterial reduction.

Conditions to be Satisfied in Disinfecting Swimming Pools.

The conditions which any method of disinfecting a swimming pool should fulfill are:

(1)	Automatic control, that is, control involving no technical ability on the part of the pool attendant;

(2)	Reliability of disinfecting power under all conditions of practical operation;

(3)	The adding of no objectionable material to the water;

(4)	The bleaching and changing of all dissolved bodies in the water so as to reduce them chemically as far as possible from the sources from which they spring.

I submit, that a satisfactory method of accomplishing all the above conditions is by the addition of ozone to the water, under proper conditions.

Ozone.

Ozone is a powerful oxidizing agent usually designated by the chemical symbol Oz. It is a highly unstable gas, breaking down when in contact with organic matter and bacteria, liberating oxy-

Digitized by

Google
409

gen in the active nascent condition. Because of its oxidizing properties it is a bleaching agent and a powerful disinfectant. It is only slightly soluble in water where its presence is not objectionable or noticeable. When it is passed into the water it bubbles through purifying the water, improving its appearance and leaving no trace of itself. Its action can well be compared to ordinary combustion and thus waste matters coming into contact with this gas are effectually destroyed.

Ozone is produced commercially by passing atmospheric oxygen through a field permeated with a silent electrical brush discharge. That the production of ozone can be accomplished on a commercially practicable scale for water purification is proved by the fact that it is used in many cities in Germany, France and Russia. According to Spaulding, there are 49 large ozone plants abroad , having a daily water delivery capacity of over 84,000,000 gallons. The plant at Petrograd alone delivers 24,000,000 gallons a day and the plant at Paris over 12,800,000 a day. Although ozone has been successfully applied to the purification of drinking water, so far as I know its obvious application to swimming pool purification has not hitherto been made.

When it is realized that ozone is a powerful oxidizing agent it can be postulated that all that is necessary to effect disinfection is to bring this oxidizing agent into intimate contact with the bacteria. Furthermore, only that amount of ozone need be used which is sufficient to oxidize the organic matter in the water. Accordingly, if even the slightest excess of ozone be present, the water will be sterile. The only provisor to this is intimate contact of the ozone and the water.

Now, ozone is never produced and isolated pure; it is always in mixture with atmospheric air in various concentrations and it is just this complication which at times in the hands of the amateur defeats its application to water purification. In my own experiments I have found that when high concentrations of ozone in air are introduced into water, sterility or high grade purification results; and this result is invariable. There might be one objection to using high concentration of ozone, namely that of cost. When we consider, however, the comparatively small amount of ozone that is needed in pool purification this objection is not a serious one, although it is . one which should if possible be overcome. I should mention however that when high concentration of ozone is here stated, not more than three parts per million is meant. When this amount is used, sterile water is produced. Naturally if a plant generates its own electrical current the cost of production of this amount of ozone would be small, and where current is bought, the cost would be nominal.

For the purpose of reducing the cost of application and the attendant waste of ozone, in my recent experiments I reduced the quantity of ozone in the air which was pumped through the water. In tKe apparatus that I used however there was no method of reducing the total volume of air pumped through the wate?, be-

Digitized by Tooele
410

cause a plunger pump was used for synchronously pumping air plus ozone, and water through the mixing tower.

Accordingly, there was the same gas surface contact with a reduction of the percentage of ozone in the gas, and the result was, as should be expected, low grade purification. From this it must be concluded that either a high concentration of ozone in air must be employed for water purification or some method must be devised for breaking up the air pumped through the water into fine parts to insure intimate contact of the bacteria in the water with the dilute ozone present in the air. I am working on this phase of the question and am trying to devise the mechanical means for insuring close contact of water and ozone in high dilutions. Should this be successful the application of ozone will cost very little. On the other hand, if ozone in high concentration- in air must be used thoroughly reliable results will be obtained, although the cost of application will be somewhat increased. It may be that a smaller volume of air can be passed through the water without undue loss, of efficiency. Should this prove the case, a high percentage of ozone in the air could be used, but the total amount of ozone will be reduced proportionately to the reduction in the volume of air. Whether or not, this will produce sufficient surface of contact of the gas to the water to effect disinfection remains to be seen. Should this prove satisfactory the only change necessary in the apparatus would be a control on the amount of. air pumped through the ozonator.

While several as yet unsolved problems have been suggested in this paper, I wish to be perfectly clear in my conclusions which are:

CONCLUSIONS:

(1)	Ozone efficiently purifies water when used in sufficient concentration and if proper contact of the ozone and water be effected.

(2)	The application of ozone to the purification of swimming pools promises to be a distinct advance over all methods so far introduced, because

(a)	It is automatic in its control entailing no technical knowledge on the part of the attendant,

(b)	It is reliable in its disinfecting power under all conditions of practical application,

(c)	Nothing objectionable is added to the water. When added in excess of the amount necessary to oxidize all organic matter, it merely bubbles through the water in which it is only slightly soluble. It can be used therefore without annoyance in an- amount far in excess of that necessary to effect purification, a condition which the chemicals used for pool purification have never fulfilled.

(d)	It oxidizes all organic substances in the water changing them chemically so that they no longer resemble the substances from which they were derived.

(3)	That at present due to the methods employed in emul-

byVjt
411

sifying the water with the ozone it is necessary to use an excess of ozone at the expense of a slight financial loss.

In my next paper* I shall give figures on the electrical current consumption per gram of ozone production with the Sprague Ozonator, which is selected because of its high efficiency. I shall also report on the results of experiments with mechanical mixers and shall endeavor to present an arrangement of apparatus and the details of its installation that will be applicable to the average swimming pool.

* The experiments so far conducted and those contemplated have been made possible as a result of the cooperation of Mr. Willard A. Kitts Jr., of the Pitts and Kitts Manufacturing and Supply Co., of New York.

JUDGING OF COMPETITIVE GYMNASTIC EXERCISES*

By HERBERT N. WATSON, Minneapolis, Minn.

It is one thing to have a carefully planned method of marking gymnastic exercises and another to follow it exactly in actual practice, but a comprehensive outline of the points to be noted and the credit to be given for each feature should be in the mind of the judge and an effort made to adhere to it as closely as possible.

There would undoubtedly be a difference of opinion among the best authorities as to the exact system of the distribution of credits, but the following has been adopted by the Northwestern Gymnastic Society as a good working basis.

Obligatory Exercises

APPROACH

Direction and carriage

“Attention” before starting exercise...........5	points.

MOUNT

Raising hands and bending knees properly...... 5	10

Back hollow, eyes front, etc.	5

FORM AND GRACE IN EXECUTION

Absence of obvious effort................ 20

Back hollow when necessary	10

Head up .............................. 5

Arms straight when necessary..............10

Legs straight When necessary..............10

Ankles extended........................... 5	60

DISMOUNT

On toes, knees bent....................... 5

Arm extension............................. 5

Back hollow and head up................... 5

Sureness	5

ATTENTION AND RETREAT.........................

Position of attention

Direction of retreat and carriage............. 5	100

Note:	Mr.	Watson,	chairman of the Technical Committee, solicits criticisms and suggestions for improvement.	^	GoOQl(
412

This analysis applies when the exercise is correctly executed. When the competitor omits or incorrectly performs any part of the exercise deduction should be made, on the basis of 100, according to the seriousness of his error. For example, if an exercise consists of five principal parts and one movement be omitted, one-fifth, or 20 points, should be deducted, 80 then being the mark for a perfect execution of the exercise performed. Deduction should be made on the same basis for an extra movement, not properly part of the exercise, the principle being that a set exercise is to be done in just one way, and ^py departure from it is to be criticized in accordance with the importance of the error and its relation to the exercise as a whole.

This does not necessarily mean that all parts of an exercise must always he done in the same way, or even in the way that they are first set, as there is occasionally some variation permitted in the method of performing a described exercise, and here is where the judgement of the official comes into play.

Voluntary Exercises

The marking of voluntary, or self selected, exercises requires a wide knowledge of the difference in degree of difficulty between gymnastic feats of various sorts, as a rule only to be gained through actual performance, and the ability to express that knowledge accurately in figures.

The credit given for form is necessarily cut down to make allowance for the difficulty and arrangement of the exercises, as shown

in the following table.

Form in approach and mount................ 5	points

Difficulty of combination.................30

Smoothness of combination

Logical sequence of movement No intermediate swings No awkward reverses or positions....20

Form and grace in execution ...............30

Form in dismount...........................10

Form in attention and retreat.............. 5	100

In judging the difficulty and beauty of the combination, care should be taken to observe all the important points, from the mount to the dismount.

First the mount, and the word is here used to mean not merely the grasping of the apparatus, but the movement by which the competitor starts his exercise and gets upon the apparatus.

Is it of a safe and simple nature, or does the competitor by using a difficult mount take a chance of missing it and thereby spoiling the whole exercise? It is obvious that a difficult and somewhat uncertain mount, if properly done, is entitled to more credit than one which the gymnast could not possibly miss. Failure to acquire enough momentum, missing the grasp or losing the balance are ways in which an error difficult or. impossible to correct may be made at the beginning of an exercise.

The judge should have in mind a comprehensive outline of the value of different gymnastic feats and exercises, and be able

Digitized by

Google
413

to determine the degree of difficulty of each, not only when considered separately, but when executed from different positions and in various combinations.

The dismount, or exercise by means of which the gymnast leaves the apparatus, should be carefully noted, and judgement passed upon the difficulty, element of risk involved, and the nature of it, whether or not it is in harmony with the balance of the combination and is a proper continuation of it. The dismount should not be of a lower grade than the rest of the combination, and should not constitute an anti-climax.

The number of exercises in a combination should be given consideration in rating the difficulty, it being obvious that the longer a combination the more difficult it becomes. Competitors should however keep within their limit of endurance, and allowance cannot be made for their becoming exhausted. The movements should be varied, continuous repetition of an exercise not being particularly meritorious.

The marking of strength exercises calls for good judgement on the part of the official. If their difficulty lies only in the amount of muscle required, if it is apparent that but little skill is necessary for their execution and the element of risk is practically absent, but small credit should be given for their performance.

There are many excellent combinations of slow or strength exercises, requiring long practice, exact balancing and considerable skill, and which likewise permit considerable variation in the form of their execution. Due consideration should be given to all these factors, but as a rule there is less risk involved and perfect form is more easily attained in a slow than in a swinging exercise, for which reasons strength exercises are entitled to less credit than swinging exercises of the same grade.

One feature to be noticed, in marking a voluntary exercise, is that it is not the same as or greatly similar to the set exercise, and if there are two voluntary exercises, that they are not alike.

The analysis of marks given above is to be applied provided the exercise is of the proper grade, an arbitrary deduction of more than the 30 points devoted to difficulty teing permitted if the competitor performed an exercise of the gtade below that in which he is working, it being obvious that good form and perfection of performance are easily attained in an exercise of too simple a nature, and therefore entitled to less credit.

In addition to being of the required degree of difficulty the exercise should be typical of the apparatus or event. The horse,-for instance, is not a suitable instrument on which to perform slow or strength exercises.

It may be stated as a general principle that an exercise should be performed without a pause made for the purpose of changing the grasp, reversing the swing or gathering momentum, but this depends somewhat upon the grade of the gymnast, the apparatus on which he is working and the reason for the pause. “Rests” and “seats” are sometimes permissible in the lower grades, and there are some difficult exercises which can only be started from or

Digitized by

Google
414

finished in a seat, but in advanced gymnastics the movement should as a rule be continuous.

It is to be regretted that all exercises and combinations cannot be listed and tables compiled showing the mark for each, as is done in diving, but of course that is impossible. A competent judge should, however, know what exercises in each grade, when done in perfect form, entitle the competitor to a mark of 100, and rate the work accordingly. These exercises are so numerous, and so much depends on the combination, that any attempt to describe a model combination might be misleading, for the reason that many other arrangements of exercises of equal value could readily be named.

The question of the value of the exercise is one that calls for the widest knowledge and the most careful display of judgement on the part of the official.

Those who are selected to judge in gymnastic competition usually know what good form is, and the task of marking form is chiefly a matter of observation and comparison, but even here a wide acquaintance with gymnastics and a knowledge of the possibilities of certain exercises and the limitations of others, better enable the official to determine when an exercise is correctly executed.

UTILIZATION OF WASTE SPACE.

Time and again I have received inquiries as to where the nearest place to my gymnasium was where one could play handball. Since we have no handball courts at Ogden I conceived the idea of using the deep end of the outdoor swimming pool for such a purpose and laid out three courts 24 ft. wide, 22 ft. long, and 10 ft. high. The courts as yet have no side walls and the front wall is rather low but both of these can be remedied by putting counter-sinks in the front wall, upon which to hook wooden sidewalls, and the building of a folding wooden wall to add to the height of the front wall. These wooden additions cculd very easily be stored away during the three-month swimming season and would make the pool useful as handball courts during April and May, and from September to December, a total of five months. If kept clean in winter and with the addition of some fine sand to prevent slipping, I believe it would be possible to use them from September until May, a total of nine months.

The ordinary outdoor swimming pool is only in use from June to September and lies idle the rest of the year. In the spring and fall of the year, just when men need an active exercise to prepare them for tennis, baseball and track in summer, and for football, wrestling, and basketball for fall and winter, they are deprived of it. As a matter of fact the usual athletic sports are more or less specialized to certain types of activity and the participation in one does not train a person for participation in another. As an all-around trainer handball seems to fill the bill effectually. It trains the eye for tennis and baseball, trains the feet to be active

Digitized by vjOOQIC
415

New Use For Outdoor Swimming Pool.

and shifty for football, wrestling and skating, and tones up the whole body just when it needs it most, during the invigorating days of spring and fall when most people take tonics instead of exercise. This new use of the swimming pool tides over our most invigorating but sadly wasted seasons of the year with a healthy invigorating exercise which can be indulged in by young and old alike.

Yours truly,

H. J. SPRINGER, Physical Director, Ogden Park.

RULES AND SUGGESTIONS IN REGARD TO WALKING TRIPS AND NIGHT LODGINGS.

By HENRY L. CURTIS, Olivet, Mich.

In view of the interest in walking at the present time, the following rules of the Mazama Club of Portland, Oregon, may be of interest; also the outlines of two of the walking trips from Portland and San Francisco.

Every person attending the local walks is expected to observe the following rules and recommendations;

1. LEADER. The leader will usually wear a blue and white hatband during the trip. He will walk at the head of the party, the others following. He may appoint one or more lieutenants to assist him in conducting the trip, and he should have the cooperation of these lieutenants and of the party in general. His telephone number will be given for the convenience "of those seeking particular information about the coming trip^^^ i

Digitized by ViOUv Iv,
416

3. DISCIPLINE AND DEPORTMENT. All persons on the Sunday trips are expected to refrain from all boisterous conduct and loud noise, and to observe respect for the Sabbath.

It is not to be lost sight of that the Mazama organization is one with high ideals, and that there must be a dignity of deportment in keeping with its standards. These requirements are particularly to be observed where the party comes in contact with the general public, and when special cars are not used. Fences and other property must not be damaged and gates must be closed.

5.	CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT. As a rule, no special attire is needed for the half-day' walks, though the committee recommends clothing suitable for the woods. Low heeled, comfortable shoes are a necessity. On all-day hikes, stout or outing clothing should be worn, and stout boots, which are better if fitted with Hungarian or hob nails. On the camping trips, each person must furnish his own blanket, suitable to the weather conditions. An electric flash light or a carbide light is a very great convenience at night in camp.

6.	LUNCH. On all-day trips, each person must take his own lunch, or in case a commissary is provided, pay his proportional part. He should take CUP, SPOON, and knife and fork. The leader will usually arrange for hot coffee for lunch. It is a Mazama principle to leave camp sites in good order and all are requested to share in this responsibility.

It is very desirable that each person carry a full sized cup for drinking along the way, as well as for use at lunch, so that he need not depend on the courtesy of others.

8.	ROUTE. The walkers are expected to arrive at the meeting place promptly in order to begin each walk at the appointed hour. The leader may mark turns or indistinct trails by scattering pieces of paper. Red paper strewn along, or pieces of red cloth tied to convenient objects, will be distinctive marks for Mazama trails.

9.	SCENIC POINTS. All are reminded that one object of these trips is the viewing of the many natural scenic attractions found along the way; therefore, each one should be watchful for these attractions, and instead of hurrying over the walk, should stop long enough at the prominent view points to enjoy the beauties of nature.

10.	NATURE STUDIES. In order that all may avail themselves of the splendid opportunities afforded on many of the outings to study nature at first hand, whenever arrangements can be made,

. some qualified person will be assigned to point out the features of educational value and to lead in a discussion of them. Where localities of historical interest are visited, talks on their significance will be invited.

Those who are going out for a single night do not usually wish to provide themselves with a tent. The following is an account of the sleeping outfit provided by the Sierra Club. The estimated cost of this at present prices is fifteen dollars. The outfit weighs about ten pounds.

Digitized by UjOOQie
417

“Sleeping Outfit. This should consist of a sleeping bag made-by doubling an eiderdown or preferably two wool comforters, so as to give the bag the greatest length, and sewing securely together across the bottom and two-thirds of the way up the side. This bag should be lined and covered with gingham or sateen, which should project a foot or two beyond the top as a loose flap.

A waterproof sheet or covering at least 6x6 feet should also-be taken. Canvas and the ordinary rubber blanket are entirely too heavy for this purpose. The most serviceable and satisfactory material is waterproof silk. It is'strong, durable, perfectly waterproof, and very light. A piece five yards in length, cut in half and sewed together along one side, will make a large sheet that will protect the sleeping bag from the ground and form a covering as well.”

This equipment is intended for camping in the high Sierras where the nights are cold. Inmost parts of the country this would be altogether too warm for summer or early fall. The simplest, equipment is to take a blanket with some kind of waterproof sheet or canvass. This should ordinarily be sufficient for a single night’s outing.

Warren L. Miller, Editor of Field and Stream, makes the following recommendation:

“For a sleeping rig the best and lightest known to the writer is the Forester packsack sleeping bag, weighing seven and one-half pounds. It is in effect a packsack which can be unlaced to make a warm, comfortable sleeping bag at night, and it is lined inside with mackinaw blanketing backed by one-fourth inch of wool batting, equal in warmth to three blankets. It takes six minutes to unlace it and make it up with its browse bag into a sleeping bag.” Typical Outlines of Local Walks.

From Portland, Oregon. Mazama Mountain Club.

Moonlight walk. Wed., Mar. 7. WASHINGTON—ARLINGTON HEIGHTS. Meet at 23d and Washington streets at 8.00 P. M. Walk through Washington Park, over Arlington Heights, and follow trail along ridge of hill between Canyon and Barnes Roads. Return to city by Barnes Road. Affords fine view of city by moonlight. Walk about five miles.

From San Francisco, California. Sierra Club.

Saturday p. m., April 14th—LAKE MERCED. Take Ingle-side car No. 17 on Market street; meet at 19th avenue and Sloat Boulevard at 2 o’clock p. m. (allow 40 minutes from Ferry); walk through Spring Valley property around Merced Lake and over sand hills to Cypress Point beyond Life Saving Station; then back: along beach to car line. Distance 7 miles.

If your magazine is late, remember that labor conditions-everywhere are affected by the war and the congestion in traffic-Because of so many men being taken in the draft the printers of Mind and Body have had to get along with a greatly reduced force at an hour’s notice and for a month or two longer it is likely that the magazine will be late. We expect to get back to schedule Soon-

Digitized by LjOOglC
418

'O	     ■	o

j PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

0-i	i i -	o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

“An Immediate Effect of Cigaret Smoking on Healthy Men and on Cases of “Soldier’s Heart”, J. Parkinson and H. Koefod say in the Lancet, London August 11, II, No. 4902 that the immediate effect of cigaret smoking on the circulatory system and on the breathlessness of exertion was observed in thirty smokers, of whom twenty were cases of “soldier’s heart” and ten were healthy soldiers. Each patient smoked either four or five cigarets during a period of forty minutes. Demonstrable effect was recorded in seventeen of the twenty patients; the three unaffected were noninhalers. Nine of the ten controls, all inhalers, were influenced in the same fashion, though not to the same degree. The average pulse rate among the patients during smoking was nine beats higher than before smoking; in the healthy controls it was six higher. Initial slowing of the heart was never observed, nor any irregularity referable to smoking. The rate of respiration in the patients was unaffected; in the controls it was slightly reduced. The average systolic blood pressure was raised by 5 to 10 mm Hg, and the diastolic by 5 mm, both in patients and controls. These effects appeared within five minutes; with the first cigaret they almost reached the maximum, and this was maintained throughout the smoking period.

A simple exertion test was, performed before smoking and repeated on its cessation. In the patients the pulse rate maintained a higher level throughout the test after smoking, and half of them were more breathless both subjectively and objectively. In two patients precordial pain was induced by smoking, apart from exertion. But in the controls the pulse rate curve during exertion was much the same after smoking as before, and breathlessness was induced in two only. These observations show that, in health, the smoking of a single cigaret by an habitual smoker usually raises the pulse rate and blood pressure perceptibly; and these effects are a little more pronounced in cases of “soldier’s heart.” Moreover, the smoking of a few cigarets can render healthy men more breathless on exertion, and manifestly does so in a large proportion of these patients. Excessive cigaret smoking is not the essential cause in most cases of “soldier’s heart;” but, in the authors’ opinion, it is an important contributory factor in the breathlessness and precordial pain of many of them.

Hamstringing the Child Labor Laws.—“Already in Connecticut, Minnesota, New Hamsphire and Vermont no time has been lost in repealing or suspending the operation of the child labor laws. Everywhere the case is the same. There is a clamor

Digitized by AjOOQle
419

to cut the school hours and the school months. The farmer declares he cannot get along without child labor, The truck gardener echoes the call. The makers of munitions say they need children in their plants. The canners assert that without children they cannot put up the great amount of food products the country needs. The vast percentage of these claims are false. They are not made in good faith. They are founded in greed.. They are inspired by a desire for cheap labor. They are marked by an utter callousness to the fate of the instruments they seek to employ and misuse.” This note, taken from the Columbus (Ohio) Citizen, is an indication of the difficulty of enforcing public health and social legislation which interferes to any extent with manufacturing or other industries.

Biology and the Citizen.—The time has come when one cannot be a good citizen without some knowledge of biology. The person who does not believe in vaccination or the so-called “germ theory” of disease or quarantines, who fights against taxes to improve the water supply or to dispose of sewage or to get rid of malarial mosquitoes, who opposes the appointment of health officers, or the scientific inspection of milk and other foods, or the medical examination of schoolchildren, is not only an ignoramus but he is also a bad citizen.—E. G. Conklin, Yale Review.

Improvement in Retarded Children.—It is a well known fact that children who are retarded and far below the average intelligence at an early period may as they grow older catch up a year or two in mental growth. The fact that a child grades below the average by formal tests is not an infallible sign that he will never develop beyond the mental attainments of a child. An analogy is found in the retarded physical development of certain children.—Treadway, Public Health Report, Nov. 24, 1916.

The Danger of Excessive Humidity in the Air Supply.

From our work in air washing and humidifying lines we have come to the conclusion that much higher humidities are being specified than are advisable. Practically all. of the reports that we have studied covering the work of investigators on heating and ventilating and air conditioning show that in an auditorium that is to be occupied by a large number of people there is never a lack of humidity and almost always a state of excessive humidity. The vapor given off by the bodies of the occupants soon brings about a condition of relative humidity much higher than need be or advisable, with the result that the feeling of discomfort is more easily produced because the wet bulb temperature rises, making the evaporation from the skin less rapid, with a consequent tendency to increase the skin temperature, thereby causing discomfort.

Digitized by

Google
420

It seems quite contradictory to send tubercular patients to the mountain altitudes and to localities of very low humidity and at the same time to insist upon children being kept in schoolrooms for several hours a day with air supplied at humidities of 50 percent at 70 degrees F. which frequently results in humidities maintained in the room higher than 70 percent.	F.	R.	Ellis.

Comment of Dr. Thomas R. Crowder, Director of the Department of Sanitation and Surgery of the Pullman Company.

It is commonly asserted that dry air is harmful. The truth of this statement has not been proven, although much engineering practice has been based on the assumption of its truth. It is a matter of common experience that many of the elaborate devices for conditioning air have failed of their purpose to create comfort in spite of their ability to maintain the desired degree of humidity.

About all the exact knowledge we have concerning the physiological effects of humidity is that much moisture in the air is harmful. This is certainly true when temperatures are high; whether it holds through the lower thermic scales has not been clearly shown. Rubner, one of the greatest of hygienists, makes the statement that the body does best in an atmosphere of low humidity.

It is almost beyond question that the effects of air on the body are to be explained wholly on the basis of thermic relations. Humidity is one of the three elements controlling the thermic effect of air on the body, the other two being temperature and motion. Within certain limits, varying any one of these qualities can be entirely compensated for by changing the other two. So it would not seem that any absolute standard either of humidity or temperature, or motion, is possible. Neither is it possible, in my opinion, to establish an absolute standard of combined humidity, temperature and motion, for the simple reason that perfect uniformity of atmospheric conditions is not desirable. The constant stimulation of the skin which is endured by constantly varying its atmospheric environment contributes both to comfort and to healthy physiologic responses.

It is not probable that the alleged drying effect on the mucous membranes of air with low humidity is real, but that the effects so ascribed are rather due to too high a temperature, or to such a combination of temperature, motion and humidity as fail to accomplish a normal amount of heat elimination from the body and so break the thermic balance on which a proper distribution of blood depends. We do not get this drying effect from breathing cold air, although cold air contains very little moisture and takes up much from the lungs. The amount of water vapor given up by the mucous membranes of the respiratory tract to the air passing over them depends on the absolute amount of moisture in the air and not on its relative proportion. Whether the air is taken in cold or warm, it comes out essentially at the temperature of the body and essentially saturated with water vapor. Thus in the winter time we give up the same amount of moisture with each
421

breath whether we are breathing the outside air at a temperature below freezing or the same air after it has been brought inside and warmed to 70 degrees F. This is a fact which seems to have been quite lost sight of in the discussion of humidity.

HYGIENE OF THE FEET.*

Do you suffer from aching feet?

This pain may be due to tenderness of the feet, improper shoes or hosiery, or broken arches.

Tenderness of the feet may be caused by callous spots, blisters, excessive perspiration, or ingrowing nails.

If you suffer from tender feet you should take a cold foot spray every morning and every evening.

Get the tonic effect of the full pressure of the cold water from the faucet upon the feet.

Dry the feet thoroughly with a Turkish towel, paying special attention to the spaces between the toes.

Rub the feet with alcohol and with boric acid, and powder them.	,

Callous spots on the feet should be rubbed with pumice stone, and softened with vaseline and cold cream. Do not cut them.

Excessive perspiration may be overcome by frequent bathing of the feet and frequent changing of hose. Avoid use of lotions.

Blisters caused by perspiration may be relieved by the application of spirit of camphor on a piece of cheese cloth.

Genuine blisters should be painted with collodion, to protect them from the air and the friction of the hose.

To cure an ingrowing nail, cut a V shaped notch at the centre of the top of the nail.

As the V closes in the course of the nail's growth, the nail will be drawn from the ingrowing corners.

If the skin is badly inflamed, there is danger of blood poisoning and medical attention should be obtained.

Do you pay sufficient attention to your hose and your shoes?

Both should be changed daily.

Or, wear two pairs on alternate days, so that the same hose and the same shoes may not be worn on successive days.

Cold feet in winter are caused by de-fective circulation.

Persons suffering from cold feet will get relief from the daily cold spray.

They should also practice deep knee bending and heel raising, to stimulate the circulation in the legs and the feet.

They should wear warmth-giving and warmth-retaining hose of gauze weight, instead of sheer hose and low shoes.

If your shoes are too tight, you will get callous spots.

If your shoes are too loose, you will get blisters.

If your heels are too high or too low, your arches may suffer.

Note: These cards measuring 2 by 3 inches, five in a set, can be had for $4.00 per hundred sets by addressing Dr. Fuld, 130 East 110 St. New York City.

Digitized by

Google
422

The proper height of your heels should be determined by the height of your instep and of your arch.

Do you stand and walk with your toes pointing outward?

This out-toeing position throws the weight of the body upon the weaker inner side of each foot, and tends to break down the arch of the foot.

Stand and walk with the feet a few inches apart and parallel to each other, the knees stiff and unbent, and the toes making a distinct grasping effort, to throw the weight of the body on the stronger outer edge of each foot.

If you follow these directions in walking and in standing, you will never suffer pain in the arches of your feet.

If you are obliged to stand much, you should guard against a weakening of your arches by systematic exercise.

The following symptoms of weak arches should be promptly heeded: A feeling of weakness on the inside of the foot or the ankle; a slight pain in the back of the leg between the knee and the ankle; a severe pain at the knee or at the hip; painful or sensitive heels or muscles.

To strengthen the arches, stand with the feet toeing inward

slightly and the knee bent slightly forward and outward.

This is a bow-legged position. ''

Practice this movement for a minute or two, from ten to twenty times a day, whenever a moment for relaxation presents itself.

(Copyright 1917 by Leonhard Felix Fuld, Pk. D.)

THE HEART’S ACTIVITIES.

The electric current and the sensitive photographic plate have contributed in an unanticipated way to the solution of many difficult problems in the physiology and pathology of the heart.

What are some of the acquisitions to science derived through these studies, particularly as they have been combined with elaborate investigations of the minute morphology of the heart? Lewis, himself a skilled experimenter in this field, offers this explanation for the development of two sets of chambers in the heait: an upper one “frail and thin-walledw; the lower “sturdy and massive”. The function of the auricle, he concludes, is not to fill the ventricle, as is so commonly taught in elementary classes. The blood pumped from auricle to ventricle at the end of the heart’s diastole is only a fraction of its full content. The function of the auricle is to save the veins from overdistention. During a third of the ventricular cycle, during the period when the ventricle is pouring blood into the body, the circulation is completely obstructed at the auriculoven-tricular orifices. Yet the blood flow in the veins continues; the flow goes on into the expanding auricles. The mechanical function of the auricle is that of a reservoir, to catch and hold the content of the stream when a dam is thrown across it. It wants little strength * for this task; its walls must stretch easily; they have to pump against a low resistance; the muscle layer is therefore thin.

Digitized by LjOOQle
423

The spread of the contraction wave from the mouth of the great veins to the auricular mass as a whole, Lewis continues, is expedited by the central position of the node from which the wave starts, by the architecture of the muscle bands that radiate from it in all directions, and, lastly, by the relatively high rate of conduction that auricular muscle possesses.

In traveling through the auriculoventricular node, the contraction wave meets a long delay in its progress while the amide is emptying itself. Thereupon it spreads to the bundle, a structure of fibers endowed with conducting fibers of the highest order, with the result that all parts of both ventricles are thrown into contraction with the closest approach to simultaneity. Hence, too, the mechanical advantage of the ventricle as a driving power.—Ed. “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc.”

PHYSICAL TRAINING AS A PART OF THE EDUCATION OF THE AMERICAN CHILD

ISAAC W. BREWER, M. D. Major, Medical Reserve Corps, U. S. Army.

If the United States is to maintain its place among the nations of the world, its children must not only be endowed with strong^ healthy bodies, but during the growing period their bodies must be supervised and trained so as to escape the diseases and deformities which are all too common among our people. In other words, our educational system must include as well as mental training a rational physical training which shall go beyond a few exercises indifferently done.

That this is not a fad is shown by the results of the physical examinations made at the recruiting stations of the army. Of 278,537 applicants for enlistment during part of the period from 1914 to 1917, 205,281 or 73.7 per cent, of the applicants were rejected at the recruiting office because of physical defects that were apparent to a man who had no medical training. At the recruiting depots, where the men are subjected to a rigid physical examination by a medical officer, an additional 10,062 or 3.6 per cent, were rejected, making a total of 77.3 per cent, rejected.

Of 4,027 men from New York State examined at the recruiting depots 17.6 per cent, were rejected.

During April, May and June, 1917, 1,833 applicants from New England and part of New York State were examined by several medical officers at the recruiting depot and 7.6 per cent, were rejected. In the following table is summarized the result of the causes of rejection with the percentage rejected for each cause:

Per Cent.

Incipient tuberculosis.................................... 2.2

Consolidation of arex of lung............................ 0.8

Secondary syphilis.......................................  1.6

Gonorrhea.............................................. 4.0

Hyperthyroidism........................................ 3.2

Exophthalmos ............................................. 0.8

Digitized by LjOOQLe
424

Deficient mental development................................. 0.8

Previous history epilepsy...................v.............. 0.8

Tremors ...................................................   2.2

Chronic blepharitis............................  -........... 0.8

Deafness.......................................  -........... 4.3

Organic heart disease.....................................   23.1

Varicose veins............................................. 5.1

Varicocele.................................      ;...-....... 1.6

Tachy cardia.................................................    1	•	6

Chronic pleurisy........................:.................... 0.8

Deficient dentition......................................     1.6

Chronic indigestion....................................       0.8

Hernia ..................................................     5.1

Acute balanitis. ...................................      —	0.8

Orchitis..........................................     —..... 0.8

Phymatosis, marked......................................... 0.8

Tumor of testicle.......................—.................... 0.8

Undescended testicle  .........................................— .   4.0

Ingrowing toe nails......................................     0.8

Pendulous abdomen..........................................   0.8

Ichthyosis.............................................       1.6

Bunions...............................................        1.6

Hallux valgus......................................           0.8

Fallen arches and flat foot................................ 12.5

Old injury to foot....................................        0.8

Deformed ankle.........................................       0.8

Blindness ...............................................     0.8

Underdeveloped .....................................          1.6

Poor physique..............................................   9.5

Recent operation for hernia................................ 2.2

Under weight.............................................. 4.0

Under height______;............................  —........... 3.2

A study of this table will show that not less than 56 per cent, of these men were rejected because of diseases or deformities that were preventable or could have been removed by a proper surgical operation.

In 23.1 per cent, the men had disease of the heart of which they knew nothing, while one-eighth had fallen arches. A much larger number of the men had flat foot but not to such a degree as to incapacitate them for military duty. In most cases flat foot can be cured by proper physical exercises.

The 5.6 per cent who were rejected because of venereal disease are but a small part of those who had the disease, as most of those so affected were excluded at the recruiting station before they reached the medical officers. Even a percentage so small as 5.6 is a disgrace to an enlightened nation and a serious menace to the future of that nation.

These statistics speak very strongly for an efficient system of physical training in our schools and for larger appropriations for preventive medicine.— Health News. New York State Department of Health, Nov. 1917.

Digitized by ^.ooQle

i
425

O.-WM !■■■■■■	———	—	O

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

O' ................ "	—	■	o

WAND DRILL

By TRACEY W. GAREY, Recreation Supervisor, Tarry ton, N. Y. Music:

Fundamental position.

Wands to position left side

(End of wand above head)

Part I.

1.	Position raising right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Raise wand upward

4.	Flex elbows, wand drops to back of neck

5.	Wand raise

6.	Wand lower front

7.	Raising right arm release wand

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat Part II.

1.	Raising right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Forward raise, shoulder high

4.	Turn wands, right hand raise, left hand lower

5.	Back to position (as 3)

6.	Lower wand forward (as 2)

7.	Same as count 1

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat (Same only on count 4 left raise, right lower)

Part III.

1.	Raising right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Raise left arm to vertical side right, arms straight

4.	Cross body to left (position same as 3)

5.	Return to right as 3

6.	Lower wand forward as 2

7.	Raising right arm, release wand

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat Part IV.

1.	Raising right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Forward raise wand over head

4.	Right arm bend lower, crossing body so wand is side left ver-

tical (close to body)

5.	Return to position of count 3

6.	Same as count 2

7.	Same as count 1

Digitized by LaOOQle
426

•"8. Position

1 — 8 Repeat (vertical right side on count 4)

Part V.

1.	Raising right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Bend left arm to wand under arm pit, right crosses body to

left so wand is parallel on left side

4.	Same as 3 under right arm (parallel)

5.	Wand forward shoulder high position

6.	Wand lower

7.	Same as count 1

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat Part VI.

1.	Raising right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Wand side raise to left, push out to left side shoulder high,

point

4.	Same as count 3, to right

5.	Wand to chest, arms flexed front

6.	Arms lower to count 2, position

7.	Same as count 2

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat (on count 3 push to right, count 4 to left)

Part VII.

1.	Raise right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Raise wand forward over head, quarter turn right

4.	Forward bend body

5.	Body and wand raise, quarter turn to left, to position of

count 3

6.	Wand lower forward

7.	Same as count 2

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat (on count 3 turn to left)

Part VIII.

1.	Raise right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Wand forward over head raise, stride stand jump

4.	Forward bend, left arm forward, throw wand between legs,

left arm forward

5.	Body raise to position of count 3, only legs together jump

on raising body

6.	Wand lower forward as count 2

7.	Wand as count 1

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat Part IX.

1.	Raise right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Knees half bend, arms flex bend to chest

4.	Wand forward push

Digitized by Google
427

5.	Return	to	same	as	count	3

6.	Return	to	same	as	count	2

7.	Return	to	same	as	count	1

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat Part X.

1.	Raise right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Lunge forward side left foot, release grasp of wand with right

hand and point throw wand

4.	Same as count 2

5.	Same as count 3 to right

6. Same as count 2

7. Same as count 1

8.	Position

1 — 8. Repeat (on count 3 lunge to right, on 5 to left)

Part XI.

1.	Raise right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Raise wand forward shoulder high, forward step with left foot

(right hand on hip)

4.	Raise wand over head, forward step with right foot,(left hand

on hip)

5.	Return	to	position	of	count	3

6.	Return	to	position	of	count	2

7.	Return	to	position	of	count	1

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat (on count 3 step forward with right, on count 4 step forward with left)

Part XII.

1.	Raise right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Release wand with left hand step back left foot, left hand on

hip, wand vertical touch floor in front of left foot.

4.	Return co position of count 2

5.	Same as count 3 to right side

6.	Return to position of count 2

7.	Same as count 1

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat (on count 3 to right, on 5 to left)

Part XIII.

1.	Raise right arm grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Cross step backwards left foot back of right, right arm raise

to wand vertical in front of chest

4.	Cross step backwards with right foot, wand turn to left arm

raise, right lower

5.	Return to count 3

6.	Return to count 2

7.	Return to count 1

8.	Position

1 — 8 Repeat (on count 3 cross with right, on 4 with left)

Digitized by

Google
428

Part XIV.

1.	Raise right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Lunge forward side left, wand point forward left, high

4.	Pivot on toes point face backward right low

5.	Return	to	position	of	count	3

6.	Return	to	position	of	count	2

7.	Return	to	position	of	count	1

8.	Position

1— 8 Repeat (on count 3 forward right high “	4 backward left low

“	5 forward right high)

Part XV.

1.	Raise right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Body turn one-half right, wand forward raise over head

4.	Forward bend body

5.	Body turn one-half right wand raise

6.	Wand lower to position of count 2

7.	Same as count 1

8.	Position

1 — 8. Repeat (on count 3 turn to left)

Part XVI.

1.	Raise right arm, grasp wand

2.	Lower wand forward

3.	Left arm raise cross body to wand vertical, side right left foot

cross over front of right to right

4.	Right foot comes from behind, left and crosses steps left in

front of left to left wand crosses to vertical left side

5.	Return to same as count 3

6.	Return to same as count 2

7.	Return to same as count 1

8.	Position

1— 8. Repeat (on count 3, cross to right)

BROWNIE REVEL.

MARCIA E. EDGERTON, Supervisor of Physical Training, Escanaba, Mich.

1.

A.

B.

Music, Sylphette Polka, C. A. W. Holland. Formation—single circle—partners facing.

Step to right with right foot, and with left toe behind right foot, courtesy.

(Left hand, palm down, supports right elbow, right arm is bent acutely at elbow and wrist, and right forefinger points in front of face at

partner.) ............................. ........

Repeat, starting to left, left finger pointing..

Turn right about and repeat, facing neighbor....

All run in circle counter clockwise, 8 steps, with hands at sides of head, forefingers extended diagonally upward and outward.....................

Turn right about, run 8 steps clockwise, and face

1 measure

1	measure

2	measures

2 measures

Digitized by v^.ooQle
429

c.

D.

2

3

4

5

partners again ................................

Four running steps to the right, (hands on hips) Turning toward partner, courtesy right and left,

as before in A.................................

Four running steps pressing partner on the left,

(hands on hips) ...............................

Courtesy, left and right, as before............

Inner circle, (A’s) run 8 steps clockwise, while outer circle, (B’s.) run 8 steps counter clockwise. (All with forefingers pointed diagonally outward

at sides of head as in B.).....................

Step right and courtesy, step left and courtesy,

facing the fourth one passed in other circle...

16 measures in all.

Double circle still, partners facing.

2	walking steps toward partner, right and left.

(Pointing fingers as in 1 A.)..................

3	running steps backward, right,-left,-right,

clapping hands sharply on count 3...... ....

Kneel on right knee, bending slightly to the right, and covering face “peek-a-boo” (with both hands, fingers spread and hands crossed palms in.)

Leap up on left toe, right leg lifted behind, arms

out at sides shoulder height...... ............

Step right and courtesy, step left and courtesy Repeat 3 times. Last time, 3 steps forward to position in single circle, facing partner instead

of courtesying during last measure .............

16 measures in all.

Repeat 1............................ ...........

Inner circle, (A’s) running counter clockwise, Outer circle, (B’s) running clockwise, back to original partners.

Double circle,----Partners side by side, inside

hands joined, outside hands on hips.

Polka right and left in line of direction, counterclockwise ......................................

Face partners, 8 running steps around partners to the left, forefingers pointed as in 1 A, but with

tips touching partner’s extended forefinger...

Repeat all 3 times. Last time, during last 2 measures, B draws A into outer circle to her left,

and, without releasing hands, both courtesy....

16 measures in all.

Repeat 1.......................................

Instead of courtesies in last two mesaures, partners join right hands, and B pulls A around to her right, and behind her.

They join left hands over B’s left shoulder. B bends to right and looks at A over right shoulder.

2 measures 1 measure

1 measure

1 measure

1	measure

2	measures 2 measures

1 measure 1 measure

1 measure 1 measure

12 measures 16 measures

2 measures

2 measures

12 measures 16 measures

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School, New York City.

The Senior A. A. U. Cross Country Championship was won by James Henigan of the Dorchester (Mass.) Club over the six mile Franklin Park Course (Boston) in 33 min. 58 sec. The Dor--Chester Club took the National Senior A. A. U. Team Championship. The individual and team scores are as follows:

Name and Club.  James Henigan, Dorchester Club					Time. M. S.  . 33 58	
Villar Kyronen, Melrose A. A.					. 33	58 2-5
J. Tuomikoski, Dorchester Club 					. 34	26
C. Pores, Melrose A. A	 					. 34	54
Fred Faller, Dorchester Club						. 34	55 3-5
Clifton Horne, Dorchester Club					. 35	12
Vic Voteretsas, Morningside A. C.					. 35	22
M. Bohland, Paulist A. C						35	23
M. Wigger, Paulist A. C.						35	25
Nick Giannakopolus, Melrose A. A					. 35	26 2-5
J. Phillips, Paulist A. C.					. 35	45
Joe Giorgio, Paulist A. C					. 35	57
Club.	Score and Total				Points.
Dorchester Club			 1	3	5	6	15—30
Melrose A. A		_				 2	4	9	12	13—40
Paulist A. C—		..... 7	8	11	14	19—59
New Hampshire S. C							 0

The University of Pennsylvania won the recent Intercollegiate Cross Country Championship over the six mile Van Cortland Park (N. Y.) course. This is the first time in many years that Cornell failed to finish first, but, however, individual honors went to Ivan C. Dresser, Cornell, who finished just in 33 min. flat. The team score is as follows:

Team Score.

Pennsylvania

Cornell .....

Columbia ....

M. I. T......

Dartmouth....

2	4	3	19	14—38

1	11	12	13	18—55

7	9	15	21	22—74

35 24 26 29—85 6	17	20	25	28—96

The athletic world lost another prominent member when Charles White, widely known boxing referee recently passed away. White was the most prominent referee of pugilistic contests in the country and in recent years was the “third man in the ring” in all championship bouts. He was 52 years old.

Digitized by Google
431

FOOTBALL’S DEATH TOLL IS 12; NO COLLEGE PLAYERS

IN LIST.

Chicago. — Football, the roughest of American outdoor sports,, exacted a toll of twelve victims during the 1917 season, which ended with Thanksgiving day games, according to reports to the Associated Press.

The number was six less than in 1916, and four less than two years ago. In 1914 there were fifteen deaths.

Defenders of the popular college sport pointed to the fact that not a fatality nor even a serious injury occurred in the big universities and colleges, where the game is conducted under expert physical direction.

All victims, with one exception, were either high school students or players who, with little or no training, participated in semi-professional games.

A majority of the cases showed the players entered the game without proper knowledge of it and without proper physical condition for so rough a sport.

The open style of play, instead of the smashing game which rapidly is being discarded, has eliminated much of the danger, in the opinion of Fred L. Murphy, a former Yale star, now coach at Northwestern University. The players, he said, also are better protected through improved heavily padded uniforms and head-gear.

“Lack of proper training and physical condition is the greater menace to the game,” Coach Murphy said to-day. “High school students and semi-professional players, as a rule, are not properly hardened to play the game.

“In big colleges and universities the players are systematically conditioned and trained. In addition, they undergo a rigid physical examination. If they have symptoms of heart weakness, they are not accepted.”

We have the past week had inquiries from two subscribers as to their dates of expiration. One found date on name label to be Oct. 18 and the other found his date to be May 16 but neither understood the meaning. The first meant the subscription was paid to and including the October, 1918, number, or approximately a year in advance. The other meant that the subscription had lapsed and that there was due on it $1.00 for the year from May 1916 to May 1917 and another $1.00 for the year May 1917 to May 1918.

As the last mentioned subscriber sent $1.50 with his inquiry this paid him for one year (May 16 to May 17) and 5 numbers, or the June, Sept., Oct., Nov. and Dec. copies. This explanation is given to enable other subscribers to understand their own expiration dates as shown on label of magazine. The greatly advanced cost of doing business prevents the sending of receipts for subscription payments. The date on the label is our acknowledgment of payments received. Besides this subscribers should send money by check, personal checks preferably, as they form an absolute record of payment and our endorsement is a receipt.

The Publishers.

Digitized by
432

Extracts from the Reports of the Meeting of the Board of Governors Held at St. Louis, November 19, 1917.

1.	$5,000 was appropriated out of the funds of the organization

to buy medals for competition and to otherwise encourage athletics in the various military camps.

2.	A resolution was passed stating that during the period of the

war, amateurs and professionals could compete for prizes while in active service, and this without regard to registration.

3.	The Amateur Athletic Union also voted to suspend the col-

lection of entry fees and registration fees to outside events for soldiers and sailors.

4.	Women swimmers were given the privilege of collecting ex-

penses for a chaperon when attending meetings away from home.

5.	A new “Committee on Gymnastics” was appointed. It was

unanimously decided to hold the next Gymnastic Championship in the Middle West. Indianapolis has been spoken of as the probable city.

6.	Two other matters of importance acted upon were the dis-

qualification of Basket Ball players shifting from one team to another without complying with the usual A. A. U. conditions, and the creating of a new district known as the Alleghany Mountain District with Pittsburg as its center.

7.	The Championship awards in the various activities were not

acted upon owing to some closer investigations to be conducted. These will be made by a mail vote in the near future.

8.	The election of new officers resulted as follows:

President,	Charles A. Dean, Chicago.

Vice Presidents, J. Dallas, Philadelphia.

L.	Di Benedetto, New Orleans.

John J. Taylor, Pittsburgh T. Morris Dunne, Portland, Oregon. Sec’y Treas. Frederick W. Rubien, New York.

9.	Philadelphia was chosen as the next meeting place in No-

vember 1918.

Miss Stinson’s Flight New Non-Stop Record.

San Francisco.—Miss Katherine Stinson, Texas aviatrix, established a new official American non-stop record for airplane flights when she arrived at San Francisco recently from San Diego, Cal., covering the distance of 610 miles in 9 hours and 10 minutes. Miss Stinson suffered somewhat from the cold, due to the high altitude at which she flew, but otherwise she experienced little discomfort on the long trip. In crossing the Tehachapi Mountains in southern California she reached her highest altitude of the journey, 9,000 feet.

Miss Stinson’s performance surpassed the previous non-stop record of 512 and one-eight miles, made by Miss Ruth Law on Nov. 19, 1916, between Chicago and Homell, N. Y.
433

0 — ■	—	———	■ ■	O

1	NOTES	AND	COMMENTS	|

O' — I ■	—	'	'	o

Change of Convention Cities

Owing to war conditions and the fact that Mr. Metzdorf, director of physical education in the public schools of Springfield, and Dr. McCurdy, director of the physical department in the. Y. M. C. A. College of Springfield, are both away on war duty, it seems impracticable to hold the Convention of the American Physical Education Association in Springfield, Mass. The probabilities are that the Convention will be held in Philadelphia, either during the Easter vacation, March 25 — 31, or some time in May. Make your plans now so that you can attend.

The following letter should be of interest to many of our readers.

Madison, Wis.,

November 23, 1917.

Last year there was a conference of women’s athletic associations held at the University of Wisconsin, and there were representatives from twenty colleges present. Previous to the meeting there were questionaires sent to the women’s athletic associations in various colleges and universities regarding their organization, etc. The result has been compiled by the Wisconsin Association and put into the form of a booklet. I have so many requests from time to time from instructors who wish to form an association, regarding constitutions and officers, that I thought it possible you might wish to call attention to the publication in the next issue of Mind and Body. Besides the official report the booklet contains an exhaustive report on Eligibility, Depts. of Physical Education, Sports, special rules and the Paris system. The price of the booklet is fifty cents, and persons desiring it should write to the President of the Women’s Athletic Association, Lathrop Hall, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.

The high price of anthracite coal has led many householders in the Eastern cities to seriously consider the feasibility of substituting some other less expensive fuel for warming their homes. Gas companies, naturally, have taken advantage of the situation to urge the merits and use of coke, their most important by-product. At the present time and also under normal conditions coke can be sold at a price 20 to 25 percent lower than stove or chestnut sizes of anthracite coal, even allowing for the lower heat value per pound of the coke. This is, of course, largely due to the fact that coke is produced from bituminous coal in the process of gas manufacturing and bituminous is invariably cheaper than anthracite.

Although impressed by the material saving in cost, many amateur firemen are skeptical of the satisfactory behavior of coke

Digitized by

Google
434

in ordinary furnaces and feel that they could not maintain comfortable conditions in their homes. They know that coke burns rapidly, unless the draft is very light; and they believe that it would be impossible to produce reasonably uniform warmth in a residence without more frequent attention than they can give.

The 30-hour continuous test reported in detail below was made to study the peculiarities and suitability of coke as a fuel in a small standard-type boiler designed for anthracite coal. Broken coal, furnished by the New Haven Gas Light Co., was used. This is about equivalent in size to a mixture of stove and nut anthracite. The test was made on a cast-iron sectional boiler which forms part of the house heating boiler test plant at the Mason Laboratory of Mechanical Engineering of the Sheffield Scientific School, Yale University.

Broken coke is sold by the New Haven Gas Light Company, at retail, by the bushel, fifty bushels being considered the equivalent of a ton. As coke absorbs moisture freely selling by weight would be unsatisfactory and might lead to misunderstandings •with customers. The bulk of a ton will vary 10 percent or more, depending on the moisture content. In this particular test the coke averaged 47.84 lbs. per bushel, and the analysis gave 8.35 percent moisture and a heat value of 12,670 B. T. U. per pound dry. Fifty bushels, therefore, contained about 2,200 lbs. of dry coke. If anthracite coal, has a heat value of 1,300 B. T. U. per pound as purchased, fifty bushels of coke are equivalent in potential heat value to 2,140 lbs. of coal.

As a matter of interest and to furnish a basis for comparison a test of this same boiler with anthracite stove coal has been reported in adjoining columns to the coke test.

The results of the coke test may be summarized briefly:

1.	The overall efficiency of the boiler with coke is slightly higher than with coal; which is partly due to the smaller size of the coke, partly due to its burning more completely, and partly due to the lower output at which the boiler was operating. The ■coke requires more frequent attention to check holes developing in the fire bed. These holes are not large, but the air leaking through them would lower the efficiency somewhat if they were allowed to remain.

2.	The coke charges in this test were about all the boiler ■could accommodate without losing steam pressure for too long a period to be satisfactory. With a firing of 175 lbs. pressure was lost for 20 minutes, on the average; when 225 lbs. were fired no pressure was shown on the gage for 40 minutes. With stove coal 250 lbs. can be fired at one time with no longer loss of pressure than for 175 lbs. of coke. Results are secured, of course, when operating at an output equal to at least 75 percent of rating.

3.	From a financial standpoint heating with coke is about 20 percent less expensive than with stove anthracite, and corresponds closely to the cost with pea anthracite. This latter fuel cannot be burned in many residence boilers, however, on account ■•of insufficient draft. At the present prices, $7.75 for 50 bushels

Digitized by AjOOQle
435

of coke and $9.75 for a ton of stove anthracite, the costs of fuel for serving 1,000 sq. ft. of radiation one hour would be $0.1045 and $0,145, respectively, which increases the relative saving of coke.

4.	A coke fire in a coal furnace would not satisfactorily warm a house unless it received attention morning, noon, and night in ordinary winter weather, and every three hours in extreme weather. This statement is based on the supposition that the furnace is suited to the load it has to carry; i. e., is not very much oversize. The coke would require nearly twice the bin capacity and would be somewhat dustier in the cellar than coal. Offsetting these disadvantages is a saving of 20 percent in cost of fuel. A hot water heating system tends to make larger firings of the coke practicable by carrying, with its stored heat, the period during which pressure would be lacking in the steam system.

The third meeting of the Capitol District Physical Directors’ Society of New York State was held November 17th at the Albany High School. Mr. Carl Schrader of Harvard University addressed the society on “The Individual in the Mass”. He suggested many practical ways of reaching the individuals in an large class and getting response from their “self-willed” attention. After his talk Mr. Schrader presented work illustrating the use of different rhythms in gymnastics as a means of getting this “self-willed” attention. Miss Burchenal was unable to be present but was expected at the December 15th meeting, at Troy at Renssalaer Polytechnic Institute.

PROGRAM

9:30—10:00

10:00—10:30

10:30—11:00

11:00—11:30

11:30—12:00

12:00— 1:00 1:00— 1:30

1:30— 2:30

Military Tactics	Carl Schrader

Harvard University Business Meeting	Carl Schrader

Address	Harvard University

Gymnastic Drill

Group work under squad leaders Lawrence S. Hill—Dir.

Leaders

Miss Burns Mr. Maroney Mr. Long Mr. Stark

Luncheon

Playground Games	W. C. Bachelor

Renssalaer Polytechnic Institute English Country Dancing Miss Gray

Miss Johnson

Digitized by
436

In the “Thrift campaign” instituted in the public schools of Philadelphia an article on “Saving Money and Gaining Health” should be of interest to our readers.

Saving health is the fourth in the series of school thrift lessons to be studied in connection with the civics lessons in the public and parochial schools today. The lessons are part of the national thrift campaign, and point out how habits of saving in other things than money are a national virtue.

The lesson for today follows:

“(a) Saving money and gaining health.

“(b) Saving food and gaining health.

A

“Walk to stores instead of riding.

“Many people never think of the nickels they are spending in useless car rides.

“Most stores you buy from are within a radius of a mile and a half from your home.

“You can leisurely walk a mile in twenty minutes.

“To remain in health every one should daily walk four miles.

“To save money and gain in health walk to the shops within a mile and a half instead of telephoning or riding.

“Carry bundles of a reasonable size instead of having them delivered. Delivery costs money. This expense is charged to you, even if it does not appear on the bill.

“The carrying of reasonable bundles increases the good physical effect of the walk.

“The result of 1 and 2 should be a distinct monetary saving and a distinct increase in health. This increase in health should again decrease your expenses for sickness.

B

“Discourage the excessive use of fats in preparing your foods. The work and living methods of most people do not call for the amount of fat usually found in our food.

“Stop the excessive use of fat and eat sparingly of butter. This will result in a saving of money and an increase of health.

“Eliminate practically all your sweet drinks like soda water; also eat less candy. If sugar is, needed it is cheaper in the form of sugar than of candy. This procedure will save money and improve your health.

“Most of us eat too much meat. Most of the nourishment contained in meat may be had in much cheaper forms. Therefore, do not eat meat more than once a day. This procedure will save money and improve health.

“The combination of eating better food and being out in the open air for at least an hour per day must result in a distinct saving of money that will enable you to buy war certificates and at the same time increase your health.”

Digitized by L^ooQle