MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	NOVEMBER 1935 No.	430

Competition and Cooperation

Jesse Eeiring Williams, M. D., Professor of Physical Education, Teachers College, Columbia University.

At the outset I wish to say that I propose to discuss competition	and cooperation.	An almost universal hysteria has con-

demned competition and raised to high places cooperation. Com-• petition versus cooperation would express the view that recently has attained some currency.

?	The	ability	to	see	in	social	phenomena ways of action that

have implications for education is one sure test of intellect and professional alertness. On the contrary the adoption of slogans 1 and the uncritical acceptance of terms represent our failures. It is important to remember that terms become significant not by designation but because they stand for vital phenomena. There is considerable talk today about a hew social order and the enthusiasm of some for various brands of regimentation of the masses is a devotion to terms that will be as readily forgotten as these same persons have forgotten the meaning and significance of democracy.

But the appropriateness of this reference is indicated by the several criticisms of rugged individualism as a philosophy and the old order of laissez-faire as a political and social theory. The critics say that this old order was highly competitive and it must go; that the new order, a collectivist social state is to be highly cooperative. Hence it is argued that competition is bad and cooperation is good, that competition has no place in the schools, and since it is contrary to what we are trying to teach we must have only cooperation and no competition.

Is it not remarkable that the advocates of a collectivist society should argue for types of social organization in which ini'! telligent cooperation is replaced by slavish obedience and competition internationally with all its severe dislocation of world affairs {• is raised to the highest degree? Perhaps one may pass that by at $ . this time. At any rate in the face of this new doctrine, I have • the temerity to discuss competition and cooperation.

V; I wish to remind you in the first place, that we are dealing with biological qualities. Thomdike[l] writes, “Every human k being—tends by original nature to arrive at a status of mastery

r 1. Thorndike, E. L. The Original Nature of Man. p. 93.

I

Digitized by LaOOQle
138

or submission toward every other human being and even under the more intelligent customs of civilized life somewhat of the tendency persists in many men.” All except the most fervid environmentalists acknowledge this trait in original nature. Regarding cooperation there is less evidence to support ics biological origin but Zuckerman[2] calls attention to this quality in his authoritative work, “The Social Life of the Monkeys and Apes.”

We are dealing then with qualities that are not the product of a particular social system but rather are innate traits of man. There is no evidence that these qualities or traits have produced particular social organizations. There is of course the obvious truth that education and sopial experiences generally may strengthen or accentuate or weaken and lessen particular traits. Educated men and women do not openly snatch and grab or cry for what they want. To seek the obliteration of extremes in behavior is not' precisely the same thing as eliminating all behavior that may be extremely developed.

I am well aware of the extremes to which competition may be carried. Interschool wrestling and interschool football for junior high school boys are realities in the present educational world. Moreover, competition in business is typically ruthless. One would shudder to think what it might have been in America had it not been for physical education, over the years and through them, setting examples in sport that were real and abiding lessons for many youth. Not all who have shared in such educational experiences in sport have carried forward the torch handed to them on the playing field but it should never be forgotten that the slogan, Play Fair, is about the most decent words that the jungle world of business has ever heard. Now these words arose, if you please, in actual competitive situations.

Perhaps, physical education can never hope to make its contribution effective until its whole program is free from the jungle standards of the market place. There is no need to remind the speaker that much of present day amateur athletics exhibits ruthless competition nor that the whole amateur code, surrounded by legalistic definitions, in rotten to the core. But did anyone suppose that athletics were to be interpreted apart from the ideas, customs and traditions of the time and place? Social life makes any individual peculiarly what he is and the development of commercialism in athletics could have been prophesied a generation ago by any competent student of the social sciences. Much of amateur athletics today corresponds to rugged individualism in econofnic affairs and has about the same justification.

Aside from the wide social relationships that any trait may reveal, are we ndt still interested in the individual personality? Has the notion of a collectivist society and a totalitarian state so captivated our democratic inheritance that the individual is

2. Zuckerman, S. The Social Life of the Monkeys and Apes. p. 294.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
139

nothing and the state everything? If the answer is no, then we should remember that competition is highly desirable in the development of the personality. In the early years of childhood, play is largely cooperative but before the years reach two figures, the question is as Lee[l] writes, “who is the better man, or the greater and more endurable in some respect,” This is the beginning of self-realization and stronger than the desire to impress others is the child’s impelling drive to test himself. To identify himself, to discover his own reality—this is one sure outcome of the competitive situation. Even so severe a critic of competition as Bertrand Russell[2] writes: “Competition and cooperation are both natural human activities and it is difficult to suppress competition completely without destroying individuality.”

If competition can be eliminated in education, what sort of watery individual would the process develop? After all struggle to realize self gives some fiber to the presonality that alone makes life worth living. If this sort of non-competitive educa,-tion were to ensue, then doubtless we are at the climax of civilization and less can be said for its continuance than many of us suppose.

Moreover, it ought to be clear that cooperation and competition are not antithetical, sure opposites like wet and dry, cold and hot, sweet and sour. There can be no competition without cooperation. Those who know games know that the qua non of competition is cooperation. A game of tennis highly competitive at every stroke is at the same moment highly cooperative. A football game exemplifies cooperation of players to a competitive end, and the education of players in all such cooperative-competitive situations is largely the result of these two qualities.

It is obvious of course that practices exist that interfere with the full force of such educational experiences. The survival of sound educational programs in physical education will demand, as a minimum condition, a leadership in the field that will see beyond the boundaries of a particular school or institution to the larger social demands of the situation. This clearly means that the teacher [coach] of a team will, as an educator, be interested in and concerned with the effects of all experiences that he touches upon. He will care about all the consequences in experience and, if educational leadership—I mean principals and superintendents—can ever come to understand the educational implications of the activities in physical education, he will be held for these consequences, not only upon the boys of the teams he coaches but also upon the boys of the opposing teams.

It would appear then that in this question, we are not dealing with the necessity to eliminate competition but with the pressing need that teachers acquire a social point of view. The Rothschilds did not need formal articles of cooperation be-

1.	Lee, Joseph. Play in Education, p. 186.

2.	Russell, Bertrand. Education and the Modern World, p. 237.

Digitized by ooQle
140

cause they could trust each other, and cooperation has no sure chance of success—nor has competition—until our responsible leadership in physical education becomes really interested in boys and girls instead of scores merely. It is claimed that the emotions of competition are hostility and ruthlessness[l]. This is not generally true in physical education. ’Whether it is ever true depends again upon the leadership that guides our young people in the educational experiences of physical education.

1. Russell, B. Ipse. p. 171-2.

Health Education and Longevity

By James Edward Rogers

In this complex world of rapid change and uncertainty, there is much doubt as to whether any real human progress has been made. Yet one fact stands out most clearly; that the span of human life has been increased twenty years in the last 100 years. In 1834 the average person expected to live to be 36 years; while in 1934 our life expectancy is about 57 years.

This increase in the longevity of life is an achievement of great vital significance to our national welfare. The far reaching implications of this increase have not been fully appreciated by our leading thinkers and leaders. Here is one accomplishment that measures definite human progress and its achievement has largely been a matter of education. Health education has been a sj dominant note in our national life for the past decade. The public schools have played a most important part in health education. Today every progressive school system has a department of health and physical education which undertakes to create proper attitudes toward health, to develop habits of clean living that will carry over into adult life, and to give physical skills so that one can carry on under the stress arid strain of modern iridustrial life.

Educators now say that the public schools must train for physical literacy as weH as mental literacy. There is much physical illiteracy in America. The draft statistics in 1917 and the reports of the White House Confererice on Child Health and Protection show that there is yet great need for health education.

America is now health minded. This has been largely due to the promotion of programs by many national organizations that have spent millions annually to educate the people to live clean, healthy lives. The historians of the future undoubtedly will point to the first thirty years of this century as one being dedicated to health, and perhaps the outstanding achievement being this increase in the span of human living. Our folks now know through educational campaigns, the basic laws of hygienic living. Health is still largely a matter of education.	The medical

authorities are beginning to realize this fact.	If the public

Digitized by Google
141

schools can take the coming generation of twenty-six million school boys and girls and give them health habits that will carry over into adult life, then much can be done to lengthen the span of life. ('Science, engineering and medicine, all contribute to health and longevity but they are largely remediable, whereas the public schools through definite health instruction can achieve greatly in the field of preventives.^

If we can prepare and train the growing boys and girls in our public schools to live clean and wholesome lives, then education can do much to give knowledge of health facts, to create proper attitudes toward clean living, and to develop skills in the practice of physical activity.

We need health education. Although the span of life has been increased in the past hundred years, the speed,, stress and strain of modern living due to the machine is playing havoc with the human race, especially in this country. We have conquered communicable diseases, but the diseases of modern life are physical breakdowns, mental breakdowns and nervous breakdowns. After forty the human machine breaks down under the stress and strain. The increase in the span of life is largely due to the decrease of child mortality and the conquering of contagious diseases. More people hve to the age of forty. Then from 40 to 65 we have 25 years when the human machine begins to get opt of order. Tnere is an increase in the death rate between the ages of 45 to 65 due to organic diseases; the heart, lungs, liver, lridney and stomach are the seat of the trouble, not the fly and the mosquito.

So the problem is one largely of education. We have a new list of diseases killing people in adult life, and all this comes from the type of life we are working at and living by. If we can train our boys and girls early to have an intelligent knowledge of hygienic laws of living, much can be accomplished, but it is not in the knowing but rather in the doing that real progress is made. Health habits cultivated early and later becoming second nature are essential to the conservation of the health of the adult.

Today therefore the great problem in health is one of education. In our public schools we must train our bodies as well as our minds. In the past the academic subjects dominated but today health education is as important as reading, writing and arithmetic. In the seven cardinal principles of education health education was given first place by the teachers of this country. Some twenty state department? of public instruction have a department of health and physical education with a director on the staff of the state superintendent. In these twenty states representing 70% of the population of the country, statewide health programs are functioning. Some thirty states representing 80% of the population of the country are promoting state wide programs. Practically all large city school systems have excellent health instruction programs with large staffs and ample budgets.

Digitized by L^ooQle
142

The health work being done in the schools of Los Angeles, Denver, Des Moines, Cleveland, Rochester, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, and Newark are worthy of study. The pre-school child health examination is becoming very popular throughout the land largely due to the National Congress of Parents and Teachers. An early health and physical examination of every boy and girl is being put into practice in many city systems. The daily morning health inspection is coming in many places. The follow up work based on these examinations is being effectively done through the nurse, the classroom teacher and the parent. Better graded school texts and programs in hygiene and health habits are being used.

The great need today is to improve our school health programs. Health education is at the crossroads. What we need more than propaganda and motivating devices is a program that is graded and scientific, based upon sound physical and psychological principles with educational objectives. Some of the needs of the school health education program are:

1.	Better manuals or courses of study that are graded

2.	Training of classroom teachers

3.	Training courses at normal schools

4.	Summer school classes

5.	Health score cards that are used and get results

6.	Tests and measurements

7.	Educational objectives linked with projects that result in achievement

8.	Recognition of health education as an integral part of the curriculum.

To achieve a better health education program in the schools, it is necessary that there should be adequate facilities for putting into practice the classroom instruction, sufficient time allotment, trained personnel. Last but not least, it is essential that due recognition and credit be given in the curriculum for health education.

No subject in the next ten years will make more progress than health and physical education. Why? Because in this industrial machine age of stress and strain, physical education becomes of first importance. Modern mechanical inventions are creating an artifiical age of standardization. Outdoor living becomes more difficult. Big muscle activity in work and play is almost impossible in the large cities. With the passing of the dirt roads, the old swimming hole, and chores, and with the coming of movies, radio, and vacuum cleaners, youth will have greater difficulty to live physically.

We have conquered communicable diseases, but a new set of physical ailments besets man. The diseases that are attacking men and women over the age of forty come from within. They originate from' four organs—heart, lungs, kidneys and liver. The rapid increase in heart disease is hot only a warning signal but an indictment.
143

In this hectic world of machines and efficiency methods, children are being raised. In this artificial age, activity is essential to growth and development. Activity is the great biological drive in human life. Play is essential to child life; through it, he gains life. The antidote for this physical degeneration in human life is more outdoor living, big muscle activity, play and recreation, and l^ajanced ratio between work, rest and recreation.

The object of education is not alone to make a living but to make a life. We often gain a livelihood but lose the art of living. The modem definition of education is to prepare the child for complete living. Complete living will become more difficult under modem conditions of this industrial machine age, hence the need for school health and physical education programs. It is not a fad but an essential of modem progressive education.

Biological Consideration in Program Building

E. G. Schroeder, State University of Iowa

Physical education rests primarily upon two fundamental principles, physical development and skill development. Naturally branching out from these principles are many phases of related developments and learnings. In discussing this subject I must confine myself to one of these principles, and that is the principal of physical development. It will be quite impossible during this short time to discuss all the phases of biology in its relationship to program building and so I shall take up three divisions in brief order. These are exercise in its relation to [1] muscle and bone; [2] fatigue; [3] heart.

Bodily Exercises in Their Relation to Muscles and Bones

Every movement of the body depends on the ability of the voluntary muscles to contract by shortening their fibres, and then to return to their usual tonic state by relaxing. The shortening of a muscle is the result of chemical activities which are set up in the muscle by a nerve-stimulus. The movement takes place in the following manner:

More nutritive blood-fluid streams toward the muscle when at work than when resting, for it draws from the blood the materials which it needs to build it up. The elastic muscle fibre increases especially in thickness, resulting eventually in a thickening of the entire muscle, which gains in contraction and tone-strength, thus becomig more capable of work.

Bodily movement can only take place by some movement of the bones at any one of the many joints. The muscles are attached to the bones, [which are the passive lever-arms of the body,] by means of muscle-tendons, which exert a powerful

Digitized by t^ooQle
144

pull. Consequently the affected bone is placed under a definite tension; the magnitude of this tension depends upon both the development of the muscle and the quantity and quality of its work. The greater the working performance, the greater the power applied to the bone.

Bone consists of a firm outer surface protecting an internal network of small bone-ridges. The structure of this network is subject to the same static laws by which the engineer arranges the uprights of his bridge: the principle of the minimum expenditure of material for the maximum solidity of structure.

This structure is not absolutely rigid; throughout its life the bone is in a constant state of reconstruction, controlled by the direction and strength of the muscle-pulls transferred to the bone. When, for example, the muscle-pull undergoes a change of direction because of a badly healed fracture, then the whole inner structure adapts itself to the new effects of tension in a relatively short time.

Experience teaches us that growth of bone is furthered by short, intermittent stimuli, but is injured by long, constant influences. The more yielding the affected bone is, the more pronounced the effect. For this reason it lies within the teacher’s power to influence the skeleton of the growing child by appropriate physical movements.

Not only will the interior structure of bone be influenced by the nature of the muscle pull, but also the relative position of the bones. Each muscle has its opposing muscle which governs contrary movements. If the muscle is a flexor, then the opposing muscle is an extensor. If these develop unequally, the result will be a lasting difference in tone, affecting the body even at rest. Therefore, if 'the flexor is more highly developed than the extensor, its higher tone will cause the joint involved to occupy a flexor position in a state of rest.

This fact is of particular significance with resepct to the shape of the spine and the thorax, and also the development of the heart and lungs. The muscles of the thorax are of course more highly developed than the corresponding muscles of the back because flexor positions and flexor movements predominate in daily life. The upper body is therefore mainly bent forward, the chest is compressed, and the shoulder-blades are carried outward, so that they stand out wing-shaped. These unfavourable conditions can be counteracted by suitable exercises. Because of this, the choice of exercise determines the position of the skeleton, and consequently affects both health and symmetry of the individual.

It may be stated, therefore, that calisthenics may be useful in determining correct carriage, while in practical life other forms of movement have greater influence in determining outward performance.

A symmetrical, upright carriage is dependent upon a balance in strength between the opposing anterior and posterior trunk-

Digitized by v^-ooQle
145

muscles. The musculature of the front is furthermore supported in its pulling effect by the weight of the organs of the chest and abdomen. The work sustained by the back-muscles must accordingly be much greater.

Again it may be stated that the task of proper exercises is to strengthen the erector muscles of the body, especially those of the back, in order that these can maintain the equilibrium in opposition to the powerful pull of the abdominal and chest muscles. Calisthenics are not merely useful in strengthening the muscles in question, but are also useful in stretching the shortened tendons, in order to loosen the joints.

If the above-mentioned effects are to be secured, the muscles must be doing their best work; but this is only possible when the path of the muscle’s motion lies in the direction of its main fibres; trunk exercises must consider also the main muscle-pulls, which run generally in a straight, oblique, or diagonal direction.

A complete program of exercises will contain not only joint-loosening exercises but also trunk exercises, which provide for motions in straight, oblique, and diagonal directions; furthermore, there must be special exercises for the arms and shoulders, to counteract the greater power of the chest muscles. In addition there must also be subsidiary leg exercises.

2.	Fatigue And Recovery

It is impossible to make full use of a voluntary muscle after it has begun to tire, since rest is necessary for recovery. For this reason, we must try as far as possible to postpone the beginning of fatigue if our muscles are to give us their best work.

It has also been pointed out that muscular action is chemical in its nature. Basically it is a destruction or breaking down of complex nutritive materials known as carbohydrates. Within the muscle fibres, these complex materials are broken down chemically into simpler substances, releasing the energy with which the muscle contracts. The natural result of this process is fatigue.

Some of the products of breaking down must be replaced or built up into the original materials again. This can only occur when the muscle is at rest and relaxed. Rebuilding the nutrient materials requires further energy, however; and to secure this energy the body must first of all begin a second chemical reaction, combining some of the broken-down substances with oxygen taken from the blood. By this activity, essentially a slow combustion or burning, more energy is released, by which the remaining materials can be built up again. For this reason, the mechanical work of the muscles is always accompanied by heat. When the nutrient materials have been rebuilt and the final products of combustion replaced wholly or in part, the combustion products are removed. During the recovery period, the blood takes on and carries away carbonic acid.

Complete recovery after contraction requires a definite time, depending upon the amount of fatigue. If contraction and relaxa-

Digitized by Google
146

tion are alternated in regular rhythm, fatigue can be considerably retarded, and sometimes almost indefinitely postponed. If, however, contraction and relaxation are alternated so rapidly that little recovery is possible in the period of relaxation, then fatigue sets in much more rapidly.

When the contraction meets a certain resistance, the succession of fatigue and recovery is altered. Greater effort will be needed to overcome the resistance, and naturally the period needed for recovery will also have to be greater. As this longer period is usually not given, the resistance causes fatigue to set in more rapidly. We must distinguish, therefore, between two fundamentally different forms of exercise. In one of these, contraction and relaxation alternate in regular rhythm; in the other, resistance is opposed to every contraction, usually in the form of weight. We have, for example, lifting dumb-bells, or raising one’s own body on the high bar. According to the number and mass of muscles called into play, we can call the first an exercise of strength and the other one of endurance. Very similar to the exercise of endurance is that of speed, in which the rhythm of contraction and relaxation is shortened to the utmost. Exercises of speed approximate those of strength, for they usually involve the moving onward of one’s own body-weight, as in the foot-race, for instance. The effect of these three types has been characterized thus: “Exercises of strength produce mainly a local fatigue of the muscles, exercises of endurance a general fatigue. Speed exercises on the contrary, fatigue first of all those organs which get the most use, namely the organs of circulation and respiration.”

These facts furnish the teacher several important hints for his method of procedure. Exercises with a relatively slow rhythm are less fatiguing, and so can be continued longer and require a shorter period of rest; while exrecises with a quick rhythm, like the dash, are much more fatiguing, and so require a longer time for recovery. The strongest and quickest fatigue will be produced by exercises of endurance or strength, which also require the longest recovery time. It must also be born in mind that exercises of strength when carried too far or performed too frequently, cause an overdevelopment of the muscles at the expense of their flexibility. Consequently, exercises of strength are of minor importance for the young. Last of all, it must be noticed that a long continued contraction of the muscle brings on the highest degree of fatigue.

From all these statements we may determine the value of each type of exercise; endurance exercises develop the capacity for endurance; strength exercises develop the capacity for muscle contraction and the general strength; and speed exercises develop to a noticeable extent the capacity for performance of the circulatory and respiratory organs.

The demaud for variety in the exercises and for their rhythmical alternation is baped on the fact that blood supply is determined by activity. Active muscles receive more blood than

Digitized by Google
147

those which are inactive. The increased blood supply affects not merely a single muscle or a single organ but the entire area involved in the particular movement. As a consequence, relatively less blood is to be found in the other parts of the body. In order to give every part of the body its fair share of blood, the exercise program must be varied.

Exercising also fatigues the brain. Every movement of the body involves not only the muscular system but also the central nervous organ which directs it. Muscles cannot respond directly to stimuli coming to the body from without, and movement must come in a roundabout way. The stimulus must reach the brain by one nerve-path, and the signal for response must come from the brain to the muscle before contraction will produce a movement. Depending on the age of the individual and on the preceding exercise, therefore, the brain tires as well; and the younger the child, the greater the fatigue. For this reason, also, there must be variation; and it follows likewise that the type and duration of the physical education period must be determined above all by the child’s age.

3.	The Influence of Bodily Exercises on Circulation.

It should now be clear that bodily exercise influences not merely the bones and muscles but the whole body as well, affecting extensively the functions of the internal organs. The heart must work harder to furnish the greater blood-supply called for by active muscles. Consequently, the lungs also must work harder. The rate of assimilation is increased, which calls for greater activity of the secretory organs to replace the materials consumed; and, finally, this in turn increases the demand for food. In other words, every part of the body is involved, and under proper direction physical exercise will be of advantage to the entire organism. The degree of stimulation will depend upon the amount of work performed in the time given.

In addition to general exercises there are others which have a specific influence on certain organs. Bending the arm has a very smajil effect on the organism as a whole; but even so, it is possible to increase the general influence of such a movement by repeating it a number of times in quick succession. The dash, for ex-anple, has a great effect on the internal organs.

After all, the effect of such exercises wears off soon after their conclusion. The assimilation is influenced much more by exercises of endurance, especially when these are performed with a load through a period of hours. In such activities as marching, excursions, mountain tours, and skiing, there is often less work done in the time-unit; but these activities cover a much longer period of time, and the total effect is greater. Naturally a longer time is also required for recovery. The first-named type is a strength-speed exercise, but this second type is a genuine exercise of endurance; performed under a heavy load, it is even an endurance-strength exercise. Between these two limits all

Digitized by LjOOQle
148

transitions are possible. In all cases, the effect of the exercise on muscles and skeleton must also be considered.

Since the entire organism is influenced by exercise, it is necessary to recognize its effects on the individual organs.

a]	The Effect Upon The Heart

The heart furnishes the driving force for the circulation of the blood. All through life this motor is never at rest. Its work is normally a rhythmic one. When the heart-muscle contracts, a certain amount of blood is set in circulation; when it relaxes again, a certain amount of blood flows back to the heart. Then there is a small pause, followed by another contraction. In the adult we find on an average 65-75 heart-beats per minute; in the child we find correspondingly more, the exact number depending on age and sex. At school-age, there are 80-90 beats per minute.

Bodily exertion affects the heart first of all by accelerating its activity so that the pulse-rate rises. When the exertion is over, this more rapid pulse will sink again to its usual rate. More or less time will be required for the pulse to regain its normal rate, depending on the intensity and duration of the exercise; the time necessary for this is called the recovery period. The length of the recovery period is very significant in judging strength, particularly in the normal heart. When, for example, the heart requires a recovery period longer than the average, its ability to perform can be considered small.

In determining the heart’s performance ability, the length of the recovery period is much more important than the increase in pulse-rate itself.

The youthful heart works under other conditions than that of the adult. When the first school years begin, it is proportionally more massive and strong than it will be later. The large vessels which proceed from it, however, are still wide, so that its work is performed against relatively small resistance. During the later school period, especially the years of development, these conditions alter, the heart growing larger than the width of the vessels, so that henceforth it has to work against a higher pressure. The danger of injuring the heart by over-exertion becomes greater as it matures; and consequently it must be kept under observation during the development years. As a rule, the youthful heart is better able to bear quick short movements than slower, longer-lasting ones; the danger of over-exertion comes less from the intensity of the exercises than it does from the duration.

Physical exercise increases not only the number of heartbeats per minute, but the depth of each beat. As the heart accustoms itself gradually to the greater demands made upon it, a larger amount of blood is forced onward by each pulsation. Consequently, the pulse-rate rises only at first, and this temporary increase is kept within reasonable limits. As the exercise continues, the recovery period is definitely lowered, for the heart
149

works with increasing efficiency, conserving its strength more and more. As a rule this ability is acquired only gradually, and fully attained only at maturity, outside the ages under consideration.

Because of large individual differences, no exact figure can be given for the duration of the recovery period; but an unusually high pulse-rate or a strikingly slow recovery will deserve suspicion. In such cases, the teacher should induce the parents to consult a physician.

Space will not permit me to continue analyzing this subject further and I must be content in calling your attention to the importance of utilizing our knowledge of biology in developing our programs of exercise. So, at the close, I wish to summarize a few of the outstanding thoughts which I presented.

1.	Exercise does influence posture by counteracting the great pull of the flexor muscles through exercises that develop the extensors, and thereby determines the position of the skeleton.

2.	The effect of different kinds of exercise will produce different effects upon fatigue products. Exercises of strength produce local fatigue, while exercises of endurance produce general fatigue. Speed exercises fatigue first the organs of circulation and respiration.

3.	During school age exercises that are of a short quick action type are better than the slower, longer-lasting movements. The danger of over-exerting the heart is less from the intensity of the exercise than from its duration.

A Proposal to Study Learnings and their Attributes by Means of Mechanical and other Devices

Howard A. Gray, Ph. D., Research Associate, Erpi Picture Consultants,

New York, N. Y.

[Concluded]

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS It seems that, in the cerebral cortex alone, the human brain is made up of from ten billion to fourteen billion cells, each individual cell being connected to at least one hundred other cells by means of a complex system of conductor paths in numbers almost beyond comprehension—1015,000,000. Crile[4] is of the opinion that some four quadrillion tiny motors in the gray matter cells furnish power for the thinking process, which is also influenced by currents from the gland generators.

For some time it has been believed that nerve impuless have been carried to individual receptors in the brain by a special

Digitized by
150

neuron in a manner analogous to the transmission of a telephone message. Pieron[10] recently has concluded that for a sensation to occur, it is necessary for some external energy or stimulus to produce a cellular modification in the brain. Special neurones exist for transmitting varying intensities of the same stimuli, such as light and sound waves of different frequencies. These respond only to the wave length of the stimulus to which their own frequency is tuned; the rapidity of the response increasing with the strength of the stimulus, in other words, Pieron[10] has evidence to the effect that these special neurons are activated by the integration of a number of neuroquanta of varying magnitude. When such neurones are lacking or not activated, we do not experience sensation. He illustrates this point by explaining that the reason we do not' see ultra-violet light or see infra-rays is because of the absence of neurones of those frequencies and quanta. Is there a clue here to individual variations in intelligence? Kreezer[8] has demonstrated that the muscles of idiots respond differently to mild electric currents than do the muscles of normal persons. Similarly, Berger[3] found that electrical oscillations from the brains of feeble minded, epileptic and patients suffering from other organic mental diseases differ from those of normal persons in frequency and amplitude. Berger’s results have been corroborated in part by Jasper and Carmichael [7], and by Adrian and Matthews[lJ. The latter experimenters believe that cortical oscillations are in some way related to vision mechanisms.

Some indication of the delicacy of our receiving apparatus may be had from additional findings made by Pieron.[l0] Our eye, for instance, can detect a quantum of light energy of the amount absorbed by a single molecule. As a molecule has at least two atoms, and as there are a million billion atoms per square centimeter, the human eye can see then, two million billionths of a square centimeter. Beams recently has shown that the eye responds to light flashes lasting from one hundred-thousandth to one ten-millionth of a second. The olfactory organs are likewise extremely sensitive according to Pieron.[l0] The human nose, can detect the garlic odor of mercaptan in solution of one four hundred-millionths of a milligram in a liter. Our sense of touch can feel a layer of fat not over ten milli-microns iten billionth of a m'eter—the thickness of a molecule of fat on a metallic surface]. Pieron contends that our limit of sensitivity may be that of a molecular order. He further believes that our capacity to discriminate timfe varies with the sensory modality. “With sufficiently brief units of time, duration and intensity comibine in indissociable excitation quantities,—-that an increase in intensity can imply prolongation of the sensory response or an increase in duration of the stimulus can bring about an elevation of the strength of the response.” How does this affect the all or none principle of physiology? He goes on to present evidence that our perception of timte is modifiable by

Digitized by
151

raising or lowering the bodily teniperature. Does this offer a partial explanation of individual differences in reaction timfe?

Crile[4] has found that our cellular brain tissue emits more short wave radiation than any other part of the body. These observations were mh.de from exposed brain tissue by means of spectrometers, therniocouples, photography and the photo-electric cell. The short wave and infra-red radiations cause an ejection of electrons from the brain protoplasm,' setting up a response or action current. Such currents from groups of cells can be picked up by micro-electrodes, amplified, arid measured to one one-millionth of a volt. Such techniques are hailed by Herrick[10] as being as revolutionary as was the invention of the microscope.

Techniques similar to Berger’s have been developed by Wever and Bray [11], and Davis, Lurie, Derbyshire and Saul[5] to study hearing phenomena. The latter also recently demonstrated before the Clinical Congress of the American College of Surgeons the oscillatory nature of electrical discharges from the brain during various states of consciousness. Not only were the oscillations amplified to become audible to the human ear, but they were photographed for graphical presentation. The frequency of the oscillations varied from one to forty per second and continued without interruption until the blopd supply to the cortical areas was cut off. This seems to be a fertile field for further exploration.

A relationship between mental activity and muscular phenomena is reported objectively by Jacobson [ti] who measured the muscular contractions accompanying types of mental activity by means of recording changes in muscular potentials. These potentials, Jacobson believes, are of different nature than the psychogalvanic reflex.

Light is thrown on the phenomena of brain “chemistry”— the latter coming to be studied more and more in terms of electrical phenomena—by the relationship of oxidatioii to the potential between the bipolar cells. The activity of the cell depends upon four factors: — temperature, conductivity, capacity and potential, all of which vary with the nature of the activity. The energy components of the brain, the protein, charged positively, and the lipoid, possessing a negative charge, when mixed together, form what Crile[4] calls autosynthetic cells. These resemble protoplasmic cells and have a positively charged nucleus, and a negatively charged nucleus, and a negatively charged cytoplasm. When the potential between the two is reduced to zero the cell dies. Is there some lead here to the study of memory?

Concerning memory, Crile believes that the white matter of the brain has no individual cells but is a matrix on which is recorded every experience — and hence every education—which the individual experiences during his life. The matrix is permeated by millions of conduction paths created by the stimulus
152

charge of the gray matter which in turn is set into action by an external charge together with glandular stimulation. He likens the white brain matter to a motion picture film, blank at birth, but registering all impressions during the life of the organism. Is this the secret of the “subconscious?”

Pieron[10], who recently propounded the theory of dream life existence says, “All sensations rest upon the circulation of electric charges in cells which stimulate each other—from which we build up symbolisms of the external world, representations of which are as far removed from reality as the word which designates sensation is from that of sensation itself.”

Herrick[10] seems to be in agreement with Crile that each brain cell generates, of its own accord,'a definite amount of electrical energy, depending upon the individual’s emotional state or upon the intensity of the attending stimuli. The former brings to the fore the function of the endocrine glands in mental activity. Crile believes the thyroid hormone increases the electro-chemical action of the autosynthetic cells, causing them to emit ultraviolet radiation. The adrenal gland, he contends, is the central generator of the body and its hormones provide the brain cells with a part of the power necessary for mental activity. It is substantially aided in this function by the thyroid on which education is as dependent as on the brain.

Studies on the size and weight of the brain have yielded valuable data of a quantitative nature. Todd[10] indicates that the average brain develops to its full size in from four to six years. Its effectiveness after that is determined by the number and character of the conduction paths between the cells. The number of cells in the brains of negroes and whites is believed to be about the same, but the brain cells vary in size and weight. The average volume of a white man’s brain, Todd found to be around 1500 c. c., With a weight of 499 grams. An average negro’s brain, he found to weigh in the neighborhood of 460 grams. The brains of G. Stanley Hall and Sir William Osier each weighed about 545 grams; had larger temporal lobes and more shallow sulci fissures—the latter indicating that more nerve fibre connections had. developed in the brains of the scholars.

Then there is the development of an inanimate mechanism which furnishes some insight into the nature of the conditioned reflex. The operation of this device may be regulated and foretold by the stimuli of light waves of varying frequencies. The subsequent behavior of the mechanism is analogous to that of human beings when reacting to specific stimuli in a controlled experimental situation. Regarding this analogy, there is no need for controversy on whether or not man is a robot. Rather, the question should center on how the discovery can be utilized in perfecting his development.

With respect ti> conditioned reflexes, Louchs[9] has been successful in producing the phenomenon in a dog by means of in-

Digitized by v^ooQle
153

ducing a current in a coil buried under the skin of the animal's skull over the sensory area. A significant finding of this experiment was that it was impossible to produce the reflex when the coil was activated while located over the motor area of the brain. The research was instituted in an effort to determine how learning takes place and how the behavior of man and other animals can be modified.

THE PROBLEMS AT HAND

The following proposals offer suggestions for utilizing the sound motion picture in studying changes which occur in human beings in learning situations involving aspects of mental activity previously referred to. The purpose of the experiment would be two-fold, namely: [1] to study the effectiveness of sound picture elements in stimulating learnings and their attributes and [2] to attempt an analysis of the process by which learning and other physiological phenomena develop. It is believed that the sound film will provide standardized stimuli for repetition in controlled experimental situations, and that an objective analysis can be made of the nature and intensity of the attending stimuli. This would eliminate many of the experimental variables which heretofore have invalidated similar approaches and conclusions relating to the problem.

The sound film with its human, animal, elemental, and mechanical sound stimuli; trick, natural, and animated photography of form stimuli; and its black, white, and other color stimuli; effect in the individual glandular, muscular and neural changes previously defined as interests, attitudes, learnings, emotions, and appreciations. Past attempts to measure these characteristics of mental development fall into three general classifications.	The first of these is individual observation

in which the experimental examinee is subjected to direct interrogation, participates in interviews, engages in discussions and has his conversation analyzed. His various activities and choice of companions also are scrutinized.

The second type of experimentation has to do with paper and pencil tests and procedures. The individual’s reaction to word associations, checklists, reading choices, questionnaires opportunity for self-analysis, subjective questions, preferences, yes-no multiple choice problems, selections, contrasting statements, superstitions, and time tests have been reported in voluminous detail along with investigations of his factual and vocabulary knowledge.

The third classification describes the techniques which have been utilized in obtaining mechanical recordings of the subject’s respiratory and pulse rates; his blood pressure, muscular tension, vocal responses, psycho-galvanic reflexes, facial expression, and resistance to interference while subjected to selected stimuli.

Digitized by Google
154

Because of the experimental limitations previously referred to these approaches have been foredoomed to partial if not complete failure in solving the problems with which they were concerned. Until these procedures are developed in combination, together with a detailed study of the individual and of the stimulus to which he reacts, such failures appear to be inevitable.

SUGGESTED PROCEDURES

At the present time, numerous tests and methods of securing information about the individual are available. Each of these has some merit but when taken singly and without respect to the individual as a whole their value is lessened decidedly. However, some knowledge of a subject’s school life, his reputation, imagination, attitudes, morality, interests, inhibitions, home life, general character, aggressiveness, sexual traits, confidences, emotions, morphology, appreciations, community life, esthetic reactions, speed of response, sociability, physiology and suggestibility along with some measure or index of his mechanical, abstract, auditory, and social intelligence will provide valuable clues and reasons for his behavior in an experimental situation. Nevertheless, most of such information would be highly subjective and difficult to correlate. The writer feels that some measure of the individual, abstract and auditory intelligence, general background, his reaction speed and his electrical resistance and electrical capacity would suffice for beginning the experimentation proposed. This information should be obtained before the individual reacts to the stimuli of the sound picture.

It is further believed that the objective recording of the individual’s reactions to the sound film in synchronization with its presentation and consisting of muscular tension phenomena, psychogalvanic reflexes, and brain oscillations woula provide a much more valid and reliable measure of his whole response than anything yet attempted. Recognition is here made, of course, of the limitations to the psychogalvanic technique.

The meaning of the variations and correlations obtained by such recordings would be clarified by paper and pencil procedures, discussion and direct questioning of the subject’s thoughts and feelings about elements in his visual-auditory experience and the data which were obtained prior to the presentation of the picture.

Similarly, an analysis should be made of the sound picture stimuli before they act upon the subject. A detailed description of the color elements, their location, contrasts and combinations should be provided. An enumeration and description of the sound elements, including their kind and source, also would be necessary together wth a classification and description of the form elements, their appearance, location and mode of presentation in each scene. A synchronized record of the volume of sounds and the intensity of the light reflected from the screen, would provide an accurate index to the strength of the composite

Digitized by v^ooQle
155

sound and light stimuli involved and would be of value in interpreting the many cause and effect relationships which undoubtedly would be discovered when all the data were interpolated into comparable units for detailed analysis.

In conclusion, enough observations have been made to direct attention to the new objectivity which is coming into psychology and education, regardless of the fears and prejudices of those who oppose a mechanistic approach to the study of human behavior. Introspection alone and pseudo-scientific experimentation must in time give way to more objective methods of studying the phenomena of homo sapiens if the purposes of psychology and education are to be realized.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

1.	Adrian A. D., and Matthews, B.H.C., The Verger Rhythm: Potential Changes from the Occipital Lobes in Man. Brain [British] LVII, 355-383.

2.	Beams, J. W., An Address delivered before the 1934 meeting of the American Optical Society. Article to be published in a forthcoming issue of the Society’s Journal.

3.	Berger, H. Electro Encephalograms in Man. Arch. F. Psy-chiat. Vol. 97 p. 6. June 1932, Vol. 98, 0. 231 November 1932. [See also later issues],

4.	Crile, George, An Address delivered at New York University April 10, 1933. See also Proceedings of American Philosophical Society LXIX, 359; LXXI, 411.

5.	Davis, H., Derbyshire, A. J., Lurie M. H., and Saul L. J., The Electrical Response of the Cochlea. American Journal of Physiology CVII, 311-33.

6.	Jacobson, E., Electrophysiology of Mental Activities. American Journal of Physiology XLIV, 677-694.

7.	Jasper, H, H., and Carmichael, L., Electrical Potentials from the Intact Human Brain. Science LXXXl, 51.

8.	Kreezer, G., Proceedings of the American Psychological Association, New York, 1934. [Article to be published in a forthcoming issue of the Archives of Neurology and Psychiatry]

9.	Loucks, R. B., A Technique for Faradie Stimulation of Tissues Beneath the Integument in the Absence of Conductors Penetrating the Skin. Journal Comparative Psychology XVIII, 439.

10.	Porceedings of the 82nd Meeting- of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Chicago 1933.

11.	Wever, E. G., and Bray, C. W. The Nature of Acoustic

Response:	The Relation between Sound Frequency of

Impulses on the Auditory Nerve. Journal of Experimental Psychology XIII, 373.

Digitized by Google
156

Glassification of Elementary Schoolchildren For Physical Education Activities.

By Ernst Thoma, Washburn School, Cincinnati, Ohio

The best classification of children in elementary schools for physical education purposes undoubtedly is one based on age modified and supplemented by height, weight, and mentality. These are the most evident and most important of the many factors which influence physical achievement. These are also factors which cannot willfully be modified in a short time.

Since Reilly first popularized the use of these factors in classifying children, modifications of his method have been and still are widely used. A lack of definite knowledge of the relative value of these factors is, at least partly, responsible for these various modifications. Weighting formulae of the factors age, height, and weight have been mathematically established by C. H McCloy and by Cozens and Neilson, but these are not entirely satisfactory in practice. Thus in Cozens and Neilson’s California classification, boys 13 years of age, if they have the average height for their age, 60 inches, and the average weight, 94 lbs., are given an exponent of 7 for age, 10 for height, and 7 for weight, while boys 16 years of age, if they have the average height for their age, 67 inches, and the average weight, 133 lbs., are given 13 for age, 15 for height, and 15 for weight. This means that at the 13 year age level, height is considered more important in physical achievement than weight and age, and at 16 years, age is less important thn either height or weight. Applied to the classification of girls, the distortion is similar.

The fact is that the relative influence of height and weight and age on physical performance does vary at different age periods and in the sexes, but the variation is not linear. It is also true that this variation is greatest during adolescence, especially in girls. It is also known that height and weight affect the performance in various physical activities differently and that this difference varies at different age periods. Thus according to the researches of Emil Breitinger, with boys from 10 to 19 years of age, in events in which a foreign .weight is propelled, weight counts more than height, increasing with the weight of the object propelled, and in events in which the body weight is being propelled, height counts more than weight. Breitinger also demonstrates that up to the age of 14 the relatively light boys do better in jumping and sprinting and that up to that age the taller boys have an advantage in general; but after this age, the acceleration in growth in height being spent, but that in weight still continuing, weight also becomes an asset. He does not, however, tell us at what point weight and height cease to be an asset and become an encumbrance as they certainly do, at any age, when excessive.

Digitized by
157

As to age, Breitinger substantiates the claim that it is the most important factor in that there is a constant increase in physical efficiency with age during childhood and youth. The rate of this increase is variable, reaching its maximum during adolescence. He says, “In pupils of the same age [he used 1-2 year interval groups] only a slight correlation between body form [height, weight, length of arm and leg, breadth of shoulders and hips, etc.] and athletic achievement is evident, “which again indicated that age is the most important factor in predicting physical potency of children and emphasizes the demand that no longer age intervals than one year, and preferably 1-2 years, be considered in a scheme for classifying elementary school children.

Chronological age also is, to some degree, an index of the psychology of the child. And that psychology has a bearing on physical achievement no one will deny. Height and weight have apparently little or nothing to do with psychology, but its peculiarities at different age periods are more or less evident. The psychology of a ten year old, in reference to physical activities, is not the same as it is when he reaches 16; nor is the psychology of a 16 year old girl the same as that of a 16 year old boy.

Another reason why age should be considered as the chief factor in classifying elementary school children for physical education activities, is that in the absence of a quick and accurate method of ascertaining the physiological age, which is probably most important of all factors influencing physical achievement, chronological age offers an estimate.

The mentality factor in this kind ‘ of classification is best expressed by the school grade. It is the intelligence and “will to achieve” index of the pupil. That intelligence and capacity for effort are factors in physical achievement cannot be doubted. Physical qualifications being alike, the advantage lies with the brighter and more ambitious pupils. The above mentioned Dr. Breitinger concludes his report with the significant opinion: “The relatively low degree of correlation,” [between body form and physical achievement] “verifies the pedagogical experience that besides the external body form, which most likely is not the most important factor in athletic achievement, the aggressive will to achieve determines the outcome.” No teacher of experience has escaped this same conclusion.

The only practical measurement of intelligence and will “to achieve” at present is the school grade and for want of something better we are well justified in using it. Where the I. Q. of each child is readily available it prhaps would be as well to use that as a factor instead of grade. However, we should not forget that intelligence and effort are not synonymous and are not always companions.

And so, in the light of present available knowledge, and the fact that this is still in the dim outlines of the experimental stage, it seems reasonable and practical in classifying children in elementary schools for physical education activities, to make age the
158

basic factor and height, weight and grade modifying factors. It also seems that the classification charts for girls and boys cannot be identical.

The appended classification charts suggest how this can be done in a practical way. Intervals of one year are used because the number of groups is dependent upon these intervals and too many groups are not practical. The age of the pupils determines the group into which he is placed unless his height and weight deviate too much from the average for his age [Wood’s height and weight tables] and unless he is not behind or ahead in his school grade. Overweight, overheight, and being one year or more ahead in grade are considered advantages and tend to place him in a higher group. Underweight, underheight, and being behind in grade have the tendency to put him into a lower group. In no case, however, can he be placed more than two groups higher or lower than the one indicated by his age. Nor is it possible for abnormalcy in only one factor to take him out of his normal age group. This is as it should be, because a child who is either very much overweight or overheight will find it difficult to keep pace with those of his own age who are of normal proportions. To handicap him still further by putting him into a higher group makes success utterly impossible for him. But if he is both excessively overweight and overheight, he will evidently have an undue advantage over others of his own age and should be transferred into a higher group. But his age will not permit him to compete successfully with children of his physical proportions who are several years his senior. He should, therefore, be placed in an intermediate group. To illustrate with an actual case. A girl 11 years 2 months of age is 62 inches tall [6 inches over average] and weighs 117 lbs. [39 lbs. overweight]. These are the average proportions of a girl three years her senior and with whom she could not compete on account of her immature age". The suggested chart recognizes only enough of her over proportions to advance her to the 12 year group. Here she finds the stimulation she could not find competing against the smaller girls of her own age, but is not discouraged by assignments beyond her ability to accomplish.

The chart is divided into seven sections A, B, C, D, E, P, and G, each representing an age interval of one year from 10 to 16. Each section is arranged with the average height and weight for that particular age [Wood’s tables] as the core and minus exponents from 1 to 3 for figures below those of the age average and plus exponents for weight and height figures above the average. The maximum of 3 is given for any height or weight falling outside the range of the chart. In section “A” there are no minus exponents. This being the lowest group it would avail nothing to determine the minus status of this age group. Likewise in “G” there are no plus exponents for a similar reason.

The position of the grade factor on the chart is determined by the assumption that a child of normal mental capacity enters school at the age of six and advances one grade each year. He

Digitized by
159

will be in the 5th grade at ten years of age, in the 6th at eleven, etc. If he is in the grade he should be at his age, his grade exponent is 0 if he is retarded in grade it is minus and if he is ahead it is plus. The chart being designed only for the classification of elementary school children, grades 4 to 8 only are given consideration. Grades below the 5th normally should not be engaged in competitive activities of the type for which this classification is designed, but average pupils of the 4th grade may profit by participation and therefore this grade is included.

To determine the group to which a child is to be assigned, his age in years and months, his height in inches, his weight in pounds and his school grade being given, that section of the chart corresponding to his age is referred to and he is tentatively placed in the group indicated by the letter designating that section. From this section his exponents are determined. Then his minus exponents are totaled, also his plus exponents, and the lesser of these two sums is subtracted from the greater. The remainder is his index. If this index is less than 5, he remains in the group to which he was tentatively assigned. If it is -5 or more he will be put into a lo wer group, if it is +5 or more, into a higher. If his index is 8 or more he will be transferred two groups instead of only one.

Example No. 1 Girl—Age 11 yr. 2 mo.—Tentative group—B Height 62 in.—Exponent	+3

Weight 117 lbs.—Exponent +3 Grade 5 —Exponent	-1

Total	+6	-1

-1

Index	+5

Transfers one group higher to C

Example No. 2 Girl—A;ge 11 yr. 11 mo.—Tentative group—C Height 54 in. Exponent	-3

Weight 65 lbs. Exponent	-3

Grade 5 Exponent	-2

Total	-8

Index	-8

Transfers two groups lower to A

Example No. 3

Height 57 ins. Exponent	-1	
Weight 101 lbs. Exponent		+3
Grade 6 Exponent	-1	
Totals	-2	+ 3
		-2
Index		+ 1

Stays in group C

Digitized by
160

Classifying a group of children by this chart should not be more tedious nor time consuming than by other methods using the same factors. If the sheet containing the names, age, height, weight and age is prepared as suggested below, the exponents, etc. can easily and quickly be read from the chart and recorded in very little time, the arithmetic being done mentally.

Age Tenta- Hght Expon Wght Expon Grade Expon In- Group

	tive		ents	ents		nents	dex	
	Group							
Virginia	11-5 B	53	-3	66 -3	6	0	-6	A
Georgia	13-7 E	56	-3	93 -3	6	-3	-9	C
Alabama	11-7 C	63	+3	117 -1	6	-1	+ 5	D
America	12-5	57		85	6			
Australia	11-5	54		70	6			
	Classification Chart for Elementary School Boys							
	Hght Wght Grade Expon				Hght Wght Grade Expon			
			ent					ent
10 Yr. 5 Mo.	54 71	5	0	10 Yr. 6 Mo.	53	69		-3
and under	55 74	6	+ 1	to	54	72		-2
GROUP A	56 78	7	+2	11 Yr. 5 Mo.	55	75	5	-1
	57 81	8	+3	GROUPB	56	79	6	0
					57	82	7	+ 1
					58	85	8	+2
					59	88		+3

11 Yr. 6 Mo.	55	76		-3	12 Yr. 6 Mo.	57	84	5	-3
to	56	80	5	-2	to	58	87	6	-2
12 Yr. 5 Mo.	57	83	6	-1	13 Yr. 5 Mo.	59	90	7	-1
GROUP C	58	86	7	0	GROUP D	60	94	8	0
	59	89	8	+ 1		61	99		+1
	60	93		+2		62	104		+2
	61	97		+3		63	109		+3
13 Yr. 6 Mo.	60	97	6	-3	14 Yr. 6 Mo.	62	109	7	-3
to	61	102	7	-2	to	63	114	8	-2
14 Yr. 5 Mo.	62	106	8	-1	15 Yr. 5 Mo.	64	118		-1
GROUP E	63	111		0	GROUPF	65	123		0
	64	117		+ 1		66	127		+ 1
	65	122		+2		67	132		+2
	66	126		+3		68	136		+3
15 Yr. 6 Mo.	64	119	8	-3					
and Over	65	124		-2					
GROUP G	66	128		-1					
	67	133		0					

With index of 5. 6, or 7 exponents, transfer pupil one group. With index of 8 or 9 exponents, transfer pupil two groups.

Digitized by
161

Classification Chart for Elementary School Girls

Hgbt Wght Grade Expon	Hght	Wght	Grade	Expon

				ent					ent
10 Yr. 5 Mo.	54	70	5	0	10 Yr. 6 Mo.	53	68		-3
and* Under	55	73	6	+1	to	54	71	4	-2
GROtft> A	56	77	7	+2	11 Yr. 5 Mo.	55	74	5	-1
	57	81	8	+3	GROUPB	56	78	6	0
						57	82	7	+ 1
						58	86	8	+2
						59	90		+3

11 Yr. 6 Mo.	55	75	4	-3	12 Yr. 6 Mo.	57	84	5	—3
to	56	79	5	-2	to	58	88	6	-2
12 Yr. 5 Mo.	57	83	6	-1	13 Yr. 5 Mo.	59	93	7	-1
GROUP C	58	87	7	0	GROUP D	60	97	8	0
	59	91	8	+ 1		61	102		+ 1
	60	95		+2		62	107		+2
	61	101		+ 3		63	112		+3
13 Yr. 6 Mo.	59	94	6	-3	14 Yr. 6 Mo.	60	v 100	7	-3
to	60	99	7	-2	to	61	106	8	-2
14 Yr. 5 Mo.	61	104	8	-1	15 Yr. 5 Mo.	62	111		-1
GROUP E	62	109		0	GROUP F	63	115		0
	63	113		+ 1		64	119		+ 1
	64	118		+2		65	122		+2
	65	120		+3		66	124		+ 3
15 Yr. 6 Mo.	61	108	8	-3					
and Over	62	113		-2					
GROUP G	63	117		-1					
	64	120		0					

If index is 5, 6, or 7 exponents, transfer pupil one group. If index is 8 or 9 exponents, transfer pupil two groups.

INTELLIGENCE TEST RESULTS

Mr. Ramsbotham, Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Education, speaking at Midhurst Grammar School, Sussex, recently, expressed the view that more time ought to be devoted to physical training in secondary schools, and he gave the result of an experiment made about a year ago in a big secondary school in the North of England.

It was decided to find out whether, if some of the periods devoted to academic work were dropped and periods of physical training substituted, the mental alertness and intelligence of the boys would be improved or retarded.

The experiment was begun in September, 1934, with two forms selected for the purpose. They were both second-year forms, each of twenty-nine boys, in the main school, and in building these forms up during the previous July special pains were taken to get them as far as possible equal to each other in academic attainments.

Digitized by Google
162

When the experiment started one of the forms took the normal curriculum and did two periods weekly of physical training daily. The other form took physical training daily for 40 to 45 minutes, and in order to make time for it dropped one weekly period of Latin, French, Mathematics, and English. This went on from September till March.

In the winter examinations these two forms were level, but in the intelligence tests the physical training form showed itself incomparably superior.

When the experiment began an intelligence test was taken which showed that the average mental age of the boys in the physical training form was eleven months ahead of the ordinary boy of the same calendar age in the school, and the average mental age of the boys in the normal form was fifteen months ahead.

But when the same test was taken six months later the result was surprising. The mental age of the normal form was 17 1-2 months ahead of the ordinary standard—it had increased by 2 1-2 months—but that of the physical training form was 25 months ahead, an increase of 14 months.—[Physical. Education, England].

FITNESS FOR SPORT

An unusual crop of injurious strains [and collapse] to first class players in games, such as soccer, rugger, cricket, tennis, etc., during 1934 has roused the query as to the cause of these accidents and undue exhaustion. Is it the stress of modem highspeed sport; is it the pace that kills; or is it that the athletes of to-day are physically unsound?

It is argued by sportsmen themselves that the true explanation is that “athletes today are not physically sound.”

The same query will apply equally well to the average athlete, many of whom sit in the office very day and without any mid-week training, in the real sense of the word, play a fast ana vigorous week-end game. The question is interesting to the gymnastic teacher because the ordinary physical training lesson with a little apparatus work, such as vaulting and a gymnastic game or two, provides a fundamental training for athletes. Such training will make a man physically sound for any game he wishes to play during the week-end. After such regular training, an athlete is less likely to sustain injuries to collar-bone or ribs, ankle, knee, wrist, and elbow joints, because in the properly conducted physical training lesson all muscles and joints are thoroughly exercised, made strong and supple. In other words, organised physical training prepares a man for the spontaneous physical activity so characteristic of a game. The weekly game is a test of a man’s physical fitness, but it is by no means sufficient in itself to keep a man physically fit.

Digitized by
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	November 1935	No.	430

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE

Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

New York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Normal

College

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney High School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin EL Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public Schools

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editori 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-clcLSs matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial

During the past year we expressed editorially the desirability of providing opportunities for cycling in 'this country. We weze naturally gratified, therefore to read in a Chicago newspaper during the past summer that “Plans for cycle paths in Chicago parks and Cook county forest preserves, already well advanced, were discussed at a meeting of interested authorities.”

The discussion largely concerned the problem of enabling cyclists safely to reach the trails that are to be reserved for them if present plans materialize. Warner Harwood, engineer for the county highway department, suggested designation of certain little used streets and roads leading to or through parks and forest preserves as ones on which cyclists might be given preference over motorists.

In order to develop this project the park district is asking $1,300,000 in federal P.W.A. funds. The money is to be used to build 65 miles of bicycle paths.

Congratulations Chicago! May physical educators be responsible for a similar program in many other cities.

Digitized by Google
164

What Profits America

There is grave danger that in our present frantic desire for immediate economic recovery that we will do our country future irreparable injury if we make our children today pay the price. This is an adult world, built by adults, for adults. So in these trying days, we are liable to forget the needs of the youth of the land.

Wise economy in education is as essential as in business or government. However, there is destructive as well as constructive econony. We must be sure in our school budgets that we pursue real and not false economy. Youth has two inalienable rights—The right to an adequate education and the right to safe, clean, wholesome play. Drastic cuts in essential school subjects, such as music, art, handcraft, and recreation, will deprive youth of his birthright to an adequate education. We must provide the cultural and recreational subjects which will make life worth living in this hectic, industrial machine age.

Our children constitute the nation's wealth. Education is the nation’s investment in future values. The school budget is democracy’s insurance premium. Pay today for tomorrow’s capital return. A modem, progressive school system that prepares boys and girls for the problems of tomorrow is a sound business investment that will pay dividends in national health, leadership and wellbeing. An adequate education means national assets in good citizenship. An inadequate education means future liabilities in inefficiency, crime, and discontent.

The old-fashioned traditional subjects of the 3 R’s are not sufficient for this country today. Children are living in a different America than their fathers. The tool subjects are not sufficient to meet the perplexing problems that boys and girls will have to meet tomorrow. New conditions demand a new school curriculum. With the decrease of work and the increase of free time, education for leisure becomes as important as education for labor. With the machine doing the work of the world, avocational education is as vital as vocational education. The arts, the crafts, and the recreational school subjects are not fads and frills, but essential subjects to a complete, adequate, modem school system.

What profits a nation if it gains the riches of the world but loses the souls of its children? In our desire for economic recovery let us not penalize our boys and girls by preparing them inadequately for the life that they must live. Human beings are as important as things. The welfare of the human machine is as vital to the future prosperity of this nation as is the automatic machine. We must give as much attention to polishing man as we do to polishing brass. This is the challenge to America.

Group and Couple Dances for H. S. Girls

Fred E. Foertsch

This is the fifth installment of a series of group and couple dances designed for high school girls. The first installment appeared in the March 1934 issue. These dances are not necessarily restricted to the grade indicated. They may be used at any junior cr senior high school level and may also be found suitable for adult classes.

Digitized by Google^
165

The primary purpose is to provide vigorous muscular activity by means of a series of interesting combinations of dance steps and figures in various rhythms. The floor patterns and the combinations of steps are similar to those found in folk dances. The dances are short and the combinations are not difficult. This adds much to the recreational values of the dances.

Flexibility with respect to floor space, bize of classes, and musical compositions have also been considered in arranging the dances. Large classes may readily be broken up into several circles in order to conserve floor space. In the open formations the range of mfJVement in any given direction has been limited for the same reason. In connection with the music it will be noted that any standard composition may be used, provided the rhythm is appropriate. This permits the choice of sheet music, piano-player rolls, or victrola records.

The following dances have been arranged for Grade 7B [“B” representing the second semester of the grade].

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional graded dance material.

OLD JIM CROW

[Clog Dance]

The following composition is recommended for use with this dance:

Music: “Nineteen Twenty Three” [From Polly Wolly Doodle] in Clog and Character Dances by Helen Frost, p. 34. Formation: Open Order

Note: The hands are tucked under the armpits with the elbows at the sides.

PART I

1.	3 left, 3 right, 3 left, 3 right ............   2	Measures

2.	Pivot turn left [whole turn]

[The pivot step left in this dance begins with a 3 left executing a 1-4 turn left counting “atid”,

“one”. This leaves the weight on the left foot with the right foot pointing in a backward position. Then place the right foot sideward and push with the right foot at the same time raising the left heel with a further 1-4 turn left on the toe of the left foot counting “and”, “two”.

Repeat the latter movement twice thus completing a whole turn left.] With each count of the pivot step the elbows are raised and lower-

ed representing the flapping of wings ..... 2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1	and No. 2, beginning right..... 4	Measures

4.	Repeat all.................................. 8	Measures

Total	...............................16	Measures

PART II

1.	Hop right and raise the left leg sideward and moving to the left counting “and”, then step left sideward on count “one” and close right to left on count “two”. [This is known as a hop-

Digitized by CjOOQle
166

closing step left.] Then repeat the hop-closing step counting “three”, “and”, “four”. With each hop-closing step sideward the elbows are raised

and lowered................................. 2	Measures

2.	3 left, 3 right, 7 left .................... 2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2	beginning right ..... 4	Measures

4.	Repeat all.................................. 8	Measures

Total ............................... 16	Measures

PART III

1.	3 left, two running steps forward [right and left]. With each running step the elbows are

raised and lowered.......................... 1	Measure

2.	Repeat No. 1 beginning	right .......... 1	Measure

3.	Hop-closing step left sideward with raising and

lowering the elbows ........................ 1	Measure

4.	7 left.....................................  l	Measure

6. Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 beginning right but with

running steps backward...................... 2	Measures

6.	Repeat No. 3 right sideward ................ 1	Measure

7. -7 right .................................... 1	Measure

8.	Repeat all.................................. 8	Measures

Total ................................16	Measures

HAYFOOT REEL

[For Six Couples]

Any good “Reel” composition in 2-4 or 6-8 [march] time may be used in connection with this dance. The following compositions will be found to be especially well adapted:

Music: “Virginia Reel” in Rhythms and Dances for Elementary schools by Dorothy LaSalle

“Arkansas Traveler” in Old Familiar Dances, p. 36, compiled and arranged by Geo. C. Gott [Oliver Ditson Co.] Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Two front lines of six members each. The lines are facing eath other and are about four steps apart Diagram One. Head couple is No. 1.

Diagram I	Diagram II

3	4	6	6

PART I

Neighbors’ hands are grasped shoulder high.

1. The two lines move toward each other with three light springy steps [or skip-steps] counts 1-3 a.nd a short [“bob”] curtsey—4  ...................... 2	Measures

Digitized by L^ooQLe
Measures

167

2. Four steps backward to original places—5-8_____2

3.	Both lines move forward eight steps [passing

through] exchanging places [the hands are released while passing through and upon reaching the opposite side the individual members face about -8 counts ............................. 4	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 3 returning to original

places ...................................... 8	Measures

Total ................................16	Measures

PART II

Alternate couples millwheel.

1.	The members of couples Nos. 1, 3 and 5 move forward, grasp right hands a'nd execute a half millwheel right, release hands ahd return to their

places facing inward again. This is done in eight steps. The members of the stationary couples step or skip in place......................... 4	Measures

2.	With neighbors’ hands grasped the two lines move forward and pass through to the opposite

sides in eight steps [as in Part I above]..... 4	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1, but the members of couples Nos.

2, 4 and 6 now execute the half millwheel and -

return in eight steps..........................4	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 2, all returning to their original

places in eight counts .......................  4	Measures

Total ................................16	Measures

PART III

1.	Both lines move forward and curtsey in four counts [as Part I, No. 1] then backward to

original—in four counts places [as Part I. No. 2] 4 Measures

2.	The members of couple No. 1 move forward, grasp hands and gallop sideward between the two lines toward the last couple [See Diagram II] to the point “X” where they stand and raise the arms fore-upward [hands grasped] forming an arch. As No. 1 couple begins the other members in each line face toward the No. 1 in their line and follow in a counter movement inward with skip steps [inner hands are grasped as the members of each couple meet]. Each flank line with No. 2 leading passes under the arch formed by No. 1 couple, and continues in a counter movement outward [each couple releasing inner hand] returning to a front line as in the beginning.

No. 2 couple now becomes the head couple, while No. 1 remains at the end of the line forming in line where No. 5 originally stood. This figure takes 24 counts. [8 counts until the arch

Digitized by

Google
168

is formed and 16 counts for the two lines to pass

under the arch and return to line formation...12 Measures

Total .................................16	Measures

Repeat the dance several times or until No. 1 couple returns to the head.

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the twelfth set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece ^f apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Ladders for school grades 7A and 7B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semester.]

Digitized by ooQle
Digitized by

LADDERS—GIRLS—GRADE 7A

Fair

Horizontal-Jump high. Jump to a cross-Hang, outer grip on beams. Body swinging sideward with alternate lifting of the hand and regrasping. Stop swinging. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on beam. Travel sideward at least half the length of the ladder [without body swinging]. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Jump to a cross-seat rear of the hand on the near beam. Quarter turn to a side support-lying position frontways [both hands on far beams, legs resting on near beam]. 'Dismount backward to a stand.

o

o

o

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on beam. Travel sideward with body swinging at least half the length of the ladder. Stop the swinging. Drop to a stand.

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on the beams. Travel forward the full length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Oblique ladder. Jump to a crosshang, outer grip on beams. Raise the knees forward and place the legs over the rung at waist height [to a double knee-hang]. Return to a hang. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Travel forward with body swinging sideward at least half the length of the ladder. Stop the body swinging. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a crosshang, outer grip on beams. Place the feet on the rung. Walk upward on the rungs with the feet to a point near the hands. [Hands remain stationary]. Walk downward with the feet. Lower to a hang. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Jump to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Double leg-swing fore upward and downward to a crossseat in front of hand on the opposite beam. Dismount sideward.
Digitized by

LADDERS—GIRLS—GRADE 7B

o

o



Fair

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on the beam. Travel sideward the full length of the ladder [without bodyswinging].

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Travel forward the full length of the ladder [without body swinging], Drop to a stand.

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on the beam. Raise the knees forward. In this position travel sideward at least half the length of the ladder. Lower knees. Dismount to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a crosshang, outer grip on the begms. Body swinging sideward with alternate lifting of the hand and regrasping. Stop the body swinging. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on the beams. Travel backward with a sideward body swinging at least half the length of the ladder. Stop the body swinging. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on the beams. Travel forward the full length of the ladder with body swinging sideward. Stop the swinging. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a crosshang, outer grip on the beams. Raise the legs forward waist high with straddling sideward to a double knee hold [one leg around the outside of each beam]. Lower to a hang. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High.	Jump

to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Swing legs fore upward and lower them to a straddle seat front of the hands. One half-turn dismount [pivot on far beam] to a cross stand.

Horizontal-Waist High.	Jump

to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Swing legs fore-upward and lower to a straddle seat front of the hands. Rear vault dismount over the far beam to a stand.
LADDERS—BOYS-GRADE 7A

Fair

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on beam. Travel sideward the full length of the ladder [without body swinging]. Drop to a stand.

Good

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Travel backward the full length of the ladder [without body swinging]. Drop to a stand.

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump . High. Jump to a side hang, upper grip on beam With a sideward body swinging travel sideward the full length of the ladder. Stop swinging. Travel to the opposite beam and turn facing the ladder. With body swinging travel sideward to original end of the ladder. Stop swinging. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on the beams. Travel forward the full length of the ladder. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Jump to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Swing legs fore-upward and lower to a straddle seat front of the hands. Rear vault dismount over the far beam to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a crosshang, outer grip on beams. With sideward body swinging travel upward. Stop swinging. Travel downward wth feet on rungs and hands on beams.

Horizontal-Waist High.	Jump

to a cross-seat on near beam in front of the hand. Swing the legs foreupward and lower to a crossseat on far beam in front of the hand. Dismount sideward.

Horizontal-Waist High.	Leg-

swing mount to a straddle seat rear of hands. Swing legs backward to a support lying position frontways. Dismount sideward.

Oblique Ladder. Outer grip on beams, feet on the rungs. Climb upward on the under side of the ladder. Lower the legs to a hang. With short steps climb downward to a stand.
LADDERS—BOYS—GRADE 7B

Fair

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a side-hang, upper grip on beam. With sideward swinging of the body travel sideward the full length of the ladder. Stop swinging. Drop to a stand.

Good

Horizontal-JF.ump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. With body swinging sideward travel forward the full length of the ladder. Stop swinging. Half turn in the hand changing hands to opposite beams. Then return to original end of ladder [with body swinging]. Stop body swinging. Drop to a stand.

Excellent

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. Raise knees forward. In this position travel forward the full length of the ladder. Lower knees. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a double hand-knee hang under the ladder [hands on beams, legs around the outside of the beams]. Slide the knees upward on the beams to meet the hands. Then travel upward with the hands on the beams. Repeat. Then climb downward in a similar manner and lower to a stand.

Horizontal-Jump High. Jump to a cross-hang, outer grip on beams. With body swinging sideward travel backward the full length of the ladder. Stop swinging. Drop to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Jump to a cross-seat on near beam front of the ha.nd. Swing legs foreupward and rear vault dismount over the far beam to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Jump to a crosshang, outer grip on beams. Body swinging sideward with alternate lifting of the hands and regrasping. Stop swinging. Drop to a stand.

Oblique Ladder. Double hand-knee hang under the ladder [hands on beams, double knee hold around outside of beams]. Climb upward with alternate sliding of the knees and moving the hands upward on the beams. Lower legs to a hang. Climb downward to a stand.

Horizontal-Waist High. Legswing [front vault] mount to a straddle seat rear of the hands. Grasp beams in rear, swing legs foreupward and rear vault dismount over far beam.
173

Health Education

Howard L. Conrad

Measuring Results in Health Education

II

Constructing Objective Tests in Health Knowledge: It should be realized by all teachers that the purpose of objective tests is not solely confined to finding out how many facts the pupils are acquainted with. The objective test properly constructed and applied may be stimulating, motivating, challenging, interesting, and diagnostic of class as well as individual weaknesses and strengths. By its nature, the objective test surpasses the “essay” type of test in rapidity of administration and marking, and in the satisfaction that the student derives from accomplishing a vastly increased content scope. A brief objective test may be used to preview a topic or sub-topic in a relatively short time, or to review any significant unit of subject matter that the teacher desires. These newer types of tests may also be employed as selfchecking devices to be marked and retained by the more mature pupils.

Objective tests are classified according to the type of questions; viz., recognition and recall. In the recognition kind of question, the true or ‘best’ answer appears in conjunction with one or more false, incorrect, or ‘not-best’ answers. Examples of the recognition type are true-false questions, multiple choice, matching questions, best answer questions, and association exercises. In a comprehensive achievement test for mature students several or all of these forms of recognition types could be employed to better estimate the students’ ability to grasp relationships.

The true-false form was very popular at one time; but considerable opprobrium has been attached to it because of the guessing element, and the commonness of ambiguity. In constructing true-false questions in health information all controversial or doubtful issues must be avoided. One authority states, “True-false statements should not be snatched from the textbook or lecture; ‘nots’ should not be inserted merely to balance the true and false statements. Good true-false statements, which are unambiguous and which elicit more than the phenomenon of echolalia are secured only after careful consideration.” The following samples are taken from a workbook in the field of health education:

Answer true statements with a Plus sign; false statements with a zero.

1.	Ignorance regarding hygiene is confined to the illiterate.

2.	Health may be satisfactorily defined as freedom from disease.

Digitized by Lj ooQle
174

3.	The ‘father’ of medicine was known as Galen.

4.	An hereditary disease is acquired in the process of being bom.

5.	Lack of iodine in the diet may be responsible for a type of thyroid enlargement.

It can be seen by the above samples that the word “recognition’ does not completely describe the mental operations involved in answering all the questions correctly.

The multiple choice or best answer type of question is superior to the true-false as it removes to some extent the guessing element and thus increases the reliability. This type of question is the easiest to construct of the recognition group. Some principles are necessary to keep in mind when making up a test of this nature. The ‘distractors’, the incorrect or ‘not-best’ answers must be plausible and not absurd. This can be obtained by using so-called common beliefs [often wrong], similar spellings or forms, less precise answers, and closely associated things.

Example: A rattlesnake is harmful because of its: rattles, fangs, forked tongue, venom.

In the example, “venom’’ is the true answer although “fangs” and “forked tongue” are good distractors because of the association with the snake bite.

Correct answers in multiple-choice questions are indicated in various ways such as numbering, checking, and underlining. The following are samples used in a junior high school health information survey test:

1.	The greatest danger of working in a poorly ventilated garage where motors are running comes from exposure to: illuminating gas, excessive heat, possible explosion, carbon monoxide.

2.	In the meat packing industry government inspection is necessary to protect the public from: beri beri, scurvy, tapeworm, rickets.

3.	A substance which should not be placed in the family medicine closet is: bichloride of mercury, boric acid, ‘rubbing alcohol,’ iodine.

Matching tests are also easily constructed and scored. Care must be taken to see that the list is not too long, or much time will be consumed in hunting the correct answer and eliminating the incorrect. Division of topics is desirable as the following examples illustrate:—

Directions: In each of the groups below look at the right for the phrase which has the most to do with each of the words at the left. Write the number beside the answer in the parenthesis beside the word.

Digitized by LjOOQle
175

1.	[ ] molars

2.	[ ] vim

3.	[ ] laxatives

1.	should be taken regularly

2.	secrete a digestive fluid

3.	cause teeth to decay

4.	used mainly for grinding food

5.	glands in stomach

6.	best taken on advice of a

4.	[ ] salivary glands

5.	[ ] lung development

6.	[ ] vigorous play

7.	[ ] severe sore throat

8.	[ ] plasma

intestine

1.	needs use of ‘cough drops’

2.	needs care of physician

3.	promoted by vigorous exercise

4.	good for a severe ‘cold’

5.	a natural aid to elimination

6.	carries the blood cells

7.	digestive fluid

physician 7. projection in lining of small

These questions, in spite of their choice limitation, seem more difficult for junior high school pupils than the same context in the multiple choice technique. Greater familiarity with the latter form may be the factor.

NOTE: Discussion of objective tests in health information will be continued in subsequent issues.

A downward trend in the prevalence of trachoma is reported for the United States; the disease has become especially rare in our large cities.— FromSighfl-Saving Review—June 1934.

A Boy’s Pockets—It was curiosity rather than the spirit of scientific research which inspired somebody to comer thirty-two members of the Madison Square Boys Club, in New York, and take inventory of what they were carrying in their trousers pockets. But the results of the investigation are as important, at least, as some which come cf prolonged scientific inquiry.

It was proved that boys are exactly the same as they were generations ago and definitely different. The sixty-four pockets yielded a fearful and wonderful assortment cf junk, not unlike that which Tom Sawyer carried about with him. Pieces of rope, buttons, whistles, marbles, scraps of chalk and pencil and odds and ends of glass, brass and old iron were discovered, together with a total of fifty-nine cents unequally distributed among the thirty-two boys.

But the modem and remarkable touch of the tale is that the pockets yielded eight-tenths of a handkerchief per boy. Health

News, Notes

Digitized by

Google
176

education over a period of years has had effect on the younger generation. It carries a handkerchief and may even use it for its proper and appointed purpose. Tom Sawyer might hardly have recognized a handkerchief if offered one. Huck Finn certainly wouldn’t.—Evening Ledger, Philadelphia.

N.R.A.—The National Recreation Association’s consultation service received 40% more requests for advice and suggestions on recreational methods and activities in 1934 than in 1933. The inquiries came from 800 more localities than were represented in 1933 and brought the total number of communities to 5922.

The services of the National Recreation Association in 1934 “given only on request” included securing hundreds of additional playgrounds and helping to secure tennis courts, swimming pools, playing fields, gymnasiums, meeting rooms for clubs and self-help activities for young people.

Recreation Council In Salt Lake City.—Salt Lake City, Utah, has a recreation council including all the agencies, clubs and organizations which are fostering, organizing or directing recreation programs. The objectives of the organization are:

[1]	To unite into an advisory body those interested in construc-

tive character-building recreational activities

[2]	To promote by education, publicity and other like means a

general understanding of the character, importance, aims and programs of recreational and character-building agencies

3]	To set standards of work

4]	To study duplication of activities.

5]	To plan for general and particular improvement of work

6]	To discover and define uncovered needs in the field and plan

toward their fulfillment

[7]	To conduct studies in various types of activity that will pro-

mote uniform rules, better teaching technique, and the same general constructive objectives

[8]	To conduct a recreation institute yearly

[9]	To study the city’s recreation problem as a whole and make

such surveys as are necessary.

When in previous years 2 or 3 or more superintendents came together they talked about schools; now, judging by the meetings of the N. E. A., Department of Superintendence, they talk economics and sociology.—School Life.

The shortening of the hours of labor, which is inevitable in an economy of abundance, makes the training for leisure an essential part of the modern school. For this reason, auditoriums that can serve as the little theaters of the community, adequate gymnasiums and playground space and club rooms are an important part of the school building.—School Life.

Digitized by L^ooQle
177

Leisure And The Schools.—The significance of our freetime activities is that they place us in a sharing mood. Thus in hiking through the country, in games, in music, painting, weaving, in the discussion of ideas, we issue from our isolation. We learn the fine art of companioning and of wishing for others the happiness we ourselves enjoy. Thus there is a fine service we can render toward our fellow teachers through inciting in them interests in activities for their own enjoyment and for the purpose of maintaining that spirit of vitality so necessary in the schoolroom if teaching is not to become a boresome task from day to day and if they themselves are not to bore vital youth.—Cincinnati Schoolmasters Club.

A MASTER WORKMAN SPEAKS

“Nature is impelling us all toward a better and higher destiny. It is the duty of each individual to make himself a tiny fragment of good influence on the side of this eternal tug-of-war toward progress one way and chaos the other. If we are on the right side, putting our puny strength oh the rope and heaving together on the upward drag toward better things, details of conduct and little tempests of social behavior and fads and foibles and silly habits will be of no more weight than the fly on the back of the horse which leans into the collar and moves the load!

“Influence is given you as the most potent gift of all; you can strengthen it by thought, study, care, and the right heart, or you can dissipate and missuse it, and so weaken it, yourself, and the race.

“Your influence is your birthright and your epitaph. It can make you ephemeral, inconsequential—or it can sing through the years.”

—From Luther Burbank in “The Harvest of the Years.”

New Officers Of The Mid-West Society.—'Helen N. Smith was elected President and W. K. Streit, Secretary-Treasurer of the Mid-West Physical Education Ass’n. at its annual meeting held in Milwaukee. The 1936 convention was awarded to Grand Rapids, Michigan.

[The following list of activities represents a portion of the views and recommendations which were regarded as having especial importance by “The Conference on Youth Problems” which was called by the United States Commissioner of Education.] Leisure Time Activities.—a. Library service should be more widely extended. A planned State system which makes books available to all rural communities as well as towns should be inaugurated. Readers’ advisory service in libraries should be extended.

Digitized by
178

b.	Public school facilities should be more generally used after school hours and in the evenings.

c.	Activities should be developed to counteract or successfully compete with the deleterious commercialized activities that now take up so much of the leisure time of youth, and concerted effort should be made to have these commercialized activities serve more wholesome purposes.

d.	Provisions should be developed for the normal mingling of youth of opposite sexes under wholesome conditions.

e.	Organized promotion of sports including new types and varieties, should be undertaken.

f.	Summer camp opportunities should be extended to groups not now served, including girls, and work camps of various types should be developed.

g.	Travel facilities for youth under satisfactory supervision should be provided. Among such facilities might be low cost housing in parks, cities, and on trails, special low rates for transportation and for admission to entertainments and museums of cultural value, and special excursions to events or places of interest.

h.	Arrangements should be made by which qualified university and college students can be made available to communities as leaders of leisure time activities.

i.	There should be fewer “parlor parks” and more parks for use. Provision needs to be made for lighting play courts in parks so that they may be used for games and sports at night.

j.	Institutes and training centers for leaders in recreation activities should be developed more extensively and intensively.

Organized Afterschool Activities.—In 1934, Lillian C. Watt, Philadelphia, made a study to determine how many city public school systems use their yards and gymnasiums for organized afterschool physical education activities. The method used by Miss Watt was a questionnaire sent to administrative directors of physical education in a number of large cities of the United States. Some of the more interesting points in the summary of the study are tie following:

1.	The majority of the cities answering the questionnaire have afterschool play.

2.	The interest of school systems towards afterschool play activities is increasing rapidly.

3.	In all but two cities the attendance on playgrounds has increased since their opening.

4.	Most cities require suoervision of activities by a teacher.

5.	More cities had organized play in the nlaygrounds than cities which provided free play only.

6.	The elementary schools in the majority of cities open their playgrounds immediately after school for play by their own chil-

Digitized by t^ooQle
179

dren, while the junior and senior high schools are opened in the evening for adult play.

7.	One hour to one and ooe-h?lf hours daily is the time allotment for the greatest number of playgrounds.

8.	More cities use their buildings and yards for play in the afternoons after school than cities which do so in the evenings.

9.	The play space in the majority of playgrounds is too small. Schools in the West have larger playgrounds than schools in the East.

10.	Schools which are used for adult evening recreation are open for five nights in most of the cities reporting.

11.	Evening recreation draws a larger attendance than after noon recreation.

12.	Organized, supervised play with pupil leaders has the greatest number of activities, thus accommodating the greatest number of players.

13.	To avoid duplication of expenditures, facilities, and energy,

recreation boards and school boards should work as one body for the betterment of play activities.	,

The School Plant of the Near Future.—In an article entitled “Widening the Uses of the School Plant” which appeared in the December 1934 issue of The Nation’s Schools, Arthur B. Moehlman makes the following statements:

“The next few years will see many changes and developments in the curriculum, in methodology and in administration. We are face to face with the problem of what to do with adults. It will be exceedingly difficult in the near future for children under twenty years of age to secure employment, and active adults, twenty to twenty-five years old, will have much more leisure. The twenty-five-hour week is even now on the horizon.

“Provision must be made for exercise of this leisure and for the continued education of adults, both for vocational and recreational ends. We can now drop the fallacy of the money value of an education and begio to speak about special and spiritual values. It will be necessary to provide means whereby local neighborhood groups can meet regularly in their schools for study of governmental and local problems, for play and recreation, for means of expression in the shops and in all of the fine arts laboratories.

“Future school plants must have larger sites. Twenty acres will be the minimum for elementary schools and forty acres for secondary buildings. This increase in the size of site is necessary because the neighborhood school will be obliged to provide recreation space for both children and adults. For this purpose in a territory at least one mile square twenty acres represents a very minimum. The new site must also have sufficient space for adequate landscaping. Proper use of planting for screening purposes will eliminate many annoyances. A schoolsite that looks like a park will increase surrounding property values.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
180

“The school site will also have a garden and conservatory where flowers and plantings may be propagated as an incentive to home gardening. A botanist or school gardener will assume leadership of the home gardening project for the sheer pleasure of watching things grow and of reveling in the gorgeousness of nature’s rich colorings. On summer evenings children and adults may bring their instruments to participate in good music in that part of the site set apart as a grove. An outdoor theatre will also provide a setting for neighborhood pageants and theatrical presentations. Each school site will offer abundant opportunity for individual and group expression and for the construcl ive use of leisure time in favorable weather. . .

“Finally, every school building of the future should be designed by educational specialists around the curricular and extra-cir-ricular needs of the child and adult community. Its location must be determined by actual survey of community need. It should be built to serve for at least fifty years. It is well to remember that the cheapest building in erection cost may be the most expensive in upkeep cost. It is no more extravagant to build high quality schools than it is high quality homes.”

Foreign Notes

Situation in India. In India we find no national and organized system of Physical Training. From time immemorial, Wrestling, Surya Namaskars, Asanas and Yogic exercises, Hunting, Riding, use of sword, spear, arrow, etc., were practised. After 1857 when India was annexed to Britain, foreign influences and ideas began to creep on this field also; and as a result English Games, like Soccer, Cricket, Hockey, etc., have been gradually introduced, but they were not played by all. From 1880 onwards, attempts were made to introduce and organize Physical Training in India. Gymnastics and Drill Masters were appointed; students who were interested, were to take part in these activities, especially Gymnastics. But, this did not solve the problem, nor did it make any improvement in the situation. There was no training in leadership given by these instructors, who were, in most cases, retired military men, illiterate and unqualified to teach Physical Training to school children. Moreover, attention was given to star-performers and the majority which needed more help and correction were not attended to. In addition to this, the Drill taught by them was lifeless. There was no proper gradation and variety. The instructors wanted to imbibe and inculcate discipline among the students by using force and punishment. As a result the Drill, the Drill-period and the Drill Master came to be regarded with contempt by the student world.

Later on came the Y. M. C. A. programme of Physical Training, which was of a socialising nature. Attempts were made to add to individualistic activities, the group and social activities.

Digitized by

Google
181

and as a result in addition to already growing popular English Games, Volley Ball, Basket Ball, Playground ball, Track and Field Athletics were introduced. Calisthenics and Drill which was more lively, vigorous and varied was introduced. The idea of playgrounds—public playgrounds—came to be realised and many such were opened for public use, in many big towns of India. The Physical Education School was opened at Madras in 1920 by the

Y.	M. C. A. and it started training the educated men of India in matters of scientific Physical Education.—Vyayam, India.

The Congress of the Federation Internationale de Gym-nastique Ling. This Congress will be held in Brussels on Saturday, June 29, 1935.

Sports in Ireland.—The Irish are the only other European nation who can claim along with the Greeks that in their remote history, two thousand years before our chronology commences, they possessed a National Festival bearing the character of the Olympic Games; a Festival whose religious and cultural arrangement also embraced athletics, musical games and contests. These Games named after Queen Tailte, disappeared with the arrival of Christianity, but there remained the conspicuous athletic qualities of the Celtic race, in which healthy peasant strength is partnered advantageously with quickness of reaction. It is no wonder that sports have developed and maintained their popularity in Ireland which are unknown elsewhere, as for example hurling, a form of hockey but demanding even greater speed and stout-heartedness. The Dublin Parliament considered it necessary in 1695 to enforce a law imposing a fine on anyone found playing hurling or football on tie Lord’s Day. With the development of modem athletics the Irish athletes, in contrast to the English, have been especially prominent in field events [weight putting, hammer-throwing, etc.] The high skill of the Americans in this branch is at least partly due to the impulse derived from the visit of an Irish athletic team to the United States in 1888, the so-called “Irish Invasion”. In the period that followed a number of first-class athletes came to the front in Ireland. There may be mentioned the runner, Tommy Con-neff, who in the nineties captured all world records from the three-quarter mile to the five miles, and whose time for the mile was not beaten until Nurmi appeared on the track. Again there was Peter O’Conner, whose world record of 24 feet 11 3-4 inches for the long jump stood for 25 years, until the Paris Olympiad in 1934. There was also Tom Kiely, one of the most brilliant all-round athletes the world has ever seem. At the English Championships in 1892 Kiely won seven titles, and he continued his success up to 1926 when at Madison Square Garden in New York he won the World Decathlon championship. Many names could be added to this list which could be extended to other branches of sport, especially boxing.

Digitized by ^ooQle
182

Swedish Gymnastic Display by over 2,000 at Berlin in 1936.—The Swedish Gymnastic Association [Svenska Gymnastik forbundet] decided at its recent Annual Meeting, after discussions with the Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games in 1936, to send to Berlin teams of men and women, who will give a display of Swedish gymnastics, probably on the afternoon of August 8th. If no difficulties arise as to accommodation each team [male and female] will number 1000, and by means of elimination competitions representatives from all over the country will be included therein. Never has any country sent such a huge number of athletes to the Olympic Games in another country as in the present case.

Physical Education in the Preparation of Secretaries.—

The Evangelical Young Men’s Associations of Germany have a school for the education of its secretaries at Cassel, whose course is four years. During this time the students also receive a training as teachers of physical education. Those men who are enthusiasts for sports receive a special diploma and are classed as Oak-Cross-Secretaries, entitling them to positions as teachers of physical education and sports in the Oakcross Societies.

Japan Will Send 373 Athletes To The Olympics—The

Japanese Amateur Athletic Association has announced that it will send 373 athletes to the Berlin Games in 1936. Except for America, no land has ever sent such a large team overseas to an Olympic Festival. Japan is sending a group three times as large as that which travelled to California in 1932, and the two ex-	"

peditions to Garmisch-Partenkirchen and Berlin will cost about

1,240,000	Yen [350,000 dollars], or 850 dollars per man. This sum is triple that expended for the trips to Lake Placid and Los Angeles. The greater portion [800,000 Yen] will be provided by the government, and it is hoped that the remaining sum can be raised through street collecting and private donations. The team is composed of 81 officials, 260 athletes, 22 technicans and 10 assistants of various kinds. The principle group of the athletes will be the swimmers, as one could well suppose on examining the results of the Los Angeles Games. This team will consist of 59 athletes, including 16 women, the waterpolo team and divers.

There will be 50 men and 7 women track and field athletes.

Japan will be represented in practically every event, and in most of them will enter the maximum number of competitors.

A National Scheme for Recreative Physical Training.—

The executive committees of the Ling Association and National Association of Organisers of Physical Education, England, lately decided to join forces and take the initial steps necessary to the inauguration of a national scheme for recreative physical training;

Digitized by

Google

*
183

this decision has met with approval on all sides and the Board of Education has already given close co-operation.

It was felt that the two first steps should be to interest influential and widely experienced men and women who might be willing to become Members of the Council, and to take a comprehensive survey of recreative physical activities for adolescents, men and women in the British Isles.

Physical training organisers, sports leaders and others connected with voluntary organisations in all parts of the country, have been approached with regard to the survey; it is necessary to complete this in a very short time as it is hoped, with the data in hand, to be able to co-operate with the Trustees of the King George’s Jubilee Trust, with definite proposals with regard to the co-ordination and development of recreative physical activities of young people of post-school age. It is realised that in the time available an entirely accurate statistical record will not be possible, but this preliminary information will not only be helpful in approaching any trust, but useful to the future work of the movement; already valuable contacts have been made with various organisations and through them with hundreds of thousands engaged in some form of recreative physical training.

Harold Anson Bruce Trains Austrian Athletes—Harold Anson Bruce, Chairman of the National Long Distance Committee of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States, and coach of America’s Marathon teams for the 1932 Olympics, has been engaged by the Austrian Athletic Federation as head Olympic coach.

Gymnastics as a Sport.—We find it reported that a head master, on the recent opening of a fine modem boys’ school, said: “I feel that the system [of physical training] at present in favour in our schools leaves something to be desired. It is not enough that it should be good for the boys—it should appeal to them, even thrill them.” With this we heartily agree. But, he added: “Since this country adopted the Danish and Swedish methods and dropped gymnastics, the sense of achievement has almost disappeared from the work in our schools. The acrobatic element in the gymnastics of my own school days, nearly fifty years ago, gave a spice to our efforts, and many of us of that generation acquired a real love of gymnastics as a sport.”

We cannot accuse the Danes of omitting acrobatic element, nor the Swedes of failing to include the free practice of exercises demanding prowess and individual courage and skill, the national elite-gymnastics tests being adequate evidence. If some teachers, basing their efforts on Danish or Swedish methods, fail in their endeavour to select when seeking “what best suits the youth of our nation,” or mutilate a well constructed whole by abstracting

Digitized by Google
184

a few elements which attract them or which they can themseli perform best, they must shoulder the responsibility. It is perha natural that the teacher should take his ability and teaching p sonality for granted, but his training should have taught him just humility. Further, not “many of us” but all of us [as bo have to be reached and benefited.—Editorial in Phys. Edu. Hygiene, England.

Book Reviews

Fred E. Foertsch

Nutrition And Physical Fitness by L. Jean Bogert, re-; vised second edition; published by W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, 1935; clothbound 5 1-2” x 8”; price $3.00.

The author throughout has maintained the same high quality which marked the previous edition of this book.

Two important modifications should be noted. The chapter on vitamins has been rewritten thereby bringing it up to date. An entirely new chapter on constipation has also been added.

Molders of the American Mind by Norman Woelfel; published by Columbia University Press, 1933; clothbound 8 1-4” x 5 3-4”; 304 pages; price $3.00.

It is doubtful whether any book has appeared in recent years which analyses the social and economic structure of American life and the educational philosophy of the time as thoroughly and in such a critical maimer as does the author in this book. It is indeed a scholarly piece of work.

The content is divided into four sections. In the first section the author gives us a picture of early influence of the church and its gradual disintegration; the dominance of big business and its decline; the forces which promise cultural independence and destruction; some implications for social reconstruction; and the significance of the changes in American life in the problems of education today. In section two the author presents the viewpoints of seventeen of the most prominent educational leaders in America. In section three we have the author’s criticism and evaluation of the views analyzed in section two. In the fourth section the author makes his own recommendations with regard to the course which must be taken by educators in order to promote a better social structure for the immediate future.

This book contains also an appendix with ninety leading questions on the subject, and an extensive bibliography in two sections, the first containing the general references and the second giving the exact sources of materials analyzed.

Teachers will find the keen analysis and the bold and daring assertions of the aqthor not only interesting but a source of enlightenment.	F.	E.	F.

Digitized by