MIND AND BODY

Vol. 30	September-October 1923	No.	321

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBUSHINO CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14,, igi6> at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, I&79*

«►------------------------------♦

QrIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT^

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AT GIRARD COLLEGE, PHILADELPHIA.

Address by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D., LL. D., Director of Physical Education, University of Pennsylvania.

Girard College has now attained the ripe age of three score and fifteen years. The time has surely arrived for both reminiscence and prophecy, and perhaps for weighing the reasons for its success in graduating yearly a constant stream of young men to fill an honorable place in the community.

As we look at the shrewd but kindly face of your founder in the masterly statue of him by Massey Rhind on the Plaza of the City Hall, we can read in our imagination the thoughts coursing through his mind as he takes off his spectacles and gives himself over to meditation. We can imagine him saying to himself, "I must be careful to provide that this education for orphan boys will be given to boys of good stock only, and not wasted on those lesser breeds that no education could elevate. And they must be taught facts and things and not words and signs. Yes, that is the idea, facts

Digitized by

Google
198

and things not words and signs.” So he puts his spectacles back on his nose and goes home to write down in his will that preference be given to white boys, from Philadelphia first, then from Pennsylvania, then those from the first port at which he had arrived, New York, and finally those from New Orleans, the first port in which he had traded.

The recent war has shown us great blocks of our people whose highest mental attainment does not exceed that of a normal child of eleven years, and no amount of schooling can change this mental capacity, for you cannot pour a quart into a pint measure any more than you can carry water in a sieve. What you must do is to select a good sound watertight bucket in the first place, and then pour into it only what it should hold, and this is what Girard planned.

Stephen Girard was not a sentimentalist, or a dreamer of vain or foolish dreams; he realized that the useful arts and trades should be emphasized in the teaching, and that the work should be carried on without undue luxury. He planned as though his prophetic eye had foreseen the greatest danger that now threatens our civilization, the bringing in of great masses of alien and inferior peoples to do the work that our own people are more and more refusing to do.

Egypt kept her empire intact for three thousand years, until luxury and idleness brought in an alien slave population which rose to citizenship, intermarried, debased the level of intelligence and mongrelized the purity of the stock, and so she fell before the invader. Greece repeated the sad story and then imperial Rome followed, and her effeminate and debauched citizens gave way to the children of the freedman and the mercenary who had been hired to do the work that should be the proud duty of the citizens of a free and self sustaining country. Are we following the example of Egypt, Greece and Rome in this respect? Are we over-refining our youth and making them unfit for the real work on which our nation’s future depends? Are we bringing in a slave population to do our hard work?

Girard had no illusions on this question, and yet we find the tendency of the times shown in the sedentary occupations chosen by so many college graduates. He also recognized that the very foundation on which any successful school for the education of growing boys must be built was sound health and the progressive education of their growing physical powers.

The first Board of Directors was fortunate in its choice of the man Lieber to outline the courses of instruction. The story of Francis Lieber’s life is a romantic one. His passionate desire for freedom of thought, coupled with the conviction that, whatever he might think, the result of his thinking for good or for evil would be negligible, unless he could train his body to be a strong and accurate instrument in canning out his desires and his beliefs, led to his banishment from bis native land.

Digitized by Google
199

You will remember that after the invasion of Germany by Napoleon, small groups of eager students formed themselves into patriotic societies, to free their country from the invader, and also to strive for a more liberal and representative form of government. Among these wanderers from university to university was Frederick Ludwig Jahn, the father of German turning. He quickly saw that any reform, if it was to be effective, must De backed by the strong arms, sound hearts and quick brains of the young men of his day, and as he went from place to place teaching and preaching this doc-tine, he became more and more convinced that any successful scheme of reformation had to be based upon a national system of physical training.

In the spring of 1811 his first Tumplatz was opened in the Hasenbeide, just out of Berlin. Father Jahn, when marching young turners out of Berlin to the Turnplatz, would ask the new ones as they passed beneath the Brandenburg Gate, “What are you thinking of now?” If the boy did not know what to answer Jahn would give him a box on the ear, saying as he did so, “You should think of this, how you can bring back the four fine bronze horses that once stood over this gate, and were carried by the French to Paris.” From the very first, vigorous and warlike games were on the program. The movement spread like wildfire, and in ten years outdoor gymnasiums dotted the whole country. It was becoming a national force and the subservient government became alarmed. Just at this time, unfortunately, one of the turners killed Kozebue, a poet and journalist in the pay of Russia. It was a political crime, for which the turners were blamed by a government never friend lv and now actively hostile. Influence was brought to bear in high quarters and, finally, all these student societies and Tumvereinen were put under the ban and ordered closed as hotbeds of liberalism and revolution, which indeed they were.

Jahn himself was thrown into prison. At his side was a youth of nineteen, his nearest and most devoted pupil. He shared in his master's misfortune and was arrested too. This was Francis Lieber.

After four months Lieber was released, but with such restrictions that he soon fled to Switzerland, and then to Greece where he took part in the war against the Turks, only to come back to Italy disillusioned and stripped bare by Greek bandits. A year was spent in Rome where he was befriended by Niebuhr, the Prussian Minister, and he returned to Berlin only to find that police restrictions were as severe as ever. Secretly he prepared to leave Germany and finally sailed for England, where he met Dr. Bond from Boston who was looking for an instructor in gymnastics for the gymnasium opened the year before by Dr. Charles Follen, another refugee. He accepted the offer and took over the gymnasium in 1827, and the following year opened a swimming school.

“Yesterday,” he writes, “the mayor called on me and said Mr. John Quincy Adams, the President of the United States, wished to visit my school.” An appointment was made and “he came punctually, accompanied by the mayor. After I had explained my plan

Digitized by

Google
200

to him I asked him if he would do me the honor to swim with me, and if he preferred we would go outside of the enclosure in order to avoid the frolicking boys, and let my boat follow us. The old man looked at the boys and said, ‘No, I prefer to stay here, if they will not laugh at me. These good little swimmers will make fun of me.’ We prepared ourselves for the bath and this man of sixty-one sprang headlong into the water from a spring-board six feet high. He repeated this several times and swam about a quarter of an hour, conversing with me while he was in the water and showing himself an experienced swimmer. He praised the school and expressed the wish that there were many establishments of the kind in the country which would greatly tend to promote the public health. He said also he had tried all kinds of gymnastic exercises, but never found greater refreshment after continuous mental exertion than from swimming. I returned part of the distance with him and after many polite expressions of regard and thanks we parted. The impression his face and appearance made upon me is earnestness united with cordiality. His head is bald, but his figure is erect and well preserved.”

In addition to his gymnastics and swimming, Lieber became an authority on political economy and government, and at the call of Nicholas Biddle finally came to Philadelphia to be entrusted with the writing of the first plan and constitution for Girard College.

Let us look at article 36, of Lieber’s Plan. "Their (the pupils’) physical education shall be promoted chiefly by the greatest possible cleanliness, order, wholesome diet, proper recreation, and enjoyment of the open air and instruction in and practice of gymnastics, taught in a regular, gradual, and natural progress, adapted to the various seasons and respective ages.” I do not see how one could better express, in so few words, the function of a Department of Physical Education and Hygiene than in that paragraph which I have just read,—“cleanliness order and wholesome diet, recreation and enjoyment of the open air, and the practice of gymnastics taught in a regular, gradual, and natural progress, adapted to the various seasons and respective ages.”

Physical educators share in all human weaknesses. We are apt to be led off by the fad of the day. Ai one time it was heavy gymnastics, the legacy of Father Jahn. The conquest of the horizontal and parallel bars and the horse was considered the chief aim of physical education. And then came the revolution to the free gymnastics of Dio Lewis, and the horizontal bar was banished to the attic. Bean bags ajnd wooden dumbbell drills became the thing, and gymnastic societies flourished in eveiy small New England town. Then came the Swedish gymnastics with their angular movements and rigid discipline; next we revolted from that to the curvilinear lines and rhythmic movements of the dancing mania and the languishing poses of the debased Delsartians. Now we are preaching that everything must be in the form of a game and that the child must not be required to do anything he does not enjoy, closing our eyes too often to the claims of progressive education and

Digitized by

Google
201

her twin sister discipline, as essential in moulding the plastic body, as it is in awakening the human mind and soul.

Various forms of exercise should be mixed, like a salad, in a complete system of physical education, but who is to choose the proper proportion of vinegar, salt, and oil, and who is to mix the salad?

Lieber had his opinion on this point too, for in another article of his plan he says, "Gymnastics, swimming, gardening, and instruction in the art and science of education are to be put under the immediate direction of the President, because," he says, "those persons who teach gymnastics professionally are often individuals unacquainted with the whole range of gymnastics and their progressive courses, as well as the true ends of education."

I call attention to this qualification required of the President and ask the Board of City Trusts what steps have been taken to conduct this practical examination of candidates for the presidency. I feel sure that the present President of Girard College would pass such a test with flying colors, but this suggestion should not be lost sight of when the question comes up again in what we trust may be the dim and distant future.

When Alexander Dallas Bache, the great grandson of Benjamin Franklin, was elected first president, in 1836, he spent two years in Europe, and his report, published in 1839, makes numerous references to the way physical education was taught in the schools he then visited, but this part of the educational program was not prominent during the first years of the college’s history.

The formation of a military battalion in 1869, as an outcome of the Civil War, again directed attention to the systematic training of the boy’s phys que, and in 1873 an instructor in gymnastics was appointed. He taught the German gymnastics that he had learned as a boy at Frankfort-on-Main, and which had been the cause of his exile as it had been that of Francis Lieber himself. Lewis Sostman, who shortened his name to Louis Lewis, had wide popularity in his day as a gymnast and as a teacher. He was one of the founders of the Turngemeinde of Philadelphia, and was only retired after thirty-six years of active service in 1909. Himself a mirror of

Eoliteness, it was his proud boast that he had never been absent •om his classes a single day and that he had never been late in keeping an appointment; two of his sons have worthily followed in his footsteps. With advancing years and increasing classes, an assistant was appointed in 1904, in the person of Frederick A. Finkel-dey, a close student of gymnastic literature, who continued as his successor until 1916, when the Department was completely reorganized with the present splendidly trained director at its head, and the exercises of the gymnasium and the games of the playground used as parts of a complete educational scheme, with academic credits and penalties.

Digitized by LjOOQle
202

You must not forget that Lieber emphasized in his Constitution the fact that exercise should be adapted to the various seasons and respective ages of the pupils. He realized that the brain develops just as other parts of the body do, and that these brain centers presiding over tne more complicated and finer adjustments of the muscular system do not begin to function until the later years of growth.

There is no muscular reason why a small boy shou d not choose golf as a game, except that he won’t. The clubs could be made small and the course short, but the nervous system is not ready to grasp the subtle possibilities of the game and the childish mind cannot grasp its philosophy, its fine adjustments of time and distance; the judgement has not yet been developed as it is n later years,—to say nothing of the vocabulary. The child starts with simple movements imitative of the things he sees about him, the movements of animals, birds and people. His first natural exercises do not involve strenuous competition. He has no idea of co-operation in his first games because the brain centers for these forms of community activity only begin to develop when boyhood changes to young manhood. The child is usually past seven before he realizes that in addition to competition with the powers of nature he must also learn to compete against the powers of his fellow man, and so he begins to play “tag” and all the games that develop from it. Football and baseball show by their very character that at last the boy of fifteen recognizes himself as a member of the community* and not merely as an individual, for they are games which sink the interest of the individual in the advancement of a common cause, and the good educator adapts his system to this progression in his pupil’s mental development, and he makes wise use of it for education and discipline, just as he recognizes the rotation of games with the season and does not teach football in the spring and baseball in the autumn.

The responsibility for the physical education of this great family of Stephen Girard’s, a family he never saw, a spiritual family, bears heavily on the President and the teachers of the college, and the erection of the magnificent building, now under construction, shows how thoroughly the responsibility has been shouldered and how well it is being carried. May this day be the beginning of many happy years of progress in the upbuilding of these plastic bodies placed under your care.

And now let me say one word in closing to you boys, students of Girard College. You have often been given advice before, and you will often have to submit to it again, but remember this, you will always need a strong, active, well trained body in anything you want to do. If you are weak and clumsy and sickly it does not matter much to the world whether you are good or bad, because your influence will not carry far, and you will count for nothing. If you are good you will not be able to put over your goodness because you will not have the force to do it. So make and keep yourselves clean and strong, both in mind and body; learn to take

Digitized by booQle
203

care of yourselves and others by your exercises and games in the gymnasium and on the playgrounds.

And when you become strong and athletic look to it how you use your strength and skill. If you use your strength for evil you are a menace and a threat against your fellows merely because you are strong. You will be a bully and a braggart and at heart a coward. But if your strength is used rightly, as it should be, you will become a genuine leader among men. It is in the gymnasium and on the playing fields that the boy cultivates his real nature and his true spirit. It is in the strain of competition that the yellow streak appears, if he has one, but it is there that tenacity and courage and fair play also show at their best. The boy who grits his teeth and keeps his mouth shut when a decision goes against him will win every time, when he becomes a man, over the fellow who kicks and squeals at every decision, or quits when everything does not go his way.

We have to turn to the poets when we want to find the best way of expressing what we mean, and I leave with you this bit of advice given to some schoolboys, like you, by one of the greatest of them all, Henry Newboldt, when he urged the boys of his old college—

"To set the cause above renown.

To honor while you strike him down The foe that comes with fearless eyes—

To count the life of battle good,

And dear the land that gave you birth,

But dearer yet the brotherhood That binds the brave of all the earth.”

MOTOR TRAINING AND INHIBITION AS RELATED TO

ATHLETICS.

By H. H. House, Clark University, Worcester Mass.

Our method of approach is probably best made through a study of the conditioned reflex, but a general study of inhibition is necessary for a clearer understanding. Only a few of the main points, however, can be touched upon in this paper.

It was not until 1846 that the inhibitory functions of the nervous system were brought to light by the discovery by the Webers of the inhibitory action of the vagus nerve passing to the heart. Later Pfliiger discovered the inhibitory nerve passing to the muscle of the intestine wall. These discoveries stimulated physiological research m this direction with the result that in recent years Sherrington has discovered the mechanism by which inhibition is produced in skeletal muscles. The work of Pavlov and his school and the experiments of Cannon have shown the same phenomena to exist in the glands.

♦ Read at the Des Moines meeting of the Middle West Physical Educa-cation society.

Digitized by LjOOQle
204

This physiological research has demonstrated that the body is integrated in all its functions by the processes of excitation and inhibition, which processes are functions of the nervous system, the more reflex and automatic* having their centre in the spinal cord but seeming always to be more or less under the control of the higher centres in the cerebral cortex.

These discoveries of the neural control and integration of the body suggested to the psychologists a new field of research. They indicated the possibility of a similar integration in the mental field. A number of experiments have been made. The results indicate that the mental side presents the same phenomena as the physical andlthat the organism is a psycho-physical unit integrated through-out;by the processes of excitation and inhibition.

If we attempt to explain this interaction, in the light of our present knowledge, between consciousness and the neural processes it can only lead to a metaphysical problem with which we are not concerned. For this reason we can only posit this relationship and believe, as Sherrington puts it, that: “In all the uses of inhibition we see it as an associate of, and a counterpart or counterpoise to, excitation. 'Whether we study it in the more primitive nervous reactions which simply inter-connect antagonistic muscles, or in the latest acquired reactions of the highly integrated organism, inhibition does not stand alone, but runs always alongside of excitation. In the simple correlation uniting antagnoistic muscle-pairs, inhibition of antagonist accompanies excitation of ■protagonist. In higher integrations where, for instance, a visual signal comes by training to be associated to salivary flow, the key of the acquiring of the reflex and of its maintenance is attention. And that part of attention which psychologists term negative, the counterpart and constant accompaniment to positive attention, seems as surely a sign of nervous inhibition as is the relaxation of an antagonist muscle, the concomitant of the contraction of the protagonist. In the latter case the co-ordination concerns but a small part of the mechanism of the individual and is spinal and unconscious. In the former case it deals with practically the whole organism, is cortical and conscious. In all cases inhibition is an integrative element in the consolidation of the animal mechansim to a unity. It and excitation together compose a chord in the harmony of the healthy working of the organism.”

Everyone knows that the defects in athletics come from the bad habits of the individual’s reactions to various situations. Recent studies of inhibition and the conditioned reflex have shown us what habits are. A habit may be formed instantly as in the case of shock, or, it may be arrived at by gradual stages through the repetition of the appropriate stimuli necessary for its formation. In either case the chance stimuli of one’s environment are not always scientifically arranged and as a result bad habits of reaction are formed which will persist so long as the stimuli necessary for their formation and maintenance are present.

Digitized by v^ooQle
205

Just what the conditioned reflex is and how it is set up is best illustrated by the experiments of Pavlov with the dog. He used a very elaborate technique under carefully controlled conditions which I haven't time to describe. The dog was given a piece of meat and a bell was rung at the same time. After a number of repetitions the meat was withheld and the bell was rung as before. The same response (secretion of saliva) was elicited with the sounding of the bell alone, as with the meat and the bell. With the giving of the meat saliva was secreted. The meat in this case was a biologically adequate stimulus, or, as Pavlov terms it, an unconditioned stimulus, which produces an ordinary or unconditioned reflex. The sounding of the bell in connection with the giving of the meat, after several trials, became associated with the meat so that when the bell sounded without the meat being given the secretion took place as before. The bell thus became a conditioned stimulus which produced a conditioned reflex through association resulting in the secretion of saliva.

A large amount of data has been produced by both physiological and psychological investigators in dogs, monkeys, and children. The reflexes have been formed in many ways. Scratching on a definite spot every time the dog is fed will produce a conditioned reflex. A tone of a definite pitch, a definite time interval between the tone and the feeding, a piece of ice placed on the skin, even pain, — each can be made a conditioned stimulus and produce a conditioned reflex.

“It has been found by Pavlov and his students,” says Dr. Burnham, "that, either under the controlled conditions of the laboratory or under the ordinary conditions of natural environment, any stimulus whatever, from any receptor organ, however indifferent the sensation, may become associated with the biologically adequate stimulus and produce the same effect — that is, produce a conditioned reflex. The significance of all this is that Kras-nogorski in Russia, Dr. Mateer at Clark University, and Dr. Watson of Johns Hopkins, have found that in children as well as in animals similar conditioned reflexes can be formed, conditioned reflexes for the salivary gland, conditioned reflexes also for motor organs, conditioned reflexes, perhaps, for every gland or motor organ in the body.”

In the study of the reflex action of the muscles it was found that they are subject to excitation and inhibition but their reflex action is automatic and machine-like. These reflexes are, says Dr. Anrep, “characteristic of the whole class of animals under consideration; they are the immutable outward signs of the central nervous system, inherited and existent in each animal from birth to death.”

The conditioned reflexes on the other hand, following Dr. Anrep, “include the reflexes peculiar to individual animals aid acquired by them in the course of their existence. The organism at birth presents merely greater or lesser possibilities for the formation

Digitized by v^ooQle
206

of conditioned reflexes, and their formation depends only on the conditions under which the animal lives.”

From this we see that many of our reflexes may be conditioned in one way or another but this cannot be dooe without the aid of perception. In other words, the conditioned reflexes require training or education. The converting of a conditioned reflex into an association reflex does not require the participation of volition because it would then lose its primitive character and become a reaction.

In the phenomena of the conditioned reflexes numerous investigations have proved that inhibitions, of a more complex and more highly integrated form exist. It has been found by Pavlov and his school that inhibition in conditioned reflexes may have a great variety of possibilities due to the different kinds of stimuli, the number present at one time, and their mutual effect on one another. He distinguishes two kinds of inhibition, external and internal, of which Bayliss writes "All kinds of external phenomena may give rise to external inhibition. During the course of the formation of a conditioned reflex, especially in the early stages, a very slight outside disturbance may prevent its proper production. Thus Dr. Anrep says that he was engaged in the production of a conditioned reflex to a particular metronome beat. It was begun in the winter time and, just as he presented the food, the laboratory servant began to scrape away the snow at the entrance of the building. The effect of the intended stimulus was at once done away with; the dog’s attention was diverted, as the psychologist would put it, and the experiment spoiled for a time. As regards internal inhibition, it is found that a conditioned reflex, say salivary secretion on the sound of a bell, if repeated several times without the subsequent presentation of food, loses its effect, its proper consummation not being arrived at. This is merely temporary internal inhibition, since the reflex returns of itself after a rest.”

In both of the above mentioned cases of inhibition, external and internal, the inhibition is temporary if the experiment is repeated and a biologically adequate stimulus is used to reenforce the conditioned stimulus. But if the biologically adequate stimulus is constantly withheld, or, if the conditioned stimulus is not used for a considerable length of time, the conditioned reflex will be inhibited. It has been found, however, in experiments by Dr. Anrep, that the conditioned reflex to a certain stimulus is more easily set up a second time when the same stimulus is used. In other words, a conditioned reflex which has been established and then inhibited is more easily re-established, just as a series of nonsense syllables are more easily relearned. It also suggests the facilitation of the nervous impulses.

Conditioned reflexes are the units in the formation of habits. Habits are systems of conditioned reflexes. It is by means of these units that we can dissect and break up, or, on the other hand, form a habit. While it is difficult, in many cases with our present understanding of the conditioned reflex, to analyze many of our habits, still it seems to me to offer the key to their solution.

Digitized by L^ooQle
207

By means of the conditioned reflex we have an objective method of study especially applicable to physical training because physical training is largely the individual’s motor reaction to a situation. It is possible to analyze his behavior by means of questions, observation, and experiment. By scientific application of the data thus secured, one is able to analyze interfering habits of reaction and set up new and correct ones. How this can be done is best illustrated by concrete cases. Time will permit but one.

One quite often sees, in a football game, a player who fails to make a tackle, but instead he chases his opponent until some other player makes the tackle. The player, whose duty it was to make the tackle, has had several good opportunities to do so but something inhibited the necessary action. Questioning might show that he had a lame arm, shoulder, or back, etc., which of themselves would exert inhibitory effects. These are transitory factors, however, and are soon removed by physical recovery. But suppose none of these factors exist. We have then the possibility of fear of injury, lack of sufficient experience in and knowledge of this phase of the game, lack of knowledge of the rules, and failure to understand fully individual responsibility in distinction with team responsibility' Then, too, the lack of the proper motor set enters in at times as an inhibition. It is momentary, subtle, and difficult to explain. These factors are sufficient to produce inhibitory influences which are liable to assert themselves in any play of the game. Correct habits of reaction are not definitely built up and any even slightly novel situation is sufficient to produce an inhibition. These factors are the conditioned stimuli that produces the conditioned reflex which in this case is inhibition of the proper motor response, that is, making the tackle.

To analyze the case the player must be questioned as to why he failed to make the tackle. His behavior must be observed under similar conditions in practice. His knowledge of the rules of the game and his apperception of his particular duties should be ascertained.

The following conclusion seems to be justified: We should spend less time in instructing how a thing should be done and more time in trying to determine the factors which impede its accomplishment, and in positive training in correct reactions which will inhibit the inhibitions.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

1.	Anrep, G. V.—Pitch discriminaion in the dog. Jour, of Physiology, 1919-20, Vol. 53, pp. 367-385.

2.	Bayliss, W. M.—Principles of general physiology. London, Longmans Green & Co. 1916. 850 p.

3.	Burnham, W. H.—Hygiene and pedagogy of habit. Amer. Jour, of School Hygiene, 1917, Vol. 1, pp. 137-150.

4.	-------Mental hygiene and the conditioned reflex. Ped. Sem.

1917, Vol. 24, pp. 449-488.

Digitized by v^ooQie
208

5.	 The	significance	of	the	conditioned	reflex	in	mental hy-

giene. Mental Hygiene, 1921, Vol. 5, pp. 673-706.

6.	Cannon, W. B.—Bodily changes in pain, hunger, fear and rage. N. Y. Appleton, 1916, 311 p.

7.	Kempf, E. J.—The atuonomic functions and the personality. N. Y.

Nervous and Mental Disease Pub. Co. 1918.	166	p.

8.	Mateer, F.—Child behavior: a critical and experimental study of young children by the method of conditioned reflexes. Boston, Badger, 1917.

9.	Sherrington, C. S.—Reflex inhibition as a factor in the co-ordination of movements and postures. Quart. Jour, of Exper. Physiology. 1913, Vol. 6, pp. 261-310.

10.	Watson, John B.—The place of the conditioned reflex in psychology. Psy. Review, 1916, Vol. 23, pp. 89-116.

Much of the literature is given in the bibliographies of the articles listed in this bibliography.

COMMON SENSE AND ATHLETICS.*

Dr. P. K. Holmes, University of Kentucky.

Athletics and the various other forms of physical education are just as much a part of the college curriculum today as are such subjects as English and Mathematics. No intelligent person today attempts to deny that college athletics under proper supervision are of value. The various athletic games, such as football, baseball, soccer, basketball, etc., are made up of muscular co-ordinations which are nothing more than the refined movements which were basic to the very existence of our forebears, e. g., running, jumping, striking, climbing, throwing, grappling, etc. These movements in our forefathers were accompanied by an exercise of control of the various basic actions such as rage, fear, pleasure, and display. When participating in athletics, we are in reality only doing what our ancestors have done for thousands of years. We play with an aptitude handed down from many centuries. Thus the fighting instinct is given a safe and legitimate outlet thru athletic competition. Gridiron warrior is matched against gridiron warrior for supremacy.

Athletics teach young people the capacity for cooperation so necessary in all kinds of team work; they discourage egotism and modify individual peculiarity; they teach the military principle of discipline; they help to develop tenacity, perseverance, loyalty, sociability and honesty; in fact, many of the moral and social qualities so necessary for good citizenship.

Athletics make possible the acquisition of muscular coordinations which tend toward gracefulness, bodily control and economy, and quick physical and mental adjustments in times of emergency. They tend toward the enlarging and strengthening of the vital organs so necessary to vigorous life. Athletics increase the size

* Read at the Des Moines meeting of the Middle West Society of Physical Education.

Digitized by t^ooQle
209

and strength of the muscles, but not unduly. They react upon the central nervous system in such a way as to facilitate growth and increase function, especially in reference to the intellectual processes. They may help one to develop resistance toward such diseases as tuberculosis, pneumonia and such states as premature old age, nervous instability, etc.

For some, athletics may lead to the path of moral rectitude by acting as a safety-valve for the overflow of purely animal spirits. One cannot excel as an athlete and indulge in moral looseness at the same time. Athletics may mean the all-absorbing interest thru which a man finds himself.

Athletics as a part of military preparedness may lead to the path of unity in times of national peril. Athletics are valuable in school life as a means of developing class and school spirit, loyalty and unselfishness—thus forming a powerful bond of common unity— capable of supplying the complement to a one-sided education, e. g., physical education linked to mental education making the complete educational whole.

Well organized athletics may make a rallying point for the whole institution. Successful teams help build up and maintain morale.

The desire to participate in general athletic activities is instinctive, and instincts are basic to life itself. If these instincts are not exercised at the biological time, they cease to make a claim upon us and we thus lose a part of our God-given heritage. Athletics, then, in some form, should constitute a part of the education of every boy and girl in the land.

But because athletics are good it does not mean that they may be indulged in in any amount at any time or under any condition; one-twentieth of a grain of strychnine may be beneficial as a medicine, but a grain might do serious damage. Athletics are becoming more popular each year. More boys and girls are participating in athletics in our schools and colleges today than ever before. The peoples of foreign countries are learning for the first time to appreciate the thrills to be gotten from basketball, baseball, tennis, soccer, etc. The aborigines of the Philippine Islands are now substituting baseball for head-hunting. The Mexicans are playing tennis and basketball instead of indulging in bull fighting and promoting cock fights. The Germans and Swedes are adding games to their formal gymnastics.

During the period of the war, athletics in our colleges became more informal and less specialized; fewer coaches were hired, less time was given to practice, fewer games were played, and less concern was given to winning. Yet, to our surprise, good teams were turned out. This condition was, in many ways, most desirable, and it is with regret that we have fallen back into the ways of prewar-athletics. The evidences are that we have failed to learn the lessons taught by the war. The war taught us the value of athletic

Digitized by L^OOQle
210

activities for every man. The poorest man there had just as much right to taste the joys of athletics to the extent of his ability as did the man who was born with athletic capacity. Yet college athletics, except in few places, have not been provided for the many, but for the select few, those who have native ability, who axe well built, and vigorous, and strong; but not for those who are ill-shapen, weak and awkward. What coach is interested in the ordinary fellow with no athletic possibilities? He is quickly “fired” from the squad, if he has courage enough to come out at all. How many coaches are willing to take chances on the unpromising material with hopes that it may develop? The scrubs are urged to become sacrifices for the regulars; any lack of the sacrificial spirit on their part is branded as rank disloyalty.

Not only does the regular get more exercise than he needs, but far more than may be good for him. He is often so fatigued at night that he cannot study and his recitations the following day are poor. His muscles and vital organs may become developed far out of proportion to the demands of daily life. Most teams are trained to the point of staleness by the end of the season, because coaches have not yet learned that it is better to undertrain than overtrain their men. Often men have been sent away from school to rest up from chronic fatigue produced by overtraining. In some cases hearts seem to be overstrained, but more careful investigation generally shows that the healthy heart has a large margin of safety and will stand much work without becoming permanently injured but, to say the least, such excessive work is of no special, and may be of doubtful benefit. In some cases the constant strain of athletics for four years in college may produce premature hardening of the arteries.

One is perfectly safe in saying that intercollegiate athletics are not conducted for one’s health. Health is considered only in so far as it is conducive to winning. In fact many of the fundamental rules of health are flagrantly violated by the coach. It is not a question of how much work Brown should do, but of how much work Brown can stand. The man who has just recovered from a severe case of tonsilitis or influenza is often put into the game just as quickly as the coach dares. It is a question of his value to the team, and not a question of injury to himself. No man should be allowed to participate on his team after a severe illness without a physician’s certificate. Many coaches will play a man, knowing he has a weak heart or diseased kidneys, providing the player himself will assume responsibility for accident. This is where the interests of the team are greater than that of health or even of life itself.

Most of our intercollegiate athletics are such as are never participated in after leaving college; this is especially true of footDall. Football probably has qualities that are of real value to the player, yet it is a game which is seldom played after the senior year; hence it cannot be of great permanent educational value. Would it not be better to have such men learn such games as can be played for

Digitized by

Google
211

years after leaving college? Such games are tennis, handball, volley ball, soccer, golf, and other such activities as swimming, boxing, fencing, running, jumping, etc. These should not necessarily supplant football but should be in addition to football and the other so-called varsity sports.

We are accustomed to expect broken legs, arms, ribs, collar bones, and twisted knees, and say “it’s worth it,” yet, if such accidents occurred during freshman rushes or fraternity initiations we would say it was barbarity in the extreme, and should not be tolerated. Can we rightfully consider this as a part of our educational program?

The athlete is likely to become highly specialized in one or two sports only. What coach has in mind the development of muscular co-ordination in general as an educational principle? Men sometimes are kept for days and weeks learning one little movement in order that they may pole vault an inch higher. One might beat a world record on the athletic field and yet go thru life with a onesided development and ill health.

Athletic ability is not at all synonymous with health. Many men learn only one or two sports during their college life. This means a one-sided development. General muscular co-ordination and poise are not gained in this way. The “star” football player may be anything but graceful and at ease in the society of mahogany furniture.

The element of professionalism is in evidence within our college athletics. Men play not necessarily for money, but for victory, and this is not the real spirit of the amateur. The alumni say they must win; the faculty say they must win; the student body, as a whole, say they must win, and the coach says with tremendous emphasis that they must win or be disgraced. Everything else is subservient to the one great aim, that of winning. The elements of education, health, enjoyment, sociability, of just doing one’s best in the game are all mere incidents. Nothing else in the college man’s life is made nearly as important as athletic victories. The coach tells his men that the honesty and integrity of the university are at stake. Yet, strange to say, it goes on about the same whether the teams are victorious or not. No other individual in the institution has the same intimate personal contact with the student athlete as the coach. He has within his hands the power of the despot—his desires and wishes may be thrust upon the athlete with a force and power wielded by no other person on the campus. In many cases the coach’s influence is far out of proportion to his academic training and educational experience. His salary is often exorbitant, in comparison with that of other members of the faculty, simply because of the false value placed upon winning athletics. Because of the precariousness of his position, he has to be relatively better paid. He should not, tho, be paid any more than any other similar faculty member, but his tenure of office should be made as permanent as that of the other. Most coaches are not educators, they are simply

Digitized by

Google
212

coaches. Some, it is true, would be educators, if they were allowed to be. They are continually being overwhelmingly impressed with the idea that they must produce winning teams. Thus they of necessity become narrow and see but one very small phase of the field of physical education. Most coaches either consciously or unconsciously instill within the athlete a feeling of contempt for the so-called gymnasium work. This is often due to the fact that they have been brought up on athletics alone and have no conception of the broad educational scope of a general program of physical education.

Football and basketball, as played in our colleges today, are far from recreative; they are more nearly destructive. Just watch the faces of the men in a practice or game and see if you can see many of the evidences of enjoyment in their faces. It is the most serious business in college. I have heard coaches administer the most scathing indictment upon the man who was so simple as to shake hands or pass a pleasant word with his opponent opposite him in the football lines between scrimmages. If you have ever been in between halves in a football game, you likely were impressed with the solemnity of the occasion. The old-fashioned Methodist prayer meeting with its amens, wailing and tears was a joyous occasion in comparison. Here strong men are dragged to the depths of despair and made to cry like babes, all because they could not put up a good showing against another similar group of athletes who were inherently better than they.

Each college has the delusion that it must be the best athletically in its state or in its particular section of the country. It does not take into consideration the facts of difference in size, facilities for training, or number of natural athletes within its enrollment. If it does not win it dons the garb of sackcloth and ashes and retains it until next season. No one school can expect to win all the time. This is not according to the law of averages. Again, it is not generous, it is hoggish. One institution cannot expect to retain athletic supremacy continually. What it can do others will do. It would be far better for us to get the Englishman’s point of view; to play especially for the sake of education, health, competition and fun; to play as hard and as honestly as possible and try to win, and, if defeated, to admit that the best team won after all, and that the game was enjoyable and profitable in the bargain. Such a philosophy has made the Englishman, perhaps, the best sport in the world.

Winning teams are demanded largely by a few alumni, a few of the so-called sporting members of the faculty, a certain percentage of the student body, and certain people in the immediate community. Because the majority of these various groups are more or less indifferent, athletics are being controlled by the aforesaid few. These alumni tell us they are interested in winning teams because they are beneficial to their Alma Mater. I wonder if there is not also present within them a subsconcious element of selfishness. They like to

Digitized by Google
213

remind themselves that they were once in the limelight of the college which is now attracting attention in the athletic world. Are these alumni just as much interested in maintaining high academic stand* ards for their Alma Mater?

The great mass of students who are denied participation in athletic sports cannot be profoundly interested in the exploits of the chosen few except thru constant stimulation. They are being continually reproached for not showing more loyalty to the teams and spirit for the school. At heart can you really blame them for their seeming indifference? The great majority of the alumni are indifferent to or at least only mildly interested in the athletic records of their Alma Mater. Only a small percentage of the faculty members attend the intercollegiate matches. Those who do not evince a fervent interest in the outcome of the various games are charged with lack of proper school spirit. Not being imbued with this intense and narrow point of view, they feel that the interest manifested here is entirely out of proportion to the benefits derived. When we make provision for all students to participate in athletics according to their ability, we will get that “esprit de corps’’ for athletics, the lack of which is so much deplored today. This will never hurt intercollegiate athletics, but only benefit them, and put them in the place where they belong in some of our big universities. The cost of maintaining intercollegiate athletics is Isr out of proportion to that of any other single college activity. Much more money is spent in training a few specialists than in training the remaining hundreds or thousands who have no so-called athletic possibilities.

Another dangerous thing is the control of athletics by alumni associations. These men often do not get the right point of view and the college authorities are helpless. They may foster various forms of professionalism, which cannot be stopped or even detected by the college authorities. No other interest in college is so influenced by outside forces. Pressure may be brought to bear thru conditional gifts to the college that the president is powerless to refuse. All of these complications make the athletic problem one of the very hardest in college to handle. Athletics are a part of college life, but not the whole.

Great effort is put forth to seduce high school athletes from far and near. They are courted and banqueted, cajoled and entreated, as no other prospective students are. What organized effort is made to induce mentally brilliant individual students to come to a certain college? Is it not more important to train a prospective college president or embryonic president of the United States than to train a man for three years of athletic victories? There is a tendency to smooth up the intellectual path of the potentially good athlete. He is often made a “good fellow” far out of proportion to his real value.

We have been led to believe that winning teams are essential to the growth and prominence of a college; therefore, we clamor for

Digitized by v^ooQle
214

athletics in order that our integrity may be maintained. While it is true that certain colleges have gained prominence and size thru winning teams, it is also true that other institutions have shown great growth and prominence without winning athletic teams. After all, the great bulk of our student body is not especially concerned as to whether their prospective college has winning teams or not; they know they will not be eligible for a place on the teams, and so choose the college which offers them what they are really interested in.

Some colleges become more anxious for winning athletic teams than for a reputation for high grade academic work. They become carried away with the delusion that that will put them upon the “map." Such a reputation might be anything but desirable. Small colleges that shoot meteor like into the limelight of athletics may at least come under suspicion. Athletic supremacy is a very unstable thing and the institution which builds its hope upon it is likely to meet with disappointment sooner or later. The quality of a college is not determined by its athletics, but by the excellence of its methods of training men and women for noble citizenship. A college is great because it maintains a high standrad of academic work and because it offers an opportunity for every student to enjoy the benefits of an intelligent and comprehensive program of physical education. One small college in the west has become prominent because it has been courageous enough to break with all athletic traditions. This, of course, is going to the extreme. We do not want to do away with intercollegiate athletics, but we do want to make them hygienic, enjoyable, educational and democratic.

I have attempted to present the constructive and destructive sides of athletics. I shall now attempt to make a few reconstructive suggestions. Athletics should be made available for every man and woman in college who is physically able to enjoy them. The aim should be educational, hygienic, ethical, social and competitive. The desire for winning should be strongly present, but not dominant. Their importance should not be out of proportion to that of our other college activities. Less time should be given to practice; perhaps fewer games outside and more interclass games, especially in basketball, should be played and closer medical supervision should be maintained. Less value should be attached to producing winning teams as a means of maiat lining the integrity of the institution. Less effort should be made in scouting for prospective athletes. Less money should be spent in developing purely winning teams. Coaches in some cases should be paid less, but be made more permanent The seasonal coaches should be done away with as far as possible and full time coaches put on the staff on the same basis as other faculty members. Faculty members object to outsiders coming in for a period of eight or ten weeks and getting as much in that time as they do in a whole year. Athletics should be controlled by men who have a broad, sympathetic point of view, and who do not have contempt for other phases of the physical education profession. The athletic and gymnastic divisions of the Department of Physical

Digitized by v^ooQle
215

Education should interchange activities. All Physical Education activities should be united into a single department with responsibility placed upon one person. Alumni and student control should never be dominant, but the balance of control should be in the hands of the college itself. Narrow specialization in one or two sports should be prevented, and interest in several g mes should be fostered. After all, it is not a question as to whether we shall have or shall not have intercollegiate athletics, but as to whether we shall or shall not have common sense intercollegiate athletics.

HOW TO DEVELOP A HEALTH CONSCIOUSNESS AMONG

YOUNG WOMEN.

Clara Julia Anderson, Grinnell College.

It is not necessary, before this body, to say that health is a national asset and necessity; that it is the cornerstone upon which national prosperity and permanence is builded. Lack of positive health in a nation means stagnation and that contributes to poverty and economic retrogression.

The members of this group are especially concerned with the preparation for life, of the young women in our educational institutions, — those who will be leaders in home-making, in the creative arts, in the sciences, in fact, in all mental activities which require a sound physical, moral and spiritual foundation.

I do not like the idea of considering a human being as divided into three parts; mind, body and soul. I believe that in making this strong line of demarkation we lose ground; and I believe that the development of a strong and vigorous leadership requires the balanced coordination of the three. Indeed, in years past, muscular development and perfection of technique were more emphasized than the accumulation of vitality and poise. We are only beginning to apply our knowledge oi psychology, and the relation between mind and body, in dealing with students in our Physical Education departments.

Dr. Sundwall says that we have been deluded regarding health conditions because we have felt that our athletes excel in many of the activities, and we have thought that this reflected the physical condition of the nation. This delusion was dispelled at the time of the war, and we were amazed at the failure of our men to pass the tests for military fitness.

Many of these men came from our colleges and universities. What then is the deduction? What of the results of college training? We are, of course, chiefly concerned with the young women of these institutions. What are we accomplishing in developmg a strong desire for the right life equipment? *

* Read at the Des Moines meeting of the Middle West Society of Physical Education.

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
216

We have used much energy in technically perfecting the organization and work of our Physical Education Departments, and in doing as much as possible for the girls through corrective and remedial work, which is all right. I wonder how much we have inspired each girl to do for herself;to carry on in health measures; has she acquired health habits, the foundation stone to other achievements after college? Has the strong, vigorous girl learned what a priceless gift she has which she should guard, or will she be wasteful of her health bank account? All this of course without being morbid and too introspective regarding health.

I asked my Senior women how much of a health consciousness they had developed, which would be a help to them in the coming years, and through what agencies. The discussion was frank and interesting. All without exception, agreed that not until the Senior year did the idea of health as a valuable asset come to them. The following were the agencies which they mentioned as having brought this about:

1.	Hygiene Point.

2.	Efficiency Point Examinations.

3.	Posture Tests and Secret Posture Committees.

4.	The understanding of their defects thru corrective and remedial work.

You will notice that as Seniors, they did not include the required Hygiene courses of the Freshmen year. Doubtless since that course was given four years ago, their memory of it was hazy. Perhaps at the time, it was taken as a requirement to be gotten out of the way.

This brings me to my first suggestion, viz: that our Hygiene Courses, as a rule are not adequate during the Freshmen year. Too often it seems impossible to make emphatic enough the application of the course to life. The Freshmen must try everything they have heard of, and the results are disastrous. What have we done and what can we do to remedy this?

A greater emphasis in our Freshmen Hygiene courses of the more important things in both personal hygiene and public health, as found in the causes for rejection by the army, and in our vital statistics.

The required course for Freshmen, including a knowledge of the prevention of communicable diseases which are concerned with the person’s relation to society, as well as the promotion of personal health; in the latter, of course, emphasizing the importance of careful inspection of teeth, tonsils, defective vision, postural defects, etc.

Senior Hygiene Course. In addition to the Freshman course I believe that during the Senior year there should be a course planned with a different or all-embracing motive, this course being especially related to life after college days, in the promotion of preventive

Digitized by v^oosle
217

measures, with much emphasis upon mental hygiene, for we know that many women suffer from neurosis and psychosis rathe!- than from organic diseases.

The prevention of communicable disease, that people quite as much as things, are to be feared in disease transmission,—all of this will emphasize the value of frequent physical examinations after leaving college; thus the future community leaders will surely be aroused to the importance of sanitation and preventive measures.

In many institutions the Student Health Service is a powerful influence, and is as much concerned with the sound students as with those who are ill or sub-normal.

I believe that Arthur Kieth is right when he says that we have kept our eyes intent upon the birth and death rate, and not enough upon the health rate. The young women who are well and strong need to know preventive measures and this can be done through the hygiene courses, especially the Senior course, if planned with that in view.

The first thing which my Senior women mentioned was the Hygiene Point Plan, which I worked out three years ago, — I confess with some doubts in my mind as to the way in which it would be received. I feared that college women might consider it too juvenile a plan, but to my delight, it has taken seriously with an increasing number who report weekly on the faithfulness with which they live op to the following regulations for three consecutive months:

a.	Sleeping eight consecutive hours every night.

b.	Abstaining from attending spreads and eating between meals.

c.	Wearing no high heels except for dress occasions.

d.	Missing no classes on account of illness.

We have now about 100 girls who are keeping the Hygiene Point Plan, and it has been a decided factor in the health record of our college girls. Many have brought their shoes for inspection, to see whether they will pass the regulation, and it is a real tragedy to any girl if she forgets and eats between meals. In practically every group of girls for whom refreshments are served, someone, and often several present, say — “No, thank you, I am taking a Hygiene point," and the effect on the entire group is decidedly constructive.

The Efficiency Examinations. Many girls are stimulated to better individual living thru this plan, and the frequent examinations necessary for this make it possible for us to call attention to the defects, and to more sane ways of living. The following plan, purely voluntary, is used:

For meeting definite tests in anthropometric examinations, certain honors are given according to the following table:

Correct weight for height......................2	points

Lung capacity..................................2	points

Digitized by v^ooQle
218

Chest expansion - 3 inches.............2	points

Chest depth -10 mm.....................2	points

Strength of back - 80 kilos............2	points

Strength of legs - 80 kilos............2	points

Strength of right grip - 60 kilos......2	points

Strength of left grip - 60 kilos..............2	points

Feet - Grade A.........................2	points

Posture - Grade A.............................5	points

Satisfactory gymnasium class work required.

For twelve honors a black chevron is given. For 15 honors a red chevron is given. For twenty honors a red star and one point toward a trophy is given provided the posture is correct ana the gymnasium grade is satisfactory.

The examination is repeated in six months and the point is taken away if it has not been kept.

The interest taken in securing the honors, and the pride with which the chevrons are worn, has been most gratifying.

The Secret Posture Committee. A secret posture committee, appointed from the members of the W. A. A. Board, observe and report concerning the posture of individuals desiring to secure a point in athletics. The knowledge that this student committee is at work, and that a point for the trophy may be withheld in case of posture falling below A, is a reminder of the importance of posture in relation to health. The latter is also emphasized in the taking of posture tests in the winter classes.

The Corrective and Remedial Work affects only a comparatively small group; however, others know of what is being done, and through explaining to the individual taking the private work the reason for certain exercises, it is possible to stimulate greater interest than if it were done in a perfunctory way.

We have found that a magazine rack in the lobby of the gymnasium, containing magazines and articles on Physical Education and health matters, often attracts the attention of a girl who may be waiting for an appointment, and has sometimes started a bit of interest along some worth while line.

I have doubtless suggested to you nothing new or different from your own methods, and I have only mentioned the things which I have tried and found of some help.

Digitized by Google
219

HAS POSTURE A POSITIVE HEALTH VALUE OR MERELY PSYCHOLOGICAL VALUE?

After several years of experience in giving to college students physical examinations which include posture examinations, I am forced to admit that I know little about the real health value of correct posture. With this fact strongly in mind, I was most willing to suggest to Dr. Norris the subject of this discussion, namely, “Has Correct Posture A Positive Health Value or Merely Psychological Value?” but I can assure you I was subconsciously suggesting a topic for somebody else from whom I would receive many suggestions. Inasmuch as Dr. Norris’ mind worked quite at variance to my own, I am forced to present the subject myself, offering it in no way as something new, merely as a means of stimulating a discussion of your own conclusions.

That you may have a more or less fair idea of the way posture examinations are conducted at the University of Michigan, I will describe our method briefly. Two large mirrors are used, one against the wall and a second about five feet from it at an angle of about forty degrees. The stadiometer is placed in front of the mirror against the wall, and the student stands on the box with one side towards the rod facing at right angles to the mirror. x In this position she can look into the second mirror without turning her head and readily see a side view of her body. The differences between correct and incorrect posture are then indicated. Although this method may be criticized justly because no permanent picture is taken, as when using the schemetograph, it must be admitted that the student can see for herself, and that it takes very little urging, if any, to have her admit the advantages of correct posture from the point of view of appearance. This examination is followed in a few weeks by a lecture on posture, and by four more posture examinations—one at the end of each semester during the freshman and sophomore years.

May I say in the beginning, that I may not be misunderstood, that I thoroughly believe in stressing correct posture—its values cannot be overlooked. We are all familiar with those arguments that are enumerated frequently: (1) the organs of the thoracic and abdominal cavities perform their duties with less friction in correct posture; (2) there is, therefore, less loss of energy, therefore, less fatigue; (3) the psychological effect upon oneself cannot be overestimated—the feeling of well being, of alertness, of self-respect and just self pride; (4) the psychological effect upon others — the appearance of intelligence and mastery of one’s self that carries with it a conclusion of intelligence about and mastery of one’s social and professional duties; instinctively self-respect demands respect. And so we might continue.

* Read at the Dee Moines meeting of the Middle West Physical Educa-eation Society.

By Marion O. Wood, University of Michigan.
220

But the point I am most concerned with is whether or not we can conclusively say, “We have more health, because we stand, walk, and sit correctly?” I do not believe we can say that it has really been proven. Theoretically, in correct posture the organs of the body are in better position to function—e. g. more air can get into the lungs, the digestion is not sluggish because of undue friction in other words, there is more health. Eut do we know of definite proof by experiments that a person who has been generally ailing and out of sorts physically, with no real organic difficult its, has been restored to health by training in correct posture? Scientifically, I believe that such experiments should be carried cn before we are justified in using the “health” argument.

A few years ago, I had a rather unusual student in a correct gymnastic class, who was temperament al, independent and unwilling to do anything that did not seem to her of real value— her extreme attitude in other courses as well as ours, resulted disastrously for her. However, she was a real problem to me, and her arguments made me think. Briefly, she knew her posture was not correct but it was too hard to stand that way: she did not care what other people thought of her, for she knew she was living honestly and uprightly according to her own standards, and I believe they were good. In answer to the health reason, she said t bat she was perfect ly healthy, had never been ill, so she could not believe 1 hat t hat w as t r ue. Perhaps some of you have bad a similar experience. I feel sure that all of us can cite innumerable persons whose pcsture is atrocious, and yet they are apparently well, healthy and vigorous. It is for this reason that I question our argument for health.

I believe that the present day trend is towards the interchange of the terms “Physical Education” and "Health” and I believe that it is right: for we have proven that health gees bard in hand with vigorous all around exercise—and that the person wfc bout it is, nine times out of ten, not up to the highest standards of health. I believe too, that it is possible for a person tote quit e an at hlet e, quite a gymnast and yet have forward shoulders and forward head.

In conclusion, I would say, from the point of view of health, in relation to correct posture, we have not yet reached cur goal for arguments; but from the point of view of psychology we have. In our profession I feel that we are doubly blessed with op port unities for influencing and moulding our students to a certain extent. Our aims for our students should include not only healih, joy, fair play, loyalty, and all the other qualities that go hand in hand, but an all round development of self that proves the value of self appreciation in an unexaggerated form, looking towards service towards one’s community. I believe, therefore, that we are thoroughly justified in our teaching of correct posture, but from the psychological rather than the physiological reason.

Digitized by
221

WHAT IS EDUCATION—WHAT SCHOOL HYGIENE?*

By K. C. H.

The mere struggle for existence as it becomes intense calls for a thorough overhauling and enquiry into the why and wherefore of public efforts. In the field of education, the campaign of the yellow press against teachers as a body is not without certain justification. Probably in the last half dozen years they have been the most favored section of the community. That teachers should be placed above the stresses of financial strain is now an agreed necessary condition for satisfactory work, but whether the work done by them is what is wanted, and whether ics results are the education hoped hoped for, is not beyond debate. A recent speech by Sir Sidney Russell Wells in the House of Commons set out the naked truth; it showed the crimping effect of the teachers' specialized training from pre-adolescent days to adult years resulting in a narrow and restricted view of their duties. The action of teachers in asking to be formally excluded by Statute from any share in the administration of school feeding was one of the first illustrations of chis pedantic aspect of their work. The domestic servant "problem," in which the teacher is as powerful as the dole, is even suggested as another.

The latest report of the Medical Officer for Health for Eccles stated that “the outstanding feature of Infant Welfare work is the extreme lack of knowledge of mothercraft and infant management displaced by young mothers. Until mothercraft is taught to every potential mother we shall not experience much improvement in the infant mortality rate. Each year many infant lives are lost through ignorance of the elementaiy facts of infanc management—a course of mothercraft and house wifery would be far more profitable to girls than instruction in commercial or other special subjects."

Criticising this report, The Schoolmaster for June 15th makes a noteworthy statement. “In the opinion of many women teachera, too large a proportion of time is, in primary schools, devoted to instruction in domestic subjects. Attendance for the necessary practical work robs a class of fifteen or eighteen scholars, the class-work suffers, or much repetition is entailed upon those who have previously atcended, or are too young to attend, the particular domestic course. Very strenuous work is demanded of children and teachers if the general education for life is not co suffer from the special education for a condition which may or may not arise. Given uninterrupted opportunity (and interruptions are, unfortunately, many and lengthy), every girl would attain a much higher standard of education before the age of fourteen. Subtract the hours of cook-r, laundry, housewifery, physical exercises, games, swimming, ay-management, hygiene and temperance, needlework and singing

* From Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education, Birmlnc* ham, England.

Digitized by t^ooQie
%

222

from the day-school hours, and parents must be surprised that Mary has attained any workable knowledge of the many subjects that remain, and of which she must have more than a smattering if she is to live, and not merely vegetate, in future years."

This passage needs little comment. Our sympathies with the teachers’ struggle against the overcrowded curriculum would be stronger were it not true that the very overcrowding is due partly to their inability to recognize what best serves the end in view, and partly to a distorted view of that end itself. If the subjects enumerated above are to be regarded as interruptions to education proper, what is left and what is it for? With all the efforts of the last twenty years, how is it possible that such a view of educational purposes and duties can De taken? Whether here set out in grim irony or not, it is a real view of numbers of teachers, and had they their own way, the living child would be entirely neglected for a "knowledge of many subjects.”

What is School Hygiene?

The answer to the previous paragraphs probably lies in a consideration of the present state of the school medical service. The service originated in this country in an attempt of the school boards to make children more fit for school work. Children selected by the teachers for obvious troubles were examined by a doctor. Plenty of men were available in general practice well acquainted with the run of childish ailments, and also most in need of being kept in touch with such work for the general benefit. The younger and more enthusiastic as a rule could spare a good part of their time, and apart from the convenience of office routine, are by far the best for the purpose.

For educational hygiene, beyond the routine of inspections, and where questions of hours and subjects, fatigue and strain, exercise and play and all cognate matters were demanding a high expert knowledge, not merely of clinical medicine, but also of educational practice, the Authorities required something more, and the demand was being automatically supplied. It was a large branch of work profoundly affecting the future of the nation, absolutely distinct in its detailed nature from public health work. By the conversion of school hygiene under the Education Authorities into the administration of medical inspection of school children for public health purposes, the whole thing has been changed to a bureaucratic system and the educational purposes and aims of the work entirely lost. In the use of the magic word “co-ordination," responsibility has been removed from parents and teachers and placed in the hands of those whose work has become separated from the whole spirit of medical and educational practice.

Medical Inspection. Why should medical men be employed in making full records of the eighty per cent practically normal children in the schools? Sampling is quite sufficient for all general enquiries, and can be done at a fiftieth of the cost.

Digitized by

Google
228

Why should not children be inspected for obvious defects once for all, in pre-school ages, and for tne rest of their school days be observed by the teachers and school nurses, the medical officers only being brought in for cases listed with obvious defect? The defects worth individual action are comparatively few. The whole thing for the greater part can be made an educational process in the teacher’s hands.

Again, the present methods of examination are costly altogether beyond their value from the public standpoint. We do not filter the town water through Chamberlain filters, but through coke and sand. If a child has good vision for the practical purposes of life, why should each eye be separately tested and recorded in detail? Separate eyes are not used, and, as a rule, the vision with both eyes together is better than with either separately. The error of the tests at some ages is thirty per cent, why double the expense to catch a doubtful two or three per cent? Financially or otherwise it is hardly sound business.

In other details one might go through nearly the whole work of medical inspection, and say that it has become costly and pedantic, and is without living force. In the school, it is not of the school, but a thing apart, and School Hygiene has become a theoretical work of the doctor rather than practical instruction based on first hand observation of the teacher. Except in the most indirect way, it has little tendency to develop a popular health conscience. It must be administered from without by workers who have actual clinical experience of its varied details, but within the school it requires to be made educational, and the re-adjustments here suggested would then lead to a wide educational development of health interests, now well-nigh lost.

With regulations properly adjusted, and giving greater freedom from petty rules and restraints, Education Authorities could probably get 95 per cent of the present results for 60 or 70 per cent of the cost, and a saving of 30 per cent on medical inspection alone might be expected. In addition, they would get an increasingly large educational value, which would add to the health capital of the community, and render it impossible even in a jest to set out such a view of the teacher’s obligations as has been quoted.

EFFECT OF PHYSICAL EXERCISE ON MENSTRUATION.*

By Alice E. Sanderson Clow, B. Sc., M. D., B. S., Cheltenham.

Physical exercise, in some form, may be safely assumed to be as necessary for the healthy development of girls as of boys. For the last ten years (except for two years’ absence during the war) I have been medical inspector of a large secondary girls' school, in which most of the pupils are boarders. During my first year I was asked

* “Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education,” Birmingham, England.

Digitized by v^ooQle
224

bj several of the heads of the brairding houses if it was desirable for girls to lie down instead of going fcr the daily walk during the menstrual period. As is the case in other schools, none of the girls were allowed to play games during menstruation, so that an hour's walk was the usual form of exercise and recreation. Anyone who complained of feeling "not quite well' was allowed to lie on her bed and read a novel instead of going for a walk. In some houses the lying-down became the more popular pastime of the two, and when that was the case, it was found thac an increasing number of girls did not feel well enough to attend the classes and their ordinary school duties. In many cases the doctor at home or elsewhere was consulted for dysmenorrhoea. In addition to any medicine prescribed, the advice almost invariably given, was to rest as much as possible during the period, and many girls regularly spent two days m bed every month, while others were warned against playing any strenuous games, such as hockey, between the periods.

I was sure that these practicies not only incurred a waste of time and interfered unnecessarily with the school routine, but that they were laying the foundation for future preventable suffering. At the yearly medical examination, therefore, every girl who had reached the age of puberty was questioned as to her feelings and habits during the period. I then explained my views with regard to the hygiene of the menstrual period, instructing her to obtain her mothers consent before putting my advice into practice.

To those who had been taught to think otherwise it was explained :—Firstly: That menstruation is a natural function and not a malady, that the natural and right thing is for a girl to feel quite well during her period, and to be free from pain and unpleasant sensations.

Secondly: That the bath should be continued throughout the period, since immersion in hot water will relieve, if it does not put a stop to, any slight headache or feeling of local discomfort.

Thirdly: That it should not be necessary to forego her usual exercise, whether walking, cycling, horse-riding, dancing, drilling gymnastics or gardening. Swimming, for obvious reasons, is excepted.

Fourthly: That if a girl feels poorly and has to lie down or absent herself from the ordinary routine of school or home life, her doctor should be consulted, since any trouble can be more easily put right while she is young than after it has been established for years. This advice has subsequently been given in every case.

The Subjective Aspect of Normal Menstruation.

Am I right in stating that the normal thing is for a girl to feel quite well and free from pain during menstruation? In order to reduce figures to a minimum, I have grouped together those obtained from questioning girls at the school referred to above, and from students of a Training College for Teachers in primary aad
225

State secondary schools. The ages range approximately from eleven to twenty-five. The number of girls questioned is 1,818; of these 1,273, t. e., 70 per cent, stated that they experienced no discomfort during the menstrual period. This was at the first interview, before they had put into practice any advice received from me. The proportion at the present time of those usually immune from suffering is 93 per cent.

A study of the text-books published in this country, even of the most recent editions, would certainly lead one to hold a very different belief with regard to the immunity of girls from menstrual trouble. I have not come across a single book by a British gynaecologist which does not give the impression that suffering is the rule rather than the exception. The following is quoted from one of the best known: (1) “Only a small minority appear to pass through the period without some suffering, and, in many cases, each menstrual period entails either a day or two of semi-invalidism or, at the least, a good deal of restriction of activity.” (2) One author admits that <ra perfectly healthy, normal woman theoretically should experience no pain;” he adds, “most women complain of some disability.”

Gynaecological surgeons, in the pursuit of their practice, however, have little opportunity of getting to know the menstrual experiences of the ordinary healthy woman. The only members of the profession who can obtain enough data from which to come to a conclusion on the subject are those whose work brings them into contact with large numbers of healthy girls and women, such as medical officers of schools, colleges and factories. If the conviction could be brought about that menstruation is normally painless, and that pain or discomfort is an ailment that should be treated and not suffered in silence, much avoidable suffering and inefficiency among women would be prevented; while one of the greatest stumb-lingblocks to women’s careers would be removed. There is no difficulty in convincing the girls as children, but it is often hard to convince parents, and harder still their medical advisers.

The Effect of Exercise During the Menstrual Period.

Am I right in encouraging girls to forsake the teaching handed down from our grandmothers that inactivity should be the rule during the first three days of the period? What does nature teach us in that respect? On questioning young girls as to their natural inclinations, the desire for unrestricted activity is proved to be almost universal; so also is the spontaneous expression of pleasure and relief when they are told that with consent from home, they may play their games as usual throughout the period. In the majority the age of onset of the catamenia is thirteen, but in many it is twelve or even eleven years. To be deprived of freedom to play running about games for three or four days every month at these ages is real hardship; and the need to explain away their apparent slackness to younger, uninitiated playmates is a recurring

Digitized by Google
226

source of embarrassment. It is rare to find a girl suffering from any menstrual pain or discomfort during the first few periods. Menorrhagia occurs in a few cases; as a rule it is very temporary, and is due presumably to delay in the establishment of balance of the endocrine secretions. That menstruation begins so painlessly is an argument in favor of the view that the function has been wrongly dealth with, since civilised people have come to look upon it as a monthly indisposition. Children ought not to be taught to refer to it as their "poorly time,” or to being “unwell.”

A considerable increase in immunity from menstrual disorders in the school during the last ten years is shown in the records kept, and in the testimony borne by the heads of houses. The proportion has increased from 67 per cent to 92 per cent. This is partly attributable to the fact that the girls are encouraged to continue their warm baths throughout the period, but the best permanent cure for dysmenorrhoea of the congestive type is undoubtedly exercise, sufficiently vigorous to promote a good general circulation of the blood. It matters not if it be in the form of work, either in the house or garden, or games, riding, walking and rowing. Exercises involving swaying movements and trunk bending are the most efficacious. Cycling, though better than nothing, is not so beneficial. Many girls have discovered for themselves, before I interviewed them, that, unless they can get some active exercise on the first day of the period, they are liable to have pain.

In the recent gynaeocological textrbooks exercise in the open is recommended as a means of bracing up a girl to help her through the trials of the menstrual period. It has this effect, and if she were encouraged to continue these exercises throughout the period, there would be no trials for the majority of the present-day sufferers. Yet the almost universal recommendation in the text-books is to avoid all strenuous exercises at these times, and the universal treatment prescribed for dysmenorrhoea is rest in the lying position with a hot-water bottle—and drugs. Young doctors go out into the world ready to preach this doctrine to their patients, and the prejudice against baths and exercise which has been handed down from generation to generation is fostered. I am convinced that, if children were left to their own devices and their activities unrestrained by medical and parental authortiy, one generation alone would see the end of most of the cases of dysmenorrhoea. Not only is exercise the prophylactic treatment of congestive dysmenorrhoea, but probably most cases already developed in young women can be cured by the same means.

Severe Dysmenorrhoea. There are of course types of spasmodic dysmenorrhoea which resist all forms of treatment, even dilatation of the cervix, and when pain is so acute and disabling that to suggest exercise as a curative measure during an attack would be absurd. Fortunately, this form is comparatively rare, especially during the first ten years of menstrual life. In my earlier records only 5 per cent out of the 31 per cent of sufferers stated that their disability

Digitized by t^ooQle
227

was such that they had to lie down, or, as I have expressed it in the table below, were “incapacitated.” The reduction of this number in the later records to 1.5 per cent for the first-year girls and to n»7 subsequently, suggests that exercise during the early years of menstruation is prophylactic against the development of spasmodic dysmenorrhoea. The record sheets of individual girls snow that many cases of what were reported as severe dysmenorrhoea have yielded completely to baths and exercise without medicinal treatment. With patients I generally prescribe an analgesic for the first one or two periods, so that the lessening of the susceptibility to pain may give them confidence in facing the supposed risks of the bath and exercise. It is exceptional to come across a girl whose dysmenorrhoea is not cured or much relieved by this means.

In many cases dysmenorrhoea is confined to the holidays where rest is insisted upon during the period. In addition to these other girls state that they have pain or other menstrual disturbance occasionally, perhaps once in six or nine months. For the purpose of classification in the following table these are grouped as immune. The cause of these exceptional experiences I have not been able to discover in many cases, but several are associated with some febrile illness or temporary change of circumstances, such as travelling.

Recent Educational Reports. The Report of the Joint Committee on the Physical Education of Girls states:—"The medical members of the Committee are not prepared at the present time to state any final judgment on the question, but consider that the evidence they have justifies more extensive trial of the voluntary continuance of games, sports and gymnastics (swimming excepted), during the menstrual period” (3). Any encouragement afforded by this report to the adoption of newer methods will, I fear, be checked by the more conservative recommendation of abstinence from games and drilling for girls during the period in the Report of the Consultative Committee appointed by the Board of Education on "The Differentiation of the Curriculum for Boys and Girls, especially in Secondary Schools” (4).

The Advantages of Exercise. (5) Dr. Sarah Gray, of Nottingham, in her Presidential Address, warns her hearers against “The Dangers of the Periodical Rest,” and suggests that exercise may be the future form of treatment for both menorrhagia and dysmenorrhoea. For definite support of these practices on the basis of experience, we must turn to America. Some years ago Dr. Mosher (6) published cases of congestive dysmenorrhoea successfully treated by exercise, chiefly of the abdominal muscles. Dr. Florence Meridith (7) gives her experience in the menstrual health of girls and women. “A physician who examined a large number of college girls ten years ago found that 75 per cent had dysmenorrhoea quite regularly. At the present time out of 749 girls only 17 per cent were troubled at all by pain at the menstrual period, and only about half of these regularly.” “The reason for the decrease I believe to be, first, an improved attitude in the minds of the girls toward

Digitized by Google
228

the menstrual function. For the most part they now consider it as they should, a normal function, one which should not give them pain t nd ret to he anticipated as a time of invalidism. The second reason for the improvement is, I think, that girls are now indulging in a much greater degree of general activity than formerly, and are net even t mittirg the activity during the period.” She also writes: "I have never seen a single girl harmed by any activity which she would r oimally take, or any kind of baths to which she was habituated, e\en edd ones, when taken straight through the period." I can certainly corroborate this statement.

There is close correspondence in the results obtained in the .American college with those in the English school from which my figures are quoted, the percentage of immunity at the present time being approximately 91.5 and 92 respectively. In the literature on the subject in this country the only statistics I can find are those published in 1911 by Dr. Catharine Chisholm, who found that 41.4 per cent of the girls in a large city day-school suffered from some form of disability during the period.

With regard to girls over school age, as medical officer of a training college, I have, so far, kept records of 184 students. Most of these girls started their education in primary schools. The social class to which they belong puts fewer restrictions on their activities during the peried than occurs smong the children of more educated p arents, but the fear of the use of water seems to be even more deeply rooted. (The notion that it is dangerous to wash below the new at these times is still prevalent.) On entrance, 84 p>er cent have been accustomed to make no difference with regard to exercise during the period, and 85 per cent were free from menstrual disturbance. After two years of life at the Training college these figures are raised to 93 per cent and 95 per cent respectively. The higher proportion of immunity among these students than among the school girls may be accounted for by their hardier upbringing, and being older, they are not so subject to parental control, and therefore freer to follow advice.

In the following table the records of all the girls who have been interviewed twice or more have been included, but not those who have been seen only once. I have divided the school figures into two groups, because I have already published (9) those obtained before the year 1920;, and the grouping helps to show the program that has taken place.

Percentages.

734 School-girls	First interview	No  Pain  67.8	Exercise Rest as Usual Necessary  35.3 20.3		Ixicap**-  itata*  5.1
(Years 1915-1920)	Subsequent interview	85.0	67.0	6.2	0.9
740 School-girls	First interview	87.1	51.3	15.0	1.5
(Years 1920-1923)	Subsequent interview	92.8	83.5	3.8	0
184 Students at a	First interview	85.8	84.0	6.5	4.2
Training College	Subsequent interview	95.0	93.0	0	0

Digitized by LaOOQle
229

Dysmenorrhoea Among Industrial Workers.

My own practice among industrial workers is too limited to permit of recording any collective results, but, as in the case of the college students, the advice to cure themselves by means of exercise is generally successful, though the valuable accessory of the hot bath is often not available. There have been, however, some notable failures. For instance, a lady complained that two of her maids, both under thirty, had to be sent to bed at least a day every month. They had been troubled with dysmenorrhoea for many years, and in spite of every care, the pains were increasing in severity. The patients were persuaded to face the risks of the hot bath, which gave them temporary relief, but efforts to make them take exercise failed entirely. I was assured that any attempt to keep about at all on the first day of the period turned them green. Drugs had no effect whatever. Treatment was therefore stopped and they resigned themselves to their suffering.

About two years later, during the second year of the war, they came to me for advice, saying that they were anxious to take up farm work, but that the condition of service was that no leave of absence was granted for any monthly disability. I encouraged them to go, and heard nothing more of them till they appeared after the armistice on account of an outbreak of scabies among their fellow-workers. They had been free of all menstrual trouble. One of them had felt nervous at the beginning of her first period, when she was engaged for hours throwing up large trusses of hay with a pitch-fork. To her surprise, the usual pains did not develop, and she felt quite well; she had not had any return of the pain since. Her companion spent the first day of her period removing manure by means of a wheel-barrow from one part of the farm to another. The result was equally happy in her case. They said that none of the band of twenty women who were working with them had any time off on account of menstrual disability.

In Dr. Engelman’s (10) presidential address before the American Gynaecological Society in 1900, he gave the results of his exhaustive investigations as to the effect of different occupations on the incidence of dysmenorrhoea. He found it commonest in girls standing behind the counter—91 per cent. In girls with sedentary occupations there were 82 per cent. In those who could move about there were 78 per cent. The proportion in schools was 54 per dent, but he found a marked diminution among the pupils of the physical training schools. The custom in the schools at that time was to have three days’ rest during the period. Dr. Samuel Meaker wrote a preliminary note on “Dysmenorrhoea as an Industrial Problem” (11). His opening statement is: “Dysmenorrhoea is the commonest of all female ailments.”

Industrial inefficiency. A very important consideration with regard to the disability connected with menstruation is, how far the work of women is rendered less efficient as a whole on account of it.

Digitized by t^ooQle
230

According to Dr. Meaker’s findings, there is an enormous loss of work from this cause in America. From four large industrial establishments—a factory, two department-stores and a telephone exchange—he states that on the average rather over 10 per cent of the girls in an industrial establishment may be expected to report to the rest-room or hospital during any given month. In addition to these, others report occasionally, the number of times varying from three to ten during the year, making a total of three-fifths of the female staff who had occasion during the year to report because of menstrual trouble. This figure does not include a considerable percentage, the proportion of which he has not been able to estimate, who absent themselves from work for one or more days during the period. These results are very different from those obtained by Dr. Chisholm, Dr. Meridith, and myself from girls occupied with school and college routine. Allowing for difference in age and up-bringing, there is a large discrepancy between the proportion of disabled cases in Dr. Meakin’s figures and mine, where the maximum was 5.1 per cent. His numbers agree, however, fairly well with the figures in American schools of ten years ago, quoted by Dr. Meridith. The sedentary or standing occupation of the Industrial group may therefore be responsible for a great deal of suffering.

Meaker puts in a strong plea for the more general keeping of menstrual records in industrial concerns and adequate treatment of the sufferers. The records would be most valuable, but if the method of treatment he advocates were realised, we should probably find that the incidence of dysmenorrhoea among workers would increase rather than diminish. The “necessary arrangements” he suggests are:—a room with beds, a tactful nurse, a physician to be available for those who wish to see him, hot-water bottles or electric heating-pads, malted milk, etc., for hot drinks, and a selection of suitable drugs. These things may be very comforting to a girl actually in pain, for whom I would provide a hot bath and a couch, but I would replace the hospital ward by an empty room or, better still, a court in the open air, where the girls are encouraged to go through a short course of exercises daily, involving especially the abdominal muscles, the exercises not to be missed during the period. By some such means, prefaced by some teaching on the subject by a medical woman, I believe we should do away with the majority of the cases of dysmenorrhoea.

The best means of reducing the incidence of dysmenorrhoea throughout the country is to teach every school-girl some simple rules of hygiene with regard to menstruation, and endeavor to get the mother’s help to carry them out. This can best be done by the medical inspector, if a woman, but in schools where the inspection is done by a man or where the work is too hurried to allow of an individual talk, the instruction might be conveyed by means of a printed leaflet sent to the girl’s mother, by the head-mistress, the leaflet to contain simple statements such as the following:—
231

Advice to Girls Concerning the Monthly Period.*

1.	The monthly period is not a malady but a natural function. You ought, therefore, at these times to feel quite well and to be free from pain or any unpleasant sensations.

2.	The ordinary rules of cleanliness and hygiene should be observed as at other times. There is no risk in the use of soap and water, in spite of the usual prejudice against it: a warm bath should, if possible, be taken every day throughout the period; if this is not possible, you should wash the whole Dody, including the feet, with soap and water.

There should be a daily action of the bowels, as at other times.

3.	In order to grow up strong and well, it is necessary that you should have some exercise every day in the open air, such as a brisk walk or games. It is important that you should continue this exercise, as usual, throughout the period, as, by so doing, you will probably prevent the onset of monthly discomfort and pains later on. If you are troubled with slight head- or back-ache, or a sense of fatigue, or slight pain during the period, you should take a brisk walk or play games, or do some work in the house or garden involving bending movements of the body. If you give up all exercise, more especially if you lie down, your aches and pains will be prolonged and increased in severity.

4.	If you feel ill at the period and are not able to carry on your usual occupation, your doctor should be consulted. Any ailments associated with the period are more easily cured while you are young than after they have been established for years.

* These 4 paragraphs, “Advice to Girls”—issued with the sanction of the Medical Officers of Schools Association—are obtainable as a single page leaflet. Price 4d. a doz. or 2s. 6d. a 100, from the Editor, Journal S. H. and P. E.

References.

1.	Eden and Lockyer, Gynaecology, p. 101.

2.	Magian, The Practitioner’s Manual of Gynaecology, 1922.

3.	“Physical Education of Girls,’’Brit. Med. Journal, Aug. 19th, 1922.

4.	Board of Education Report of Consultative Committee on Differentiation of the Curriculum for Boys and Girls respectively in Secondary Schools, p. 73.

5.	Gray, Sarah, Lancet, CCIII., p. 1261.

6.	Mosher. “A Physiological Treatment of Congestive Dysmenorrhoea and Kindred Disorders associated with the Menstrual Function.” Journal Amer. Med. Assoc., Vol. LXII., p. 1297.

7.	Meridith, Florence. Functional Menstrual Disturbance. Surgery, Gynaec., and Obstet., Chicago, 1920; XXXI., p. 382.

8.	Chisholm, “Menstrual Molimina.” Journ. of Obstet. and Gynaec. of the British Empire. Vol. XXIII., p. 288.

9.	“Menstruation during School Life.” Brit. Med. Journal, Oct. 2nd, 1920, p. 511.

Digitized by Google
/

232

10.	Engelman. “The American Girl of To-day.” Amer. Joum of Obslel., 1900, Vol. XLIII., p. 753.

11.	Meaker. Journ. of Industrial Hygiene, Harvard Med. School, Vol. IV., p. 49.

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENf^

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.	Jj

Hypertension.—The observation of a large number of cases of hypertension has led me to believe that the disorder is far more common among those of sedentary occupations than among persons who do vigorous manual labor; and among the well-to-do the disease seems to me more common with those persons who take little or no exercise in the form of games. Considerations of this kind, I think, are helpful in suggesting the sort of advice that should be given by the general practioner to his patients in respect to the prevention of hypertension and its associated vascular degenerations. It might perhaps be summed up in a slogan—Keep fit and Keep hard. From orig. Article in "The Journal oj the M. A., Sept. 30, 1922.

Physical Culture in Affections of Children.—Cadenaule had excellent results with systematic gymnastics in children suffering from adenoids, tuberculous habitus, neuritis or some other pathologic conditions. He emphasizes the beneficial effects on the development of body and mind, and especially on the normal sexual development of girls.—Original Article in "Journal Mede-cinedeBordeaux," Nov. 10,1922, 94, No. 21.

The Place of Physical Training and Athletics in the Schools.—The consulting committee on physical training and athletics in the schools has just approved a preliminary draft of a budget pertaining to the detailed and rational organization of physical education in the schools of various grades. This budget provides for the creation, at the Faculte de medecine, of a course of instruction in physiology as applied to physical education, with a view to preparing physicians for the duties that devolve upon them in connection with physical education. The number of special instructors in physical training in the secondary and technical schools and in colleges will be increased. In the elementary schools, the regular teachers will give the physical training needed, and will assign to it the same importance as to intellectual training. Provision is also made for appropriate special instruction to be given pupil-teachers.—From Paris Letter in "The Journal Am. Med. Assoc., Jan. 20, 1923.”

Gymnastics for Infants.—Declev Neumann, a former army officer and athletic director at the Militaerturnanstalt, after many

Digitized by Google
233

experiments extending over a period of years, has worked out a system by which the muscles of infants may he strengthened by gymnastics and a favorable effect on the whole organism secured. Judging from the practical trials of the system, which were carried out with healthy and sick infants with the aid of Professors Bier and Langstein, the results are said to be very satisfactory. For the gymnastic exercises a table is used that is large enough to allow the child to tumble about on it at will, but not so large but that the assistant can control his movements with the hands. A well padded underlay is the only requisite for the Neumann-Neurode system of gymnastics for infants. After three or four repetitions of the same exercise, the child usually knows what is expected of him. The child must never be allowed to lie on the table without supervision, for the motions may become so exaggerated as co lead to unexpected results. In incipient cases of rickets, exceptionally favorable results have been obtained by the use of this system. It is indicated also for children that learn to walk late and do not make the proper effort, that find it difficult to sit up straight, that have a flabby musculature, and that cannot stand on their feet without assistance. In all such cases, according to a report issued by the Empress Augusta Victoria House, marked improvement was noted in two months, and later a complete cure was effected.—From Berlin Letter in "The Journal A. M. A.” Jan. 20,1923.

Evolution—Among the resolutions adopted by the council of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at its recent meeting in Boston were the following which pertain to the question of evolution: (1) The council of the association affirms that, so far as the scientific evidences of the evolution of plants and animals and man are concerned, there is no ground whatever for the assertion that these evidences constitute a “mere guess.” No scientific generalization is more strongly supported by thoroughly-tested evidences than is that of organic evolution. (2) The council of the association affirms that the evidences in favor of the evolution of man are sufficient to convince every scientist of note in the world, and that these evidences are increasing in number and importance every year. (3) The council of the association also affirms that the theory of evolution is one of the most potent of the great influences for good that have thus far entered into human experience; it has promoted the progress of knowledge; it has fostered unprejudiced inquiry, and it has served as an invaluable aid in humanity’s search for truth in many fields.

Blood Destruction During Exercise.—G. 0. Broun ( of Experimental Medicine, November, 1922) undertook the experiments reported on dogs with the object of determining whether an increased rate of blood destruction dining exercise could be demonstrated. For purposes of exercise treadmills were used, constructed so that the tread was at an angle of 20 degrees. The standard day’s exercise consisted of two periods, each of two hours, separated by

Digitized by v^ooQie
234

one hour’s rest. The author found an increase in the percentage of cells and hemoglobin in the blood of the jugular vein early in the course of exercise. He interprets this as a probable result of a re* distribution of red corpuscles, with an increase in their proportion in the peripheral blood. A definite increase in plasma volume was noted as exercise was continued. A coincident decrease both in the total cell volume and the pigment volume during prolonged exercise suggests that blood destruction then occurs.

Function of Capillaries.—Krogh, who has been pursuing some masterly studies on the physiology of the capillaries, has clearly demonstrated the contractile cells of the capillary wall, and by many ingeniously devised experiments has again shown the contractile power of the capillaries. He has found that the capillary bed is constantly changing and that the individual capillaries are opening and closing all the time, so that che blood flow is continually being shunted from one vessel to another. Most interesting of all are his experiments proving the hormonal control of the capillaries. He has shown that in the frog, at least, the capillaries relax and become greatly dilated when there is no pituitary extract in the blood and that the addition of minute traces of this internal secretion to the blood circulating through the part will restore the normal tone and calibre of the capillaiy vessels.

Krogh has also pointed out that with dilatation of the capillaries their walls become attenuated and thus more permeable to the blood plasma. The bearing that this observation has on the phenomena of inflammation and edema is self-evident.—From Article by Ernst P. Boas, M. D.,	New York Med. Journal, May 2,	1923.

Endowment for Hopkins School of Hygiene.—The magnificent gift of $6,000,000 by the Rockefeller Foundation to the Johns Hopkins University for endowment of its School of Hygiene, represents a recognition by the foundation of the great strides that

Ereventive medicine has made in the last decade. When the Hop-ins school was opened in 1918, the Rockefeller Foundation consented to make annual contributions for a series of years, but the school had not an assured and definite income on which it could build for the future. Of the present gift, $1,000,000 is to be utilized for the construction of a building, plans for which have already been drawn, and the remaining $5,000,000 is to constitute a permanent endowment which is expected to yield an annual income of $250,000 for maintenance. Since its establishment, the School of Hygiene has exercised a great influence in advancing the cause of preventive medicine. At present, there are enrolled 141 students, who include representatives from twenty-seven states and ten foreign countries. Dr. William H. Welch, director, and Dr. William H. Howell, assistanc director, have laid emphasis on the training of men and women competent to accept positions as health officials in communities of importance. In addition to outlining a regular course of study leading to the degrees of Doctor of Public Health,

Digitized by LjOOQie
235

Doctor of Science in Hygiene, and Bachelor of Science in Hygiene, it is planned to give short courses or institutes for health workers already in service. It is interesting to learn also that the state of Maryland has encouraged the giving of such contributions as the Rockefeller Foundation has made to the Hopkins school by passing a law exempting such gifts from taxation. Current Comment: The Journal, Am. Med. Assoc., March 11,1923.

To Plan Training of Feebleminded.—Teachers of special classes for feebleminded and backward children from all parts of the state gathered at the University of Pennsylvania to work out from their own experience a program for statewide care ana training of feebleminded children. The meeting, which is the first of its kind in any state except Wyoming, took place in Logan Hall, University of Pennsylvania. It is the result of invitations sent out by the Philadelphia Special Class Teachers’ Association. There arc approximately 3,400 mentally defective children in the Pennsylvania

Eublic schools, according to Dr. Francis N. Maxfield, director of the ureau of special education of the department of public instruction.

A Defense of Raw Eggs.—Although eggs and a variety of products prepared from them have long been popular in the dietary of the sick, they are nevertheless the subject of frequent debate with respect to the form in which they are presented for ingestion. Traditional prejudices regarding eggs often find expression on the part alike of patients and of their physicians. Speculation as to the degree of cooking preferable to make eggs ideal as foods often calls forth contradictory advice. To one person the hard boiled egg is reputed to be peculiarly difficult of digestion; another will insist on its innocuous and wholesome character. Raw eggs have likewise been included in discussions of digestibility. Students of gastric physiology have repeatedly demonstrated that uncooked white of egg rapidly leaves the stomach, thus differing from most protein foods; furthermore, it does not excite any noteworthy flow of gastirc juice. Unheated egg white is somewhat more resistant to digestion in vitro by proteolytic enzymes than is the same product after cooking. Several years ago, Bateman asserted as the result of observations on animals that the feeding of considerable quantities of raw egg white may actually lead to diarrhoea with loss of some of the ingested material in the feces. On the basis largely of such evidence, he warned against the use of large quantities of uncooked egg in the dietary of the sick, urging that the food be heated at least to the point at which incipient coagulation of the proteins of the whites takes place. Recent tests on healthy persons by Rose and MacLeod at the Teachers College of Columbia University, New York, have failed to disclose any occasion for severe condemnation of the raw egg in dietetics. When the whites of from ten to twelve eggs a day were included in a simple mixed diet they were well utilized, the average coefficient of digestibility calculated for the raw egg white alone being 80 per cent, as compared with 86 per cent

Digitized by v^ooQle
236

for cooked whites in the same diet. The absorption varied with the method of preparation, being less for raw egg whites taken in their natural state than when beaten light. A mixture of whites partly beaten and partly unbeaten gave an intermediate value. In no case was there any sign of indigestion, such as discomfort or diarrhoea, though one or two subjects found the diet slightly laxative. Since the quantities referred to may be regarded as maximal in dietary practice, one may agree with Rose and MacLeod that it seems unnecessary to emphasize unduly t he difference between raw and cooked eggs, especially if the taw eggs are beaten.

The Quality and Vitality of America’s Population. No

group of citizens has a greater interest in the quality of its population than has the medical profession. The physician is naturally solicitous about the health, intelligence and “all around efficiency” of the peoples of America, and inevitably the factors that control or modify these aspects of our civilization enter into the problems to the solution of which the medical sciences and hygienic arts are expected to contribute. If the United States is in truth a great melting pot wherein the most diverse races are being fused and amalgamated, what sort of a human product is the coming generation likely to be? Is it advantageous from the biologic standpoint to permit the human evolution in our nation to proceed as in the past century, or does the accumulated experience analyzed from an impartial scientific standpoint dictate a departure from our traditional policies?

These are some of the questions that arise from a study of an investigation of the vitality of the peoples of America which Raymond Pearl of the School of Hygiene and Public Health at the Johns Hopkins University has made for the Society of American Peoples of New York. From his biostatistical analysis it appears most probable that the United States, as now areally limited, has passed its period of most rapid growth of population, unless some factor that has not operated heretofore comes into play. The maximum population attainable in the course of the next hundred years is likely to approach t wice our present numbers. Two hundred millions of persons will require about 260,000,000,000,000 calories per annum. As Pearl points out, unless our food habits radically change and man becomes able to live on less than the currently accepted standards of daily food fuel, the limitations of our agriculture and the difficulties of inevitable importation of one-half our requisite food units will bring the pressure of population on the means of subsistence to bear in ways that the great grandchildren of our people of today are likely to realize emphatically.

With respect to the kind of population to be expected in America at the time when a real overcrowding may be looked for, Pearl has offered some interesting speculations based on statistical facts regarding the racial changes now going on among us. It is an outstanding fact, he states, that the newly arrived foreigners rather speedily fuse effectively with the stocks already here to a degree

Digitized by Google
237

far greater than is assumed, at least in most popular discussions of the subject of immigration and related matters. The foreigner in this councry is more likely to marry an American-born person, if he does not marry one of his own race, than he is to marry some foreigner of his own race. The fertility of the foreign-bom women is greatly in excess of that of the native-born. A significant biologic result of Americanization is to reduce the fertility of marriages. For each native-born woman dying between the ages of 20 and 24, the native-born women as a group produce approximately twenty-two babies; the corresponding figure for foreign-bom women is thirty-five.

The farther the fusion process proceeds from fresh immigrant stock the lower becomes the “vital index,” that is, the measure of a population’s condition which is given by the ratio of births to deaths within a given time. Pearl has concluded:

In general, unless forcibly prevented—which means finally by murder and sudden death—that people will inherit the earth and the fulness thereof which has habitually the highest vital index. The advocate of birth control as a solution of the problem of population should remember this, and draw from it the logical conclusion that if, for any reason whatever, he does not want the people who have the highest vital index to be the inheritors, he must be prepared to do something a good deal more violent than merely to control the birth rate of his own kind of people, which is, in practical effect, about all that he has done so far. And he must not forget that people who have a high vital index are apt as a group to be pretty good fighters, in a technical military sense, f

Facing the fact “in the gigantic American experiment in human genetics” that the native population is not reproducing itself in competition with the amalgamating peoples, we need not fear a consequent deterioration of our descendants. The dominant element will be a new one, for the biometrists assure us that there cannot be anything approaching biologically pure race stocks in this countrv a century hence. Quoting Pearl again, the kind of people who will survive and conduct the affairs of the country, say a couple of centuries hence, when population pressure will be intense, will not be Englishmen or Slavs or Italians, but Americans of that type which has shown the greatest adaptability to the problems which life in this part of North America has presented. Why, then, need we be pessimistic about future Americans?—'Editorial, The Journal oj the	Am. Med. Assoc., March 18, 1922.

A recent monthly bulletin of the department of Public Health, Philadelphia contains fifteen articles on all phases of the problem of Tuberculosis from prevention to hospital treatment. The pamphlet should be valuable to all teachers looking for expert advice, or for information on this subject.

Digitized by v^ooQle
238

XTRACTS AND REPRINT

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

THE PROBLEM OF RESPIRATION.

From Revue Medicale U Education Physique et de Sport, Parisr

France.

Recently an article appeared in the Medicale Revue, Paris, France, in which the French physician, Dr. Francis Heckel, voiced his opinion on the Problem of Respiration. His discourse is of such general interest that we are glad to present it to the readers of Mind and Body.

All opinions about normal breathing must be reconsidered. The general conception, so far, has been that the respiratory functions were merely pulmonary. Upon intimate examination, however, one sees that it includes not only the lungs and the thoracic cavity, but the whole nervous and circulatory apparatus, the blood and the tissues.

The relations which exist between the different anatomical structures and the physiological and chemical changes they undergo during breathing, are still to be studied in detail. Their importance has been noted in the works of German and American physiologists.

When the thorax is of small, average or large capacity, there is always an excess volume of air present. If a person has an inflamed or atrophied lung, the real signs of volumetric insufficiency become apparent. It is not at this stage that the insufficiency of respiration is produced, it is in the tissues at the moment of exchange between the oxygenated blood corpuscles and the cells which are to receive and utilize it.

This absorption is not direct; it is produced by various chemical reactions and complex oxidation, supposedly controlled by certain organs, particularly the "ductless glands.” (Glandesendocrines.)

Should those ferments fail, the process of internal respiration becomes troubled without any contributive cause of the pulmonary capacity. Clinical researches and physiological experiments substantiate the truth of this conception, and they also show the evident exaggeration of the importance attributed to spirometric, pneumo-metnc, cyrtometric and kindred measurements, and of all clinical and therapeutical deductions, which have wrongly been drawn from that conception. As for the evident and incontestable fact of the correction of the supposed thoracic insufficiency by training or sport, it is necessary to explain it differently than it nas been done so far. In this regard it must be known tnat recent investigations made on the reduced capacity of tissues, as well as the relations which exist between the value of internal oxidation and the condition of

Digitized by Google
239

alkalinity or acidity of the blood and tissues, conclusively proved that they are modified by training.

A certain number of facts based upon experience can finally give an idea of the inconsistency of the theories which so far have been accepted. The champions of Running, Boxing and Swimming have mediocre spirometric capacity. In the very act of their activities they ignore breathlessness, contrary to men with exceptionally large chest and lung capacities, who, nowever, are mediocre in regard to the respiratory functions.

The champion Runner, Bouin, for example, had an ordinary spirometric capacity He finished a 20 kilometre run without being out of breath and with a pulse of 75. There are others with similar records. Bouin was ignorant of the resources to be developed by rational training, he has never been at the height of his condition.

One sees clearly that the respiratory ability of a person cannot be measured by the simple aid of his own objective capacity. It is necessary to know the value of the cellular respiration, which requires the numerous physical and, principally chemical determinations. I am finally convinced that the study of the chemistry of respiration, as it is used for the determination of the basal metabo-bolism, will permit us to complete our knowledge of the question.

It is to be noted that there is some analogy between the effort to appreciate breathing by external pulmonary mensuration and that of the study of nutrition and metabolism by a measure of the gastric capacity and that of the caloric value of the quantity, which is therein introduced. Respiration is also a nutrition problem and as such is subject to the general laws of the digestive and cellular functions. Gradually the theory is being accepted that it is not the aliment which nourishes, abundant though it may be, but only that which is assimilated from it. It is to be hoped that the same error be not repeated, apropos of the breathing.

In cases of obesity it is the general belief that obese persons have limited respiratory capacities but excessive digestive abilities and consequently having insufficient sources of combustion, accumulate fat that is not consumed.

This opinion, which I do not support, has been recently sustained in an article, in the Presse Medicale by Mr. Trevel.

However at an examination it is often stated that as soon as an individual becomes corpulent his respiration declines rapidly; but corpulency may not be the underlying cause. On the other hand it must be remembered that the examination of a large number of corpulent adults brought out the fact that they were remarkably lean until the age of 20 or 25 years. With the same lungs and the same morphological aspect they are consequently either lean or fat, according to the age, which proves the fallacy of the so-called law established by Mr. Trevel.

Dr. MacAuliffe observed upon several persons that obesity does not necessarily diminish the vital capacity which depends upon many other factors. I do not agree upon that point with Dr. Mac-

Digitized by L^ooQle
240

Auliffe, for when a person becomes corpulent one sees that under the influence of the invading encroachment-of adipose tissue (fatty-infiltration) above and under the diaphragm this vital capacity becomes impaired, due to the invading fatty infiltration, which is the cause of breathlessness.

I have noticed that all obese persons become finally hypothy-reoidiens. The overfeeding, which is one of the etiological factors of obesity, produces some glandular alterations, without speaking of the fatty degeneration. This is attested by many experiments. The obese become more and more hypothyreoidiens, proportionately to the progress and duration of their abesity. Therefore one can always give some thyreoiodin in old cases, when it is not successful in the first phase of this pathological condition. It is stated that in becoming hyperthyreoidiens by opotherapy the patient modifies his internal breathing of the tissues and becomes thinner. The researches of the Americans on the basal metabolism of the hypothyreoidiens and of the hyperthyreoidiens are very suggestive as to this point of view.

When one gives some thyreoidin to an abese person he does not change his pulmonary capacity; however the study of his basal metabolism and his action of getting thinner show a considerable augmentation of the internal respiratory oxidation. Inversely, when one gives to a lean person with a certain pulmonary capacity a small quantity of thyreoidin, insufficient to make him leaner, but able to modify his basal metabolism, his respiratory exchanges have been well accelerated without any change in his pulmonary capacity.

It is probable, moreover, that this acceleration of the internal respiration may be produced by the aid of glands other than the thyroid.

In short, with the same pulmonary apparatus, all the oxygenate and carbonic changes increase the metabolism under the influence of the opotherapy.

One understands, then, as in this case, the explanation of facts stated above and interesting interpretion of these facts. According to this different conception it may be said that breathing with small lungs and a good internal respiration is preferable to a poor internal respiration and large lungs.

Digitized by L^ooQle
241

<» ■ -----------------------♦

News, notes and comments

The value of a trained nutrition worker in the normal school, who exemplifies classroom instruction in kitchen and dining room has been proved. This month Florence Love, Mrs. Emma W. Davis and Alice Rheinheimer will assume their duties in Lock Haven, Clarion and California Normal Schools of Pennsylvania respectively.

In 1920, nutrition instructors in the normal schools were unthought of—today, nine of the fourteen normal schools are prompting organized nutrition programs under trained instructors, and two other schools are projecting plans for similar programs to begin this fall.

------o-------

How can a county superintendent's office stimulate interest in health activities? Bradford, Pa., a typically rural county, has done worthwhile work under the direction of Superintendent Morrow and his assistants, Mr. Raymond W. Robinson and Mr. W. Milton Roy. The superintendent's office urged every school in the county to use the material issued by the Bureau of Health Education, State Department of Public Instruction. To promote further interest among the teachers, a State Supervisor of Physical Education gave a series of lectures at the county institute.

The health activity work falls into three divisions: athletics, supervised play and hygiene. To promote fair competition in athletics two county leagues were organized for the larger and smaller high schools, respectively. Where school facilities prohibit the larger sports the supervisors introduce competitive games which require little space—for example, volley ball. Seven of the ten small high schools in the league and six one-room rural schools have volley ball teams. The assistant superintendents, while supervising, carry a volley ball, net, etc., in order to stimulate the schools to provide such equipment for themselves. They encourage girls’ basketball.

Supervised play and relief exercises form an important feature of the program. Rural teachers receive lists of twenty games— song plays, relay races and circle games, to be taught during the school year in a regular sequence.

The county superintendent directs the work of the county dental hygienist, employed by the Red Cross. .

As a result of this health activity work, thirty-seven community meetings were held up to January 1. The demonstrations in physical education interest the parents and secure their co-operation. Plans for the spring included a county field and track meet, a series of rural life days and a play festival, where schools following the prescribed course participated in a mass demonstration.

Digitized by v^ooQle
242

One hundred minutes per week in physical education in all schools becomes the requirement throughout the State of Ohio under the terms of the McCreary bill which has recently become a law. Other requirements are: that a syllabus for the work be published by the director of education, that in each school system the State course or another approved course be adopted and that there be appointed a supervisor of physical education for the State.

The bill provides that “credits and penalties shall be applied for success or failure in physical education courses as in other school subjects.”

------o-------

After months of litigation the contest over the legality of the half-mill extra levy for schools collected last December, has been brought to a close by the refusal of the Ohio State Supreme court to review the decision of the Court of Appeals sustaining the levy.

The levy received more than a majority but less than sixty per cent of the vote when submitted in November, 1922. Attorney John C. Rogers, who as taxpayer filed an injunction suit against the levy, maintained that a sixty per cent vote was required.

About $380,000 was thereby added to the school funds available in Cincinnati. Public playgrounds were again opened, text books supplied free of charge, and the schools kept open for the full term.

------o-------

Some time ago a commission was appointed by the British Government to inquire into the best methods of inculcating into the minds of the young the knowledge necessary for their development into wise and worthy citizens and parents; and various other questions connected with the development of the adolescent into a full knowledge of sex. The president of the commission is the Bishop of Birmingham, and its other members are representative of the professions connected with the mental, physical, and spiritual welfare of the young.

A large number of witnesses drawn from these same professions and including parents of children was examined and a report of the inquiry was recently presented to the Government.

On the subject of direct education on sex matters the commission reports that if “the moral safety and welfare of youth” is to be safeguarded such instruction “must be undertaken, and should be therefore considered, not as an irksome duty, but as a privilege.” Therefore all questions of children concerning their origin should be frankly answered without any repetition of the old fable of the stork and of the apple tree, and the children should be encouraged to believe that they have asked a perfectly natural question and have not committed an offense.

From an absolute neglect of sex instruction we should not proceed to the extreme of magnifying it into something of paramount importance. It should be treated as one aspect of life generally, important but no more important than cleanliness of body or due preservation of health in other respects. “To invest the sex func-

Digitized by t^ooQle
243

tion with a mystery and a sacredness that are not assigned to the whole of life is to introduce a moral disproportion which may even result in an obsession.”

On the vexed question of who is to give the necessary instruction the commission is of opinion that the duty rests with the parents, but is also of the opinion that in many cases the giving of such instruction is more than can be expected from the parents. In such cases where the parents are not competent to give the instruction the duty falls on the teacher, if the parents consent.—School Life.

-------o------

Based upon preliminary findings, the engineers of the Nela Park Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company express their belief that office buildings of the future will be without windows, dependent entirely on artificial light and given ventilation by artificial means. These preliminary findings show that daylight actually costs more to factories, museums, office buildings and public structures than electric illumination, attributable, in most cases, to the ground areas given over to courts or light shafts. Other reasons for the belief that windowless buildings are not far in the distance, as set forth by the engineers, are the cost of replacement of glass and general maintenance, loss of heat because of windows, and the tremendous cost incidental to the fading of decorations and cost of removing the large quantities of dirt and soot that blow in through the windows.—(When this time arrives there will be more need than ever for teachers of physical education. Editor.)

-------o------

To determine the actual amount of time high school teachers are giving to their various school duties, Miss Helen H. Cowing, of Lincoln High School, Cleveland, 0., conducted a study in which she had the co-operation of a hundred teachers scattered through various communities of the country.

On the basis of facts supplied by this group, fifty of them are working less than 47.5 hours per week; and fifty are working more hours than that.

Some of the results of Miss Cowing’s study—especially those indicating the apportionment of teachers’ time—are stated in an article by her in the May number of The School Review.

“Whether the expenditure of nervous force involved in teaching 132 lively boys and girls each day and having, in addition, the responsibility and care of forty more,” says Miss Cowing in the article, “is greater or less than that in many other lines of work, is still an open question.

“Physicians claim that the strain is greater, but the scientific determination of this question is lacking.”

(Note by Ed.—Here is a line of research that should appeal to teachers of physical education or to teachers of physiology and hygiene.)

Digitized by v^ooQle
FROM KINDERGARTEN THROUGH HIGH SCHOOL A Complete Seri— mi

Physical Training Books

by William A. Steeher.

Comprising

EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS, grad— 1 to 8.

In thr— —parate books (bound in paper) namely.

Book 1. Grad— 1 and 2. Net	$0.80

Book 2. Grad— 3 and 4. Net	.80

Book 3. Grad— ft, 8, 7 and 8. Net .80 EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound In cloth - Net $1.78 EDUCATIONAL GYMNASTICS FOR SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS bound in cloth - Net $1.38

GAMES AND DANCES.

This is a collection of gam— for all grad—, also of folk and school — well — all phas— mi work suitable for playgrounds, clubs.

bound in doth'*- Net $2.78 TRACK AND FIELD WORK, arranged to help the classroom teach—.

Pap— cor— - Net $0.80 PHYSICAL TRAINING LESSONS FOR BACKWARD CLASSES Pap— cor— - Net $0.80

POSTAGE 10 PER CENT ADDITIONAL.

NOTE* Spedal pric— will be made to Boards of Education that wish any one — all of the— books. Ord— thru

MIND AND BODY,

NEW ULM, MINN.

A New Book on Basket Ball

By one of the greatest coaches of the game in America.

[DR. W. E. MEANWELL, UNIVERSITY OF WIS.

In ten years, Dr. Mean well's teams have played 173 games and have won 154 of them*

The "Wisconsin System" of basket ball is widely known for its effectiveness. This system was evolved by the author of this new book in which the author gives to the public, his methods and their application.

Cloth Bound—200 pages—packed full of real information, invaluable to the coach of any team. 70 diagrams and illustrations. Intensely practical.

Price: $2.60 plus 20 cents for postage and insurance.

Order Thru MIND AND BODY Now Ulm, Minn. \