MIND AND BODY

Vof.31	No.	332

PUBLISHED -BY MIND AND BODY. PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

F. ntered as second-class nfatter October 1, 1916, at the postoffice at Neve Ulm, . Minnesota, under the of March r870.

THE EFFECT OF EXERCISE ON THE MENSTRUAL FUNCTION AND CHILD BEARING

; The only question which is still a matter of doubt with some parents and school authoiites is whether any harm can result from the continuance of the more strenuous forms of exercise after the age of puberty: that is. whether the functions of menstruation and child-bea?ing are affected adve:sely by them. Cn purely theoretical grounds it is difficult to conceive of our bodies being made on such a plan that what is necessary for the full healthy development of most orpans is detrimental to cthe s. If the processes of digestion, respiration, and circulation can only he kept vigorous and healthy by plenty of exercise in the open sir, surely the processes connected with reproduction require similar hah its of life. One function is so depandent on the others that it seems impossible that what is essential for some should be harmful to the other.

Part • of an article appearing in the Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education^ summer of 1924.

Digitized by v^ooQle
242

To turn to facts:—Among what section of the community are the functions of reproduction and menstruation most normal? It is well known that both these functions cause less disability among women who are occupied in active physical work, such as workers in the field, on farms, or in the house, than among those employed in standing or sedentary occupations, such as factory hands, shopgirls, and clerks. It has been assumed by many that the increased suffering in the group of sedentary workers was due to excessive brain work, and this has been used as a cogent argument against the so-called higher education of women.

In the course of my work among school girls and students at a training college, I have found that the incidence of menstrual disturbance, as manifested by irregularity, or pain, or general malaise, is less among those who are subjected to the extra mental strain of working for an examination than among the others. I have also found among my own patients that, when dysmenorrhoea does occur in a candidate studying hard for an examination, it can be cured by increasing the amount of physical exercise without altering the course of study in any way.

In an investigation undertaken by Dr. Engelman in America in 1911, it was found that dysmenorrhoea was far commoner among girls in stores and offices than among girls engaged in brain work in colleges. The women freest of all wera those in the physical training colleges, where a combination of study and daily muscular exercise was the rule. None are more aware than the members of this association that these students are by no means free from the strain of competition and examinations involving severe mental tests. It may, therefore, be concluded that the higher proportion of cases of menstrual disturbance among sedentary workers is not due to mental strain, but to want oj physical exercise, and that exercise is as necessary fer the well-being of the menstrual function as for the other functions of the body.

We are apt to forget that menstruation is only one phase of a cycle of changes every month. Unless there were external evidence of that phase many women would not know it was taking place, any more than they are conscious of the digestive processes which are always going on in the abdomen.

Child-bearing. It is a well-recognized fact that surgical interference at child-birth is more often necessary among women who lead lives of ease and indolence than among those engaged in hard muscular work. In India the effect of habit of life on childbearing is much more strikingly demonstrated than in this countnr. The suffering and high mortality from this cause among the high-caste women who live in purdah, to whom exercise in the open is unknown, is notorious; whereas, to the women who do road-making and hard work in the open air, the risk and pain of child-birth is comparatively nil,and the mother is able to return to her work immediately afterwards.

Should physical exercise be modified at the age of puberty? The next question we have to consider is what forms of physical exercise are best suited for the promotion of health of the generative

Digitized by kjOOQle
■ 243

organs; or, tc put it another way:—Is there any fonn of exercise which is harmful? My answer is that I do not know of any exercise which is good for the general health which will have any harmful effect on these organs. I would advocate:—work of all sorts, walking, dancing, cycling, horse-riding, rowing, swimming and . diving, rope-climbing, gymnastics, and drilling under expert tuition and games such as tennis, hockey, cricket, lacrosse ana F net-ball. It must be understood that these remarks refer to normal, healthy

5;irls, who have been passed by a medical inspector as fit for ordinary ife at school or college.

People are still to be found who hold the formerly common belief that women are so delicately made inside that their organs are liable to be displaced by any rough games or strenuous exercise. It does not seem to occur to these people that such a suggestion is an insult to our Maker. Since the present arrangement of our internal organs has stood the test of hard physical work since Eve took her share of digging, surely it is safe to leave the matter in the hands of Providence for the future. The organs of reproduction are exceedingly well protected by the bony framework of the pelvis against any external violence(much more so than in the male), and they are less likely to be affected by over-fatigue or chill than the skeletal muscles, the lungs, the heart, or the organs of digestion.

Should Exercise be modified during menstruation? The next question to be considered is whether physical exercise should be stopped or modified during menstruation. My opinion in this matter, which is founded on experience with over 2,000 girls, is that they should be allowed and encouraged to continue their usual activities throughout the period.

It is probable that this practice of suddenly stopping all activity during the period, together with the associated idea of invalidism which it inculcates, is largely responsible for the relatively high proportion of cases of dysmenorrhoea among woman of the educated class. There is no one factor which mitigates against the success of unmarried women in their various callings so much as this preventable source of monthly disability. If the majority of women are free from discomfort, why should about 25 per cent suffer unnecessarily?

It is the medical profession who should take the onus of responsibility of advising a change of teaching and habit in this respect. This nas already been done by the Council of Medical Officers of School’s Association, which has issued a leaflet for distribution by head mistresses.

I have given the advice contained in this leaflet for the last ten years in the course of the annual medical inspection to every girl who has reached the age of puberty, explaining that the consent of the parent must be obtained before any change in regimen is adopted. One very striking thing is the almost universal desire of girls to con-, tinuq their games and baths as usual. They look upon any teaching they have received to the contrary as irksome restraint; and the result of extra freedom has been a very marked reduction in the incidence of disability at the menstrual period. It is quite certain . that if all giris were free from parental and medical authority to

Digitized by LjOOQle
244

follow their own inclinations from the first, then the number showing freedom from pain and discomfort would be considerably increased.

The Need for Private Lavatory Accommodation in Schools and Factories. There is one form of exercise from which there is always a certain number of girls who ask to be excused, and that is the drilling, which occurs in the routine of the morning work. The same girls are quite anxious to go to the playing-field or to gymnastics in the afternoon. Much as the drilling is enjoyed by most, it is naturally not so popular as games, but this is not tha only reason for the apparent inconsistency. In a small town both day girls and boarders have the opportunity of bathing themselves, and changing their sanitary towels immediately before going to the playing-fields: hence they can play in comfort. Before the drilling class, which, perhaps, comes at the end of the morning, they may not have the same facilities for changing, and the fear of pain or discomfort from chafing induces the girl to provide he-self with a note of excuse.

This trouble acts as a deterrent to many girls who go to day schools, especially in large cities, where they are away from home all day. I would, therefore, urge that in all schools facilities should be given for girls during them period to wash and change in private. It is no exaggeration to say that the chafing and dragging from wearing the same sanitary towel too long often leads to abrasions of the skin and agonizing pain, and I am quite sure that the sum-total of the suffering from this easily-preventable cause far exceeds that from dysmenorrhoea. Moreover, it is a frequent cause of the monthly absence from work, and other activities among women who have to spend many hours away from their homes. Their natural reticence on the subject prevents employers of female labor from Teali: ing this fact, and gives rise to the impression that menstrua] disability of a more serious nature is commoner than is really the rase.

Lavatories on Playing Fields. Another precaution which ought to be taken by school authorities is that ordinary lavatory accommodation is provided and opportunity given for its use before games or gymnastic s are begun. In sc me nervous children excretion from kidneys takes place at a great rate under excitement, such as that induced ly an impending match. These children are often miserably sensitive, and would put up with great discomfort rather than draw attention to themselves by asking for special provision for their wants. If a pavilion cannot be afforded, lavatory accommodation could be provided in any field at practically no cost by means of a tent or canvas screen.

The Influence of the Game Mistress. Gymnastic and games mistresses are more likely than other teachers to have the confidence of girls in personal matters such as menstrual troubles. They have exceptional opportunities, therefore, of inculcating a right attitude of mind towards the menstrual function, and of teaching them to realize that the period is not a time of ill-health, and that they should carry on their usual activities throughout, and thus reduce their liability to menstrual trouble in later life. As a medical

Digitized by LjOOQle
245

authority to back this teaching, they can quote the leaflet already referred to. If this teaching were universal in the schools, I believe that dysmenorrhoea would be a rare complaint in the next generation, and the incalculable benefit which the advent of the games-mistress in schools has brought to girls and women would be still further enhanced.

THE RADIANT TEACHER

Carroll D. Cbamplin Professor of Education, Southwestern Normal School, California, Pa.

There are certain personal and professional qualities that are expected in every good teacher. The successful modem instructor must be well dressed, physically able, mentally keen, educationally competent, socially efficient and professionally conscientious. But these attributes do not begin to cover the possibilities of excellence in a high-ranking class room instructor. There is something seated deeply within ana expressioning itself in every outward performance that represents the consummate attribute of the supremely qualified teacher; it is the purpose of this paper to define precisely and explain briefly this commendable personal and instructional asset. It is the author's aim to help ambitious teachers to conceive clearly and to acquire as completely as possible this finest and most precious characteristic of human nature, RADIANCE. Is it attainable? What are the constituent elements? How can we analyze it and classify its describable parts? What kind of training and what type of exercise will develop human radiance?

We have numerous examples of radiance on a large scale. Great civilizations stand out and radiate over the pages of history. Chaldean splendor, Roman power, Renaissance brilliance and American industrial efficiency are shining examples of transcendent radiance. The Athens of Pericles, the England of Elizabeth and the great educational awakening of the United States under Horace Mann are examples of radiating epochs. In our professional calendar, Education Week, Music Week and Good Speech Week illustrate well radiance applied to special educational enterprises. In all of these the personal equation is a vital force.

What is radianca as found in individuals? Is it smiling, displaying fine manners, conversing fluently, bestowing praise on our associates, spending money freely among our friends, appearing excessively humble or decidedly superior? Does it presuppose a vivid imagination, reassuring benignity, buoyant enthusiasm, insatiable ambition, a sense of mastery, the spirit of service and sacrifice? Yes, but its source-springs are deeper than these. The component ingredients of human radiance are physical, mental, emotional, social, ethical and professional. No further analysis can be supplied

From the Pennsylvania School Journal.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
246

here, but it is patent that a detailed account could be given of the factors,effective in producing this ideal type of personality. And these elements are, subject^ tOj control, conscious i training along lines correspondingjto the above classes^of factors resulting in a large contribution to the total effect in the construction of a strong character and a striking personality. Itjollows then that radiance, can be acquired by bodily exercise, intellectual discipline, cultivaton of the feelings, adaptation to our group, development of a sensitiive conscience and specific occupational training. Radiance is the crystallization and aggregate result of a well controlled and all-round education. Nature provides the basis, but on this structure nurture builds the part which functions in daily life.

Radiance is a valuable possession in any profession, and we have radiant persons in every walk of life and in every community; but this attribute is especially desirable in teachers. Also the teaching process is particularly suited to the cultivation of the contributing factors in the acquisition of radiance. We have many historic exemplars of radiant living, but the calling of teaching has probably contributed most to the ranks cf raciant characters. Socrates, Christ, Quintilian, Abelard, Pestalozzi, Thomas Arnold, William James and G. Stanley Hall are just a few outstanding cases in the teaching profession, which is inherently a a radiant profession. The radiant teacher must be scholarly, fnendly, cheerful, discreet, loyal, magnetic, inspiring and convincing. Civilization would advance more, rapidly than it dees if we had such teachers in every schoolhouse.

There can be specialization in radiant teaching according to the grade level and the character of the school. The primary teacher needs understanding of and sympathy for little children and a smile that ne>?er vanishes. She must love childhood and react toward it with spontaneous affection and gentleness. The insri\ ctxr in the middle grades requires a high degree of firmness and force and a mastery of the technique of drill and drive. The junior high school teacher must know the peculiarities of adolescent youth and conduct his classes with vivacity, contagious inspiration and unquestionable sincerity. In the senior high schccl appreciation of the personal problems of young manhood and womanhood, relentless application to the business of serious study and effective instruction in the standards of living for young adults are the most urgent qualifications of instructors. In the rural schools teachers must have an unshakable preference for country life, and they must enter wholeheartedly into the pursuits peculiar to rural people, helping to improve conditions and encouraging a state of contentment toward the opportunity to lead productive and wholesome lives on the farms, and in the small villages. The city teacher must be urban by training if not by nativity and should be thoroughly familiar with the advantages and dangers attending daily contact with the throbbing life and endless, interesting events cf the large centers of population.

Then, too, there will be specialized radiance according to the subject taught. The health expert must radiate vigor, enthusiasm and hygienic perfection. The teacher of physical education must

Digitized by QjOOQle
247

be the incarnation of the principles of living which he advocates if his influence is to be widely felt among his students. To teach one thing and to live another is to disqualify anyone from continuous promotion in the teaching profession. The teacher of English should be saturated with literary lore and skilled in the best usages of correct language forms. He should be not merely well read but incurably a o'cted to the delightful practice of spending pleasant nights and profitable days in the company of gigantic minds as they are revealed in beautiful books. Particularly should the English teacher of today be steepeo in the literature that is recent, purposeful and gripping—essays, novels, dramas and poems dealing with the crucial issues of current life. The teacher of the social studies ought tc be a well trained student of the historical development of the race, an interpreter of the economic and sociological principles that

fovem the operation of our social order; but most of all he should e a living example of good citizenship and group co-operation. The music instructor, the art expert, the mathematics specialist, each in his turn must be not only saturated in the content of his own subject but passionately imbued with a profound feeling of the life-giving power of his own teaching. The test of radiance in the instructor is the effect on the lives of young students, whether or not they are being stimulated to more earnest effort and buoyed up with the satisfaction emanating from minor successes along the way. The radiant teacher gets results, the unmeasurable spiritual as well as the quantitatively measurable results. The radiant teacher has a commanding physical bearing, an inexhaustible energy of mind, clealr resonant voice, an alert, resourceful nature, driving force, animation, zeal and diligence. The radiant teacher has a tenacious grip on big ideas, flexibility in the technique of instruction, sympathetic tolerance toward all classes of children, an abundant reserve of vitality, vast supplies of valuable information and ideals that draw him everlastingly forward.

In these days of hectic rush after credit units let us not forget the higher qualitative attributes of the well equipped teacher. Pennsylvania must lead not only in the number of teachers with standard preparation in the formal and traditional sense, but also in the realm where measuring sticks and figures are impotent to indicate merit. Pennsylvania is rapidly becoming a radiant star among the states educationally, but he’- luster will be’most brilliant only when there are radiant teachers as well as certificated employees in every classroom! To have graduates of professional institutions in our school is unflinchingly necessary, but to place our children under the care of enlightened and consecrated teachers should be the ultimate goal of our public school leaders.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
248

JUST WHAT WE MEAN WHEN WEfTALK ABOUT

BACTERIA

Although ventilating engineers talk glibly of bacteria and what their presence in the air means, it is not always realized just what constitute these minute organisms. Some interesting comments on this subject are contained in an article on “Ozone and Bacteria" by William J. Lohman, of the Ozone Air Purifier Company, written in collaboration with P. W. MacMillan.

“Far down in the scale of living things," he writes, “and, in fact, at the very bottom, so far as we know, there exists a vast aggregation of infinitely minute organisms which are variously called bacteria, microbes, germs, micro-organisms, etc. They assume many forms and their reactions and methods of reproduction vary greatly, but the study of their life histories constitutes the basis of the science of bacteriology.

“Bacteria are not animals, but plants, and consist of a single cell, being the simplest structure possible in any living thing. This cell is composed of a mass of albuminous matter called protoplasm surrounded by a membraneous sack of proteid matter resembling cellulose or wood fiber.

“Although bacteria are plants, they are unable to produce their own food from inorganic matter after the fashion of those higher vegetables with which you are familiar. It is, therefore, necessary for them to obtain their nourishment from dead or living organic matter. In the first instance they are known as saprophytes, in the latter as parasites. Certain types of bacteria which are natural parasites may, through force of necessity, lead a saprophytic existence for a long time. In like manner certain species may become parasites.

"A very marked example of this characteristic to accommodate themselves to dead conditions is presented in the typhoid organism. By nature it is a parasite choosing as its habitation the intestinal tract of warm-blooded animals. Yet the typhoid bacillus may live many weeks frozen in solid ice and is frequently found in contaminated water, dust, milk, vegetables, and in the ground that has been infected. Certain types of bacteria are parasitic to only one kind of animal as, for instance, the disease known as anthrax in sheep and glanders in the horse. These specific organisms may, with great difficulty, be transmitted to other animals, but their natural hosts are best suited for their development.

Bacteria Not All Harmful.

Of com’se, not all bacteria are harmful. Were it not for certain species of bacteria all life of every kind would disappear from this planet. The continued existence of our food supply depends upon them. Nature demands that after death all things which have lived upon the earth’s bounty shall give back to tne earth that which they took from it during life. This law governs humanity just as inexorably as it does the blade of grass. The fall leaves, trees and branches would soon choke our forests to death

Digitized by CaOOQle
249

were they not attacked and destroyed by bacteria which cause them to decay and through this decay convert, this waste matter into food for the survivors. Imagine, if you can, the condition of this earth if all decay were to suddenly cease. Picture to your minds the awful condition of this earth one hundred years hence if all things that die were to undergo no physical change after death.

“Without bacterial action, we could not produce a loaf of bread or any other food requiring yeast, as yeast is a form of bacteria. Neither could we manufacture beer, wine, alcohol or vinegar, as these are all products of bacterial action. Let us now examine these bacteria close*' and see how they live and reproduce themselves.

“As was said in the beginning, they consist of a single cell. In. size they are so small as to almost baffle description.

“A high-powered microscope using a 1-25 in. oil immersion lens gives a magnification of 22,000 diameters. Under this power, bacteria appear about the size of ordinary newspaper type. The average man viewed under similar magnification would appear over four miles high or higher than Mount Blanc. I might put it in still another way. If we accept the bactrium as the smallest of living things and a full grown elephant as the largest, the common house fly would be just midway in point of size. In other words, there is just' as much room bn a house fly for bacteria as there is on an elephant for the house fly. It would be well to remember this fact next time a fly takes a high'dive into your cream pitcher.

Reproduction of Bacteria

The reproduction of bacteria takes place in two ways; by fission and. spore formation. Fission is a process of transverse division whereby an organism divides into two parts each of which thereafter leads a separate and independent existence, and these in turn divide again into two and so. on. Spore formation b akin to the production and liberation of seeds in the more familiar plants, but of course, takes place much more rapidly. The rapidity with which this bacteria develop and multiply varies with different species and is in all cases profoundly affected by the nature cf the - medium in which they occur as well as by conditions of temperatu-e, moisture, light and air. Under ideal conditions fission or subdivision may take place every fifteen minutes. Under less favo*1-. able conditions it might require several hours.

With reference to the incredible rapidity with which bacteria multiply under favorable conditions let us assume that an organism divides into two within an hour, then again into eight in the third hour, mid 39 on. The numbe- of bacteria thus produced from a angle individual in twenty hours would exceed 16,500,000. In two days they would increase to 47 trillions and in a week a number expressing them would be made up of fifty-one numerals, and cannot be expressed mathematically.

As to their volume at the end of twenty-four hours, the bacteria descended from a single individual would occupy 1-40 of a • hollow cube whose size measures 1-25 in. At the end of the second day* they would fill a space of 27 cu. in., and in less than five days
250

their volume would exceed that of the entire Atlantic Ocean. As to their weight, a single bacterium weighs about 672 quadrillionth of a gra*n. Forty thousand million would weigh one grain, and two hundred and eighty-nine billions would weigh a pound. After twenty-fou" hours, the descendants of a single bacterium would weigh 1-2,600 part of a grain. After two days, over a pound, and after three days 7,366 tons. It is hardly necessary to state that these figures are purely theoretical and could be realized only if there were no impediment to such rapid increase. Fortunately, various checks such as lack of food and unfavorable physical surroundings prevent unmanageable growth.

Bacteria come under the head of organic matter and are composed of about 86 percent water and 14 percent solid matter, of which a little more than one-half is carbon. When a bacterium is exposed to ozone in a high concentration, the carbon is instantly reduced to carbonic acid gas, and the organism is absolutely annihilated. Ozone in high concentration does not simply kill bacteria, it literally removes them. But in ventilation high concentration must not be used.

"Bacteria during their process of generation produce various poisonous compounds known as toxins. The bacteria themselves have no power to do any harm but the toxins produced by them are what cause all of the trouble in an infectious disease."

Heating Magazine

THE 1924 HEALTH EDUCATION CONFERENCE.

Report by the American Chill Health Association, New York.

"The ultimate responsibility for the health education of the child lies with the classroom teacher.” The teacher is "the cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night” who will lead her children into the promised land of health and happiness. This was the opinion expressed by the educators, pediatricians, physicians, nurses, nutritionists and public health spec ialists from all geographical sections of the United States who attended the Health Education Conference at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, the week of June 23rd to 28th.

This conference was arranged by the Health Education Division of the American Child Health Association, at the invitation of the Department of Biology ar.d Public Health of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The members of the conference divided themselves into two main groups for the purpose of discussing how the teacher may best be helped to shoulder her great responsibility. The School Administration section, of which Miss Emma Dolfinger, Staff Associate, Health Education Division, American Child Health Association, acted as chairman and the Teacher Training section with George H. Black, principal of the Washington State Normal School,

Digitized by
251

Ellensburg, Washington, as chairman. Professor C. E. Turner of Massachusetts Institute of Technology was chairman of the general sessions at which the conclusions of the section meetings were presented and discussed.

Miss Mabel Bragg, .Assistant Superintendent of the Newton, Massachusetts Public Schools, struck the keynote of the conference when she said:

“This is the most wonderful time in the world for Health Education to come into its own, for the school curricula are V eing made over to meet the physical, mental and spiritual needs of the individual child. Health must be taught and the people who are working out how it shall be done are the classroom teachers in the public schools. Some teachers say they haven’t time but what is time for except to promote the physical, mental and spiritual life of the child? In order to do this, we must bring out all the forces of the school administration into cooperation. We cannot wait for perfect organization and the development of perfect methods. One drawback in this movement is that we are not yet successfully using all agencies at hand. We must take things as they are and see what can be done. If ' the principal, the classroom, teacher, the parents, the doctor, the nurse and the physical educator all care, the child will care, and nothing can stop this health movement.”

A summary of the principles developed, and. points emphasized at the conference, wras presented and adopted on the closing night. The recommendations in this summary to be printed in the next issue of Mind. and. Body, were grouped under six main heads:

First, the personal health of the teacher in service and the teacher In training; second, the personal health of the pupil as presented in a report on the duties of physicians, nurses, teachers and. parents in relation to the examination of the - hild; third., the principles under-- lying the gradation of subject matter frcm kindergarten to college, courses of study for the teacher in training; fourth, the functions of specialist in a s hoolhealth program ; fifth, the care of the pre-school child; and sixth, suggested tests for measuring certain results in Health Education.

So far as the personal health of the teacher is concerned., little or " no conscious effort has been made to administer a school program which will conserve the teacher’s health. However, the group expressed the opinion that no really good health work can be done until the teacher’s health is safeguarded.. Through her work with her pupils, especially in working cut a recreaticn program, the teacher develops skill and interest which later redound to the teacher’s advantage. But this after all is indirect. We need more direct work in promoting the personal health of the teacher.

The personal health of the pupil was considered in its relation to health supervision and medical examination.

The sense of the conference was that the aim of such an examination is to provide for every child a chance to achieve the limit of his endowed capacity for well-being.

Digitized by t^ooQle
252

Guiding principles for the gradation of subject matter, and development of teaching methods were presented in a clear-cut outline by the School .Administration section, and accepted, by the conference.

The principlesj underlying the choice of subject matter* for all grades are as follows:

1.	The chief emphasis should be on personal health in the kindergarten and up to grade six.

2.	The chief emphasis should be on the community health and socially healthful behavior in grades seven, eight and nine.

3.	The chief emphasis should be on giving a scientific background, in grades nine to twelve.

Principles of methods accepted as forming desirable motivation for health instruction in all grades were:

1.	Health Education activities should be purposeful, i. e., they should develop permanent values for the children such as self-control self-direction, and self-improvement.

2.	The activities should be of value to children as children.

3.	Activities should provide for the free expression of child nature.

In the discussion on subject matter for the kindergarten, the

grades and high sch ol, Miss Maud Brown, Director of Health Education of the Fargo, North Dakota, Child Health Demonstration, said:

“By the time the child enters kindergarten, he should know the geography of his own body, that is, he should know an accurate, scientific, noun with which to designate every part of his external anatomy. He should be given the verbs to designate the various functions of the parts of t’ e body as soon as he asks questions.

The kindergarten should fix the daily routine of health essentials in the child’s mind by playing very simply and by dramatizing the daily repetition of the health essentials. This dramatization should continue through the first and second grades, varied in every conceivable form, and woven in and out through all projects until no cell can forget its part in it.

"The gradual accumulation of more and more information concerning the reasons for carrying out the essential health program exterds through the third, fourth and fifth grades. This will involve much biological natuve study and will result in the possession by the end of the fifth grade of a substantial working knowledge of the child's own machinery.

“It is as great an insult to a child’s intelligence to deny him the knowledge of the marvels of his own intricate m.ee hanism as to expect a boy to run an automobile by rote. Both the human body and an automobile cannot be run without understanding the machinery.

The c hlld should, all along learn to watc h his ow n progress in health as measured by the scales, and by a carefully graduated series of strength tests, stunts and games supplied by the physical education department.

.■ bout, this time the emphasis may begin to shift from personal effic ienr y as the goal, to family and c ivic health. Heme-making and public health courses may be especially emphasized in the seventh and eighth grades.

Digitized by Google
253

"It is to be hoped that along with human physiology has gone the comparative physiology whicn a real teacher cannot well avoid; that pet families have been raised in the school rooms and that plant nutrition studies have been carried on; and that, perhaps best of all, childrenlhave learned to raise one land of animal for com* mercial purposes and make a financial success of it, thereby learning to measure health in the great American unit, the dollar. If this has all been done in the grades, the boy or girl will enter high school with all the facts necessary to keep him and his family well and have a real feeling of his dignity as a human being, and of the responsibility that his place in nature entails. High School can then be devoted, as high school should be, to technical courses usually deferred till college.”

In summarizing the conclusions of the Teacher Training section on courses of study for teachers in training it was reported that the the program of instruction differs according to the type of institution. In institutions giving not less than a two-year course of study it was recommended that a first year course in hygiene should be part of the complete student health program. The prime object of this course should be the improvement of the health of the student. In the remaining years special training should be provided in methods of teaching health.

In answer to the question: "What shall be the relation of the specialists to the general health program?” a summary of the function of each specialist as defined by the conference was presented and adopted.

In this summary a specialist is defined as a person on the school staff with specialized technical training.

The opinion was expressed that the ultimate responsibility for the health education of the child lies with the classroom teacher, and that the principal function of the specialist is to give consultation service to the classroom teacher. The summary also specifically defines the functions of each specialist.

The summary presented by the pre-school section of the conference stated: "Since.the habits and attitudes acquired in pre-school years play an important part in adult life, a health program should be formulated for the pre-school years.”

Dr. D. A. Thom, director of the habit clinic of the Psychopathic Hospital, Boston, in opening the discussion at the meeting of the preschool section, said:

“We know from experience that the common characteristics of two of the groups in adult life, namely, the chronic neurotic type and criminal type, manifest themselves in the child in early life. In a great many cases the driving force that prompts criminals is jealousy. We see this identical motive in little tots of two or three who make vicious attacks on members of the family. If a father makes more of an older child thanjof a younger one, the younger child retaliates in a fit of rage prompted by the jealousy motive that often makes a man shoot his neighbor. During the pre-school age, normal inhi-• hitions must be developed to control crime and delinquency of all

Digitized by LjOOQle
254

types. The pre-school years are the years in the life of the child in which personality defects can be treated most successfully.

“If a man buys an automobile, the garage man will give him ten lessons on how to protect the car. Few parents with a baby have as much^knowledge given them about the care of the child as a Ford owner is given in starting out with a new car. The salvation of the pre-school child lies in giving instruction to parents, teachers, dieticians, nurses, and all other individuals who are in intimate contact with the pre-school child. They should have at least ten lessons in what and how to run the pre-school child so that he won’t get Btalled.”

The last session of the conference was concerned with standards and tests for measuring certain results in health education.

The summary of the discussions which took place at this session states: “While recognizing the desirability of developing every possible method for measuring the results of a school health program, it must be recognized that there are fundamental benefits which are not at present subject to physical measurement.

Professor C. E. Turner of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in discussing tests for measuring the success of a health program said:

“Weighing and measuring should not be regarded as a precise laboratory method for measuring the accomplishment of health program. It is a teaching method. The expedient of interesting the child in watching his own growth and improving his habits of living in order to secure the maximum physical development is based on the principle that a healthy child living in the proper way will grow more rapidly and symmetrically than a sickly child living in a wrong manner.

While there are various ways of measuring the results of health education in terms of improved habits, more sanitary conditions, physical accomplishments, the elimination of physical defects, etc., educators must realize that such a thing as attitude cannot be measured in terms of pounds or dollars. The health education program has demonstrated its value in many communities by transforming the attitudes of pupils, teachers and parents toward the place of health in the business of life. We need to get from experts better methods of measuring immediate results but we must not forget the human side of health education or the return it will bring throughout the life of the child.”

OBJECTIVES OF OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR HIGH SCHOOL BOYS.

M. H. Johnson, Iowa City, Iowa.

Essentially, one of the first steps in connection with making an educational program is to select the objectives to be attained by means of it. For the purpose of determining the objectives for a program of outdoor activities in physical education ior high school boys, the leading periodicals and books in the fielo of physical education were exhaustively surveyed, and as a result, an extended

Digitized by kjOOQle
Objectives.

Frequencies of the Different Rankings

	M 1 2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10 11 12 13	
	Original List							-
Mental and Physical Coor'n.	16 15 15	13	6	7	8	2		1
Socialization	17 20 11	13	5	4	2	1		
Mental Heaxtn	13 17 15 11		8 10		6	4	2	1
Physical Health	58 16 9	3	2	2				
Habits Of Play'and Recreation	16 16 11 16 12			9	6			
Correction Of Bodil> Defects	4 6 12	6	6 14		2			
Peisonal Hygiene	6 8 11 12 16 11				9	1		
Physical Development	1 1							
Leadership	2 11					1	2	
Additional Objectives		Suggested						
Character	5 4 11	1	1	1	2			
Interest in special activit>	1					1		
Citizenship Training	2 1					1		
Nerve-Muscle Coordination			1					
Sportsmanship	2 1				2	3		1
Teamwork	1			1				1 1
Intedectaal Development	1							
Fun (Happiness)	1 1			1				
Democratic Ideals	1	1						
Love of out-doors	1							
Use of Leisure Time			1					
Loyalty								1
First Aid								1
Food Values								1
Motor Activity	1							
Morality		1				1		
Initiative	1						1	
Habit of Correct Posture						1		
Self Preservation In Water							1	
Social Hygiene							1	
Alertness	1							
Discrimination	1							
Skill in Recreative Activities	1							
Manners	1							
Reflex development or skill	1							
Vital Resistance	1							
Quick judgment		1						
Organic vigor	1							
41M” indicates mentioned but not ranked.								

Digitized by L^ooQle
256

list of objectives was fanned. In the task of comp’lmg this list there'was some difficulty due to the difference on the statements of objectives given by different authors. The following lists of objectives are typical.

1.	The syllabus for physical training in the elementary and secondary schools of New York State gives the following objectives for physical education.

General physical fitness Mental efficiency

Social consciousness and adaptability

Moral strength and stability

Good American citizenship

Life expansion

Happiness

2.	Doctor J. F. Williams in his book, “The Organization and

Administration of Physical Education," presents the following list of objectives:	•-	•

Corrective

Educational

Hygienic

Recreative

3.	C. W. Hetherington has listed the fallowing objectives of physical education:

Organization of child life as expressed in big-muscle

activities

Adult social adjustment and efficiency

Development of the instinct mechanisms

Development of neuro-musclar mechanisms

Development of organic power

Health

Morals

Manners

Hygienic behavior	-

Control of health conditions or health handicaps Citizenship

4.	Bowen and Mitchell present the following “Needs for Play”:

All-around physical exercise Wholesome recreation Sociological Economic

Overcome physical defects

Educational

Proper health habits

Americanization

From the objectives named in the above an extensive list of objectives was formed. This list was submitted to a number of physical trailing directors throughout the United States for any additions and deletions that they might propcse. As a result of their checkings the following list of seven objectives was selected m valuable for an out-door program of activites:

Digitized by LjOOQle
257

Mental and physical coordination Socialization Mental health Physical health

Habits of play and recreation .

Correction of bodily defects Personal hygiene An inquiry including the above list of objectives was then sent to one hundred twenty-seven leading authorities.in the field of physical education. The list of these one hundred twenty-seven persons was secured in the following manner:

A n inquiry was sent to two hundred thirty-four of the men and women who are prominent professionally or as writers in the field of physical education, requesting each one to name five persons who stood- out in his mind as the leaders in the field .-of physical education in high schools.. After a large number of replies-to this inquiry had been received, the new names that were mentioned were selected and the inquiry was sent to-each one of them. No more inquiries were sent out after it was noticed that. the. names that were given in the replies were mostly those that.had bedn previously given. The saturation point was thus shown to have been practically reached. The principle followed in thus selecting the list of authorities is that those who vote were granted the leadership, are for all practical purposes the real leaders.

In all, one hundred twenty-three replies were received to this inquiry. A list of one hundred forty-eight authorities aws thus secured. Of these, twenty-one either did not have correct addresses and so could not be reached by mail, or requested that they not be relied upon for their judgments as they had not kept up to date on the high school phase of physical education for boys. Thus one hum-dred twenty-seven leaders were left on the list.

The inquiry which included the list of objectives, mentioned above, requested each of the authorities to add any other important objectives and then to rank those in the completed list in order of their importance. Ninety-one replies, in all, were received in answer to this inquiry. The table below shows the toltals of the rankings given each objective.

It will be noticed from the foregoing table that here is a large variety of objectives which are considered important by these authorities. In all, thirty objectives were mentioned in addition to the original list of seven. It will be noticed, also, that there is considerable overlapping in the statem ents of the objectives. However, the outstanding point to be made as a result of this study is that there is almost universal agreement that the principal ohjective to be attained is physical health. The result is consistent with the recommendations given in the Cardinal Principles Of Secondary Education: “the secondary school should provid.6 health instruction, inculcate health habits, • organize an effective program of physical activities, regard health needs in planning work and play, ana cooperate with home and communityjn safeguarding and promoting health interests.’’

Digitized by v^-ooQle
Extracts and reprintO

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BIOLOGIC-HYGIENIC IMPORTANCE OF BODILY EXERCISE

J. Kaup, M. D., Professor of Hygiene, at University of Munich

Shortly before the world war in 1914 I gave a lecture at Stuttgart upon the subject of “Beneficial and Retarding Influences of Physical Development of Youth.” In my closing statements I remarked, that since 1910 the movement for the physical uplift of our youth had gained considerable ground. I urged that we guide this broad ana popular movement in safe and sane channels; otherwise its riotous comae might be of short duration.

Eight years have intervened. We have witnessed the collapse of the empire. Again we experience the wave of enthusiasm of our youth for gymnastics, sports and games.

Differences of opinion have been voiced that the physiological value of bodily exercises does not always rest upon sound scientific principles. The uncertainty gave rise to misleading remarks and statements about physical work. To correct exaggerated statements it is the duty of those in authority to clear up some of the facts in the controversy. In this connection I am able to contribute some of the data which I obtained at the Hygienic Institute at Munich.

A number of investigators in research work emphasise in their deliberations upon the me its and demerits of physi al activities, that physical work eTe'tively counteracts the menacing physical degeneracy encountered in large cities. In their opinion bodily exercises are necessary to combat physical degeneracy. Gymnastics, sports and games promote physical efficiency, and are, therefore, indispensible in training. One writer emphasises, especially, that the grave physical conditions of our youth, as a result of the world war, should be immediately improved by general physical training.

This opinion is shared by many.

Anthropometrical investigations reveal the fact that, during the last decades, the average human body has not only increased in length, but duration of life to middle age has also increased.

However stress is laid upon this discover that the increase in the length of the body and the duration of life should not be construed to indicate that the physical uplift be tantamount to heredity.

The assertions of the leader of the new theory of race-hygiene Are still more pronounced. The great mass-of laymen, display too much optimism in the doctrine of hereditary transmission. They expect to elevate the race by individual body culture, and by sports. As a matter of fact, habits are not hereditary; they

Digitized by ^ooq le
259

believed that acquired habits were transmissible, the general opin-

•	ion existed, that a higher development of the protoplasm could

•	be brought about by bodily exercises. In most positive terms, the leader of the newest thought on race-hygiene, expresses his

•	convictions about the fallacy of influencing the protoplasm by strengthening the body.

He goes on to say: “Nowadays the idea prevails, that bodily exercises are the decided medium for the physical development of youth*. In most cases, this opinion is due to honest enthusiasm, or ignorance, and often business interests are at the bottom of it”.

Measures of selective race-hygiene are more significant for the physical development of the rising generations than, all bodily : exercises.. This statement must unequivocally be expressed, once •and. for all. •••.•;

*.v . :It is -our- duty to discern if selective race-hygiene and the bi-ological value of bodily exercises can be compared. In this connection, a most important question arises. Do bodily exercises

-	directly, or indirectly influence racial soundness? To answer

-	this .question requires a-critical analysis of several scientific hypotheses. ' It- would be easiest to accept the theory of heredity, by which through the medium of bodily exercises new characteristics could be acquired. In the past many exponents of physical education entertained this view. Nowadays this theory is considered antiquated because the majority of investigators reject the heredity of acquired physical characteristics.

We must, therefore, attempt to inject clearness into the matter.

. Two theories exist which diametrically oppose each other. One is the“Determination Theory” and the other is the “Combination Theory”.

A. Weismann, the founder of Neo-Darwinism, held the opinion .similar to Darwin’s, that in the fecundated egg-cell each morpho-: logic element of the protoplasm contained a special area, caled

a.	determinant. According to this assumption, the development of the individual cell takes place in specia’ized areas, called Ide. Each of these Ide contains the characteristic elements of the cell substance. The combination of many of these areas fonn the individual Id. The cells vary during their period of growth, and the phenomena are attributed to the varied conditions of nutrition. These changes exert their influence upon the germinal substance, which causes the development of hereditary individual variations, consequently, we have the Germinal Selection. The hypothesis . of hereditary individual variations, due to the influence of nutri-•• tion, has not been sustained.

The other group favor Naegeli’s theory. To understand heredity we do not need a sperial sign for every variety, but a sub-

•	stance which in combining its limited elements, represents ev ry

.possible--combinatmfiof varieties.” •	•

Roux expresses a similar opinion. “The impregnated eggcell, in proportion to its many real dissimilarities of the living

Srotoplasm, possesses, relatively, few typical kinds. Out of the ave no direct influence upon race development. As long as we

Digitized by
260

development of these few typical factors, according to the action of colloid bodies, many varieties can be produced”.

In the formation and growth of any part of the body the pro-tbplasm is the essential substance. The result of development depends upon the specific hereditary mode of reaction, and the various external conditions under which the individual develops. The peculiarities of organisms do not depend, exclusively, upon heredity, but to a high degree, upon individual development. During the period of development the internal complex of an organism assumes a definite form. The functional activity, however, differentiates between the species, and groups these activities according to their similarities. Two fundamental laws, concerning functional activity and co-operation, are of special value during the time puberty and adolescence appears. I emphasized in a recent publication, that besides the general growth, two distinct periods of speedy development exist. One is in the embryonic stage and the other at puberty. The development of any organism depends upon nutrition, susceptibility, and nerve force. The skeleton, the muscles and the important organs of . the human body are influenced as to their shape and form by proper physical exercises. This influence is most pronounced at the age of puberty.

We may claim that the biological value of physical activities: lies in the fact that it is the most important medium to effect a direct influence upon perfecting the species. Two points, however, are not yet clear. First, the acceptance of heredity of acquired peculiarities combined with higher development, ana second, the question whether a measure exists to judge the perfection of a biological goal of development. We stated previously that the majority of investigators doubt the heredity of acquired characteristics.

Johannsen says, “.Any influence from without, does not change the characteristic type”. By comparing all biological hypotheses we must admit that every theory for developing a higher type of the human race is problematic, and does not rest upon a sound scientific basis. Repentantly we go back to the old theory of invariableness. A relative invariableness of many species of the human race has existed for thousands of years. The mixed human races undergo a constant interchange and adjustment of characteristics, but the mutation never leads to a higher development."

As the theory of heredity of acquired characteristics has. been rejected, and seemingly potentialities of a higher species of the human race being impossible, the other question looms up for deliberation. “Has Naegeli’s Theory a goal of individual development?”

Evidently the conception of spades and types depends much upon this theory. In research work the investigators standardize the types by means of measurement, number and weight. But that aces not suffice. Besides the knowledge of anthropometry we must know the correlated connections of theimportant measure*. ments of the human economy. It is of doubtful value to judge

Digitized by

Google
261

a race by the increase in height. The increase in height of the conscripts in the armies of Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Holland is remarkable. We are not informed if a similar condition exists in England, France or Italy. How can the phenomena of increased bodily length of the European nations be explained? Is it the result of a higher breed, based upon the theory of mutation or is it caused by changed social, economic, domestic and industrial relations? A review of the measurements of the bodily height of different nations reveals the fact, that hardly a noticeable change has taken place in centuries. The present drift of development is therefore, one of the most remarkable phenomena. The cause has not yet been solved.

Let us not consider for the present the difficult relations between body length and body weight. By ascertaining the increase in bodily height, the chest measure will also be required. The increase ip height can be viewed in two ways. One disproves the decadence of the race, the other casts doubt upon it being a healthy growth. Statistics from Austria show that in the years 1870-71 and 1876-77 the average height of young men increased .79 c. m. while the circumference of the chest decreased 1.86 cm. It proves the decadence of the Austrian youth during those two periods. The underlying cause was tuberculosis. Measurements taken of Turners, gymnastics, and others showed a higher chest development among the Turners and gymnastics, than among those who did not take physical exercises. These statistics signify an increase in physical power and a decrease to the danger of tubercular infection. It also confirms the belief that the right proportion of body length and chest circumference is essential in judging health and physical power. An increase in height alone does not signify general health. It is commonly accepted that during the maturity of the German youth the circumference of the chest, after full expiration, equals naif the height of the body.

According to recent anthropometrical investigations in Munich, new laws have been defined in regard to bodily proportions. One reads: The relations between groups of individuals of the same age, but not of the same height, are not alike in their appearance. The short ones are sturdy and the large ones are taller according to the proportion of those of average height. Although different in proportion, they are biologically alike. The investigation proved that the small and the larger types of men, with the same transverse diameter of the heart, had equal blood pressure and the same number of pulsations. Due to this method we are now able to determine the physical development of the individual. This new theory removes all doubt that the goal of individual development rests much upon the foundation of physical education.

According to ones vocation, one can fairly reach this goal by the choice of physical exercises in connection with his daily duties.

The physical soundness of our youth depends upon normal' development. Systematic bodily training, started at least at the age of 10, will serve to bring about the desired biologic result.

Digitized by L^ooQle
262

The one-sided mental work of the pupil or student, and the one-sided physical strain of the apprentice; necessitate an equalizing factor to harmonize mental and physical development. The generalization of physical work is intended to help our youth to gain the necessary factor for their physical welfare. It is our duty to preserve our inherited characteristics. But even a sound inheritance can by the failure of individual co-operation lead to biologic inferiority or low vitality. From a seemingly weak, but vitally strong individual, a perfect biologic being can often be developed.

The waves of enthusiasm of our youth for the revival of health giving play and sport are sound. It should be our aim to encourage physical work for our entire youth. One-sided athletics should neither be accepted nor favored. Each community should have supervised play, in charge of qualified physical instructors.

Every progressive movement which is launched in the interest of general physical advancement will lead to higher mental, moral ana physical proficiency of our youth. To safeguard the permanent y of our organic life is one of the most important problems of the state.

In conclusion I quote Goethe’s prophetic words, which more than ever, should appeal to our youth:

“What you inherited from your forefathers, seek to acquire, in order to possess it.”

THE DAILY PHYSICAL TRAINING HOUR IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF GERMANY.

(Excerpt from an article by Dr. L. Hoeflmayer in the “Munich Med. Jour.”)

"An hour, daily, for physical training, was considered the proper time allotment in our schools, long ago. Prominent physicians, civic societies and leading educators endeavored to have that time, set apart for physical work. They repeatedly challenged the wisdom of curtailing such a curriculum.

Modem schoolmen and many physicians consider the daily one hour period of bodily training a necessity. They also claim it essential for the proper physical development of children of school age. In a number of cities, the one hour period of physical work has been tried out with good results. Nevertheless, those in power have persistently refused to allot a full hour, daily. Consequently, many schools, tnruout Germany, are without it.

Recently, the school authorities were again petitioned to provide an adequate time allotment for the daily bodily exercises. But once again, they failed to comply with the request, stating that more time could not be allotted.

In order to obtain more success in their demand many reputable physicians, leading educators, prominent citizens and parents’ associations have issued an appeal to all interested parties to assist them. Their aim is, that ultimately the curriculums of all _ the schools thruout Germany, shall set aside a full hour daily, to be given over to physical training work.”

Digitized by Google
While you are giving—

give health

The greatest gift of all is health. You can give that priceless treasure of health to many this Christmas. Buy Christmas Seals. Everywhere are solitary sufferers and whole families stricken by the Great White Plague. Often they have no help except that furnished by the Tuberculosis Associations, which are financed by the annual sale of Christmas Seals.

Give—and feel the joy that comes with giving.' Buy Christmas Seals. They have helped stamp out half the ravages of consumption. Buy Christmas Seals, and help stamp out the dread disease entirely.

STAMP OUT TUBERCULOSIS WITH CHRISTMAS SEALS

Digitized by v^ooQle
264

P

,HYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

E

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

CONSTRUCTIVE HEALTH ACTIVITIES IN PUBLIC

SCHOOLS.

By John Sundwall, Ph. D., M. D. Director, Division of Hygiene and Public Health. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

In this paper read before the Section on Preventive and Industrial Medicine and Public Health at the Seventy-Fourth Annual Session of the American Medical Association, San F-ancisco, June, 1923, and published in full text in "The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. Aug. 4, 1923, Dr. Sundwall says:

One of the chief contraventions to an efficient school health service is the "too many fingers in the pie” situation that maintains at present. Many independent agents are now engaged, or claim to be engaged, in the conservation of the health of school children. Phys’cal education, athletics, instruction in physiology and hy-

fiene, the school’s health service, and outside official and voluntary ealth agencies—these are among the more or less independent active agencies which have a hand in the present-day interest in and administration of school health. The personnel involved in these activities, at one time or another, total or partial service, include: the physical educator, athletic director or coach, teachers of physiology and hygiene, school physician, dentist, school nurse and sometimes others, such as the sanitarian, representatives of the city’s health department, and agents representing many voluntary health organizations.

The health supervisor must have training in physical education and athletics. Our new supervisor of school health, in order to utilize and correlate properly all physical welfare activities in the schools, must have some training in the theory and practice of physical education and athletics in their relation to health. One must bear in mind that certain objectives in these activities are not related to or are only remotely related to health. For this reason, many physical educators want to see the physical education activities separated from the health activities. Both, however, are supremely concerned with the normal, sound, vigorous and harmonious development of the body, and, because of this, should have a central supervision and administration. It is therefore essential that the supervisor be farm liar with all the various objectives in physical education and athletics.

The objectives of physical education and athletics, some of which are inextricably interrelated with the school's health, may be thus outlined:

Digitized by

Google
266

(o) The promotion of health and normal growth by mean# of proper exercise—gymnastics, games, etc.

(6) Harmonious development of the body (Greek ideal); personality, an erect and self-respecting carnage of the body; neuromuscular control required for prompt and accurate response, and graceful, agile, coordinate anc effective movements. (Of greater importance in secondary schools and colleges.)

(c)	The correction and prevention of abnormalities due to bad pcsture, asymmetrical development, etc.

(d)	Activity. The development of lasting desire to be active— to do many things with a fair degree of strength and endurance. (Of greater importance in secondary schools and colleges.)

(e)	Recreation. The profitable utilization of the pupils’ time during the intervals between mental application—games, sports, gymnastics, etc.

(/) The proper guidance of the fundamental interests and instincts of play, rivalry, pugnacity r id mastery—through competitive games, sports, and athletics.

>g> Utilizing every opportunity to develop' those important social, mental and moral qualities -afforded in physical education and athletics: obedience, subordination, cooperation, reliability, self-sacrifice, friendliness, loyalty, capacity for leadership, sportsmanship, self-confidence, self-control, mental and moral poise, good spirits, alertness, resourcefulness, decision, perseverance, courage, aggressiveness, initiative.

School Hygiene Under Boards of Education Or Boards of Health?

The question has been raised in recent years, both in the press and on the rostrum, as to whether school hygiene should be under boards of education or boards of health. School health supervision had its beginnings in this country with a view of preventing and controling communicable diseases—in Boston in 1894, in Philadelphia in 1896, and in New York in 1897. Naturally, when this was the chief objective of health work in the schools, school health could be administered most efficiently as a part of the city’s health department.

Now that a comprehensive school health program emphasizes more and more the positive health and physical efficiency aspects, the trend is for the school administration to assume the responsibility of school health supervision.

School health activities in the-future will be supremely interested in the sound, vigorous and harmonious physical development of its boys and girls. It will be interested in thorough physical examinations and in the 100 per cent follow up and treatment. It will see to it that a progressive physical record of each pupil accompanies that of his intellectual advancement. The supervisor of school health must be intimately tied up with the school system in general. He is in many respects an “industrial health officer” attached to schools and must be an efficient teacher. Furthermore, physical education and athletics are closely interrelated with
266

school health. These conditions make it imperative, I believe, that school health administration become an integral part of the school system. Of couse, the training of our new supervisor must embrace the needs for and methods of “tying up” closely the school’s health program with the city health department, and the utilization and assimilation of those things of value which the various voluntary health agencies have to offer.

Athletics and the Heart. It has been said that athletic training is mainly heart training. There is some oistinction between exercises of strength and those of endurance; in the latter, the aggregate of work done is much greater. Activity is supposed to stimulate growth, whereas the inertia of an ordinarily active part of the body may lead to retrogressive changes, if not to actual atrophy. The question has often been asked, therefore, whether increased heart work induced by exercise regularly leads to cardiac hypertrophy. The enlargement of the heart is not uncommon when abnormal conditions of the circulatory apparatus alter the usual progress in the flow of the blood. It has been asserted that, on Roentgen-ray examination, athletes are found to have larger heart shadows than the average, and that soldiers exhibit similar manifestations during military training. Hew lett has even stated that, beyond doubt, cardiac hypertrophy enables persons to perform greater feats of strength and more sustained feats cf endurance; and to that extent he regards it as a favorable phenomenon.

Whether even moderate cardiac enlargements are of advantage in later life has been debated. Whereas the hypertrophy may be of advantage during the period of great muscular strain. Hewlett is certain that it is of no special help subsequently. Indeed, he admits that, like other forms of hypertrophy, it may cause an increased susceptibility to myocordial disease in after years. This has a bearing on the problem of the influence of athletics on health beyond the period of actual participation in contests; for while some have contended that the subsequent health of famous athletes shows no deviation from the normal, Brooks has maintained that such persons show in later life a peculiar tendency to cardiac affections.

Those who champion the athlete’s cause will find satisfaction, therefore, in the measurements made on the participants in the American marathon race at Boston last year, by members of the staff of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. Generally, the men who participate in this 25-mile race are the best long distance runners in the United States and Canada. It therefore seemed to be an exceptional opportunity to observe the effect of prolonged vigorous training and a strenuous prolonged effort on certain features of the circulation. The men had all been training for some months immediately preceding the race, and most of them had been doing long distance running for from five to fifteen or more years. The Boston investigators regard it as fair to say that such a group of men should show the effect of prolonged vigorous training, as running

Digitized by t^.ooQle
267

ten or more miles repeatedly and frequently under the pressure of competition year in and year out should test or develop the circulatory mechanism to a maximum. The average vital capacity of the lungs of the many participants was normal, which indicated that prolonged vigorous training did not increase the breathing space of the lungs. There was no important relationship between the vital capacity of the lungs and the order in which the runners finished. The size of the heart, as determined by the Roentgen ray, was not increased. This indicated that many years of the most vigorous physical effort did not produce cardiac hypertrophy. Immediately following the race, it seems that there was a ternary decrease in heart size, gradually returning to normal in about one day.

Editorial:-“The Journal, Med. Assoc. July 5, 1924.

Fatigue And Resistance to Disease.—The study of industrial efficiency in connection with the prosecution of the World War tended to accentuate certain aspc ts of human welfare that had until then attracted little consider: .ion. Environmental conditions, such as temperature, humidity, ventilation and food resources, long believed to play a part in the determination of human comfort and physical well-being as well as muscular efficient y, were subjected to new examinations and evaluation with respect to their possible bearing on fatigue or overfatigue. The avoidance of excessive fatiguelrecame the keynote of various preventive measures in which human health and activity were concerned. Incidentally, the conviction gained ground that fatigue plays a significant part in the causation of disease; thus. Sir James Paget is quoted as writing: “You will find that fatigue has a larger share in the promotion or transmission of disease than any other single causal condition you can name.”*

In preventive medicine, mere “guesses” as to the cause of illness have often proved to be singularly illusory. With respect to fatigue, reference is frequently made to the studies of Abbott and Gildersleeve,t who found that when rabbits were inoculated with pathogenic bacteria and were then fatigued by running several hours each day in a wheel, they died; while other rabbits, inoculated but not fatigued, survived. With the fatigued rabbits the opsonic index, which may be interpreted to the layman as that condition of the blood which signifies the degree of susceptibility of tha organism to bacterial infection, was gradually reduced as the fatigue progressed. Cessation of the fatiguing process for even a day resulted in a partial recovery of depression in the opsonic index.

*. Lee, F. S.: The Human Machine and Industrial Efficiency, New York, 1918, p. 79.

f. Abbott and Gildersleeve: The Influence of Muscular Fatigue and of Alcohol upon Certain of the Normal Defenses, Univ. Pennsylvania M. Bull. 23 : 169, 1910.

Digitized by LjOOQLC
268

Realizing that the experimental evidence of the relation between acute fatigue or physical exhaustion and suspectibility to infection has been exceedingly meager, Oppenheimer and Spaethft have undertaken a new investigation of the problem in the School of Hygiene and Public Health at the Johns Hopkins University. The outcome of observations on rats in which fatigue was artificially induced by enforced muscular exercise showed quite unexpectedly a definite increase rather than decrease of resistance in these animals to lethal doses of pneumococci. Subsequently the question has been reinvestigated on guinea-pigs by the Baltimore physiologists.* The same increased resistance to the infections was observed in this species, too. Perhaps hereafter when sickness is reported to “arise from the factory," fatigue alone cannot be held clearly responsible, so far, at least, as infectious disease is concerned. More proofs must now be forthcoming before work is made too largely chargeable in public health programs for reform.

Editorial Journal Med. Assoc.

ft- Oppenheimer, E. H. and Spaeth, R. A., Am. J. Hyg. 2 : 51, 1922.

*. II. The Relation between Fatigue and the Susceptibility of Guinea Pigs to Infections of Type I Pneumococc js.. Am. J . Hyg. 2 : 527. Sept., 1922.

Physical Tests for School Children.—The state department of education made public, July 6, 1924, the results of the fourth annual state physical tests for children above the sixth grade in schools outside of New York City. The ratings were made by testing the ability to run, jump, throw and climb. The state is divided into six districts for the competitions. Comparison of this year’s scores with those of past years shows a steady gain, which has been most marked in the case of girls. Reports indicate that more than 300,000 children were reached through these activities. Emblems are awarded to pupils who score 50 or more points in each event. This work has been very effective in interesting children in physical education. The plan should help train children as the records are kept from year to year.

A New Category. Human characteristics have had various groupings. In medicine the study of man has long been pursued under the heads of anatomy and physiology. Pigeon-holing by mental traits has seemed of less service, though the grouping into “sanguine, phlegmatic, bilious, and melancholic” was as distinctly psychological as it was physical, and it was only a generation ago that this grouping was revived by some psychologists and the physical features of each type pointed out.

In an attempt at a revival of interest in this subject and of putting the subject of constitution and disease on a more sharply defined basis of measurement, Draper, Dercum, and Seegal have been making some studies. The results of these efforts, so far published, are of considerable interest. They have at least added one more heading for human classification, or rather have sep-

Digitized by LjOOQle
269

arated one item into a-more outstanding feature, thait of reaction to bacterial infection. They group our traits into “four panels of personality”—morphology, physiology, psychology, aod immunology.

Hitherto, reaction to bacteria has been considered as to some extent linked with anatomical structure—at any rate, tuberculosis has been so connected.

The mechanism of resistance to infection is, of course, a physiological one, just as the reactions to environment which we call mental are also physiological. Both psychology and immunology rest on an anatomical basis, yet the brain, in structure and function is so little related (save perhaps in extreme cases) to other attributes that no comparison can be drawn. Spinoza, Descartes, Kant, Mill, all ha'd marvelous brains, but they were as distinct in outward bodily traits as if they belonged to different varieties of the species. Chopin was of the tuberculous diathesis (if there is such a thing). Beethoven was of the apoplectic order. Balzac and Stevenson were at opposite anatomical poles.

Immunologically, there is as wide a variation in men. Washington and Lincoln were both athletes as well as statesmen of a high order; one had many attacks of malaria, dysentery, influenza, etc.; the other is said to have never been sick.

Anatomical and physiological traits are chiefly hereditary; so, too, are mental features, at least in general, but with apparently little reference, by descent, to the former factors. Immunological traits are also closely bound up with heredity and seem equally independent of measurable bodily features; however, we shall be glad if the investigators w ho have taken up this interesting subject will discover some definite anthropometric relationships which may be of help in clinical medicine and in education.—	Medical

Journal and Record. New York, May 21, 1924.

Adjustments of the Human Body to Muscular Work. When the body is subjected to severe exercise in the form of muscular work, the distress that manifests itself as the activity proceeds vigorously may presently become less severe even while the effort is being continued. The dyspnea produced by strenuous exercise, such as running or rowing, may disappear if the work is continued and it may be replaced by a sense of great relief. The urgency of breathlessness decreases with the oncoming of what the athlete calls his “second wind.” The look of distress disappears from his face, the head becomes clearer, and the muscles seem to act with renewed vigor and elasticity. There are individaul differences in the adjustment or accommodation that produces this change; in some pe-sons the sensation of the relief of second wind is very definite, while in others it may be so indefinite that it remains unrecognized. The problem of muscular fitness is concerned with the physiologic mechanisms involved in the development of “second sWiod.”

Digitized by ^.ooQle
270

Obviously, the devices for the adequate removal of the products of muscular waste and the supply of essential oxygen are put under severe strain during strenuous exercise. It was suggested long ago that, as the result of the production of metabolities in the contracting muscles, their vessels may be more dilated so that the flow of blood through them is easier. Cook and Pembrey believed that carbon dioxid was the chief factor in the adjustment of the respiratory and circulatory systems to the demands of the musculature for an adequate blood supply. In an extensive reinvestigation of the subject in the physiologic laboratory at Guy’s Hospital, London, it has become evident that in the dyspnea produced by running there is a disturbance of the acid-base equilibrium of the body; the relief of “second wind” is the result of the various adjustments toward equilibrium. This accommodation is effected chiefly by respiration, circulation and excretion by the kidneys and skin. The sense of discomfort during dyspnea is associated with increased pulmonary ventilation, the sense of relief at the onset of second wind, with diminished ventilation. Since the days of Beaumont’s observation on Alexis St. Martin, it has been known that the internal temperature of the body is raised by muscular work. The rise may proceed to 101 or 102 F. (38.3 to 38.9 C.). The London physiologists rate this as beneficial because the oxidation in the tissues is accelerated above the normal temperature, the excitability of the respiratory center is increased, the beat of the heart is quickened, and the gaseous exchange between blood and tissues proceeds more readily. They believe that distress during exercise is associated more closely with a high skin temperature than with the customary elevation of internal temperature; for the consequent dilatation of the cutaneous vessels makes an extra demand on the heart in order to maintain the usual pressure of the blood. The exposure of a large surface of the skin during muscular work facilitates the evaporation of sweat, which prevents the temperature from exceeding the optimum and causes constriction of the cutaneous blood vessels.

A marked decrease in the output of urine, even to the extent of anuria, is a characteristic feature of very vigorous exercise. It is suggested by these studies that the water spared is made available for excretion by the lungs and skin, and will produce by evaporation a far greater cooling than would result if it were discharged, as through the kidneys. The suspension of their activities is said to be due to constrictor impulses to the renal vessels. After strenuous exercise, protein sometimes appears in the urine of healthy persons. Perhaps this is a sign of the previous lack of arterial blood in the kidneys; if so, the muscles and nervous system benefit by their correspondinelv increased supply. Dependable knowledge in this field of inquiry forms the very fundament of the physiology of exercise, for which the larger structure has only begun to be evolved.

Editorial: The Journal, Med. Assoc. July 5, X934.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
271

♦-----------------------------------♦

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

♦-----------------------------------♦

SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHING SWIMMING TO GIRLS AND BOYS OF SCHOOL AGE.

Genevieve Jones, Kansas City, Mo.

I.	Overcoming Fear

Put head under water.

Put head under water and open eyes.

Put head under water and pick up an object.

II.	Breathing.

Inhale through mouth—exhale through nose.

Inhale through mouth, put face in water and exhale through nose under water. (Use lavatory, pan or cupped hands in preliminary exercise.) The inhalation should be quick, the exhalation slow and . constant.

Repeat exercise until it can be done ten times in succession.

III.	Developing Idea of Buoyancy.

Explain to children why their bodies are lighter than water. Hold side of pool—submerge face—relax and let body rise. Repeat.

Reneat—relax hold on edge of pool and float free.

Stand about eight feet f-om side of pool, facing side, feet together arms forward, thumbs lock firmly. Inhale through mouth. Bend from hips. Let body float to side. Stand with back to side of pool hins touching side. Extend arms forward thumbs locked. Raise one foot and put sole flat on on wall. Inhale—submerge face, bend forward from hips, push off—float.

Always exhale before completing any exercise with face in warer.

IV.	Regaining Standing Position.

Take hold of side of pool, inhale, submerge face and float. Draw knees forcibly to chest—stand!

Repeat.

Bobbing Apples.

Inhale, bend forward as for face float, grasp knees—float. Stand.

Let children push each other under gently and watch each other rise to surface.

Stand from Face Float by pulling arms forcibly down against water as knees are pulled to chest.

V.	Elementary Crawl.

Flutter Kick. (To be used later in American Crawl.)

Sit at edge of pool, extend legs, toes pointed slightly in. Move

Digitized by LjOOQle
272

legs alternately up and down from hips, knees straight. Count in rhythms of three—1-2-3-, 1-2-3- with a marked accent on 1. The stroke is 12 to 14” wide at the widest part. Face float and flutter kick with counting. Make the water boil at the feet—do not splash.

Arm Stroke.

Extend arms forward palms down, fingers together. Pull alternately through a long downward pull. (Arms describe a quarter circle.) Extend arms forward under surface of water. There should be no splash.

Combined Stroke.

Combine arms and legs. Inhale as the pull is made with left arm and exhale as the pull is made with the right. Make three leg strokes with each arm stroke. The complete stroke is slow—one stroke to each normal breath. The head may be submerged if wings are not used in the beginning lessons.

VI.	Back Float.

Kneel in shallow water—chest tall—arms extended sidewards. Inhale, chin slightly back, relax slowly back onto water. Let feet rise slowly to surface, do not kick them up. Turn to face float and stand.

If assistance is needed let partner give just enough support under shoulder blades.

VII.	Broad Back Stroke.

Arms.

Count 1. Bend arms, thumbs following side seams of bathing suit, elbows back, place hands on shoulders. Count 2. Extend arms straight sideward.

Count 3. Pull arms forcibly down to sides.

Count 4. Rest.

Legs.

Count 1. Bend knees with outward hip rotation until soles of feet are flat together.

Count 2. Straighten legs, feet far apart.

Count 3. Legs together straight—with force.

Count 4. Rest.

Combine arms and legs on land either in standing sitting or back lying position.

Inhale on one, exhale on three. Keep the stroke slow and get a good long coast.

Stunts for Shallow end of pool to be used as needed.

1.	Run and jump in with flexed knees.

2. Run and jump in and salute. (Wooden soldier.)

3. Run and jump in and grasp knees. (Billiken).

4.	Front somersaults.

Front somersaults in pairs, facing each other.

5.	Back somersaults.

Back somersaults in circle.

Digitized by

Google
273

6.	Pace float for [speed.

Face floaty for. distance.

Face, float~ in pairs.

Face float circle toward center—like spokes.

Face float in circle toward center—like spokes in a wheel.

7.	Retrieve objects. (Spoons and pennies.)

8.	Back float for time.

9.	Kneeling dive.

Fall dive.

Indian dive. fBoth hands up.) in. Begin porpoise.

BASKET END BALL

Dr. Willaid Zohn, Philadelphia

The following article is a description of the development of a physical training project in the Nornvl Lchool of Observation and Pratiee, Philadelphia, during the last fe . months of the fall term.

The problem arose in the 8BA Gyr. nasium period as a result of two factors, viz., the large size of the classes and the desire on on the part of the pupils of the 8th Grades to play Girls’ Basket Ball. It was at once realized that Basket Ball, as such, could not be played by 12 girls and have 50 spectators. It was suggested that the girls use their knowledge of other games in combination with some elements of basket ball to make up a game to suit the conditions at hand.

Experimentation was carried on in the regular gym penod until the problem was satisfactorily settled and the following game, which the class named “Basket End-Ball” was evolved.

Playing Court and Arrangement of Players:

Playing Court is the same as in Girls' Basket Ball, except that each third of the court is again divided in half, making six sections in all. Each team has an equal number of centers, forwards and guards. The total number playing is determined by the size of the group to be accommodated.

At the start of the game the players are arranged as in diagram.

Object of the Game, Playing Regulations and Scoring

Method:

The game is started by jumping at center between two players of opposing teams. All players remain in their respective sections of the court and the ball is passed from section to section with the object of getting the ball into the possession of the forwards, who then shoot for the basket. Whenever the ball is successfully passed into the hands of the forwards from the centers or guards of the same team, one point is scored by that team. If the shot then taken for the basket is successful, two additional points are scored. In the event of a successful shot for the basket, the ball is again put in play by jumping at center, otherwise play continues uninterrupted.

Digitized by L^ooQle
BASKET-ENDBALL

o

AAAAAAAA “A” GUARDS

BBBBBB BB “B” FORWARDS

AAAAAAAA "A” CENTERS

- -—o---

BBBBBBBB “B” CENTERS

AAAAAAAA “A” FORWARDS

B B

B

B

“B”

B B GUARDS

B

B

PLAYING COURT AND ARRANGEMENT OF PLAYERS.
276

The game is played in three innings of egual time intervals, with a change of position, so that at the termination of the game each player shall have had had a chance to be a center, forward and guard.

Fouls; Fouls are committed by

a.	stepping out of bounds of the players position /one.

b.	playing the ball when in the possession of another player of the opposing team, and

c.	running or walking with the ball or dribbling.

When a foul is committed, a free throw is taken from the

basket ball foul line by any forward of the offended team. If this trial is successful, one point is scored and the ball is put in play at center. Otherwise play is continued uninterrupted.

When the ball goes out of bounds r t the end of the court it is in possession of the guards at that erd of the court.

The winner, obviously is determined by the highest total score made in the three innings.

GAMES VARIATIONS

Wm. A. Steche*-

1.	Snake Race. Arrange from 6 to 8 pupils in a flank rank connected by grasping around the waist of the one in front. About ten to twenty steps away place in front of each rank a club or some other object. At the signal each rank runs forward and circles arou n d fh club twice (or three times) and returns to its starting position.

2.	Centipede Races Divide the class into teams of a like number of players. Get two (or more) poles about ten to twelve feet long. The two (or more) teams that are to race line up at the starting place. Each team member is astride of a pole, grasping same with one hand. Upon command each centipede races around a designated spot or an obstacle and back to the starting line.

Running twice or oftener around the obstacle before returning adds greatly to the fun.

3.	Three Deep Variation. The player are grouped by twos, the rear player grasping around the waist of the one in front. The pairs are scattered about the gymnasium or play space. Two players are then designated as the runner and the :atcher (or chaser). Upon command the runner tries to get into a safe place by grasping around the waist of the last player of one of the groups. The groups try tc make this difficult by turning around or by moving from place to place. The catcher in the meantime is chasing the runner, trying to tag him. If he tags him the roles of these two players are reversed. If, however, the winner grasps some one, as designated above, he is safe, whereupon the one standing in “front” becomes the runner. Using two couples as runners adds greatly to the enjoyment.

4.	Combine running with running on all fours, or with jumping.

a.	Run to a given mark and run back on hands and feet.

b.	as a, but return by jumping forward on hands and feet (rabbit jump).

Digitized by LjOOQle
276

c.	As a, or b, in the form of a relay race, tagging the next player as soon as a return is made.

5.	Six Tag Games. Often tag games must he played in restricted spaces.- There are a number of variations or additions that make it possible to play such games. Some of the most amusing and effective are as follows:

Ankle Tag. This is like a regular tag game except that a person is “immune” i.e., may not be tagged when he has hold of another person’s ankle.

Nose and ankle tag. This also is like a regular tag game except that a player may not be tagged if he has hold of his own nose and his ankle.

Ostrich tag. A variation of the above game is called ostrich tag. In this a player may not he tagged who with one arm under his knee has hold of his own nose with that hand.

Turkish tag. In this game a player may not be tagged who is kneeling with his forehead touching the ground.

Horse tag. This is rather a strenuous game. In it a player is safe when he is on some other player’s back. In this game it often happens that two players are on one horse.

Turtle tag. In this tag game a player is safe who is lying on his back with both arms and Tegs off the floor.

♦ . .. . ■ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------♦

The Eleventh National Recreation Congress, which met in Atlantic City October 16-21, under the auspices of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, was a timely force tor the education of America in the fullest and happiest use of her leisure time. More in the nature of a huge experience exchange and training school in recreation leadership than of a series of addresses, it gave inspiration to 600 delegates from many states. Special classes and demonstrations in community music, community drama, games, and mass athletics were arranged.

There were section meetings on summer camp problems, recruiting and training recreation leaders, home recreation, handcraft activities, the use of school buildings as recreation centers, parks ano leisure time, physical education, the vacation problem in America, recreation and industry, rural recreation, recreation life for girls, recreation in the church, recreation publicity, municipal golf courses, recreation and city planning and other phases of the broadly educational modern recreation movement.

Latest in the series of public health studies to be issued by the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor is “Community Oral Hygiene,” being a four year report of a dem-

D

EPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL HYGIEN

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL

E

Digitized by

Google
277

onstration which the A.I. C. P. has been conducting in the Mulberry district of New York City.

The plan has been to concentrate efforts in the schools where no work has been done and where work may go on from year to year without interruption. In this way there was definite assurance that the work was being done where it was most needed, where the continuity of the service would enable the A. I. C. P. to secure tangible results.

The A. I. C. P. has now made four annual surveys of the mouth conditions of the children of Public School 106, where the most intensive campaign has been conducted. The increase in those needing no corrective dental work and in those awarded diplomas for having kept their mouths clean has steadily increased. There has also been a marked reduction from 85.4 percent to 46.4 percent) in children requiring fillings, for the most part in first permanent molars. While the proportion needing fillings is slightly greater than last year, the proportion needing extractions has been reduced from 40.3 percent to 32 percent. This is again a most encouraging sign, for it means that more children have savable teeth than last year, and for such, fillings rather than extractions are indicated. There is also direct evidence that the fillings required are of a far less extensive nature than when the work first began, for in 1920 60 percent of the fillings were urgent, while in 1923 only 37 percent were urgent.

There are, indeed, few health services, the report points out, which for an average annual per capita expenditure of $4.00 can show such unequivocal and far-reaching results as those accomplished by this demonstration. The full implications of these results will not be fully realized until oral hygiene is accorded its proper place in preventive medicine.

To provide for all ‘children training of the highest physical value and of social and moral value as well, the Missouri State Department of Education is promoting a program in physical education built chiefly on athletics and games.

In selecting activities for a program, the Missouri State department has been governed by five general principles:

1.	It seeks to train the type of muscle and. social development that life needs. On the physical side, walking is the primary form, and with most of us it is the only physical activity that we keep up after we get through school. It represents at least 90 percent of all of the physical energy we develop. Cn the social side, the development of friendships and good comradeship comes almost altogether through play m childhood.

2.	In selecting games, basketball and football must be rejected from the program of the elementary school, because there is not enough room and because girls do not play.

3.	The activities put into the program must be such that all children in a class can take part. On this basis, basket ball must be rejected. Because cf the violent strain on the heart, basket ball should not be played without a careful phys’cal examination.

4.	At least two hours of physical exercise each day is necessary
278	'

for a vigorous boy or girl. If we can put more than one-half hour into the program, we must give school activities that children will carry on after school, on Saturdays, and during the summer time. The only ones that meet these conditions are athletics and games.

5.	The activities selected should be of a type that carry over into life, as tennis, cricket, and hockey do in England, where they are often played until men are 60 or 70 years of age.

The Missouri Department of Education is enocuraging much more walking than we have had. It hopes to be able to make a definite requirement. Every boy and girl should learn to swim before graduation from high school. In every possible way will the department encourage every boy and girl to play tennis. A vigorous type of folk dance has a specific place and should be encouraged.

Volley ball, playground baseball, and circle dodge ball will be on the program for every school. Volley ball is a game which we begin to play at 8 and continue to play until we are 80. It can be practiced in the backyard of nearly every house. It has great corrective value, as it tends to put the head back and deepen the upper chest.

Soccer ball is undoubtedly the most popular game in the world. It is played all over South America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, India, South Africa, Japan, Canada, and the Philippines. It is compulsory in English preparatory schools from the time the boys are 8 years of age. It is required also in about half of the English high schools for girls. A t the meeting of the State directors of physical education in New'York in January it was voted unanimously that soccer is a much better game for the junior high school than the American game of football. The belief was also expressed that men would be better players in the American game in college if they had played so:cer throughout the high-school

Eeriod. The Missouri State department will encourage soccer for oth girls and boys wherever possible. This is entirely in line with whatjnas taken place all over the world since the war.

Dr. Chadwick of the State Sanatorium at Westfield. Massachusetts, found in his study of	underweight scho that 8 to

10 per cent of them were found to have a tuberculous focus of disease which requires special supervision and care.

27 per cent have signs and symptoms of tuberculosis but not enough to justify positive diagnosis; i. e., are suspicious cases.

10 to 20 per cent have other disturbances such as heart, thyroid, teeth, tonsils, adenoids, bone tuberculosis.

The rest of them (about half j have no definite disease but seem to be purely nutritional cases.

The children of the first group; i. e., those having definite symptoms of tuberculosis—usually glandular type—can be taken care of at home, if tha home is an intelligent one where cooperation can be obtained. In such a case fresh air, rest and food are three of the most important factors in home treatment.

The routine for rest and sleep would be as follows:

Digitized by
279

1.	Resting and sleeping in the open, or well ventilated room.

2.	Early bed time, sleeping as late in morning as possible.

3.	A 30 minute rest before dinner and supper.

4.	2 hours rest after dinner.

5.	No strenuous exercise or play.

The food should be of the sort that would be'easily digested.

1.	A qua»*t of milk forming the basis of the diet.

2.	Simple, well-cooked meals, given at regular times.

3.	A mid-morning and afternoon lunch of milk.

The children who are reported as suspicious cases need not be kept out of school. They first need to have the physical defects attended to. Fresh air, rest and food are the three important factors to be considered with this group also.

Early bed time—sleeping as late in the morning as possible.

Frequent rest periods during the day, whenever they can be fitted in.

Short rest periods before and after meal times are essential.

The food needs to be kept simple, as for the other group.

With the children who are purely nutritional cases there is usually one factor involved which needs correction. It may be food, it may be lack of sleep, it may be lack of fresh air, it may be uncleanliness, it may be poor posture, etc., or it may be a combination. From experience it seems with school children that the lack of adequate rest and sleep is often the greatest single factor. For the average child this can be remedied but for the child who comes from a home which is overcrowded, it is a difficult thing to remedy. One might as well tell the blind to see as tell a child to rest more who lives in such crowded quarters, that it is necessary to sleep with one or two others and where there is no opportunity to find a quiet spot during the day to rest. Where are those children to rest? Or where is the child in the country, who leaves home at 7:30 and has to be away all day until 4 in the afternoon to get rest? The school, I think, will have to find a place in the future. In most of the schools today, especially country schools, there isn’t a nook or a cranny where it would be possible for children to rest—but in the new buildings there ought to be provision made. Many schools sell milk which helps to provide the undernourished child with the necessary amount of milk each day. This and the hot noon lunches have been found to be good educational practices.

As an aid in conducting milk-for-health campaigns, a circular containing reproductions of prize-winning milk posters designed by school children, both city and rural, throughout the country, has just been published by the United States Department of Agriculture. The posters were made in connection with programs carried on by communities in which the children live, with the cooperation of the State agricultural college and of the Bureau of Dairying in the Federal department. The aim of an educational milk program is to encourage an intelligent use of milk for the purpose of improving health and reducing undernourishment. The making of posters has been found a helpful feature, and these re-

Digitized by	le
280

productions are published with the hope that they may be useful as suggestions to persons planning to conduct similar programs. Copies of the publication, Miscellaneous Circular 21, Posters Pre-

Eared by School Children in Milk-For-Health Programs, may be ad free, as long as the supply lasts, by writing to the Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

Despite its recognized drawbacks, the crowded tenement within the reach of good medical attention and with pasteurized milk is pressing the farmhouse with its abundance of pure air and fresh milk for honors as the best place for babies to begin life, according to a statement by Dr. Palmer, following the publication of the infant mortality report for 1923 recently prepared by the American Child Health Association.

He continues: "According to the report country babies are still leading in the health race but the city babies are gaining. The death rate for rural infants is lower than the rate among city babies in sixteen out of twenty-seven states for which records are available. But in nine states the baby death rate in cities of more than 10,000 population is actually lower for 1923 than in the rural communities as indicated by the provisional reports of the United States Eureau of the Census.”

This is true in California, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and Washington. The death rates are the same for both city and rural districts in Minnesota and Ohio. The cities have gained in this indication of healthfulness since 1922. In that year only five states showed lower baby death rate in cities than in rural districts.

"Physical Education” is the title of a new publication that has just appeared in England. It is the official organ of the incorporated British Association for Physical Training with its offices at 25 Chalcroft Road, Lee, S. E. 13, London, England, whose secretary is Mr. T. Williams.

According to the editorial the primary object of the publication is to keep the members in touch with the work of this association and with the latest developments in all subjects connected with health.

The publication should be of additional help in giving us in the United States a better insight into what is really happening in our line in England.

The “Association” is something radically different from our physical education associations, it being an examining body before which men and women may qualify as teachers of physical education. It is, in fact similar to our “Approved Boards of Officials.” You pass our examination in order to be admitted, as a member. A preliminary examination admits to “Studentship” and a final examination admits a candidate to regular membership. Besides conducting examinations the association also conducts various kinds of competitions.

Digitized by Google
281

J ..  -	■	■	■ ■	   ■	■■■	■	♦

News, notes and comments

PROSPECTS FOR 01AND GAS AS FUELS OF THE FUTURE

In a paper read before the Western Society of Engineers, Professo’- S. W. Parr, of the University of Illinois, gives an optimistic view of the future possibilities of oil and gas as fuels. His article starts off with a bnef sketch of the progress from wood to oil fuel, and he eagerly makes the suggestion that the quality of mobility-ease of handling and transportation—will become a leading requirement of future fuels.

This quality is possessed by both oil and gas fuels and it is Professor Parr’s belief that one or other cf these will be the ultimate fuel. As an example of the importance of mobility, is cited the tremendous growth of the automobile, which is not entirely due to the automobile habit but in a large ire iure also to the fact that gasoline provides energy in a compact an.I mobile form. A further example introduced is that of the Diesel-engined ship which carries its fuel in space that would be otherwise wasted, carries a smaller volume of fuel, burns the fuel with but a fraction of the cost of stoking coal, and has both a larger cargo space and a greater steaming radius than the coal-burning vessel.

Professor Parr sees for the future an increase in the use of oil fuel for vessels and of gasoline, or gasoline mixtures with benzol and alcohol, for automobiles and similar automotive vehicles. This latter necessitates, however, greater perfection of the processes of gasoline production, so that a larger percentage of the crude oil will become available as gasoline. Similarly optomistic is his view of the future of gas as a fuel, but this is also held to depend upon improvement of the processes of gas production, so that the heat content per cubic foot of gas can be increased without an increase in the price of the gas. The advantage of this use of gas instead of coal fuel, lies not only in the greater convenience and cleanliness possible, but in the fact that it permits the recovery of valuable chemical by-products destroyed in the burning of raw coal as fuel. Another line along which lies chance for improvement, is in the partial distillation of bituminous coal by which can be removed the volatile, smoke-producing elements, leaving a coal more nearly anthractic in its combustion characteristics and yielding a worthwhile amount of oil, about half a barrel to the ton.

THE RADIATING VALUES OF COLORS.

By T. W. Reynolds.

Radiating and absorbing powers are equal and increase with the temperature. They are also greater for rough or dark-colored surfaces than for smooth or light-colored ones, lampblack being the

Digitized by LjOoq le
282

best radiator of heat, brass or silver (polished) the best reflectors. So we find that water boils sooner in a kettle covered with soot than in one brightly polished and that bare bright tin pipes of a warm-air system lose less heat than when covered with asbestos paper in any number of thicknesses not over seven.

Tho dust decreases the heat loss from warm-air pipes of tin when bare, it increases the loss from such pipes when insulated, that rusty surfaces are better radiators than bright surfaces, that painted surfaces of dark color are better radiators than those of light color, and that dark colors add much more to the heat lost from pipes without insulation than they add to the loss from insulated pipes.

THE DEVELOPMENT OF SKIING IN MINNEAPOLIS AND

NORTH WEST.

There are 48 Ski centers in the United States and Canada. 28 in the Northwest, 9 in the East, 7 in Canada and 4 in the West.

1.	The Minneapolis Municipal Ski Club was organized in February 1920, under the auspices of the Recreation Department of the Board of Park Commissioners, and now has a membership of four hundred.

2.	Skiing in Minneapolis is centered at Glenwood Park, the “Winter Playground” - with following facilities:

A.	682 acres of rolling wooded hills, plains, and lake.

B.	Gold Club House and Recreation Building.

C.	A 50-foot wooded slide and a 100-foot steel slide erected within 300 feet of the Club House.

D.	Ski trails are available for ski hikes and cross-country runs.

E.	Toboggan slides and a skating rink.

3.	During the past four years, Minneapolis skiers have taken part in National, Northwest and Sectional Tournaments in Canada, Colorado, Vermont, Northwest, and Middlewest cities with following results:

A.	696 Minneapolis and visiting skiers took part in 12 meets in Minneapolis.

B.	211 Minneapolis skiers took part in meets in other cities.

C.	41,500 spectators attended the 12 meets at Glenwood Park.

D.	92,500 spectators attended 31 meets in other cities.

E.	Minneapolis skiers appeared before a total of 134,000 spectators at 43 meets in 21 cities.

4.	The first annual Boys Ski Tournament was held last year with a total list of 126 contestants.

5.	Twenty of the twenty-eight clubs affiliated with the National Ski Association are located in the Northwest, a majority of which were organized last year because of the activity of the Minneapolis Municipal Ski Club.

6.	The Northwest Ski Meet is held in Minneapolis each year with an average attendance of 60 skiers from 15 to 20 cities.

7.	Approximately 50 ski tournaments are held in this section of the country each season.

Digitized by

Google
283

University of Minnesota girls now see themselves exactly as tney are when they they take their physical examinations on entering ia the fall. An instrument for exactly recording posture is used, which makes a white silhouette against a black background, and enables the student to see clearly the posture defects which are revealed.

The silhouetograph” has two great advantages over the method in use before. It is almost instantaneous, thereby eliminating chances for swaying such as are invited by a long period of standing while a silhouette is traced. It eliminates also the chances for error that go with a tracing process.

Silhouettes are developed and placed in the students’ bands within two minutes. After the girls have taken correctional gymnastics for a long enough period to bring some results, new silhouettes are made, which can be compared with the old ones.

At a recent meeting of the British Medical Association at Bradford, Dr. Herbert Caiger said:	Is	it not a disgrace that

we have not been able to discover t’ e cause of appendicitis? That complaint is no doubt connected with a civilized mode of diet. It is found that those who have not come in contact with civilized habits do not get it.”

In the current issue of the Forum, Prof. Robert K. Root of Princeton Un versity says football had been ruined as an amateur sport by the hirring of highly paid professional coaches and by throwing open the games to the general public. He compares the result to the gladiatorial combats of old. The student players he asserts, are amateurs in name only, being trained by professionals to understand the professional art ox the game.

To remedy this situation he would abolish the hired coaching staffs, retaining only the professional trainers. Then the students could do their own coaching. He also would bar outsiders from the games, thus keeping the contests strictly collegiate and eliminating much of the present publicity which he believes to be injurious to growing young men—the players.

“I was keenly interested in Prof. Root’s article,” Dr. Ayde-lotte, president of Swathmore college said and I agree with his point that any athletic game is on the road to being ruined as an amateur sport in so far as it becomes a spectacle for the crowd. The spectators at an athletic contest between two colleges or universities ought to be primarily the students of the two-institutions or their friends.

"The full value of athletics can be realized only by players, and the remedy for all abuses of athletics is more athletics. If our colleges and universities provide facilities for universal participation in athletic sports, our athletic problems will be solved.

"I agree with Prof. Root in distrusting programs of reform, and especially negative programs. It is better to play a game than to watch it. It is better to watch it than merely to read about it. The way to get undergraduates to put the proper

Digitized by
284

emphasis on those three approaches to athletics is, in my opinion, simply by providing tnem with adequate facilities for play. Human nature and the Anglo-Saxon love of sport will do the rest.

“The plan which I proposed is simple, but expensive, as I know from having tried to work it out. It means the provision of from ten to fifteen atoletic fields for every 1000 students. If a university of 5000 students undertook to provide facilities for universal athletics on anything like that scale, it would need at least fifty athletic fields—but it would not need anything else to solve its athletic problems.”

Frenchman evidently pursue strenuous electioneering methods. Names of three deputies-elect are given as having died through the super exertion they were compelled to undergo in their campaigns. In fact, it is said that the recent election was the most trying ever held in France, and that none of the contestants escaped knowledge they had been in a fight.

Marcel de Larbre, physical training expert in Paris, who has studied the details of physical exertion in the campaign, says they are surprising. He estimates that the average candidate during the twenty days preceding election covered 650 miles, delivered 60 speeches and had only 120 hours sleep. His view of it is that the campaign constitued an exhaustive athletic contest, meaning of course for trained athletes.

A. combination swimming collar and life preserver, that should be welcomed by swimming instructors and lifeguards, has been manufactured. The new Rawlings Shur-Flote Swimming Collar' recently patented and now on the market, is remarkable in its adaptability to the needs of both children and adults.

Fitting comfortably around the neck, the Shur-Flote cannot slip off nor entangle the limbs. It leaves the arms entirely free, and, in this way, is valuable as an aid to swimming novices. It consists of a separate rubber bladder, with a stem like a football bladder, which can be blown up in a few seconds. This bladder fits into a serviceable canvas cover. Deflated, the Shur-Flote folds up to fit pocket or handbag.

Safety for youngsters about the water is the Shur-Flote’s great appeal—for this two-ounce swimming collar can be worn all day by the child without bother or discomfort. It will also support up to 250 pounds.

In a communication to the English Journal of School Hygiene and Physical Education Dr. Carl Schiot^, chief medical officer of schools in Christiania makes the following comments about athletic ability and the physiological development of girls.

“I maintain that girls’ and boys’ gymnastics and athletics must be based on quite different foundations.

When the pre-puberty age of girls has begun, athletics should

Digitized by v^. ooQle
286

not be based on competitive grounds, or on that of reaching maximum records. Gymnastics themselves, nevertheless are highly commendable. Physical training is, of course, essential for prepuberty girls as well as for girls after puberty.

If girls own spontaneous sport-activities after puberty are observed, we very seldom find in them any attempts to attain competitive records, while that is the normal course with boys. As we all very well know, the male sex has a combative tendency as an instinct, therefore innate, while the female sex has not. We ought not to try to change biological laws; our attempts in such directions are always unsuccessful. Again, if the special bodily build of the female is considered -I mean a normal characteristic build -we cannot possibly make the deduction that good development of breasts, of hips, and of the special female nip and knee joints can agree with maximum trials of strength in high jump, long jump etc.”

The National Child Welfare Association has begun a campaign for the moral training of children. Mr. Charles M. De-Forest has been appointed secretary for Moral Education. Under his direction six sets of exercises for character training have been prepared; also a ch ing-up chart. The aim, so far . as the child is concerned, is to become a member of the American Order of Nobility. In order to become a member of th« order and to progress toward the higher titles a child must perform definite things.

The parents as well as the teachers of the child help in this training. A little folder addressed to the parents says that

To learn to read, to become a ball player or a musician, or to beccme skillful in anything, one must practise. Many people seem to think that if children are told what ace their moral duties and tcld often, they will beccme good. This is not true. Good character, the greatest accomplishment of all and the greatest desire of parents for their children, can be won only by practice and pe-sVent practice.

The child must do right arts and think right thoughts day after day, rnaling them his habits. Coed habits are tr.e basis of good character. Fu~thermore, the child must be so interested that he will himself wish to make a prartre cf dcing right. He will not arc.ure good character through being forced to do right.

The / Irene an Order cf Nobility is a system of character training through practice, and it is a system that interests children. Through its exercises children form good moral habits and parents have their task cf training lightened. Eut the cooperation of the parents is ne-essary.

Teachers and interested parents are advised to write for further information. Address: National Child Welfare Association, 70 Fifth Ave., New York City.

The department of Health Instruction of Atlantic City, N. has just issued its report for the school year 1928-24 that sho

Digitized by Google
286

be of interest to many of our readers, as it shows not only the results, but also the organization of this department under the efficient direction of Dr. Frederick W. Maroney.

According to the Cleveland, 0. “Press” the officials of the public schools are making plans to meet the increased enrollment in the physical training classes.

Abolition of compulsory military training with the option of physical training means securing additional physical welfare instructors and outlining of a more extensive course, school officials said.

Track work will be stressed, swimming instruction will be pushed, and more emphasis will be placed on boxing in senior nigh schools.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Twice 55 Games With Music-The Red Book”-by Peter

W.	Dykema. Paper back, 5 1-2” x 8 1-2 inches. Published by

C.	C. Birchard & Co. Boston. Piano edition with accompaniments. Price, 75 cents.

This book is a handy little volume that may be carried i i the pocket ready for use for any social occasion. It contains a variety of the old traditional songs and games that may be also played on the playground. It would appear to the writer that the-source of many more of the games and music might have been given credit. Also, when a story of an old traditional game is related, it should be the old story as handed down through the ages. If the story is to be modified to suit some particular occasion, give this as a suggestion for the teacher to follow if reeded.

Many recreation workers and teachers will be glad to have such a collection of old familiar games.

Elizabeth O’Neill.

“Weight In Relation to Height, Age and Physical Type”

A measuring scale prepared by the Division of Physical Education, of the Board of Education, Philadelphia, Pa. Price $1.00, on heavy linen paper. Published by the Board of Public Education.

The physical education teachers in the Philadelphia schools for many years had expressed the wish to have a chart that at a glance would show if a child is of normal weight and height for his type. It had been felt that the “meauring sticks” that had been worked out so far were not accurate enough: that a better chart was needed that gave more information that would be valuable in health education.

Dr. Bird T. Baldwin’s book on the physical measurements of. children, with its wealth of reliable measurements gathered by him and by other scientists gave the information needed. What was necessary was to put this mass of material into a form that w_Quld answer the needs of those who were looking for definite information quickly obtainable. It was, therefore, determined that the chart

Digitized by Google
287

should have the information relating to those who belonged to the long slender type, to the short stocky type, and to the average type.

After the relation of height, weight and age of each type had been worked out, it was determined that the chart also should contain accurate data on overweight and underweight for the age and the height of each of the three types. Ten per cent was determined as the place where underweight should begin. For overweight twenty per cent was to be the line.

All this information then was put into a chart that was drawn to a correct scale in inches. The result was the chart that has just been printed by the Board for use in the Philadelphia Schools. In its operation the chart, that is tacked on the wall of the gymnasium, is used as follows. First the teacher by observation, or by questioning determines the type to which the child belongs. The child is then placed against the wall (bearing the chart) and a glance will show the exact height of the child, the weight that a child of this type should have. At this same place the information is printed telling how old a child of this type and height should be. The ten per cent underweight and twenty per cent overweight is also there in pounds, giving the teacher the information necessary to determine if the child should be in a nutrition class, etc.

The chart can be used for measuring pupils from 40 up to 74 inches. Data relating to boys is printed in black ink and to girls in red ink. The chart may be obtained from the director of physical education, 17th and Pine Streets, Philadelphia, postpaid, at the price stated above.

“Camping Out,” A manual on Organized Camping. The Playground and Recreation Association of .America, New York. MacMillan Company, 1924. 587 pages. Price $2.00.

The introduction of this book deals with philosophy of outdoor life and the great need for this back to nature vacation, which is furnished by summer camps, and might well be read by all the parents who doubt the value of camping for their children.

The chapter dealing with the selection of a site is very complete and exhaustive, and should act as a valuable guide to those who are purchasing a camp site, and as a measuring rod for those whose sites are already chosen. Very frequently sites are selected simply because of their native beauty among the mountains on crystal lakes, regardless of their accessibility or proximity to a source of fresh food supply. However, the reviewer feels that the location of a site is the determining factor in the selection of a camp by a parent.

Following the selection of a site naturally comes the planning of buildings, tents and athletic fields. Usually this is an individual affair and difficult to make any hard and fast rules, nevertheless, there are certain arrangements which are common to all and must be regarded for sanitary and hygienic reasons. These are considered in chapter three, with valubale diagrams and pictures.

One is very much impressed by the thesis of the chapter on equipment—that there is a minimum essential necessary for comfort,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
288

safety and sanitation, but beyond that the elaborate furnishings cease to present the atmosphere of a camp but more of an outdoor high priced hotel. The discussion dealing with the comparative values of tents and cottages is very interesting. The writer would have been very grateful for the use of the information in this chapter on equipment when his camp was organized.

Camp Committee organization is a very valuable chapter where a group or body of people desires to form a camp, and if followed more systematically would doubtless result in many cases in more successful results. Frequently church camps are not successful because the organization is not businesslike and the leaders are willing rather than well informed. The forms herein shown for selecting camp counsellors are valuable and necessary, but the most important qualification in the eyes of the reviewer, is the ability to get along with boys and girls and be a good pal. This all important attribute covers up many other inabilities and can only be determined by previous acquaintanceship.

Under camp organization, and basis of program making, many valuable and helpful suggestions are made for activities and the time of day they should be indulged in. Most directors of camps will agree that it is necessary to have well regulated programs, nevertheless the writer feels that too much standardization and routine kills initiative and reduces campers to time workers. There should be more well guided and supervised free periods, particularly among adolescents.

The diet and nutrition of a camp from the standpoint of the writer is the most essential consideration. Too often exorbitant salaries are paid to chefs and high priced dietitians while the campers go hungry. If the principles outlined in this chapter were followed there would be a unanimous report from the campers "the eats were fine”.

One would not suspect that a person who has sufficient amb’tion and intelligence to conduct a camp would not institute a businesslike method of accounting. Yet perhaps there are some who never thought of it until they read about it in “Camping Out” and considered it a good idea.

Perhaps the greatest need in the field of organized camping at present is the professional preparation of counsellors in educational institutions. Nothing would elevate the status of camping as a profession more than an academic and practical college course in this line. Too many counsellors are employed on the number of campe’s they can secure, and not on personal qualifications and knowledge. Much time and anxiety on the part of directors are spent in training counsellors during the camping season on the "trial and error” method at the expense of the morale of the camp. The question of mature, experienced and dignified counsellors stands second only to food in the factors by which camps should be judged.

May I say in conclusion that this book is priceless to anyone concerned in summer campings.

R. S. Miller.

Digitized by v^-ooQle