Vol. 4.

JULY, 1897.

No. 41

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM.STECHER, 8ec’y. or the technical Committee of the n. A. Gymnastic Union, cor. 3rd a chestnut 8t*8, St.L0UI8,M0. F. PFISTER, M. D., managing Editor, 760 Third 8t., MILWAUKEE, Wl8.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE UNITED STATES.

RETROSPECT, SYSTEMS, AND AIMS.

By CHARLES H. DOERFLINGER.

THE work of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education and its branches, of the German American Turnvereine (Gymnastic Societies) numbering over 40,000 members, of the Athletic Clubs and other similar organizations ought not to be made the subject of contention; it is neither a Polish, nor a German, nor a Swedish, neither a political nor a religious task or question; it is a matter concerning the whole race, it is a humanitarian question. And yet, for us, as citizens of the United States, it is also, most eminently, an American one. It concerns the healthful physical development of all the youth of our great country, and the inculcation of principles and habits of right living which alone can give them a promissory note for a healthful, happy, painless middle life and old age.

Not from book-knowledge, but from personal observations made in many countries, I venture the assertion that we Americans are the most nervous of all the civilized nations. Sanitaria for nervous disorders are multiplying in the United States and doing a thriving business; our numerous insane asylums are filling more rapidly than those in any other country.

Some years after the conclusion of the War of the Rebellion which had cost the nation a large proportion of the flower of the land who fell on the battle field or were struck down by the angel of death in the military and naval hospitals, a number of observing minds belonging to the medical, teaching and editorial professions almost simultaneously began to remark upon the evident physical degeneration of our people, especially of the native stock' in the regions firstoccnpied by the sturdy Puritans and in some of the Southern and

Digitized by G.ooQle
-102-

Middle States of the Union. The discussion of this fact, a very serious one for any nation, introduced the problems cf ways and means to retard find put a halt to the dangerous decadence. The consensus of the competent in the course of time united on physical exercise as the most potent and universally adaptable factor of regeneration to be commended to our people.

University and college faculties began to stimulate the athletic movement among the students; athletic societies were formed all over th£ country; certain games, such as baseball, football, rowing and yachting, lawn-tennis, croquet, even the parlor billiard, nine and ten pins, bicycling, and many other pastimes requiring physical exertion, became more popular, and they all have been turning us in the right general direction; they have accomplished some good of the kind each was capable of; and far be it from me to oppose or denounce any cf them per se; but the inborn craving of our people for excitement and sensation and its inclination to speculation and “mild” or serious forms of gambling have deflected a wholesome regenerative reaction and not only deprived it partly of its beneficial physical results, but introduced a great deal of rudeness, selfish competition, professionalism and other morbid, non-ethical if not directly immoral elements and habits of thinking, feeling and doing which are materially reducing its salutary effect; moreover, what I will try to characterize by the term “sensationalism in athletics’7 claims so much of the attention and means of the public and of the press that much more important forms and systems of physical culture are elbowed into the background. I refer, first, to the systematic physical training of children during their entire school-life, from the kindergarten through all grades up to the university, supplemented by a system of recreative games adapted to the parlor and the lawn, to field and forest for all ages and both sexes, and to a moderate extent even by military exercise for males during the period of adolescence. The second important line of improvement which is, as yet, almost wholly lost sight of in our conflict with physical and consequently nervous degeneration is “right living.”

1 will not encroach upon the territory of the physicians and other sanitary missionaries who discourse in the press, on the rostrum and in various other ways upon some feature of that subject; but I wish to make a few remarks pertinent to it. While the United States enjoy a combination of natural resources and climatic conditions that surpasses in its entirety that possessed by any other country known to us, no other people are engaged individually in so fearfully nervous and unremitting a race for economic advancement, for what is called “success,” rapid success, lightning success. It is true, all commercial and industrial peoples have the ambition to acquire wealth; but Europeans, as a rule, when fairly on the road to wealth, are contented with the prospect of reaching the desired competence after a business career of a moderate series of years, and while approaching that goal by gradual stages they tike ca?e of their body, they take time to give their brain, their nerve system the necessary rest and recieation; usually, when they have attained comfortable circumstances, they gradually withdraw from business, “lake it easy,77 and begin to enjoy their income as moderately as they acquired it, while they are still young enough to have the probability of a long term of such enjoyment.

Even the average Frenchman, viv ciou< though he be, remains true to his original business ideal; when the last desired dollar is added to his savings account, he sells out his shop, buys a little country seat, plants roses and violets to his heart's content, invests in ‘ rentes,” and only hopes that he and

Digitized by
—103—

his Madame will live and enjoy the serenity of such a calm life in the circle of their children and friends till they are a hundred years old, if possible.

Not so with us. We strain every nerve to become rich in 24 hours, or a year, or two; if we succeed in acquiring the first hundred thousand that we took for our aim, instead of being satisfied, our success is but an incentive to a new and more excited race for the first million. The family, already under great strain to meet the social requirements exacted by their position among the “upper ten thousand,’* also acquire new ambitions; the neighbors must be outdone, and with the new race for a position among the “four hundred** begins a life of social excitement that may be high toned and moral, but must nevertheless be termed dissipation and brings on consequences for body and mind .scarcely less deleterious than debauches in whiskey, consequences that may be inherited by children and grandchildren.

While in Europe it is commonly only the aristocracy that is drawn into the whirl of this unwholesome sort of living, in our democracy, where every one is every other body’s peer, and the available incomes are higher for all classes, the tendency to imitate is greater, the exaggerated mode of living is almost universal. While in Europe improvidence is a habit growing out of hopelessly small earnings, it is a voluntary habit among our multitudes and becoming more so; high strung competition not only in business, but in the mode of living is wide spread among us; so are its consequences for mind and body.

Not only our business life and social life, but our school life, our recreations and sports, our games, our college yells and hazings, yea, even our literature, our stage and other artistic entertainments, have acquired a sensational and exciting character. All this must sooner or later tell upon the condition of our people.

An incident of my travels in Eur *pe is ominously significant. A physician was telling some colleagues, sitting at the same table, that he had a new patient from the United States. He was immediately asked by one of the other surgeons : “Is it another case of the American malady ! * He responded in the affirmative. I inquired what disease was considered specifically American, and the prompt reply was : “Nervous prostration *’

I will not enlarge upon the conclusions I drew from this experience, so interesting for an American.

As my subject is Physical Education, I shall not pay much attention to physical exercises as a curative agent. I wish to dwell principally upon physical training as a preparation for life, as a preventive of the consequence of evils connected with civilized life in general and with Amer can habits and tendencies in particular, and if the readers’ observations coincide'with mine, they probably approve of my assertion that physical education is preeminently an American question for us.

So far as I know, all prominent pedagogues, physicians, and savants of old Europe, where nervous debility or prostration does not count as many victims, proportionately, as in our own country, are unanimous in the advocacy of systematic and obligatory physical training as a regular part of the curriculum of all schools. Not one of them would risk to call it a superfluous fad. Not only in monarchical Germany, but in republican France, in republican Switzerland, in our progressive sister republic Mexico, the law prtscribes obligatory gymnastics in their system of government schools, and Monsieur Dupuy, the French Minister of Instruction (in 1889 I believe), gave us a model worthy of imitation in that part of the National Law of Education

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
—104—

that treats of physical exercises for the Public School System. More fortunate or more provident than we are, those countries have a National Educational Law which is intended and promises in time to protect all children of the nation alike against the ignorance of petty politicians, a want ot conscience on the part of the parents, the malpractice of incompetent teachers who might be engaged as proteges of bosses or for the sake of cheapness by demagogues who preach economy to catch votes; a law which, americanized, would in time guarantee to every child through the length and breadth of the land a minimum of general knowledge needed for intelligent republican citizenship, instruction as to civic duties, and regular training of the body, thus neutralizing as far as may be the negligence or ignorance of parents who enter upon matrimony without the least inkling of bodily and mental child education. (To be concluded.)

FRIEDRICH THIERSCH’S

Dedication of his Edition of Pindarus’ Works to FRIEDRICH LUDWIG JAHN, the Re-organizer

of Physical Education.

WHILE I was occupied with my translation of Pindarus and more vividly impressed with the life of the Greek populace, as he depicts it, at the great Olympic Festivals and during the Pythian Games, with their contests and honors, I often thought of you and of your glorious attempts to awaken from its long sleep the art of gymnastics and to imbue our general and public live writh a sense for that beauty which the Greeks exercised in so liberal a measure. I was overcome with sadness at the thought that we have departed from the ancient standards more in this particular direction than in any other, that we have changed the fundamental conceptions of life and existence, upon which the value of ennobling popular life depends. Our law-givers nowhere strive for the enactment of laws tending to make the bodies strong §nd the limbs active ; our festivals lack the adornment of zealous and well-trained youths eager to compete in games; they lack the stimulation by praise and honors which rewarded the Greek victor with undying fame. We accord none of these things either to excellence or to skill. Since you have now with zealous patriotism spoken and acted in this great matter, they have indeed opened some gymnastic schools in your section, where the pupils may become accustomed to a more active live and endowed with a consciousness of their innate, though fettered, strength, and of a broader and more liberal fellowship. But even here considerations of practical utility only are the determining factors: strong fists and swift legs for the barracks and battle field. But should higher sentiments and a broader spirit become manifest in the gymnasium, a great outcry is being raised as though the turner costume had added to itself the liberty cap and as though the gymnasia had become bullwarks from which rush forth treason against state and throne. Nor are we less opposed by public opinion, especially by the sophistries of those who call themselves the educated. It happens to be true of all, not even excluding ourselves, that we have grown and thriven without any apparent efforts or intentional aims of our own.

Few have been so fortunate to grow up in the freshness and freedom



Digitized by U.ooQle
-105-

of country life, becoming thus aware of their individuality and of their strength. Most have passed their youth in gloomy back-yards and in desolate quarters of dusty cities, under numerous restrictions, bowed with a deadening monotony of events and experiences. The fullness and sweetness of life is as utterly hidden from them and as unattainable as is a beautiful landscape to a prisoner, though he may look out upon it from his cell. Of the culture which the Greeks enjoyed in their best period one half is lost to us, that of the body, and, with that, half the happiness which life may bestow to man. Half of our health, half of our strength, half of our consciousness of ourselves and of our possibilities, in short, half a life only is left to us. Nor can the mind reap any benefit from this neglect of the body,

What a great part of the beautiful time of youth is wasted ! And most of that which is used for studies and practical ends is not in any way subservient to the highest possible aim of education. That which should be truly imparted is planted in the young soul only superficially and fails to penetrate his inner self.

How little is done toward cultivating higher conceptions, invigorating the intellect and equiping life with great memories, with reverence for the truly great, and with all the possessions which make life worth living and enjoying.

The disappearance of all such institutions as festivals and tournaments which were devoted to such ends has removed the possibility of embracing this view of general education. The result is an utter neglect of all those things which develop the body to its highest perfection and open up the mind by means of the pure and fresh fountains of health and strength.

Who would now believe, who even is able to comprehend that physical education is worthy of our esteem and of our aspirations.

At present garlands of fame are woven for other deeds, and often for such as had better be concealed. Those which were the meed of the dietor in the classical athletic contests are past ; so, too, are those of the knightly tilts and tournaments. He who would distinguish himself with the spear or in a running match, or with jumping and throwing, will win no more fame than the game-cock in the court. Without a correct appreciation of their spirit we read the authors of antiquity in vain. We catch their words, we follow their thoughts, but the intention, the inner meaning from which these proceed, the hidden force which brings forth the flowers and fruits that delight us, remain sealed to us. Thus a book like the Pindaric Odes, which pictures life and its graces in their entirety and sets side by side the virtue of the body and that of the mind, and the strength of the one in harmony with the wisdom of the other—such a work will remain an unsolved riddle to the modern reader.

I do not complain of this generation nor of the times, either for the culture of the present generation is the product of that preceding it, and is powerless to re-cast itself into a nobler form ; but we should seek to comprehend our present conditions and to conceive something better for the future. Your own efforts for the education of those who come after us serves as a great example.

. Digitized by v^.ooQle
-106-

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.—SIDE HORSE.

(Chicago Normal School Envelope.)

(Concluded.)

III.

1.	Half circle forward right (inward) and back and forward left and back—begin ! 1—4. (The leg is raised sideward and passed over the croup [neck] to cross-stride position over saddle [one leg on either side of horse, facing ‘off-side’] ; the stem-support is maintained, i. e., pupil do not sit in the saddle.)

2.	On-striding, (side stride stand, with stem-support maintained)—begin! 1—2. (The body is raised and the feet are placed on neck and croup, knees extended, as in position : trunk bent forward in full stride position sideward.)

3.	Swing both legs forward left and right alternately (height of horse) turning right and left flanks toward horse—begin ! 1—4.

4. Swing legs backward—begin ! 1—2. (Free stem-support.)

5.	Fores wing right—begin ! 1—2. (Raise right leg sideward, pass it over the croup with a quarter turn left of the body [moved slightly sideward] and swing it forward alongside and height of the horse movement and is executed astride the right arm, first support maintained.)

6.	Foreswing left—begin ! 1—2.

7—12. Repeat exercises from the deep knee bending position as springing exercises.

IV.

1.	Half circle outward right (pass right leg under left hand to crossstride position over saddle) and back again (same way)—begin ! 1—2.

2.	Half circle outward left and back—begin ! 1—2.

3.	Foreswing right (right leg) and half circle inward left (left leg) and back—begin ! 1—3.

4.	Foreswing left and half circle inward right and back—begin! 1—3.

5.	Foreswing right and half circle outward right (right leg under left

hand) and back—begin !	1—3.

6.	Foreswing left and half circle outward left (left leg under right

hand) and back—begin !	1—3.

7.	Foreswing right and half circle inward left; dismount with a quar-

ter turn left (lift right hand and swing right leg over to standing position on the off-side, left flank toward horse)—begin !	1—3.

8.	Foreswing left and half circle inward right and dismount with a

quarter turn right—begin !	1—3.

9.	Foreswing right and half circle outward right and inward left (to back stem-support); swing off forward (off-side)—begin ! 1—4.

10.	Foreswing left and half circle outward left and inward right; swing off forward—begin ! 1—4.

11.	Raise right leg backward (left flank turned toward horse) to foreswing right and full circle outward (right leg under left and right hands)—begin ! 1—4.

Digitized by L^ooQle
—107-

12.	Raise left leg backward (right flank toward horse) to foreswing left and circle outward left—begin ! 1—4.

Repeat exercises from deep knee bending position as springing exercises. DEVELOPMENT OF FRONT, SIDE (FLANK), AND BACK VAULTS.

The following exercises are executed as ‘springing’ exercises from the board. Front vaults are* executed with facing toward the apparatus ; side-vaults are executed without facing ; back-vaults are executed with facing in the direction of the movements.—Pupils alight to deep knee-bending position on the board between preparatory exercises.

I.	FRONT VAULTS.

Jump, swinging both legs backward. The body is brought to a horizontal position over the saddle—arms and legs fully extended—and lowered to starting position without touching the horse. ‘Free front stem-support.’ Repeat several times.

Repeat exercise to sit astride saddle, facing croup, changing grasp to pommel in front ; dismount (swinging body backward) to first position, facing saddle, i. e., with % turn left, regrasping. Repeat, facing neck. (Legs are held together as long as possible during first facing and closed as quickly as possible to dismount.)

Repeat exercise, mounting neck, facing saddle, hands on nearest pommel; dismount, facing saddle (first position), regrasping. Repeat, mounting croup.

Front-vault over saddle, facing right, to standing position on the ‘off-side,’ right flank next saddle upon landing.

Front-vault over saddle, facing left, left flank next saddle upon landing.

Front-vault over neck, right flank next neck upon landing.

Front-vault over croup, left flank next croup upon landing.

The arm-support must always correspond to the position or movement of the body, i. e., it must always be directly under the body (shoulders), nearest the landing place. (In vaulting over neck, support is changed from pommels to neck, to place nearest body, to be maintained to alight and to be witndrawn only when standing position is resumed.)

II.	SIDE VAULTS.

Jump, swinging body sideways left to mount saddle, parting legs over horse, right forward and left backward, without facing. Dismount to first position by swinging back same way. The body should be fully extended above the horse before parting legs to sit astride— chest thrown forward; the left arm is lifted to mount and dismount. Repeat, swinging to the right (left leg forward to mount).

Repeat exercise left and right alternately to mount neck and croup, maintaining pommel-grasp.

Repeat exercise left over horse, sinking body to back stem-support, ‘offside,’ (lifting left arm and regrasping). Swing off forward.

Repeat exercise right.

Side-vault left to standing position ‘off-side,’ back toward saddle.

Side-vault right.

High side-vault over neck, back toward neck.

High side-vault over croup, back toward croup.

(In side-vaults [clearing the horse] the support is withdrawn to land.

III.	BACK VAULTS.

Swing both legs forward left and right alternately, height of horse> turning right and left flank toward horse. (Execute quickly, without change of support—without parting legs.)
-108-

Swing both legs forward left to sit astride of saddle, facing neck, changing grasp to rear pommel ; dismount to first position, facing saddle, i. e., by swinging legs upward in front, with M turn right, regrasping. Repeat, facing croup. (Legs remain closed as long as possible before mounting and are immediately closed again above saddle to dismount, before facing.)

Swing both legs forward to sit astride of neck, changing grasp to nearest pommel (rear); dismount to first position, facing saddle, regrasping. Repeat, mounting croup.

Back-vault over saddle (to clear horse), facing neck during flight, to standing position ‘off-side/ left flank next saddle upon landing.

Back-vault over saddle, facing croup, right flank next saddle upon landing.

Back-vault over neck to pos. next neck, ‘off-side/ left flank next neck.

Back-vault over croup to position next croup, right flank next croup.

To properly execute back-vaults, supports are changed as in front-vaults, with the facing, which must be very marked. The apparatus can be cleared with body (legs and trunk) bent to right angle and to acute angle (feet height of head).

IV.	FRONT, SIDE, AND BACK VAULTS IN CONNECTION WITH FACINGS.

Front-vault over saddle, or neck, facing croup, with *4 facing right (fronting apparatus); ditto left (back to apparatus); with about facing right (left flank next neck); ditto left (same flank next neck).

Front-vault over saddle or croup, facing neck, with % facing left ; ditto right, with about facing left ; ditto right.

Side-vaults, as above. (Landing positions differ.) *

Back-vaults, as above. (Landing positions differ.)

Vaults may be practiced from front stem-support positions ; ditto from back stem-support positions.

Vaults may also be practiced from front stem-support positions, preceded by ‘foreswings’ left and right, etc.—See preparatory lesson, Vol. Ill, No. 5.

ROUNDELAYS.

(FOR GIRLS.)

Translated and adapted from the German “Singspiele” by F. L. JAHN.

1.	OLD ADAM.

THE players form in a circle around one of their number, who represents “Old Adam.” During singing of the song the players walk right or left in the circle with hands grasped. At the words “They all did so,” the circle-walk is interrupted, and the girl in the centre executes a movement, or exercise, which exercise the whole circle imitates, as the words are repeated in chorus. The player, who in the opinion of the leader, did not execute the exercise accurately, takes the place in the centre, and the roundelay is repeated as long as the children are interested. In the beginning the more clever and ingenious players should take the part of “Old Adam.”

A

Digitized by kjOOQle
(Zr/tzmy-



0/.dMIf. ■



HE-m j&firJMf. Smr/somm old

ft-







E

tft

they drink,mtf 100m very w/se

w>

Crtofws.

±

it

ft

HE

±

V-

AND	THEY ALLP/P

t-*	-

AND	THEN THEY AUDIO SO,

HPJ-

Jt

ft



• *

±

theyall ail P/P JO.	A no	60.

2. DEAREST SISTER DANCE WITH ME. tXMsjf'yir-	po/>u	Air:

(V

j j j ijm

-4—4-

F

«-----------------*--------#

PEAR -£ST 6ti-TEft DA rice tV/TN ME,	TO	THEE,

P j ■ jT-H			
	-WT m	•—		

once for me ,	once	for	you,	r

2. Ah you did that very fine,	3.	Once‘again this lovely play,

Did not think you’d keep the line,	’Cause	it made us feel so gay,

Once for me, etc., etc.	Once	for me, etc., etc.

The girls form two files of equal numbers, facing each other and standing near enough to grasp hands. Distance between the single ones in the files must be kept. With the first beat of the song the players courtesy to their partners opposite and march four steps backward (Dearest sister dance with me), and then four steps forward, grasping

Digitized by

Google
-110-

hands (Here my hands I give to thee). With the words “Once for me, once for you” they take two after-steps sideways toward the head and toward the foot of the column, and with the words “Round and round, etc.” they circle right or left, facing each other and unlinking hands at the closing beat. The second verse varies by executing the exercises in the change-step. The third verse is executed in galop-step.

(To be continued.)

GAMES FOR GIRLS.

By W. C. SCHAEFER.

VIII.

39. SPINNING THE PLATE.

The players form in a circle and are numbered 1, 2, 3, etc. .The leader is within. She holds a disk or plate in her hand and setting it on edge on the floor gives it a quick twist. While it is spinning around one of its diameters, she calls out some player by her number, who rushes forward to catch the plate before it settles flat. If successful she becomes leader and the former leader takes her place in the circle. If unsuccessful she returns to her place and the leader spins the plate again, calling out another number. The game may be continued ad libitum.

bb) With the Use of a Small Ball.

40. CATCH-BALL.

This game may be played in a variety of ways. We will describe four of them.

1.	Each girl is given a ball. The teacher or leader fixes a definite number of times that the ball is to be caught. At a given signal all players throw up their balls and catch them again, with one or both hands, as rapidly as possible. The one who gets through first without having dropped the ball is the winner.

2.	Players are arranged in ranks and the ball throwing is done in time.

a)	Throwing and catching with both hands.

b)	Throwing and catching with one hand, i. e., throwing with right hand and catching with left and vice-versa, or throwing and catching with right and left hand alternately.

c)	Throwing with one hand, catching with both hands, wrists together at height of shoulder.

d)	Throwing with one hand, catching with two hands, wrists crossed.

c) Throwing and catching in semi-circle. The ball is thrown with

the right hand over the head and caught with the left hand, and vice-versa. The arms are extended sidewise.

f) The ball is thrown upward with the right hand crossed under the left forearm and caught by the same hand.

The winner is she who continues longest without dropping the ball. A player missing the ball steps out.

The exercises may follow alternately or be combined with rising on tip-toe, bending knees, and other leg exercises.

“ A

Digitized by G.OOQle
-Ill—

3.	Each player has two balls which are thrown up and caught alternately. The first ball is thrown up and caught with the same hand while the second is thrown up, and so on.

4.	The players are arranged in two ranks facing each other.

a)	All members of either rank receive and return balls simultaneously.. Only one set of balls is in use.

b)	All members of either rank receive and return balls simultaneously. Two sets of balls are in use.

c)	The players in each rank are counted off by two’s, and the balls are thrown crosswise as seen in cut.

12	12

\7	\7

/ \	s \

2 1	2 1

The modifications a, b, and c with either the right, left, or both

1	2	i	2
\ ^		\	7
	\	s	\
	T	2	T

may be varied by catching the ball hands.

DUMB-BELL EXERCISES

FOR THE

COMBINED JUNIOR CLASSES OF THE TURNER SOCIETIES OF THE CITY OF ST. LOUIS, MO.

Produced at the 27th National Gymnastic Festival held at St. Louis, Mo., May 6th to 9th, 1897. Arranged by OSCAR E. RUTHER, Teacher of Physical Culture of the St. Louis Social Turn Verein

gpbt* dumb-bell drill consists of 4 groups of 4 exercises in each group. The first and second groups begin from the fundamental position, the third and fourth groups begin from starting position “Arms bent to thrust!’’

Each exercise has 32 counts, 2 counts to each movement. There is a pause of 16 counts after each group; at the first count of the pause between the second and third group, the arms are bent to thrust. Distance in ranks and files is two arms’ length.

I.

Theme: Stride and change of stride position—bending arms and thrusting.

EXERCISE I.

1—2. Stride position left backward and bend arms to thrust.

3—4. Stride position left forward and thrust arms sidewise.

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

9-16. Same with right leg.

17-32. Repeat from 1 to 16.

EXERCISE II.

1—2. Stride position left sidewise and bend arms to thrust.

3—4. Cross stride position left in front, trunk Ys of a turn to the right, thrust left arm obliquely forward upward, right arm oblique^ backward downward.

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

9-16. Same in opposite direction.

17-32. Repeat from 1 to 16.

EXERCISE HI.

1—2. Stride position left backward and bend arms to thrust.

3—4. Stride position left forward and thrust arms upward.

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

9-16. Same with right leg.

17-32. Repeat from 1 to 16.

EXERCISE IV.

1—2. Stride position left sidewise and bend arms to thrust.

3—4. Cross stride position left in rear, trunk Ys of a turn to left and thrust arms forward.

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

9-16. Same in opposite direction.

17-32. Repeat from 1 to 16.



Digitized by t^.ooQLe
-112-

(Bvonp II.

Theme: Stride position without, and with, bending stationary knee—turning-bending trunk—bending arms and thrusting.

EXERCISE I.

1—2. Stride position left forward and bend arms to thrust.

3—4. Stride position left backward with bending stationary knee, bend trunk forward to right angle and thrust arms sidewise.

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

9-16. Same with right leg.

17-32. Repeat from 1 to 16.

EXERCISE II.

1—2. Cross stride position left in front and bend arms to thrust, twist trunk Vg of a turn to right.

3—4. Stride position oblique left backward with bending stationary knee and thrusting right arm obliquely forward upward, left arm obliquely backward downward.

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

9-16. Same in opposite direction.

17-32. Repeat from 1 to 16.

EXERCISE III.

1—2. Stride position left forward and bend arms to thrust.

3—4. M turn to left, stride position left sidewise with bending stationary knee and thrusting arms upward.

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

9-16. Same in opposite direction.

17-32. Repeat from 1 to 16.

EXERCISE IV.

1—2. Cross stride position to left in front, bend arms to thrust, and twist trunk Vs turn to right.

3—4. Stride position left oblique backward with bending stationary knee, bend trunk forward to a right angle and thrust arms downward.

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

9-16. Same in opposite direction.

17-32. Repeat from 1 to 16.

(To be concluded.)

THEORY OF FENCING IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

By GEO. HEINTZ, Sr.

(All rights reserved.)

(Continued.)

CLASS FENCING.-

JF'irst Part.

Three Preliminary Lessons in Single Rank.

FIRST LESSON. (Without Arms.)

After taking intervals and open order the Instructor commands:

1.	Half face to the left;

2.	Bend your knees ; (stretch and bend several times )

3.	On guard ;

4.	Two appels;

5.	Close to the rear or close to the front;

6.	Advance;

7.	Retreat;

8.	Retreat and two appels ;

9.	Extend the left leg ;

10.	Resume guard;

11.	1, Extend the left leg; 2, Lunge ;

12.	Resume guard;

13.	1, Lunge in one time: 2, Resume guard and retreat;

14.	1, Lunge; 2, Resume guard and leap to the rear.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—113-

EXERCISES OF THE LEGS.

15.	i, Lunge ; 2, Raise your body up and down ; (several times )

16.	Rock on left and right leg; (several times.) .Resume guard;

EXPLANATION.

1. Each man turn on the left heel an eighth turn to the left, placing the right heel in front of the left, so both feet form a right angle. (Hands on hip.) Body erect, left shoulder well back —

2.	Bend both knees, so the right knee is vertically above the instep of the right foot and the left knee vertically above the left toe.

3.	Place the right foot twice its length to the front in a straight line with the Jeft heel, smartly on the ground, without deranging the upper part of the body.

4.	Top the floor twice in quick succession with the right foot on the san e j lace.

5.	Bring the right heel towards the left heel and expend both legs, or bring the left heel towards the right and extend both legs.

6.	Place the right .foot cautiously and quickly about 8 to 12 inchts to the front, followed by the left foot at the same distance without deranging the upper part of the body.

7.	Place the left foot 8 to 12 inches directly to the rear, followed by the right with a light appel when placed down again.

8.	Immediately after the retreat top the floor twice in quick succession with the right foot.

9.	Keep the left foot flat on the ground and extend the left leg in full, right knee vertically above the right toe.

10.	Re-bend on the left leg and resume the former position.

11.	Alter the extension of the left leg, keep the left foot ftat on the ground and siep forward With the right foot about 24 inches in a straight line with the left heel. Body erect, Jeft hip well back, and right knee vertically above the instep of the right foot.

12.	Relax and re-bend the left knee, and bring back the right foot to its former place with a light appel.

13 r, Extend the left leg and at the same time step forward with the right foot to a proper lunge;

2,	Resume guard and immediately the right foot touches the ground, step back with the left, followed by the right with a light appel.

14.	After lunge, spring back with the right foot towards the left heel, and immediately afier touching ground, spring back with left about 18 to 24 inches d rectly to the rear followed by the right and resume position. On guard with a light appel.

15.	After lunge, raise body up and downward without bending left leg.

16.	Relax and re-bend left knee, then sharply extend it again.

(To be continu d.)

INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES. *

By W. A. OCKER, M. D,, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio,

(Concluded.)

FOR exhibition purposes the above swings may be arranged in groups.

The class is formed in an open column containing five rows numbered respectively from left to right (teacher’s left and right, or the class’ right and left), from one to five ; thus No. 3 is the center row, Nos. 1 and 2 on the right, and Nos. 4 and 5 on the left of No. 3.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-114-

Each group consists of 64 counts divided into four divisions or exercises, a, b, c, d, of 16 counts each.

All rows swing the first two exercises (a and b) simultaneously; in the third exercise (c) rows No. 1 and 2 repeat the first exercise (a), rows 4 and 5 also repeat the first exercise, but begin to the left (i. e., begin with the ninth count of exercise a, swing to sixteen, and then begin with the first count), row No. 3 (center row) repeats the second exercise (b). In the fourth exercise (d) rows No. 1, 3, and 5 repeat the second exercise; row No. 2 repeats the first exercise (a), and row No. 4 also repeats the first exercise, but begins to the left (same as in c).

GROUP I.

Abbreviations :	A.	C,	Arm	circle	;	D.	A. C., Double arm circle.

a)	A. C. outward right............................................. 1	and	2

A. C. inward left................................................ 3	“	4

D. A. C. to the right............................................ 5	“	6

Repeat D. A. C......................................*...........  7	“	8

A. C. outward left..............................................  9	“	10

A. C. inward right.............................................. 11	“	12

D. A. C. to the left............................................ 13	“	14

Repeat D. A. C......................'............................15	“	16

b)	A. C. outward right............................................. 1	“	2

A. C. outward ltit............................................... 3	“	4

D. A. C. outward (right and left simultaneously)................. 5	“	6

Repeat D. A. C................................................... 7	“	8

A. C. inward right............................................... 9	“	10

A. C. inward left................................................11	“	12

D. A. C. inward................................................. 13	“	14

Repeat D. A. C...................................................15	“ 16

c)	Rows 1 and 2, exercise	“a”...................................... 1	to 16

Rows 4 and 5, exercise “a”.............................. 9	to	16—1	“	8

Row 3, exercise “b”.............................................. 1	“ 16

d)	Rows 1, 3, and 5, exercise	“b”.................................. 1	“16

Row 2, exercise “a”.............................................. 1	“16

Row 4, exercise “a”..................................... 9	to	16—1	“	8

GROUP II.

Repeat swings of Group I, and with the first D. A. C. of exercise “a” (on fifth couut) lunge outward (sideways) right and remain so until the eighth count. On 13th lunge to the left and return on 16th. In exercise “b” lunge backward right on the fifth count, remain until 8th, lunge backward left on 13th and return on 16th.

Exercises “c” as in Group I.

GROUP III.

a)	% D. A. C. to the right (arms are then sideways left).............  1

IV2 D. A. C. to the left (downward [arms are then sideways right])..... 2,	3

IY2 D. A. C. to the right (downward [arms are again sideways left])...	4,	5

1% D. A. C. to the left (downward [to starting position]).......6, 7, 8

Same, beginning to the left...................................... 9—16

b)	% D. A. C. outward (to arms inward)................................ 1

1Y2 D. A. D. inward (to arms outward).................................. 2,	3

IY2 D. A. C. outward (to arms inward).................................. 4,	5

134 D. A. C. inward (to starting position)......................6, 7, 8

Same, beginning inward.................*........................ 9—16

Exercises “c” and “d” as in Group I.

Digitized by ejOOQle
-115-

WAND EXERCISES.

By HY. VORSHEIM, Memphis, Tenn.

Companion Exercises: Attack and Defense.

Formation:— Four files, distance of two steps between files. Starting Position:—Wands horizontal, low in front. % time.

t&voyxp I.

A.’ FIRST EXERCISE.

1.	14 turn left on right heel, step left forward, raise left arm forward, bend right arm, right hand on right hip (wand horizontal forw. on right side)

2. Lunge left forw., change position of wand to left side (right arm forw.)..

3. Lunge left backward, bend trunk backward, raise arms obliquely upward (wand horizontal, as parry for head).....................................

4.	Return to. starting position (14 turn right on right heel)............

The same right.. ..................................................

B. SECOND EXERCISE.

1.	14 turn left on right heel, step left forward, bend arms (wand horizontal

in front of chest....................................................

2.	Lunge left backward, raise and bend arms, both hands over head, change

grip with right hand, also bend trunk backward slightly (wand in rear of body to strike for head)..........................................

3.	Lunge left forward, strike for head with bending trunk forward slightly

(wand obliquely forward upward)......................................

4.	Return to starting position (14 turn right on right heel).............

The same right....................................................

C. IN PAIRS.

Pair.

Pair.

(1st File: Exercise 1	to	the left.	\

12nd	“	“	2	to	the	right.	(

( 3rd	“	“	1	to	the	left,	f

{4th	“	“	2	to	the	right.	)

Repeat the same......................

Pair.

Pair.

D. IN PAIRS (Reverse). $ 1st File: Exercise 2 to	the left.	\

(2nd	‘	“	1 to	the right.	(

(3rd	“	“	2 to	the left.	( ...........

(4th	“	“	1 to	the right.	)

Repeat the same...................................

E. IN PAIRS OUTWARD. t>	•	(1st File: Exercise 1	to the left.

rair‘	(2nd	“	“	2	to the	right.

p	.	) 3rd	“	“	2	to the left.

r‘	5 4th	“	“	1	to the	right.

Repeat the same ..............

•	F.	IN	PAIRS	INWARD.

Pair.

Pair.

>lst File: Exercise 2	to	the	left.	\

5 2nd	“	“	1	to	the	right.	(

>3rd	“	“	1	to	the	left.	( ........

5 4th	“	“	2	to	the	right.	)

Repeat the same.............?................

(To be concluded.)

1-2

3-4

5—6

7—8

9-16

1-2

3—4

5-6

7—8

9-16

1—8

9-16

1-8

9-16

1—8

9-16

1-8

9-16

Digitized by LaOOQle
-116-

^V\lND ftND BODY. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

TuTI	‘WUconart n.

Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

ABOUT 17,000 teachers from all parts of the country gathered in Milwaukee during the second week (July 5 to 10) of this month in the interest of education. It is claimed that this was the largest convention of teachers held anywhere. The beautiful city of Milwaukee without doubt has in itself been an attraction. But the main factor m the increase of the attendance of such conventions seems to be in the establishment of departments for the different branches of education. Aside from the advantage of being able to attend general meetings, the teacher interested in some special work will thus find inducements to attend these meetings and simultaneously reap benefits from the contact with fellow-workers from every state of the Union.

We naturally were most interested in the Physical Education Department which is one of the youngest in the N. E. A., and we expected that last year’s attendance at Buffalo of 1000 would surely be out-done on this occasion. This was also the opinion of the local general secretary, Mr. Bruce. Consequently the large West Side Turnhall was substituted as place of meeting for the N. A. G. U. Normal School, as originally selected.

Contrary to everybody’s expectation, however, the Turnerbund Normal School would have been easily large enough, as the attendance was rather below than above 150.

This, in connection with the rather unfinished preparations on the part of the Arrangement Committee, which, however, claims not to have received proper orders from headquarters, tended to keep down the enthusiasm to a point little above zero.

To our mind the meeting of our branch was not a success, and this from more than one point of view. There were some excellent papers, however, and the discussion was lively at times. Especially was this the case after Mrs. Tucker’s claims for Delsarte. (We shall refer to it in our next month’s editorial.)

The program of the first day was :

President’s Address, “The Individual.” Miss Anna R. Morris, Cleveland.—The Development of the Will through Physical Training. Dr. W. O. Krohn, Champaign, 111.—Delsarte and his Contributions to Physical Education. Mrs. Anna P. Tucker, Cleveland.—The German System of Gymnastics. Prof. Karl Kroh, Chicago, and Dr. E. H. Arnold, New Haven.—Appointment of Committees.

Mrs. Frank Stuart Parker of Chicago, who was to read a paper on “Delsarte,” did not appear.

The second days program was:

Swedish Exereises, Normal School Class. Directed by Miss E. W. Shrieves, Milwaukee.—Elementary School Hygiene. Superintendent Aaron Gove, Denver.—Normal School Plan of Physical Training. Dr. J. M. Green, Trenton, N. J., and Mrs. Frances W. Leiter, JVIansfield, O.—Symposium, Public School Physical Train-

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

THE N. E. A. CONVENTION

Digitized by

Google
-117-

ing. By Supervisors: Miss M. D. Kimberlin, Detroit; Miss Rebecca Stoneroad, Washington ; Miss Jessie H. Bancroft, Brooklyn; Mr. Henry Suder, Chicago; Miss Ellen LeGarde, Providence; Miss Clara Baer, New Orleans; Mr. Geo. Wittich, St. Louis.—Physical Training in Colleges. Dr. F. E. Leonard, Oberlin, O.— Question Box. Prof. J. N. Wilkenson, Emporia, Kans.—Election of Officers.

Miss Anna R. Morris acted as president, Dr. H. B. Boice as secretary.

The exhibition of German gymnastics, which was scheduled for Thursday, was held at the Exhibition Hall on the day before on a larger scale f than originally planned. For the reason that it had not been advertised extensively enough the audience was rather small.

The election of new officers resulted in the following :

C. E. Ehinger, M. D., West Chester, Pa.—President.

Anna R. Morris, Cleveland—Vice-President.

H. B. Boice, Trenton, N. J.—Secretary.

For Friday evening the participants were invited to a reception at the Normal School of the Turnerbund, and for the following morning to witness classes at work at the same institution.

AN IRISH-AMERICAN GAME.

PHYSICAL DIRECTOR DAY, of the Y. M. C. A., is instituting efforts to revive the popular Irish-American game, Hand-Ball.

No little interest is attached to the diversion in Dayton and it will not require arduous endeavors to establish the sport for the season, though all those interested should willingly co-operate with the director in order to more thoroughly facilitate organization.

One of the most complete hand-ball courts in this part of the country is located at Athletic Park. In the winter time it proves an equally interesting and exciting indoor sport, and a convenient court has been arranged in the Y. M. C. A. Gymnasium.

Hand-ball has been designated as the Irish national game, but has gained a notable foothold in this country and has established itself firmly in the east. The game has the good feature of abolishing petty social distinctions and is enjoyed alike by all classes.

The rules for the year ’97 have been revised and read as follows :

RULES FOR HAND-BALL.

1. The game may be played by two, three or four persons. Twenty-one points constitute a game.

2.	Scoring—Each good service unreturned, or ball in play unreturned by the side receiving counts one point for the side serving. A side scores only when serving, as a failure to return the ball by the server results in his being put out.

3.	The ball—(1) Shall be of hollow rubber, two and onedialf inches in diameter. (2) It shall be in play after first bound on floor, inside the court, wffien served according to rule 4.	(3)	Hitting	any	player,	whether

rebounding from board, or on being returned by another player, counts against player hit, if player hit is standing inside of court. If it hit a player after being missed by an opponent it does not count against him. (4) It is out of play when (a) it lands out of court ; (b) player fails to return it to the board ; (c) having hit a player, whether said player is in or outside ot the court.

Digitized by Google
-118-

4.	The server—(1) Must serve from the service Hue. (2) He must bounce the ball on the floor, and on the rebound hit against the board, from which the ball must land beyond the service line inside the court to be in play. (1) When the ball is served short of the service line the opponent has the privilege of returning it. Three short balls in succession shall be a service out. (2) He has the privilege of bounding the ball as many times as he wishes, but it must be hit on only one single bound. (3) If he is hit by the ball rebounding from the board he forfeits the service. (4) He must call time before serving the ball, so as to give his opponent time to get his position in time to receive the ball.

5.	The opponents—(1) May stand anywhere to receive the ball. (2) They shall receive the first ball of each serve from first bound; alter first ball either side may return the ball from first bound or from a fly.

6.	When playing doubles, the server’s partner may stand inside the service line when the ball is being served until the ball hits the board from server’s hand.

When playing doubles, the side which serves first is entitled to only one service in their first inning.

7.	A short served ball struck at and not returned to board counts a point to server.

8.	If a ball is missed by a player, his partner has the privilege of hitting at it again if the ball is still in play.

9.	Striking a ball with both hands counts against such player.

10.	Intentional interfering counts against the player interfering.

11.	Players must not touch the ball with any part of the body other than the hand.

12.	The ball must not be carried, but struck to the wall with the open hand.

CATCH-AS-CATCH-CAN WRESTLING.

By F. W. FROEHLICH, Teacher of Gymnastics of the North St. Louis Turnverein and of the Public Schools

of St. Louis.

CLASS-WRESTLING.

(Continued.)

FLOOR HOLDS.

PRELIMINARY WORK.

The Bridge: Down on hands and knees, place head on the floor and execute a complete turn to the left or right, using head, hands, and feet as a support, not permitting shoulders to touch the floor.

The Head Spring: Down on hands and knees, place head on the floor, raise knees, spring from feet and execute a half turn forward, landing on feet into a bridge (resting on hands, head, and feet), turn quickly left or right, landing upon hands and knees. Try the above, after landing into a bridge take hands off the floor and turn as above.

The Spin: Start the same as in head spring, while standing on head, turn to the left or right, spin, and land upon hands and knees.

The Run-Around Spin: Down on hands and knees, place head on the floor, raise knees, run around in a circle, head as a center, hands off the floor, the body executes several turns sidewise left (right).

Digitized by CiOOQle
-119-

1.	The Near Half-Nelson: Left arm passes under opponent’s left upperarm and, hand on neck, turn him over toward his right.

Break:	Pull hand off or rise on right foot first and get away or

run around, also spin.

2.	The Near Half-Nelson or Crotch-hold: Take same hold as in 1, with crotch-hold right, and turn over.

Break: Left leg in between opponent’s, rise or spin, or pull hand off.

3.	The Farther Half-Nelson: Taken with right arm, same as left of 2, while on left knee and right foot.

Break: Turn in and backward on hands and knees, slipping out backward and on top of opponent. Or make use of a wing-lock, being careful to avoid the double-nelson.

4.	Wing-loek or Elbow-lock: Take a half-nelson on far side, having right foot up and left knee down, prepared to jump on opposite side when opponent attempts a wing-lock with his right arm behind your right elbow, his left hand at your right wrist.

If while taking the half-nelson you are well up forward, slip around in front, straighten right arm, bracing on the floor, or catch his left arm with both legs.

5.	Wing-lock and Near Half-Nelson :	Try	for	a	far	half-nelson,

and when opponent attempts a wing-lock, quickly take a near halfnelson and crotch-hold right.

Break: See hold 2.

6.	Farther Arm-lock and Crotch-hold: Pass left arm under opponent’s body and grasp his right arm, take crotch-hold right and turn over.

Break:	Extend left leg between opponent’s, or drop on left elbow,

or straighten right arm.

6.	Near Half-Nelson on Left Side, when on left foot and right knee: While trying for a half-nelson opponent can seize your left leg with left arm and roll with you.

This can also be done while opponent is in standing position.

Break:	Let go, extend leg, and turn.	(To	be	continued.)

CORRESPONDENCE.

Mr. W. H. Day, Fargo, N. Dak.—Will send y^ou back copies. Please notify us, should Mind and Body not reach you regularly.

H. S., Chicago.—Had to lay it over for August issue. Photo will be returned to you directly from St. Louis.

J.	C., Chicago.— You write: “In the city' of Prague, Bohemia, several places were alotted to school children, where they can assemble with their teachers and playgames. For that purpose games of all nations are being compiled, although Bohemian national games will be prominent. What is being done in our great cities for the physical welfare of the coming generation ?”—We can point out to you only a few cities in the Union, like Chicago, Boston, Detroit, etc., where the authorities begin to provide play-grounds, gymnasia, and bathing places. In the main the only play-ground for children in most cities is the little space surrounding school-houses. The movement for more out-door plav is sweeping over all Europe at present; it would be a good thing to start the ball a-rolling in this country, too, albeit the boys do play more here than they do abroad. At the same time the care for the health of the girls is deserving just as much attention and must be emphasized on all occasions.

Digitized by ^ooQle
J

Groups of the Grand Parade. St. Louis Festival.


Mass Exercises with Iron Wands. 1800 Actives, at the St. Louis Festival.

-123-

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Ten thousand sample copies of “Mind and Body” have been distributed during the N. E. A. Convention.

—Gymnastics: Synopsis of the German System by Chas. J. Kroh, Chicago Normal School, is the title of a 39 page pamphlet, published by the Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union (Turnerbund) which was also distributed during the recent N. E. A. Convention. It is the best abstract of the German system in the English language and does credit to Mr Kroh. Obtainable free of charge on application to Mr. Wm. Stecher, 3rd & Chestnut Sts., St. Louis, Mo.

—The Turnlehrer-Tag (Convention of the Instructors of the N. A. G. U.) takes place at Milwaukee, Aug-. 1st to 3rd, in the Gvmnastic Seminary Building. Interesting papers and lively discussions may be expected.

—It is most likely that the next National Festival will be held in the year 1900. At the same time there will be celebrated the Fiftieth Anniversary of the “Turnerbund” (N. A. G. U.) Philadelphia seems to be the strongest candidate for this fete.

—The St. Louis Turnfest Souvenir. The Western Engraving Co. in St. Louis has prepared a Souvenir of the St. Louis Festival held last May. It is an excellent piece of artistic work, depicting all the different phases of that great gymnastic affair. It is superior by far to any souvenir of the previous festivals. Some pictures in this issue of M. & B. are samples from the present souvenir. A book of this kind will give a splendid idea of our festivals and placed into the hands of men and women of influence will convince more than volumes of argumentation. The price is only 50 Cts. Orders may be sent to the Western Engraving Co., St. Louis, Mo., or the Freidenker Publishing Co.. Milwaukee, Wis.

—The Summer School of the N. A. G. U. (Turnerbund) opened immediately after the N. E. A. Convention with 34 students. This shows an increase in attendance as compared with previous years, demonstrating that this institution is gaining in popularity. For the first time since its organization has this school been graded. There is an advanced class and one for beginners. The following is the list of students:

Alma Witter, Teacher of Publ. Schools, St. Louis. Mathilda Witter, Teacher of Public Schools, St Louis. Lena Hoerning, Teacher of Publ. Schools, Kansas City. Alta Wiggins, Teach, of Phys. Traing., Salt Lake City. Paula Monroe, Teach, of Publ. Sch., Providence, R. I. Emilie Zieher, Teach, of Public Schools, Louisville, Ky. Francis Cavner, Teach, of Publ. Schools, Chicago, ill. Henriette Trask, Normal School, Trenton, N. J.

J. L. Truesdell, Normal School, River Falls, Wis.

Ella Abbett, Teach, of Phys. Traing., Janesville, Wis. Francis A. Mooers, Teach, of Phys. Traing., Mil’kee. Louise Knapp, Teach, of Phys. Trng., Evansville, Ind. J. V. Yaeckle, Illin. Inst, for the Blind.

Emma Fitzlaff, Milwaukee, Wis.

E. Shrieves, Wilmington, O.

J. E. Stacy, Milwaukee Normal School, Wis.

Wm. Mauthe, Tv. Vorwaerts, Milwaukee.

F. Knorr, Turnverein, Lawrence, Mass.

F. Lorenz, Turnverein and Publ. Sch., Bloomington, III. O. Hebbert, Y. M. C. A., Providence, R. I.

F. Nicke, Turnverein, Utica, N. Y.

K. Schrader, Normal School, West Chester, Pa.

F. W. Burchart, Y. M. C. A., Buffalo, N. Y.

A. Heibel, Turnverein, Peoria, 111.

W. R. Crippen, Illin. Instit. for the Blind.

O. Koenig, Turnverein, La Salle, 111.

Ad. Koch, Turnverein, Highland, 111.

Ad. Puff, Turnverein, Fort Wayne, Ind„

John Wimers, Athletic Club, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Ed. Manz, Athletic Club, Chattanooga, Tenn,

E. E. Swearinger, Y. M. C. A., Lincoln, Nebr.

H. B. Boice, Normal School, Trenton, N. J.

W. C. Schaefer, Public Schools, Chicago, 111.

J. E. Schmidlin, Turnverein and Publ. Sch., Tiffin, O.

LADIES’ COLUMN.

BEAUTY IN MATURITY.

The physical beauty of women should last, growing more and more mellow until the end. That the beauty of women, like that of men, should be determined from the standpoint of advancing maturity cannot be disputed. It is absurd to claim that the ripe, rich beauty of forty is less attractive than the budding immaturity of sweet sixteen. When women live in harmony with nature’s laws each stage of life has its own charm. The fullness of beauty does not reach its zenith under the age of 35 or 40. Helen of Troy comes upon the stage at the age of 40. Aspasia was 36 when married to Pericles, and she was a brilliant figure

Digitized by C.ooQle
-124-

thirty years thereafter. Cleopatra was past 30 years when she met Antony. Diane de Poitiers was 36 when she won the heart of Henry II. The king was half her age, but his devotion never changed. Anne of Austria was 38 when described as the most beautiful woman in Europe. Mme. de Maintenon was 43 when united to Louis, and Catharine ot Russia was 33 when she seized the throne she occupied for 35 years.

Mile. Mar was most beautiful at 45, and Mme. Recamier between the ages of 35 and 55. The most lasting and intense passion is not inspired by two-decade beauties. The old saw about sweet sixteen is exploded by the truer knowledge that the highest beauty does not dwell in immaturity. For beauty does not mean alone the fashion of form and coloring as found in the waxen doll. The dew of youth and a complexion of roses are admirable for that period, but a woman’s best and richest years are from 36 to 40. It is an arrant error for any woman to regard herself as pass£ at any age, if she grows old gracefully.

BOOK REVIEW.

—Health in the Home, a Work on the Promotion and Preservation of Health with Illustrations, by E. Marguerite Lindley. Published by the Author, New York.

We are somewhat suspicious towards publications which pretend to make a perfect self-diagnostician out of every reader.

In the book in question we find this to be the point why we do not like to recommend it, but it has, on the other hand, so many excellent traits, that we will gladly make an exception. The different chapters contain enough anatomy, physiology, and home-gvmnastics in connection with hygienic rules that it enables the earnest student to be a good judge of what is conducing to his or her health, and otherwise. Special stress is laid upon the chapters “Bicycling” and “Dress.”

The former is not so written as to meet our approval wholly, our views on the subject are alittle broader. Not every rider that leans forward is round-shouldered or “hunch-backed.” We usually find a straight back even among those that ride inclining forward. We would not consider the position necessarily injurious but rather objectionable from an aesthetic stand-point. Thisclassof ridershavea standing-, sitting-, hand-rest position, in other words, their weight is distributed upon the peddles, seats, and handle-bars. Would not this be the best way of avoiding congestion to the pelvic organs which Miss Lindley fears most ? Only in fast riding do we encounter stooped shoulders, but we find the same posture frequently among foot-racers; it is the natural posture during the race, not a selected one. So many abhorr the climbing of the slightest little hill and the least approach to racing once in a while, because the heart works a little faster. If we are to be governed by such principles we must cease to let our children run and play, because with that they encounter the very same danger. Only the overdoing of those things is dangerous for the normally built human being. Miss Lindley pronounces bicycling as an exercise which after the necessary skill is acqired means work for the lower extremities only. We beg to differ in that respect also.

On the whole “Health in the Home” enriches the catalogue of publications of physical training to advantage and is destined to do a great deal of good in the home.

—Tumbling for Amateurs. By James T. Gwathmey, M. D., Vanderbilt University. Published for the Author, Nashville, Tenn. Price $1.00.

It has been demonstrated to us that even fencing, boxing, and wrestling can be done as class-work, the teacher giving the command for special motions or movements. In this little book the preliminary work we would consider as especially adapted for class-work and a welcome change in the synopsis of gymnasium work “Tumbling for Amateurs” is the only book in existence on the subject and fills a long-felt want. It is profusely illustrated and subdivided into three parts, viz: a) Preliminary work, b) Advanced work, c) Combination Tumbling.

These books as well as any in the litter&ture of'Physical Education can be ordered through the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by

Google