library

r, iversity of Montana

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 26	JANUARY	1920	No.	284

NMIaked By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Uln, Ml—

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.,

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 46 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14,1916, at the poetoffice at New Vim, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879,

Ih....... ■	———	■ — —■ ■■ ° '	l)

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

II	'	  -II

GYMNASTICS AND HEALTH.

By DRS. EULENBERG & BACH.

(Translation by George J. Altmann, Springfield, Mass.)

In gymnastics there are several points of hygiene and of caution to be observed, some by the gymnast, some by the instructor, still others by the school board and authorities.

1.	Gymnastics assist digestion but must not follow immediately after the principal meal. Care should be taken that neither immediately before nor after exercise dry or liquid food is consumed, furthermore before the gymnastic period the bowels and bladder should be evacuated, not only so that the body is made lighter, but also to guard against rupture, and intestinal twisting or valvulus. Eating heavily immediately following gymnastics will cause distension of the blood vessels.

2.	If exercise is to be beneficial to physical development, it is necessary that proper food be consumed. It is not our intention here to set forth a precept regarding food and feeding—this is, in the first place the duty of the home. Jahn and Spiess, on their gymnastic fields advised simplicity and moderation in eating and drinking, emphasizing moderate drinking; milk and water were their preferences. In the assimilation and absorption of food stuff, the

Digitized by
*38

muscles play an important part. However the muscles are also consumed during exercise. It is therefore necessary that foods which act as building materials be not lacking, such as meat, bread, milk, eggs and legumes, otherwise gymnastics may weaken rather than strengthen the body.

3.	One of the good old rules which has both ethical and hygienic virtue is not to take a cold drink immediately after exercise; it is well for one to learn to control his thirst. One must also watch that the children do not surrender to their thirst and drink too heartily. We must guard against sudden cooling of the throat and stomach, especially at the close of a period of vigorous exercise. During the exercise period a moderately cool, fresh drink is of less consequence.

4.	The costume worn should be suitable for the exercise. Tho we cannot, in our hyperborean country exercise as did the ancient Greeks, nude, we can nevertheless adopt clothing that exerts as little pressure as possible to interfere with the circulation of blood and freedom of movement. The head and neck must be kept free, the chest must not be compressed by a vest, nor the abdomen by a belt or girdle. A belt pulled tight may be more harmful than the exercise is helpful, for it exerts pressure upon the liver, stomach and bowels, so that the intestines may be so pressed against the abdominal walls as to cause a hernia. A coat or jacket is not necessary during gymnastics; it may easily catch on the apparatus and cause an accident. The material of the shirt and trousers is preferably of wool or mixed goods of a dull color as in the so-called gymnast's cloth. The slippers should be of light weight leather or doth so as to afford ventilation; without heels or with very low heels. Lace shoes with hooks are to be discouraged as they cause splinters on poles, beams of ladders and parallel bars which may prove dangerous to the pupils using the apparatus later.

5.	Though we have said that ordinary gymnastics are not to be undertaken by people with heart lesions, we wish it understood that every increase in heart action during exercise is not to be mistaken for a heart lesion or ailment. However, if there are pupils with recurring irregularity and excessive heart action during exercise, they should be handled with care and foresight. A slight increase in heart action however, is one of the good effects of gymnastics, as it is a sign of increaseed circulation and metabolism, the heart being the central point in the circulation of nourishment by the blood stream.

6.	The chlorotic or pale pupils with thin, flabby musculature, thin, pale skin thru which the arteries show as blue or violet colored lines, pale lips and conjunctiva, are easily recognized by the instructor as anaemic and guarded as such. Such persons must avoid very strenuous or long continued exercise and should have frequent rest periods.

7.	The increase of inspiration and expiration that is brought about by gymnastics is of the greatest importance as it is an essential phase of nutrition. It is therefore most important that during

Digitized by
189

this process dust-laden air is not inhaled, rather that the air be fresh and pure; also not too warm nor too cold. Whenever possible the exercise should be given in an open space, out of doors, free from smoke and dust and bad odors; as Jahn preferred, in a shaded space in the balsam-scented woods. The field is to be preferred to the gymnasium. Experience has taught us, however, that in our climate a gymnasium is necessary for the proper development of school gymnastics. Attention must therefore be given toward a constant supply of fresh air.

8.	Full, deep breathing, not sudden, jerky breathing must be taught the pupils. It is valuable for it clears the lungs of the residual-air and expands the chest. This gymnastic breathing—if we call it such, must not be taught simply thru special free exercises but rather as an exercise in itself—especially out of doors.

9.	During inspiration, one must observe that the mouth is closed in order that the air is inhaled thru the nose and thereby warmed and filtered by Nature’s respirator and filter in the nostrils before it reaches the lungs. Breathing thru the mouth is both unnatural and unhygienic. The mucus membrane of the nose, rich in blood vessels, warms the air while the sticky mucus membrane and the cillia free the air of dust. Since Jahn’s time it has been a rule in endurance runs to close the mouth and inhale in three steps, then to exhale in three steps. If however the respiration is heightened thru vigorous exercises as in running races or in wrestling and the nasal passages are not sufficiently large the mouth must be used. Care should then be taken that very cold air, as that from the north and northwest does not directly strike the air passages. From the very first pupils should observe the rule of breathing thru the nose.

10.	Posture is of great physiologic and hygienic importance. Good, erect posture is of importance not only for esthetic but also for physiologic reasons, this especially in standing and walking. The position of the body should be such that deep breathing is assisted, the lungs and chest being allowed the greatest possible chance to expand, this being best accomplished in the erect position. The respiratory rate rises from 13 when in a lying position to 19 when sitting and to 23 when standing. Spirometer tests show that breathing is deeper in the standing position. The so-called military position is without doubt best suited to this physiologic requirement. There should be considerable exercise in standing during the gymnastic period tho of course we cannot demand that when one pupil is using an apparatus, all others stand in strictly military position. This position should however, be maintained during free exercises and tactics, especially in the upper grades.

11.	Free exercises or calisthenics are not only good lung exercises: they are also excellent nerve gymnastics. As Dubois Rey-mond shows on his article in “Exercise,” all gymnastic exercises are exercises of the central nervous system, the brain and spinal cord.

12.	Among free exercises there are such as may demand great exertion, even over exertion. These must be learned thru much practice and with caution. There is truly no exercise of greater

Digitized by LjOOQle
340

gymnastic value than running—as running races and endurance runs. If however, their effect is not to be made harmful, rather than helpful the end should be attained in easy stages; the distance and the length of period should be gradually increased. Care must also be used to avoid a period of complete rest following such vigorous, taxing exercise. They should be followed by mild exercise so that the amount of sweating is gradually lessened and the body gradually cools off. Otherwise rheumatism and dilation of the heart may result. A person should also avoid running against the wind. Angestein and Eckler (in Eulenberg’s Handbook of Health II, page 1006) properly reminds us that the pupils with a tendency toward catarrh and other afflictions of the vocal and respiratory organs are to be excused from such activities. During running exercises, especially with beginners the temperature must be neither too warm nor too cold: they can best be given regularly during the Spring and Autumn. However, whenever the weather is moderate, running should be used to stimulate the circulation and respiration and produce a healthy sweat. With a carefully graded plan one can give the mass of pupils no more pleasant and helpful influence to counteract a sedentary life.

We caution the instructor that he must watch for signs of exhaustion such as irregular or increased respiratory rate, bluing of the lips or pallor of the face which may follow the above mentioned exercises if they are not judiciously used. It is very foolish and harmful to the pupil’s health for the instructor in anger to cause the exercise to be long-continued as a punishment to the pupils. A similar mistake is made when the instructor requires the pupils to practice and drill to excess before an examination or an exhibition in order to “show off his work.” The school board must also guard against this.

13.	Gymnastics in general should not be continued so long as to cause gasping, panting, or pain in the side, especially with pupils who suffer from palpitating heart or cough. Breathing should be quiet and regular during free or apparatus exercises. Sudden laughter is to be avoided and it is the height of folly for pupils standing about to cause a person exercising on an apparatus to laugh by joking or by tickling him, for a sudden change in the respiratory rhythm may easily cause a rupture in the groin or a sudden loss of strength so that the gymnast falls from the apparatus. On the other hand one must watch that the gymnast does not take a deep breath and perform the exercise with chest held expanded, for dilation of the lung vesicles may follow.

14.	Exercises on the parallel bars require the most care in this regard especially exercises in bent arm swing or support as these place great stress upon the arm and chest muscles. Such exercises should be omitted in girls’ classes and are not to be given boys under fourteen years of age and should not be given more than four or five times in a gymnastic period until the chest muscles are sufficiently strong. Maul is quite correct in asserting that the strength of the legs for jumping and of the arms for hanging is de-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
841

veloped early while the strength to support the body by the arms develops comparatively late.

15.	In order to avoid rubbing or tearing of the genitals during climbing, the instructor should teach and insist upon a good gymnastic and hygienic climbing position. When we state that during a strong contraction of the adductors of the thighs as in climbing, accompanied by a contraction of the muscles of the bowels, a discharge of semen may take place, a caution is given against overstrain or over-exertion, which strain can never be beneficial.

16.	Similar caution and especially care against accident is necessary in buck jumping. The buck appears to be a harmless piece of apparatus and yet there are many accidents occurring on it, as when a boy runs against the buck and crushes his abdomen or bruises his thigh or over reaches the buck and falls headlong over it—straining, spraining or breaking an arm. If the instructor is present and has carefullly and progressively arranged his work the buck may be a pleasing, developing and healthful piece of apparatus. We surely would not advise discarding the buck in the public schools, but would curtail its use considerably in the high schools. In order to avoid accidents with beginners it has been our experience that it is well to have only jumping from the stand in the first lesson, then with a preliminary jump and only when safety and co-ordination have been attained in this way to allow a running start, and this with the buck no higher than when jumping from a stand or with one preliminary jump.

17.	Here also as in other exercises such as the deep jump and high jump, a proper dismount must be observed. This is taught in all good gymnasium classes, the pupil learning to bend his knees, hips and ankles on alighting then rising on toes and coming to a stand. If the dismount is carelessly done an inguinal rupture or a jar to brain and spinal cord may result. In connection with a good dismount with rising on toes, we mention rope jumping and skipping which are so popular with girls. One may observe that heart disorders and failures may result from this exercise but only when the exercise is carried to exhaustion. This never occurs in a well-directed gymnasium class.

18.	As in every day life, accidents will occur in the gymnasium such as bruises, abrasions, strains, sprains, fractures and hernias, tho fewer in proportion than in ordinary life. To prevent these many precautions may be taken. Above all things the instructor should observe a method according to the ability and condition of the pupils, allow for promotion of pupils from grade to grade and guard against pupils trying exercises beyond their strength and ability. And yet the ambitious and daring youth wishes to dare and to reach the summit. We do not wish to begrudge him this joy of life and action if he is prepared. However we must not forego the precautions in teaching difficult exercises as given by Jahn and Eiselen in their book “Art of Gymnastics” (1816).

19.	In addition to this, the instructor must have a good knowledge of how to give first aid in accidents. The Normal Schools of

Digitized by Google
842

Gymnastics usually give sufficient instructions in first aid. It is also well to have the older pupils prepared to assist in case of accident, to watch over and care for the patient until the physician comes or to accompany the patient to his home or to the physician. With girls the proper treatment in fainting is important.

20.	What about singing during gymnastic period? Who doubts that singing is an excellent lung and throat developer? Who is not aware that it was Jahn’s youthful followers who were the chief apostles of the folk and national songs, of the songs of the gymnast and hiker and that they enjoy being so even to this day? And who among them will maintain that his voice or health was harmed thereby? Therefore we say—Sing in the gymnasium and in the open air but keep the rules of safety in mind, and do not allow singing during an exercise requiring the use of chest muscles as these muscles are necessary for the free breathing required in singing. We should therefore sing before or after exercise, during a rest period, or during easy marching exercises. Singing while running or jumping or during vigorous arm and trunk exercises is condemned alike by physician and gymnastic instructor.

LEGISLATION TO MAKE THE NATION PHYSICALLY FIT

By E. DANA CAULKINS, Washington, D. C.

The Provost Marshal General’s report of December, 1918 reveals the startling fact that more than one-third of the men examined in the recent military emergency were disqualified from full military service. A report of the Committee on Health Problems of the National Council of Education states as a conservative estimate derived from many investigations in various localities that three-fourths of the 25,000,000 children in the elementary and secondary schools of our country are suffering from physical defects which are seriously impeding mental and physical development. Extensive examinations conducted by the Life Extension Institute found 65% of a large group of life insurance policy holders suffering from physical defects requiring special treatment, and 59% of the employees of commercial houses, banks, trust companies, etc., similarly defective. During the last thirty y^ars the death rate from organic diseases has increased 86% in Massachusetts, and 94% in large American cities.

These striking figures serve to emphasize our blindness and our failure to appreciate the relative importance of the various phases of our effort to build up an effective, patriotic citizenship.

The development and conservation of a sound body capable of full expression of every normal physical power is obviously the necessary fundamental basis for any satisfactory intellectual or moral progress. Yet we have been entirely unaware of this simple fact, if it is safe to judge by the relative emphasis given to physical educa-

* Read at the Milwaukee convention of the National Education Association, July 1919,

Digitized by
343

tion in the general program of training our youth for the responsibilities of life. The captain of industry, in his effort to realize maximum production ana maximum profit, finds in the physical condition of his employees the explanation of his annual financial report. The employee in industry, seeking to secure the maximum in wages, finds the reservoir of profits from which he would abstract an increased financial return rising and falling with increased or decreased production, and looking further finds the quality and quantity of production determined in final analysis by the physical condition of himself and his fellow-workmen. The humanitarian and the sociologist, seeking to lighten the burdens of life of the masses of the people, seeking to purify and vitalize social relationships, are confronted by the wreckage strewn broadly into the third and fourth generation as an unwelcome bequest from the individual who did not follow the simple rules of healthful living. The educator finds that physical education is fundamental in two ways: First, to insure the health and vitality which will make it possible for the individual to go out in the world and use the knowledge absorbed in the class-room; and second, it insures a body with muscles and nerves trained to carry out effectively the ideals, ideas and theoretical plans which may be developed through mental application.

The figures mentioned a moment ago are not evidence of a new condition, but are new clear evidences of a condition of physical deterioration which students of the subject have for a long time well understood. Editors confronted with these facts have refused to believe, and have demanded proof. Fortunately, the investigations made have been sufficiently thorough so that it has been possible to furnish proof. The fundamental fact is that we have become so calloused to a condition in which we ourselves and our fellows walk the streets and go about our work only fifty per cent physically efficient, that we fail to realize the revolutionary results which would attend a national observance of the simple principles of healthful living. It is fortunate that the discussion of this subject is no longer confined to the Physical Education Review, Physical Culture, and other more or less professional or technical magazines. The newspapers are full of it, and the popular magazines are asking for articles relating to physical education.

Before proceeding further I should attempt to define physical education, although definitions are always dangerous. In spite of the fact that there have been many heated controversies over the relative importance of different phases of physical education, there now appears to be general agreement among the experts in this field that the fundamental elements in a course in physical education are: first, instruction in health principles, including the inculcation of healthful.habits; second, the organization of scientifically planned health-giving and body-building exercises and activities; and third, (especially important because it furnishes a background of knowledge for the successful application of the first two elements) periodic, thorough-going physical examinations.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
344

We must, then, have physical education including instruction in health principles, directed physical activities, and periodic physical examinations. It is to be hoped, and the outlook is hopeful, that our citizenship at large, our bankers, our lawyers, our workers in industry, our clerks, and our women in the home will rapidly come to an appreciation of the fact that physical education must be made universal. The school is, of course, the starting point, for there, with our universal education requirement, we reach practically the entire population in the important years of growth and development. This does not mean that physical education is not needed for the workers in industry, for the clerks in the stores and the offices, for the professional man, and for the woman in the home. However, if we can develop in the children habits of observance of health principles, and of regular participation in health-giving physical activities, we need not worry about physical education facilities and leadership for the adults of the next generation.

Our primary duty, then, is to make physical education universal in the elementary and secondary schools of our country. The popularity of the Modem Health Crusade is an evidence of the new public consciousness of the importance of health conservation. As a voluntary movement enlisting the services of thousands of teachers and other interested persons, this Crusade has already •enlisted more than 3,000,000 of the 25,000,000 school children of the country. It will rapidly help to popularize the idea of health conservation throughout the country. It will mean much to the lives of millions of crusaders who participate in its activities.

But physical education is of such fundamental importance that it must be given the dignity of a definite required course in every school in the country. In the fall of 1918, eight states had more or less satisfactory compulsory physical education laws providing physical education courses as a required part of the local school curriculum. For the purpose of establishing physical education legislation throughout the remaining forty states of our union, a national movement was organized to focus upon this problem the attention and active interest of the voting public. In February, 1918, at the time of the meeting of this very organization at Atlantic City, a National Committee on Physical Education was formed, composed of seventy of the leading men and women in the field of physical education. In the fall of 1918, this National Committee appealed to the Playground and Recreation Association of America to establish in Washington a National Physical Education Service to popularize the sentiment of the country for physical education legislation by joining in a co-operative effort the many agencies competent to contribute to the success of the movement. Since that time more than forty national and state organizations have passed resolutions endorsing the movement for physical education, and have rendered more or less active assistance in the effort to secure legislation in a number of the states. Articles have been prepared for and are being printed in many of the leading magazines. Legislation for physical education is being stressed before every available convention and conference. Organizing representatives have been

Digitized by
345

sent to assist in the securing of legislation in nineteen states. Since January, 1919, the following states have passed more or less satisfactory compulsory physical education laws: Maine, Michigan, Utah, Oregon, and Washington.

Ultimately physical education must be recognized as a national responsibility because of its vital relationship to national security and the general public welfare. It is encouraging to find that the National Education Association, in the preparation of a federal bill which would appropriate $100,000,000 for the development of education throughout the country, has set aside $20,000,000 for physical education. There is no organization and no individual whose influence cannot be of use in this vitally important undertaking. Think of what it would mean to our citizenship thirty years from today if we could introduce into the schools now thoroughly organized and competently directed courses in physical education, which would insure that every child should have scientific direction in physical activities and periodic physical examinations. Before we think of mental and moral development, before we think of strengthening our social institutions or of settling our problems of industrial relationship, must we not think of the development of normal, healthy, physically fit individuals? Do not all of these other important movements in the final analysis demand as the first step adequate measures to insure a rising generation physically fit for the responsibilities of citizenship?

Yours is the responsibility of assisting in your local community, in your state, and in the nation to the end that physical education may become universal. Yours is the special responsibility and opportunity of participating in the administration and direction of activities made possible through the securing of legislation. No system of universal physical education can ever become permanently effective in this country without the hearty co-operation and active participation of the teachers of the country; you who are charged with the responsibility for directing the all-round development of our children.

SPEECH DEFECTS IN THE SCHOOL CHILD.

By CAROLINE A. OSBORNE, M. D.

Speech defects in the school child have an especial interest for the teacher. Most of the proof of acquisition of instruction imparted to the child must be judged by the oral response given. When this response is delayed, or is rendered in a halting, inarticulate manner, the teacher is at a loss to decide whether the child knows the lesson or not. In fact, the ability to speak distinctly and effectively ought to be possessed by the child before entering school, or acquired readily after being in school a short time. It is neither fair to the teacher nor the class to spend class time trying to ascertain whether the defective speaking child really knows the lesson or not.

Digitized by
846

In general, speech defects will group into two main divisions, the phonetic and the stuttering types. While these may run into each other the lines will be seen to be very clear between the two. A further difference appears, in that the stuttering child is usually of normal mentality, and often of a superior degree of intelligence, and the nervous instability present marks a more facile cerebral functioning.

On the other hand, phonetic defects of marked and extensive nature are marks of defective brain development, and the defect may be of all degrees, from remediable conditions to hopeless imbecility.

As the child comes to the teacher, the defects most often met may be grouped into four divisions:

a.	Infantile speech.

b.	Defects of oral mechanism.

c.	Slovenly, or careless speech.

(In the last grouping, also might be included inattentiveness or a low degree of attention to auditory stimuli. When this is present, the child should be examined for defects of hearing.).

d.	Marked phonetic defect.

Infantile speech characteristics are so well known that no description is needed. The child of kindergarten or first grade age often shows an infantile quality in talking. This speedily disappears in the normal child, as he almost unconsciously adapts to the conventional standard of his companions. When a child of ten or fourteen shows “baby” talk, a mental examination will practically always reveal mental retardation, often of a higher degree than has been suspected from the general appearance.

Defects of the oral mechanism are rare, and speech in such children is conditioned on the defect present. Slight defects may be overcome by persistence on the part of the teacher and child. Higher degrees of defect require first, surgical intervention, and then later training to talk. The presence of enlarged tonsils and adenoid growths need not necessarily cause defective speech, but may depress the general condition in such manner that carelessness in speech may follow.

Slovenly speech may come from many factors. The local causes are not important, but the hearing may be at fault, or the brain behind be defective. The general health and the vitality of the child may be below the needs for effective speech. It takes strength to talk, and intelligent speech is conditioned upon a certain degree of brain development, and coincident physical vitality.

The more marked phonetic defects in a child that cannot be brought up to normal speech, are defects that are more often due to defective mentality. We find the tongue big and clumsy; sometimes it is so large that the mouth cannot hold it. The ability to close the lips, to form the labials and labio-dental sounds, needs well developed oral and tongue muscles. In fact, all speech sounds need accurate muscular coordination for production. In defective brain functioning neither the muscles nor the nerves are able to

Digitized by
347

achieve easy, automatic workings. In these cases, the defective speech is merely the outward indication of inward defect.

Stammering and Stuttering. These may be discussed together, for there is no real difference between them. Symptoms group all the way from hesitation in speaking, so slight it may well be only the slowness of a thoughtfully person, to prolonged efforts at articulation, and all degrees of spasmodic efforts in the futile attempts to get out speech which will not come. The most obvious symptoms of trouble is spasm of various parts of the vocal mechanism when the effort of voluntary speech is made. This spasm is more or less constant, increases on attention to the patient, as a rule, and is absent when the individual is alone, or is speaking in concert, or is singing.

Etiological factors. Many seemingly contradictory factors are involved, which will, however, easily group under the general time classes of hereditary, congenital and acquired characteristics.

Hereditary elements of instability in the parent will tend to reveal themselves in the offspring. For this reason, when there has been present in the parent or ancestry neuro-muscular instability manifesting itself as alcoholism, gout, syphilis, insanity, epilepsy, hysteria, or even the minor neuroses and psychoses indicated by the terms, “odd,” “cranky,” “quarrelsome,” “inability to make a living,” etc., the resultant weakening of the parent stem is very likely to be manifested in a weakened, less resistant condition in the child.

Congenital factors likewise rest primarily on the physical substrata of parental health. In addition, there are many diseases which may be acquired during pregnancy by the mother, which will react on the growing child, making for retardation.

Acquired defects at once give us fertile sources of investigation. In the first place, the neuropathic elements in the parents react both on the child and the environment.

Careless handling of the child in the early hours of life may give and fix a habit of fear which is the cause of incipient nervousness and the forerunner of all kinds of neuro-muscular instability. The educational influence of the home and care really mold the baby into certain habits of reaction almost at once. A quick and jerky manner of handling, of talking, a roughness or lack of adaptation to the infant needs, will wear out a slight neural adaptability long before it has a chance to conserve strength for its immediate, let alone its future needs.

When, a little later, the function of speech is acquired, and the self-consciousness is developing, the instability incident to any developing function is increased by fright, excitement, worry, anxiety, etc., until the little patient is unable to express himself at all in public, even though the public be that of his own sheltered home.

To an observing, imitative child, the speech of another child who stutters may be provocative of trouble. Yet a healthy skepticism as to this being causative as much as it is supposed to be, is aroused by the fact that it is the rule and not the exception to find
348

only one of a family who stutters. If imitation were as baneful as it is said to be, the whole community would long ago have lapsed into hopeless stuttering.

The real findings are much more interesting and suggestive. Usually, beside the stuttering child, we find no one else in the family who stutters. The history is often given of stuttering of a distant relative, seen rarely or never by the child. But we do find other speech defects, as lisping, indistinct speech from many causes, late development of speech, and the like. These are the things one would postulate were he working out from a theoretical angle lines of deterioration of neuro-muscular structure. Phonetic defects of speech are due to inaccuracy of muscle action, clumsy, slow, and awkward movements, rather than the spasmodic incoordination present in stuttering.

When, a little later, the child goes into the community, either in play or in school, he finds imperative need for instant vocal adjustment. It may well be here that the beginning of the confusion incident to stuttering may be sought. There are complex visual, auditory, and other stimuli from numerous sources pouring in upon the child, and the sense of ‘ ‘away-from-home-ness," big in a delicate child, all these factors combine in a confusing mass in the little sensorium, and there results incipient movements in all directions, lacking inhibitions from the bewildered cortex.

These confused, half inhibited motions, and the simultaneous high tension which pervades the whole organism under the strange conditions, are all factors which unite in forcing an uncoordinated mass of heterogenous stimuli upon the immature speech mechanism, and the only possible thing that can happen is the attempt of many muscles to work at once, and the resulting stuttering is initiated under the most favorable conditions for habit formations that psychology can offer.

The same events, under favorable circumstances, are the experience of very child. The husky youngster will hold his own and refuse to be confused, or if he is temporarily abashed, he usually works it out in general motor activity, and a night’s sleep finds him master of the situation.

Such, in general, are the factors which result in the habit of stuttering. Each time the child stutters, the method of wrong functioning is being ingrained into neural structure, until it becomes a habitual response, and the child is at a disadvantage in the social, the school, and the business community.

Glancing briefly at some authorities on conditions present in stuttering: Scripture assures us that the cause of stuttering is “a diseased state of mind, which rises from excessive timidity and shows itself in speech peculiarities tending toward a condition of segregation which will enable the person to avoid occasions where he will suffer on account of timidity.”

But even Scripture recognizes the fact that the majority of timid people do not sutter.

Fletcher, in an experimental study of stuttering some years
*49

ago, discusses, besides the motor phenomena, which he studied graphically, the following factors:

“The essential condition of the rise of stuttering seems to be a complex state of mind, which should be classed generically as feeling, in the wider sense of the term. It is to be noted that the quality, rather than the intensity of these feeling states governs the rise of the defect.... In general, those feelings which tend toward inhibition or depression are the ones most likely to be the precursors of stuttering. Probably both act as cause and effect. The states of feeling causative vary in degree from strong emotion to mere attitudes or moods. In addition to the states of feeling, stuttering seems to be affected by the quality of the mental imagery, by attention and association. All movements, that, like those of speech, are incapable of clear and detailed imaginal representation in consciousness are, in the same way as in speech, liable to the functional disorders that are analogous to stuttering. When the stutterer’s attention can be distracted from his speech, his stuttering usually disappears. The affective and emotional experiences.... determine the rise of stuttering.”

Blumel, in a two-volume monograph, makes auditory amnesia the proximate causes of stuttering, but hedges a bit when he adds the collateral causes of mental confusion and fear as complicating the disorder. It is evident there is a common cause behind all three of these authorities, and Scripture’s grouping of the disorder among the psycho-neuroses, is much more to the point.

Swift ascribes the cause of stuttering to defective visual psychic development. In his study of his cases, he has found many that do not visualize during speech processes. It is very possible that the stuttering child has never been able to develop its visual or auditory areas to the same degree of perfection that the nonstuttering child has, but this has yet to be proven. It is true, however, that unless and until the mental content, which the speaker wishes to convey to the hearer, be very clear and in the focus of consciousness during the act of talking, the hearer will not be much enlightened by the effort to convey information. In any event, untfl different sensory areas are developed properly and patiently, up to the level of easy functioning, speech may show persistent disturbances, which disturbances disappear entirely after the lagging cortical areas are brought up to full functioning. Further, this intensive sensory training brings up adjacent areas to better functioning, as they come under the influence of improved nutritive conditions.

While this paper is not intended as a discussion of methods of treatment in stuttering, one comment as to the end results of patients trained in sensory development, is in order. Any one who listens to the conversation of the cerebral trained person, and then to the one trained to speak by the aid of some trick of breathing, or some muscular movement, will at once be struck with the difference. The patient who has been trained to let sensory content and associated areas dominate motor speech, will not only speak in a manner convincing to his audience, but his audience will see
360

and hear what he, the speaker, does, for the speaker's attention is on “mental-content-to-be-imparted” and not on ‘‘mental-trick-to-help” him as with a crutch, over vocal pitfalls. The normal speaker,

i'ust in proportion to his development of ideas to be communicated, ceeps in focus the mental content, while swiftly arranging and rearranging that content to the situation present.

Treatment of Stuttering; The treatment of stuttering logically falls into two main lines of procedure; first:

1. Treat all underlying medical, i. e., diseased conditions. Stuttering is first distinctly a medical problem, and can only be gotten at by the specialist trained to interpret the action and interaction of pathological conditions involved in spasmodic conditions present.

2.	Train the patient into correct breathing habits. This is the training of physiological function, and should go on from the two angles:

1.	a. Breathing exercises and

b.	Muscle training of respiratory muscles.

2.	Vocal exercises, skilfully planned to bring up the breathing.

3.	Train the vocal muscles into vocal function. The stages here will perhaps develop better from the elemental to the complex. The patient can be drilled through sounds, syllables, words and sentences, simple to complex.

Next, the repetition of ideas, simple and compound, first from the teacher, next, spontaneously given by the pupil.

The keynote of success is repetition, over and over again. The speech mechanism in these patients is not mature enough to function automatically until it has had much more practice than the child who does not stutter. This functional training is the only means by which structural stability may be attained. Through all the above, insist first on slow, easy execution, and eliminate haste. Speed of utterance can be worked up at any time, but not until perfect function is present.

Second; All the above will group into one line of treatment, which perhaps would be considered the method of direct attack. The next steps group under the more specialized, and apparently indirect, method of brain training, building up faulty sensory and motor areas, developing inhibition, self control, and a wider range of mental activity. The patient must be trained gradually to get used to and then respond to many stimuli, for, until this is done, he is unequal to the social exigencies of even home life, much less is he ready for the wider range of demands of community needs. The patient must also be trained in the mode of response. As we watch these patients we realize their inability to receive, much less respond, to many stimuli at the same time. Until drill, over and over has developed their ability in these lines, we cannot consider our patients cured.

Treatment of Phonetic Defects; All of these cases should be gone over to determine the cause of defective speech. Cases due to defective mentality should be placed in special classes. Borderline cases ought not be left with normal classes unless the defect

Digitized by CjOOQle
351

speedily clears up under instruction. Lisping and slovenly speech may only need sharp drill. Inaccurate answers, implying inaccurate perceptions in the child should lead to the referring to the ear specialist for possible auditory defect.

Mild cases of deformity, as with the slighter degrees of cleft pedate, can be dealt with successfully by phonetic drill adapted to the child. In fact, most of the children in the ordinary school room need, as undoubtedly grade teachers realize to their sorrow, constant drill in accurate articulation, and voice placing.

While it perhaps is not within the scope of this paper, yet a word may be said as to attention to the ordinary speaking voice, aside from any Question of defect. While one may or may not accept the psychologist’s grouping of all experiences as pleasant or unpleasant, with shadings through excitement, depression, strain and relaxation, etc., yet every one recognizes the value of a pleasant voice and the deplorable results that may be attendant on the unpleasant voice. Forcefulness, virility, vigor, “get-up and-get” qualities, may be as clearly expressed in a pleasant voice, while all the sympathetic and helpful qualities gain much if rendered in a voice of pleasing quality. The use of one or the other may mean success or failure to the user. The acquirement of such a voice should be the aim of every teacher and pupil.

UNIFORM SYSTEM OF GRADING PUPILS IN PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By ARTHUR C. KRAUSE, Colorado State Normal School, Gunnison, Colo.

The need of a uniform system of grading pupils in physical training has been noticed in every city where it is placed as a regular course in the curriculum. The subject must be treated differently from the other courses, as the circumstances involving the cardinal points are not similar. The results obtained are of a vastly different nature, so that it becomes unquestionably a leading factor in the child’s life. The grade in physical training must represent the actual physical qualifications of the pupil, therefore must be a uniform grade, rather than a grade used by some teachers to counteract a poor mark in some other subject. The pupil must be led to believe that this grade is just as important as the combined grades of the other subjects, as only then does he value his physical life in proportion to his mental, which is represented by the other marks.

It has come to my attention from the attitude of some pupils towards physical training, that their interest was lacking from some other source than the personality of the teacher or any physical, mental or moral defect of the pupil. Upon investigation I found that certain children were disgruntled and discouraged because parents had reprimanded them for receiving low marks in physical training on their report cards. I questioned the teachers and asked them to write down the points they took into consideration when grading their pupils, and found the various methods used to be such that I realized a uniform system of grading was absolutely essential to the

Digitized by
862

success of physical training in the schools. After putting my system into operation,! found a decided change in the attitude of the pupils towards this course, also a feeling of confidence in the teachers, because they had a common basis for grading each pupil, therefore the grades would be more uniform and fair throughout the pupil’s career; and further, the showing of partiality or utter indifference by the teacher was eliminated as the pupil advanced or was retained.

I do not require the teacher to keep a daily record of each pupil in physical training, but rather, depend on her memory and judgment at the end of the term, as she well understands her pupils at that time, and therefore can give a satisfactory grade by checking every point carefully for each pupil.

The main difficulty with physical training in so many of our schools, is the fact that they do not apply it diming the school session, but put emphasis on it only during the exercise period. To overcome this I have taken into consideration their standing and sit-, ting postures and walking carriage during the whole school day, with the exception of recess and noon intermission; at which time the pupils are put on their own resources regarding this phase of their school work.

Before adopting this system, however, it is best to spend one whole physical training period explaining the points in detail, so that each pupil will be aware of the fundamental points which are used in grading him. The writing of this system on the blackboard and the copying of it by the pupils will assist the teachers as an occasional glance throughout the terms by the pupil will help him to remember the points the teacher has in mind when the report cards are marked.

I have searched text books, pamphlets and magazines for material to assist me in formulating this system, but to no avail, therefore I take pleasure in presenting for your approval a method that has been tried and proven satisfactory. I will first outline the system and then will explain each point in detail.

30%—Execution of Commands during Physical Training period.

10%—Sitting Posture during school session.

10%—Standing Posture during school session.

10%—Walking Carriage during school session.

10%—Attitude toward correction. Whether the pupil accepts or ignores it.

10%—Improvement during the school year.

10%—Effort. If a pupil tries, although deficient.

10%—Discipline during the Physical Training period.

The Use of Tobacco in any Form Will Reduce the Grade 10%.

Execution of Commands During Physical Training Period.

The most credit is given for the pupil’s proper response to the teacher’s commands, as a pupil that conscientiously assumes the positions asked for, is given full credit, while the willfully disobedient pupil who completes the movements to suit himself rather than the

Digitized by
363

correct way, is graded in proportion to his effort. For illustration, if the teacher gives the command, “Arms sideward, RAISE,” and the majority of the pupils execute the movement with snap and ginger, and have their arms forced back level with the shoulders, while some do it incorrectly by assuming a shiftless attitude with arms above or below the shoulder level and palms upward or forward; then the teacher grades the pupils accordingly. Each exercise of the day’s lesson should be demonstrated with the same amount of snap that the teacher puts into it by the delivery of her commands. An excellent pupil must have his mind alert as well as his body in order to have proper co-ordination, which is essential to perfect execution of the exercises.

I will acknowledge the interest taken by so many schools toward the pupils accomplishments in running, jumping and throwing, and will state that this 30% may be accredited to the work on the track and field. Likewise the results of the athletic badge test may be recognized by giving 20% for the successful completion of the requirements and 10% for the setting-up exercises. As we did not have equipment, time or space in our seventeen schools for the working out of a series of tests, we put all the stress on calisthenics and as a reward had folk dancing, games and races; so that the 30% applies to our conditions as above stated, but nevertheless, it is applicable to all types of athletics or physical measurements. The other points in this system are worthy of proper recognition when the reports are marked, as they involve all the requirements in conducting any type of physical training, whether it be folk dancing or athletic badge tests.

Sitting Posture During the School Session.

If it is not necessary for the teacher to call the attention of a pupil to his sitting posture he receives full credit of 10%. But if the teacher is constantly urging the pupil to sit up or sit straight, and after a few minutes he returns to the incorrect position, the teacher recognizes this as an extremely poor posture and it becomes her duty to make him realize this by receiving a lower grade. It is only the extreme cases that are to be reckoned with, as when the pupil rests his head on the back of the seat and has his feet stretched out in front of him or to the side, or sitting on his feet, etc. The child who conscientiously tries to sit correctly without the teacher’s constant urging is the one who receives full credit for this point.

Standing Posture During the School Session.

During the recitation the pupil assumes the “At ease” position. When reporting to the teacher’s desk or office, he must stand a few feet from the desk and be relaxed, and not lean on the desk or chair, or in the ridiculous position of resting the elbows on something. This also applies to blackboard work, where the pupil is prone to lean on the rear desks or against the wall in numerous careless, faulty, and lazy positions.

Walking Carriage During the School Session.

While passing into the building at any time or going from room to room; in fact, anywhere during the school day, the pupils

Digitized by LaOOQle
*64

must walk erectly, accordingjto the prescribed method of marching as given during the physical training period.

In the three Instances of sitting, standing and walking, the teacher learns whether the exercises are sufficient to strengthen the body, so that the pupils can be credited with ten per cent for each case. If she finds it necessary to continuously caution her pupils regarding them it will be her duty to make the exercises more strenuous, so that the muscles used in holding the body erect are put in condition to do their work satisfactorily, not only during the fifteen minute physical training period, but during the balance of the day. Perhaps you are questioning yourself as to how this idea can be applied to the grammar grades and high school classes, where a different teacher presides over the pupils every period. This is solved by having the teacher in charge of the class keep her “Posture” pad on her desk, and as the classes come to her room, she is responsible for their postures while that class is in her charge. This pad is given to the physical director, who has charge of the physical training exercises and grades. This is not an unnecessary hardship on the teacher as only the extreme cases are noted and recorded.

Attitude Toward Correction.

How aggravating it is for a teacher to constantly caution a pupil regarding his posture! This point gives her assistance, as there are some pupils who accept cheerfully each correction the teacher makes, and try to remember that correction the next time the same exercise is given, also feel guilty when violating the standards of good posture. The students that benefit by the correction are a pleasure to have in the class. On the other hand, there are some pupils who resent a correction and make almost no effort to put it into practice, altho all their future progress depends upon their ability to profit by the teacher’s corrections. During the short time allotted to physical training, the teacher cannot repeatedly give individual corrections to the same pupils, as we know there are some pupils who enjoy having their names called daily for some minor defect, and then immediately forget or ignore the comment. When the pupil is made to understand that the repetition of the same correction puts his grade in physical training in jeopardy he becomes more alert and attentive.

Improvement During the Year.

It is an admitted fact that if the pupil puts forth his best effort during the year he should be given credit for it. The undisputed result of this kind of participation is a decided betterment in his physical being. This fact gives the teacher an opportunity to show her ability in judging a pupil physically, as the conspicuous improvement should be acknowledged by her by the addition of ten per cent to his grade. This point brings forward the benefits of calisthenics, folk dancing, athletic badge tests, and games, as the pupil depicts the effects on him in a very desirable manner.

Effort.—If a Pupil Trie*, Although Deficient.

Often the teacher has a timid, backward and awkward pupil

Digitized by v^ooQle
856

to contend with, and upon inquiring the cause, receives this reply from tiie pupil- “I am trying my very best, but I cannot do any better.” The teacher knows this to be a truthful statement, still the pupil shows no improvement in proportion to the average pupil in the class. The desire to do his best is worthy of the serious consideration of the teacher, as some pupils naturally are unable to think or act quickly. The application of this point is valuable to a pupil of this type, as he then knows his teacher is giving him credit for his close attention and best effort. His interest is aroused and by practice and earnest endeavor he acquires the alertness necessary to equal or surpass the average pupil. This idea is the best encouragement a slow pupil has, as the feeling of inferiority caused by inability to execute a movement perfectly is overcome. Thus the listless, inattentive pupil will not receive the same grade as the pupil who constantly puts forth every effort.

Discipline During Physical Training Period.

The teacher must have the best discipline possible when conducting her class in physical training. A pupil feels freer at this time to cause disturbances and make others laugh to a point where the teacher loses control of the class. This factor in the system is to check the trouble maker and give just credit to the pupils who are trying to do their best in this work. The success or failure of the teacher depends upon the order of the pupils, therefore I have put great stress on it, with the hope of giving the teacher a chance to eliminate the fun producers by having the pupil sacrifice his good grade in physical training, instead of applying his misbehavior to the deportment grade.

The Use of Tobacco in Any Form Will Reduce the Grade Ten

Per Cent.

Many school children have collected pennies to buy “smokes” for our soldier boys, and have gained the impression that if soldiers smoke they should too, if they want to be like their khaki heroes. School children therefore should be taught that tobacco is not so harmful to fully developed men as to growing boys. Since the war the increase in the use of tobacco by school boys is alarming. This bad habit is one of the greatest enemies the physical training course has, as it tears down the parts of the body that are built up by wholesome exercise. I hope the educators of our country will take note of this fact, and immediately instigate a vigorous campaign to teach the school children the harm of tobacco to their bodies.

Only upon the confession of the use of tobacco by the pupil will this ten per cent reduction of the grade be made. This fact is given to the parents on a delinquency report, which states the boy is doing unsatisfactory work in physical training because of his smoking. Further, if the final grade in physical training is below passing, the teacher is instructed to write this statement in red ink across the face of the report card. “This grade is the result of the use of tobacco.” After the boy admits his use of tobacco, the teacher or physical director arranges a private conference, at which time he is told of the noticeable harm to which he is subjecting his

Digitized by Google
366

body, and the boy is then given an opportunity to discontinue its use and he is graded accordingly. The parents that sanction an occasional cigarette by their sons are advised through this procedure that it is not helping the physical welfare of their sons, and they will conflict with the work of the physical director in his efforts to produce strong, healthy children. This bad habit is becoming a serious and menacing proposition in our schools and I feel confident that is the proper method and place to handle it.

The adoption of this uniform grading system appears to me to be of great value to any city or school that has a physical director, because it is applicable to all circumstances and recognizes all important points. The little time added to the report marking by the teacher is easily compensated by the feeling of justice among the pupils, which is a direct and beneficial result of it.

I shall always be pleased to hear from any physical director or teacher regarding the system or any part of it, and I will gladly offer any assistance possible concerning the application of it.

(To Be Concluded In February.)

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR ORTHOGENIC CLASSES.*

By WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia.

(All righto

Method of Arranging a Class for Physical Training Work.

The teacher first calls attention to the fact that the pupils are to have a physical training lesson. At the command “clear desks” the desks are cleared. After this the following commands are given:

“Attention, sit-erect.” The pupils assume an upright position, both feet being placed squarely on the floor, the hands being placed on the front edge of the desk.

“Girls-stand.” The girls rise quickly and stand in the aisle at their right.

“To your places-march.” The girls march forward and form a column of twos, the smallest standing in front. This column may be formed either at the side of the room or in front.

“Boys-stand.” Performed as above.

“To your places-march.” Performed as above. The boys form back of the girls.

This all is done in the class room preparatory to marching to the playground or to the exercise room. It is wise to have the girls head the column.

“Forward-march.” The column now marches to the place designated by the teacher. No attempt should be made to <fkeep step.” If the pupils gradually learn to “keep time” the teacher should be satisfied. After a year it will be possible to “keep step.” Continued efforts should, however, be made to have the pupils carry themselves upright when marching. The arms should not be held stiffly at the sides, but should swing naturally. The chest

* Continued from December.

Digitized by Google
*57

and head must be held high. Good marching is the result of much careful instruction and direction.

When the column arrives at the place reserved for physical training the teacher commands—Halt. For subnormal pupils it is advisable to have lines or marks on the floors showing them in what line and how far apart they are to stand for the free exercises.

The lines and the marks should be approximately five feet apart, that is, so far apart that when the arms are raised sideward or forward the pupils will not touch......1st rank

Diagram...............2nd rank

Presupposing that there are such lines and marks the teacher has the pupils form fours and take their places on the designated lines. This is done by having the first two pupils form on the first line and the next two at the left of the first, thus forming fours in open order. The balance of the class forms in a like manner. If there are no lines the ranks are opened from the center by taking side steps. After the exercises have been performed the ranks are either/closed at the command “close ranks sideward to the center-march” or the balance of the lesson is taken in the open formation. First Term. September to February.

Lesson 1.

For the'aims underlying each part or unit of the following les-sonsjsee the preceding pages. Each lesson should begin with several “preliminary exercises.” As a rule these should consist of “thrusting” and of “running in place.”

Part 1. Aim: Physical Improvement.

1.	Arms to thrust-bend. Thrust upward-begin. The teacher counts 1, 2; 1, 2; etc., and, after having the class thrust a sufficient number of times the exercise is discontinued at the command—Halt.

fQ2. Arms for running-bend. In place-run. The teacher claps hands, thus helping the pupils to maintain the correct rhythm. After the class has run about 50 to 60 steps the teacher commands —Halt. Arms-lower.

M3. Raise arms fore-upward and inhale-1; lower arms fore-downward and exhale-2. For method of teaching free exercises see the regular handbooks.

4.	Hands on hips-place. Bend trunk fore-downward-1; straighten trunk-2.

5.	Hands on hips-place. Raise left leg forward-1; lower leg-2. The same exercise right.

Part 2.

The aim in this unit is to gain prompt response to a command.

The class is still arranged in open order. The movement to be performed is first shown by the teacher, then the class performs it upon command. The exercise is: One step forward-march 1, 2. The method is as follows: The teacher says, “We are going to learn how to march forward one step. Watch how I do it.” She then commands: “One step forward-march.” Upon the command “march” while counting 1, 2 she smartly takes a step forward with the left foot and closes with the right. This she repeats several times,

Digitized by UjOOQle
358

calling the attention of the pupils to the fact that she does not move until she commands “march.” After this explanation the pupils are ready for this important part of the lesson. The teacher then, commands “One step forward,” and, after a suitable pause, during which the pupils must stand perfectly still, she commands “march,” followed immediately by counting 1, 2.

This procedure is repeated several times with the left foot, and later the commands should demand a stepping off with the right foot. After several lessons it may be possible to perform this movement with having the pupils clap hands once when they step out. Counting by the pupils also is a welcome addition to the prescribed exercise.

Part 3. Aim: Social Development.

Games in which a group must co-operate to make the game a success are one of the best means at the disposal of a teacher to develop those social qualities that go to make up a desirable companion. Track and field events (the so-called athletic events), that can be carried on by sides, by teams, also are usable materials for social ends.

Game. “Cat and Mouse.”

The teacher has the children march and form a circle facing inward. The players grasp neighbors’ hands. The teacher chooses one child as the cat, who stands outside, and another child as the mouse, who stands inside the circle. The cat tries to catch the mouse, who runs in and out of the circle. At first the pupils should not lower their arms and interfere with the running of either the mouse or the cat. When the mouse is caught, or when the teacher finds the two have run enough, they return to their places, and the next two players standing to the right become the cat and mouse.

As the children become more proficient, or when the cat is very-active. the players try to prevent the cat from catching the mouse by suddenly lowering their arms after the mouse has dipped through the circle.

For additional events to be used when “Cat and Mouse” no longer appeals to the pupils see Lesson 7, Part 3.

Lesson 2. Part 1. Aim:	Physical	Development.

Arrange the class, march to the yard and open ranks as indicated in Lesson 1.

1.	Arms	to thrust-bend. Thrust	sideward-begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms side-upward and inhale -1; lower side-downward and exhale-2.

4. Hands on	shoulders - place.Bend trunk left-begin.

The same exercise right.

Review the exercises of Lesson 1.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	One step left sideward - march, 1, 2.

For method of execution see Lesson 1. Also perform one step right sideward. Later review the stepping forward.

Digitized by
359

Part 3. Aim: Quick Reaction and Skill.

Track Event. A Running Race.

Arrange the class at one side of the yard. At one end of the yard mark a starting line on the ground. At a distance of about 10 yards mark another line. Have the first two (three or four) • pupils take their position on this line “Toe the scratch line with one foot.” Tell the pupils that upon the command “run” they are to run to the other line and back again, and that the winners in each race are going to run in the final race. Now command: “ ready -Run.” Place the winner on a line opposite to the class, and then have the next two (three or four) step up to the scratch line. Rim off this heat like the preceding one. When all have run have a final heat for the winners. Close the lesson with a review of the Cat and Mouse game, or with the game of “Follow the Leader.” This game is of great value for pupils of orthogenic backward classes because it allows the teacher to introduce a great variety of movements in a playful form. These movements may be grouped as follows:

a.	“Stepping over things” like erasers placed at definite intervals, rulers placed just so far apart that special skill is needed not to step on them, blocks, low benches and like school material so arranged as to make “following the leader” an interesting game.

b.	"Walking around things” like blocks set up on ends, so as to be upset easily, chairs or other apparatus set so as to offer difficulties.

c.	“Jumping over things” like low benches, or a small stream indicated by chalk marks, etc.

d.	“Picking up and carrying things” a definite number of steps.

Lesson 3. Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

Form the class in the room, march to the yard and open ranks, as outlined in Lesson 1.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust upward - begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run - begin.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and	-1;	lower	arms	side-

downward and exhale-2.

4.	Hands on hips-place. Raise the chest upward-1; lower - 2.

5.	(Hands remain on hips). Raise left leg backward -1; lower - 2. Review the trunk exercises of Lessons 1 and 2.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

The elass remains in open order.

1.	Three Steps forward - march. The pupils step forward left, right, left and close with the right foot. The teacher counts 1, 2, 3, halt. Later have the pupils clap hands on the first count.

2.	Raise the arms forward - raise. Move the arms sideward -move. Hands on hips - place. Hands - lower.

These positions are to be taken only upon command.

Later combine these movements with hand clapping. Example

Digitized by VoiOOQLe
160

- Raise arms forward with clapping hands - dap. Move arms sideward with clapping hands - dap, etc.

Part 3. Aim: Develop skill and courage.

Apparatus, a long jumping rope. The pupils are to run a few steps and jump over the rope that is held at one end by the teacher. At first the rope should be only a few inches above the ground. Backward children need to be encouraged to jump over a rope. First the pupils jump over singly, later by twos or more. After they have succeeded in jumping over the rope, the next step is to get them to run through the rope while it is being swung toward them. It may take a long time before they all are courageous enough to run through. Close the lesson with one of the games learned in the preceding lessons or with an event mentioned in Lesson 7, Part 3.

Lesson 4. Parti. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust sideward - begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms side-upward and inhale-1; lower arms side-downward and exhale - 2.

4.	Hands on shoulders - place. Turn trunk left-1; return -2. The same exercise right.

Review the trunk movements of Lessons 1 and 2.

5.	Hands on hips-place. Raise the left knee forward-1; lower - 2. The same exercise right.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

Arrange the class in a column composed of ranks of four pupils.

1.	Forward - march. After the class has taken about sixteen steps, command halt. Repeat this marching and “halting upon command” several times.

2.	March forward in a column clapping hands on the first of every four steps.

Part 3. Aim: Co-operation, Happiness.

Song game: Oats, Peas, Beans and Barley Grow.

The words and air are to be learned in the classroom.

Oats, peas, beans and barley grow,

Oats, peas, beans and barley grow,

Can you or I or anyone know

How oats, peas, beans and barley grow?

Thus the fanner sows his seed,

Thus he stands and takes his ease,

Stamps his foot and claps his hands,

And turns around and views the lands.

Waiting for a partner,

Waiting for a partner,

Open the ring and choose one in,

While we all gaily dance and sing.

Digitized by Google
861

Close the lesson with a running race, or with one of the events mentioned in Lesson 7, Part 3.

Second Term—February to July.

Lesson 5. Parti. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust upward - begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale-1; lower arms side-downward and exhale-2.

4.	Hands on hips - place. Lower trunk forward -1; raise - 2.

Review the trunk exercises of the previous lessons.

5.	Hands on hips-place. Bend the knees-1; straighten - 2. The heels must be raised from the floor. Begin with a slight bend, gradually increasing its depth. Allow no stooping, the trunk must be upright.

Part 2. Aim:	Prompt	Response.	Discrimination.

1.	Right - face. Left - face.

In teaching facing it is wise first to ask the pupils where their right hands are. Tell them to run that way when you say right

2.	With clapping hands, right - face; also left - face.

Part 3. Aim: Co-ordination. Judgment.

Field event: Standing Broad Jump.

Divide the class into two sides, two teams. Arrange the teams on opposite sides of the yard. Mark off a scratch line. One player from each team toes the scratch. After swinging the arms fore and backward several times, each player jumps forward as far as possible. Credit the side that jumps farthest with one point. Then the next two jump, etc., until all have had a chance. Announce the winning team.

End the period by playing “Follow the Leader,” the teacher leading. Later allow one of the pupils to be the leader.

Lesson 6. Part 1. Aim:	Physical	Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust sideward - begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms side-upward and inhale-1; lower arms side-downward and exhale-2.

4. Raise arms sideward -	raise.Turn trunk left-1;	return

- 2. The same exercise right.

Review the trunk exercises of the previous lessons, raising the arms to an assumed position like in this lesson.

5.	Raise arms fore-upward - raise. Raise the left leg backward-1; lower - 2.

The same exercise right.
362

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	Marking time and halting on command. Mark-time-inarch. Attention - halt.

2.	Mark time eight steps - march. Repeat with clapping hands on the first count.

3.	Hands on hips - place. Straighten arms upward - straighten. Lower arms forward - lower. Anns - lower.

These movements are to be taken only upon command. The movement also may be combined with clapping hands once or twice. Example: With clapping hands, place hands on hips - place.

Part 3. Aim: Skill, Judgment, Co-operation.

Ball Game. Catch the Bean Bag.

The pupils are arranged in two sides or teams. The teams stand about five steps apart. The first player on team No. 1 tosses the bean bag to the first player on team No. 2. He tosses it to the second player of the opposite side, and so on until each player has had a chance. Who catches the bag is credited with one point. At the end of the game announce the winners.

This game may be made more difficult by increasing the distance between the teams. Close the lesson by one of the games or events mentioned in Lesson 7, Part 3.

Lesson 7. Lower Grade. Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust upward - begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms side-upward and inhale -1; lower arms side-downward and exhale-2.

4.	Raise arms sideward - raise. Bend trunk left-1; return - 2. The same exercise right.

Review the trunk exercises of the preceding lesson, raising the arms to a starting position as in this lesson.

5.	Raise arms sideward - raise. Raise left leg forward - 1; lower - 2. The same exercise right.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	One step forward - march. One step backward - march.

2.	Left-face. With clapping hands, left-face.

Right-face. With clapping hands, right-face.

3.	Arms forward - raise; hands on shoulders - place; hands on hips-place; hands-lower.

Part 3. Aim: Co-operation; in the second game: Quick

Reaction.

A Song game. Did you ever see a Lassie?

The words and the air are to be learned in the classroom.

Did you ever see a lassie, a lassie, a lassie,

Did you ever see a lassie do this way and that?

Do this way and that way? Do this way and that way?

Did you ever see a lassie do this way and that?

Digitized by
363

At first the teacher shows the movements to be performed by the pupils when singing “Do this way and that way.” Later the pupils should be used to show the exercises to be imitated.

After playing for a while change to the game of “Spin the Plate.”

The players form a circle and are numbered 1, 2, 3, etc. The leader is inside the circle. He holds a disk or plate in his hand, and, setting it on edge on the floor, gives it a quick twist. While it is spinning he calls out some player by his number, who rushes forward to catch the plate before it settles flat. If successful he becomes leader, and the former leader takes his place in the circle. If unsuccessful he returns to his place, and the leader spins the plate again, calling another number.

Older players may also be required to clap their hands once or twice, in front or behind the body, hop, turn around, etc., before starting to catch the plate.

Lesson 8. Lower Grade. Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arm to thrust - bend. Thrust sideward - begin.

2.	Arm for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale-1; lower arms side-downward and exhale - 2.

4.	Hands on hips-place. Bend trunk fore-downward and straighten arms downward -1; return - 2.

Repeat the trunk movements of former lessons.

5.	Swing the arms fore-upward and rise on toes -1; return- 2.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	One step forward and backward - march (in four counts).

2.	One step left sideward and return - march (in four counts). The same exercise beginning right.

3.	Repeat 1 ana 2 with hand clapping e. g., one step forward and backward with clapping hands - march (the clapping is upon the first count).

Part 3. Aim:	Determination.

A Field Event. Basketball Farthrow.

The exercise consists of throwing a basketball as far as possible. The pupil who is to throw toes the scratch line, feet apart Holding the basketball in both hands he bends forward and backward several times, swinging the ball down between the feet and up overhead. Then he throws the ball forward as far as he can. If the teacher puts a chalk mark on the floor about 10 to 15 feet ahead of the scratch line, every pupil will try his best to throw beyond that line.

Additional Material for the Lower Grade.

a.	Tag games like Hand Tag, Squat Tag and Skip Tag.

b.	Racing over short distances, either straight away, or up to some mark and back again, or around some object in the playground and back.

c.	Children of this grade usually lack co-ordination. If it is possible to obtain low balance boards, walking on these will be a

Digitized by CjOOQle
364

splendid exercise. The boards should not be more than 12 inches 'high.

Jumping over these balance boards also is an excellent exercise because of the courage that is needed to jump over an obstacle.

d.	Additional song games found in the regular handbooks.

Tactics. Marching.

Arrange the pupils in a front column composed of ranks of two. “Have them march forward through the center of the yard and then •divide, having the first two march to the right, the next two to the left, and so on. The two divisions keep on marching, and when meeting in the center they form fours, and march forward through the center in a column of fours. Later in the year it may be possible to again have the pupils divide (the fours) into twos, march alon g the sides, and when meeting march through the center by twos.

Free Exercises.

As a rule it is wise not to ask pupils of this grade to perform other than two count exercises of one body part. There may, however, be conditions that make it profitable to increase the difficulty of the -co-ordinations demanded of these pupils. In such a case easy alterations of two exercises would be proper. For example: “Hands are placed on hips.” Bend the trunk fore-downward-1; straighten, the trunk - 2; straighten the arms forward - 3; replace the hands - 4.

A combined movement of two body parts may also be perfectly proper for example: “Swing the arms fore-upward and rise on toes - 1; iretum-2.” Or, the hands being placed on the hips, "Bend the trunk fore-downward and straighten the arms downward - 1; return -2.”

Games and Contests.

The difficulty of many games and contests may be increased in various ways. A game is made more difficult by increasing either the physical or the mental requirements. Under increased physical 'requirements, usable in ordinary schoolwork, the following may be mentioned:

a.	Increasing the distance to be run,.

b.	Increasing the size or the weight of the object to be thrown -or caught,

c.	Increasing both distance and weight or size,

d.	Hopping instead of running.

There are, however, also instances where decreasing the size •or shape of the thrown object increases the difficulty. For instance, a ball is more difficult to catch than a bean bag; and, within reason, a small ball is more difficult to catch than a large ball.

It can readily be seen that the course of work outlined in these lessons can be made to fit many conditions if the above statements are understood, and if the teacher is capable of modifying the lessons to meet the conditions. Before attempting any supplementary work the prescribed lesson, however, should be performed in a satisfactory manner.

Digitized by CjOOQle
865

GROWTH IN GIRL SCOUT MOVEMENT.

Upward of 50,000 girls between the ages of 10 and 18 are enrolled as Girl Scouts, according to a report furnished by Juliette Low, and published by the United States Bureau of Education, Department of the Interior. Registrations have been made at the rate of about 150 per day since January 1,1919.

The work of the Girl Scouts is described as follows in the report of Mrs. Low:

Girl Scout Work Is National.

“The scope of Girl Scout work is national; troops are organized in every state except Utah, and they are active in the Territory of Hawaii. Girl Scout troops are affiliated with the work of schools, churches, settlement houses, civic councils, community welfare organizations, women’s clubs, etc., but the Girl Scouts’ organizations are nonsectarian and nonpolitical. A girl may belong to other organizations at the same time.

Laws Revised by National Council.

The form of the law, promise, and the tests for scout rank were revised by the National Council in January, 1919. At the opening of every Girl Scout troop meeting, there is a simple ceremony. After the scouts salute the flag of the United States and pledge their allegiance, the captain gives the crisp command:

“Scouts give your promise.”

They reply as follows:

“On my honor, I will try to be true to God and my country;, to help others at all times; to obey the Scout laws.”

“Scouts, repeat the laws” is the next command.

The Scouts answer:

“A Girl Scout is trustworthy; a Girl Scout is loyal; a Girl Scout is helpful; a Girl Scout is kind; a Girl Scout is clean; a Girl Scout is courteous; a Girl Scout is persevering; a Girl Scout is cheerful; a Girl Scout is thrifty.”

“Scouts, give the motto,” is the final order.

The girls answer, “Be prepared.”

There are three classes of scouts—tenderfoot scouts, at least 10 years old; second-class scouts; first-class scouts, up to 18 years of age.

No girl may wear the Girl Scout pin, insignia, or uniform until she is formally accepted as a tenderfoot scout. To arrive at this distinction she must be at least 10 years old and she must pass the following test to the satisfaction of the Girl Scout officer in charge:

For headwork she must first of all know the Scout promise and laws, and the Girl Scout motto, “Be prepared,” and the Girl Scout slogan, “Do a good turn daily;” she must also know by heart the first and last verses of “The Star-Spangled Banner” and the full-name of the President of the United States, the governor of her State, and the head of her city or town government.

For handwork she must be able to tie four sailor knots in approved fashion—the reef, bowline, clove hitch, and sheepshank.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
366

For health knowledge she learns the simple setting-up exercises and tenderfoot drill.

For helpfulness she promises to try to do a good turn daily to her troop, her school, her home, or her community.

The tests which must be passed for rank as a second class scout •carry on to more advanced stages; the development of head work, handwork, hygiene, and general helpfulness, begun in tenderfoot jscouthood.

Second-Class Scout Knows Her Own Measurements.

The second-class scout, for headwork learns the history and meaning of the flag; knows her own measurements and how to record them; can recognize six animals, six birds, six flowers, six trees, and describe them so that another person may recognize them on sight; she learns the 16 points of the compass, how to prevent fire and how to stop it if fire starts; she is capable of using both the general-service code and the semaphore code. The second-class scout trains her powers of observation by playing games that require quick eye and dependable memory, such as noting at a glance the contents of a shop window, the appearance of passersby in the street, or the game of tracking and stalking in the open. For handwork, the second-class scout learns to lay and light a fire in a stove, in a gas stove, or in the open, using not more than two matches. Having made her fire, she learns to cook simple dishes, such as cereals, vegetables, meats, fish, or eggs. She learns to set a table properly for two courses. She learns to make and air a bed properly, and she she learns to make a bed for an invalid. The second-class scout also learns to sew a seam, hem, darn, either knot or crochet, and she must present a garment made by herself which demonstrates her skill as a needlewoman. For health knowledge, the second-class scout demonstrates her ability to stop bleeding, to remove grit from the eye, to treat ivy poisoning, to bandage a sprained ankle, to remove a splinter, and she must know the scout laws of health. For helpfulness, she is required to apply what she learns for the benefit of others, in service rendered to the troop, school, home, church, or community. Thrift is encouraged in the second-class scout test, inasmuch as the girl is required to earn or save enough to purchase some personal or troop equipment. Scouts of the second class take pride in drilling with snap and precision.

A first-class scout is almost a grown-up woman, capable of bearing the responsibilities that will come to her in her own home and in the community. The tests require that she be trained to higher efficiency in headwork, health knowledge, and helpfulness. It is the ambition of every Girl Scout to reach the rank of first-class scout, when she may work for the highest honor of all, the Golden Eaglet badge, for which the requirements have been raised from 14 points of proficiency badges to 21 points. Twenty-six .scouts in the United States have won the Golden Eaglet under the 14 point ruling.

A Grown Woman, Nearly.
367

PHYSICAL BENEFITS OF THE GAME OF ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL, AND A METHOD OF ORGANIZATION FOR ITS BEING PLAYED IN THE GRAMMAR SCHOOLS.*

D. Stewart, Head Coach, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

First, with regard to the physical benefits—these are many and varied. To play the game a boy must be able to run; by that I mean have such control of his speed that he can run fast or slow, to this he has to know how to control the ball and retain it in his possession by dribbling or parting with it in the proper way at the proper speed at the proper time. Then of course he must know how to receive the ball as it is coming toward him, high or low, near or far, and be able to use both sides of his head as well as the front of it; also each side of either foot and the front of it; how to take a standing or running kick; how to kick long or short, high or low; judiciously tip the ball over an opponent’s head and get it as it touches the ground. All of this only enables him to qualify in running and foot work. The next and probably the most difficult part is to teach him to use his brain. He has to learn to think for himself, quickly and accurately. He has to learn how to size up his opponent, how to tackle him, how to anticipate his possible moves and intercept his.passes, then he must learn what to do with the ball when he gets it. He must learn to know instinctively where every one of his mates is on the field; he must know which are covered and which are uncovered, and he must learn to feed his mates in a proper way at the proper time, so that when he tackles an opponent, intercepts his pass, and gains possession of the ball it will be saved to his own side by an appropriate pass to an uncovered mate. If he is a forward he has also to learn how to shoot or to convert his possession of the ball in the proximity of the goal into a goal point. It he is a goalkeeper he has to know just what his opponents are going to do and how they are going to shoot, how he can stop the ball from going through the goal with his feet or hands or body; how to save it from the opponents when he does get it and how to get rid of it with the greatest advantage to his side; how far he can handle or carry the ball; just how far he can be protected, and when he loses the protection and privileges of a goal keeper. If he is a fullback, how he must be not only a full back but a half back as occasion demands; how he must assist and protect his goal keeper in every way; how he must support his halves and forwards; how to use strategy in his play; how not to waste time. If he is a half— the maker or breaker of a team. He must be a support to the forwards on attack and the front wall of the defense; particularly if he is center half he is the key of the attack and of the defense all the time. He has to think harder and faster than any of the others on the team. He has to contain all the opposing forwards; he has to so dispose his wings that they adequately assist him; he has to feed his own forwards and keep up after them up and down the field, in touch with centre forward. It follows then that the boy who can

‘Notes from an Address made at the annual meeting of the Grammar School Athletic League, Philadelphia Public Schools, October, 1919.

Digitized by CjOOQle
368

do all those things is a real athlete. It takes strength to stay on his toes for an hour and a half using his legs and feet continuously— therefore he must have strength, wind, and consequently endurance and keep in good physical condition. To be able to think quickly and act simultaneously requires a nimble and properly working brain. To be able to make up his mind what to do at the right time in the right place requires prompt decision and the fact that he has nobody to tell him what to do causes him to think for himself, consequently to act for himself, and this naturally develops initiative.

We all know perfectly well that most everything in the shape of a boy can be quite happy if he has a ball to play with either by hand or foot; the more skill he acquires in kicking or handling the ball the more he enjoys it—the more he thinks there is in the game. When he finds that by playing the association game he develops into a good runner, or a good tennis player, or participant in any other sport which requires quick, clear thinking and rapid action he undoubtedly will and in fact does think it is more of a game than ever. It is a fact, however, that halves are good tennis players or boxers or fencers. The wingers are as a rule very fast—and invariably when you put a fast winger in with other runners who are quite as fast he will win because he is in the habit of thinking while he is running. He meets conditions and overcomes obstacles which defeat the runner who has no other thought in mind than the tape. There is no difference in the degree of concentration or the attainment of the object, only the winger’s brain takes in more. This applies to all boys who properly play and understand the association game and as his young mind and body are in our hands for the purpose of being molded and taught so that his mind is broadened and enabled to grasp things in life quickly it is advantageous if we can the better succeed in our object by giving the boy pleasure along with his benefit. Education without some pleasant feature in it is a bore. It is like the average boy and medicine—he doesn’t mind the medicine, he objects to the bad taste, but likes the pleasant taste.

To come to the matter of imparting this knowledge to the boys in the public schools I am unfortunately not in a position to speak with knowledge—I have had no experience with the small or young boy, and particularly with the boy who knows nothing of the game, my experience being confined to boys in or entering college, and in cases of this sort I have found experience to be the best teacher. Fundamentally, of course, a boy should have in things of this sort some practical knowledge. He should know what a ball is and how it feels to the feet. Initiation and emulation being two of the small boy’s strong points, the best plan I should think, would be to let him see some other and bigger boys doing properly what you want him to do. Getting his interest aroused he naturally wants to know how to do the thing and somebody must show him, and that somebody should know what he is showing. The boy having learned the feel of the ball, and with some elementary notion of kicking, sufficient to indicate to the teacher or coach what his possibilities are, should be sorted out, so to speak, as a goal keeper, full back, half back or forward. When it is possible to make up a team get him
869

playing intramurally of course; so much time for drilling in the particular elements of kicking, passing, blocking, trapping, dribbling and heading. The more rapidly he qualifies in these the sooner he gets on to the team. I have noticed that the boy whose interest is aroused will not limit himself to the regular practice hours but his practice will be limited only by his ability to get hold of a ball and somebody to play with him. He should be taught to kick with his foot, both feet, the top or instep of the foot and either side of the foot. There are kicks from the knee and from the hip, and there are kicks where both joints enter into it. The fundamental error in the playing of the game in Americais the belief that the ball is kicked with the toe—it is not. The toe has a very definite function in the art of kicking and it is seldom that it is used for the actual impact which creates the kick—the function of the toes is to elevate the ball—the front of the foot gives it the propulsion and direction—according as the toe is, so is the trajectory of the ball. Acquiring the knowledge of how to properly kick the ball the boy will show by his kicking what his particular strong point is in that line. The art of kicking takes in the faculty of balancing because, properly done, the kicker standing on the toes of the other foot from that which is coming in contact with the ball, he must also learn how to put his weight into the kick and not become unbalanced.

All of this takes in quite a course of teaching and to make his interest more intense there should be kicking competitions, with some mark of credit awarded for the best in any direction or as a whole. The same course could apply to stopping the ball from any direction at any height and immediately following this would be the ability to instantly part with the ball in whatever manner required wheresoever desired. This of course partly overlaps on the course in short passing which is quite important particularly for forwards and halves. Then we have dribbling—the ability to control and keep the ball at one’s foot during the endeavor to progress to a favorable spot for drawing opponents out of position, and giving the ball to a well placed mate, or to carry it past an opponent in an effort to reach goal shooting range. Another elemental course is that of heading the ball, using the three front sides—at the top of the forehead and on the sides at the same level. This looks easy and it is after you know how. But unintelligent heading is as dangerous as wild lacking.

These various stages of the elemental part of the game give abundant room for competition.

The other things a boy must learn are the mental qualifications and these can only be acquired by team play and theoretical discussion on the playing of the game. Sorting them out into two teams, each player in the position he seems most useful in, explain to them the functions of each particular player, and start them off in a game, correcting their practical work—after a while a smoothly running machine will be the result. Patience will be required but it will be rewarded.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
370

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

The “Health Rate” of a Nation.—Among the many lessons that the war has helped to teach, few have been more significant than the demonstration of the unexpectedly large number of persons who, from a military standpoint, are physically unfit. The more progressive nations have for some years devoted much consideration to the problems of national vitality, and sanitary science as well as practical hygiene has gained a more prominent place in the estimation and the budgets of enlightened communities. Perhaps, however, Arthur Keith was right in saying that the mistake which we have been making is that of keeping our eye too exclusively on the birth rate and death rate and neglecting what he cleverly designates the “health rate.”* Without doubt the young men of the English-speaking nations, at least, have been shown by the elaborate physical examinations, undertaken as a part of the military arrangements of the respective countries, to be far below that ideal standard of fitness which might be expected for a virile race.

The almost appalling statistics of the examinations made in this country by the medical boards have been referred to from time to time. Keith** has presented the conditions that prevail in England in statistical terms which indicate the outcome of grading young men from one of the large British industrial towns. In place of having 900 men, out of 1,000, more or less fit for physical employment in civil life, only 460 could thus be counted. It may be objected that the present population of such towns and cities represents for the most part only the residue after the fit and active men have gone out to military service; but Keith ventures to assert confidently that even when this possibility is taken into account there can still be no illusions as to the large numbers who are physically far below the standards for their ages..................

National health is demanding more prominent consideration than has been accorded to it either here or abroad in the past In the United States the desirability of having the Public Health Service recognized more prominently as an independent department of the government has been widely discussed. In England the project of a ministry of health seems likely to succeed. The pnme minister, Mr. Lloyd George, has awakened the imagination of the English by the terse remark that it is impossible to maintain an A1 empire with a C3 population. He took pains to emphasize, by way of explanation, that greater attention ought to be paid to the home “the most important workshop in the land,” because it turns out human beings, the most delicately constructed of all human machines.

Leonard Darwin, son of the eminent biologist Charles Darwin,

* Keith, Arthur: National Phyrique and Public Health, Observer, Oct. 20, 1918.

** London Letter, J. A. M. A. 71: 1929 (Dec. 7) 1918.
371

has pointed a warning against possible misinterpretations of the widely quoted A1-C3 catch phrase. He reminds us that if the steel of which a tool is made is not of good quality, a good article cannot be turned out even in the best workshop; that is, the child must be both endowed at birth with good racial qualities and born in a good home if the result, the finished man, is to be of the best quality. From this standpoint the progressive reformer who aims at increased national efficiency must be conversant not only with modern sanitation and the proposed devices for social uplift, but also with the investigations of the experimental biologist. Both eugenics and “euthenics,” as the scheme for environmental betterment has been termed, must find a place in the new attempts to improve the “health

rate” of the nation.............

Lastly, let us not make the blunder of measuring fitness solely from the standpoint of physical prowess. Moral and intellectual virtues have often been found in relatively frail bodies. We need men and women who have a clear intellect and a tender conscience— the higher type of individual whose body is the ready servant of a superior will.

You can provide wholesome recreation.—The army didn’t stop when it drove out the prostitutes, when it treated the victims of disease; it didn’t stop after it told the men in as many different ways as it could the dangers and seriousness of irregular sex relations. It knew too much about human nature to stop there. It filled the soldier’s life with hard work and interesting, healthy recreation. Neither should your town stop until it furnishes plenty of clean, wholesome play for its citizens. In some ways this is the most important element in the whole program.

Men and girls need companionship, excitement and recreation. The contemptible profiteers of vice exploit this natural desire. The red-light district, saloon and low dance hall, cheap and tawdry though they be, are easy, accessible, exciting means of recreation. In many communities these dangerous amusements form the only kind available for strangers, and the friendless. Outdoor play and sports, attractive lounging places, open houses and clubs, organized athletics, gymnasiums, reading rooms, fraternal activities, community singing, good theatres at reasonable prices, well supervised dancing: these are the successful and effective substitutes for the saloon and the brothel.—From pamphlet issued by U. S. Public Health Service, 1918.

Food Value of Candy.—Candy being composed principally of sugar, chocolate and nuts, is very high in food value, and the different kinds vary in the proportion of carbohydrates, fat and protein they contain. Sugar is highly concentrated food. Sugar is easily digested. On account of the rapidity with which it is assimilated, sugar quickly relieves fatigue. Six ounces of sugar are equal in food to 1 quart of milk, or 1 1-3 pounds of lean beef. It has a fuel value of 1,810 calories. Nuts are very high in food value, those used principally in manufacturing confectionery being almonds, filberts,

Digitized by i^-ooQle
372

pecans, peanuts and walnuts, averaging approximately 1,500 •calories per pound. Corn syrup, erroneously called glucose, used largely in manufacturing gum drops, hard candies and taffies, is a pure wholesome transparent heavy syrup, manufactured from com. '■The food value as expressed in scientific terms is 1,559 calories per pound.

Candy is composed of various raw materials of high food value; it is, therefore, apparent that candy being composed of combinations •of two or more of these raw materials is exceptionally high in food value. With the three exceptions, the different kinds of candies .are very much higher in fuel value than whole milk having a fuel value of only 315 calories per pound, cream 881 calories, whole eggs 695 calories, beefsteak 1,090 calories, com 1,685 calories, rice 1,620 calories, white bread 1,180 calories, and com bread 1,175 calories. The high nutritive value of chocolate candy is recognized by the leading military authorities of the world, and the “boys at the front" are satisfying their craving for “something sweet” with chocolate cakes and tablets and candies of various kinds. Scientists have demonstrated by careful experiments that during violent exercise or exhausting labor, the sugar in the blood is very heavily drawn on to supply the body with the necessary fuel, hence the longing for “something sweet” which can be readily assimilated, and which is most easily and conveniently supplied in some form of candy. The Swiss guides for mountain climbers consider lump sugar and sweet chocolate an indispensable part of their outfit. Children should have candy frequently. It is better to give them candy frequently than to give only occasionally, when the craving for it creates an almost irresistible temptation to overeat. It is especially desirable that candy should be served for dessert. A moderate amount frequently is better than an occasional over-indulgence.

J.E.Leikauf, New York. N. Y. Med. Journal, Sept. 7, 1918.

Hygiene and the State.—The health laws of the state to be •effective must be supported by a people trained to understand and trained to obey these laws. The hygiene of the state as a whole •cannot be better than the hygiene of the people who make the state. An effective physical training of the individual is then a contribution in the service of the state.—T. A. Storey, M.D., Ph.D., on Physical Training.—The Journal,	Am. Med. Assoc. February 1,	1919.

Breathing Gymnastics for Marching Soldier.—Dr. N. J. P.

Van Baggen advocates breathing gymnastics for the marching soldier for the purpose of developing the chest, strengthening the muscles of the thorax, and fortifying action on the pulsation of the heart because they are evidently of great advantage for those who are obliged to exert their physical capacities to the utmost. Moreover, control over the breath, which means the regulation of inspiration and expiration, is most valuable while walking, marching, running, and, in general, while performing any bodily exercise. It has been found also that the exercises have an excellent influence on the •correct erect bearing of the men.—Medical Record, N. Y. Jan. 18,1919.

Digitized by v^ooQle
NOTES AND COMMENTS.

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION CONVENTION, NEW YORK CITY.

April, 7-10, 1920.

Headquarters for Meetings: Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.

Opening Meeting, April 7th. Morning and Afternoon meetings,. 8th, 9th, 10th, Roof Garden Rooms.

Evening Meetings, Grand Ballroom, April 8th. Roof Garden,. April 9th.

TENTATIVE PROGRAM

Wednesday, April 7.

Morning and Afternoon—Registration of Delegates and Inspection' Trips in groups of twelve or more.

7:30 P. M.— Opening Meeting of Convention—Roof Garden. Music and Reception.

Welcome Address.

Community Health Education.

Presidential Address.

Folk Dancing by Delegates.

Thursday, April 8.

9:30 P. M.— Public School Section Meeting.

Program to be provided.

2:00 P. M.— Sectional Meetings—Programs to be provided by each section chairman.

8:45 P. M.— Convention Banquet.

Address.

Address.

Brief Toasts by Members.

Friday, April 9.

9:30 A. M.— General Meeting.

Problems of Recruiting Teachers in Physical Education.

Physical Education and Industrial Unrest.

Discussion of Printed Committee Reports.

2:30 P. M.— General Meeting.

Progress in Physical Education Legislation.

Address.

Discussion of Printed Committee Reports.

8:00 P. M.— General Meeting.

Educational Tests.

Health and the High Cost of Living.

(Discussion after each paper.)

Digitized by Google
874

Saturday, April 10.

■9:30 A. M.—General Meeting.

The Place of Physical Education in the General Scheme of Education.

Business Meeting.

Discussion of Printed Committee Reports.

12:00 Noon—Luncheon—Council Meeting.

2:00 P. M.— Exhibition and Demonstration.

Following Committee Reports will be printed in advance and given to delegates as they register:

Standard Physical Efficiency Tests in Elementary and in High Schools.

Athletics for Women.

Budget Committee.

Finance.

Advertising.

Publication.

Unification and Standardization of Courses for Physical Education Teachers.

Health Examinations.

Child Hygiene.

Sex Hygiene in High Schools.

Headquarters for Delegates. WALDORF-ASTORIA.

Rates:

Single Room Without Bath, $4 per day and up Single Room With Bath, $6 per day and up Double Room Without Bath, $6 per day and up Double Room With Bath, $11 per day and up MCALPIN.

Rates:

Single Room Without Bath, $3 per day and up Single Room With Bath, $4 per day and up Double Room Without Bath, $4.50 per day and up Double Room With Bath, $6 per day and up.

Write—Early—For—Reservation.

New Method of Heating Buildings.—A new scheme for heating buildings, described as the application of the “aerofoil” theory was advanced recently by Professor G. H. Bryan, speaking before the British Association at Bournemouth. He said that while working at the mathematical theory in connection with aeroplanes the idea of the aerofoil theory occurred to him, and the results obtained had agreed with the theory far better than had been anticipated.

His proposal, he said, was to place over every radiator in a public or private building a deflector, arranged at an angle determined by experiment. Without the deflector the hot air from the radiator was drawn up towards the window and so passed away from the interior of the room. But with the deflector in use the hot air was

Digitized by
376

passed from its underside into the room in a free stream, while the mass of cold air between the outer side of the deflector and the window formed a non-conductor and prevented the hot-air from escaping through the window to the outside.

It was essential, he said, that the deflector should have a sharp edge, so as to secure a free stream of hot air; with a rounded edge eddies of hot air were produced which did not carry so far into the room.

PHYSICAL TRAINING CREED.

I BELIEVE my body is my house and should be kept clean as long as it is occupied.

I BELIEVE my muscles should be kept working smoothly by regular systematic exercise.

I BELIEVE this training develops the will to make the best of myself and to do greater service to others.

I BELIEVE daily exercise trains me to feel and to understand the joy in work and in play.

I BELIEVE in athletics, in taking my part in school contests, in courage, fair play and sportsmanship.

I BELIEVE I am growing in manhood, and am preparing myself to be an active, intelligent, useful citizen, ready to take my part and to give the other fellow a “square deal.”

I BELIEVE in playing the game to the end with all my mind, strength and courage.

Dr.	A. L. Johnson,	Co. Superintendent of Schools, Union Co. N. J.

BOOK REVIEWS.

Folk and School Dances.—Twenty-three folk and school dances selected for fitness and fascination for young folks in the gymnasium and on the playground. The descriptions of the steps and combinations are given in plain and understandable English. For sixteen of them the music is given; for the remainder the numbers of the Victor records to be used, are mentioned. Each dance is printed separately on a loose sheet. Published by the Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Ind.; price 50c.

Health by Stunts, by N. H. Pearl and H. E. Brown. 216 pages, 4 1-2 by 6 1-2 inches, illustrated. Published by The MacMillan Company, New York. Price $1.30.

Both Capt. Pearl and Capt. Brown before the war were assistant supervisors of physical education in the public schools of Detroit. The stunts described in this valuable little book are the result of several years of experimenting with the boys in the Detroit school. With an ever increasing interest in all types of physical training work this booklet should be a valuable help not only to physical training teachers but also to all classroom teachers who have charge of the physical training work of their pupils.

Digitized by UjOOQle
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By FRED E. FOERTSCH, Pittsburgh, Pa.

COUNTRY PLAYS AND PAGEANTS.*

CONSTANCE D’ARCY MACKAY, National War Camp Community Service,

New York City.

Country plays should be about the things in which country people are interested, about what they like and know. They should also be simple and easy to produce. Above all, if possible, they should be of such quality that a certain amount of repetition will not stale them. Furthermore, they should bring something into country living, widen its horizon and lend inspiration.

It is often not feasible to begin with the very best. This, as in the case of army camps, can be reached only by gradations. Very often a lively farce that does not claim much literary quality is the best thing to begin with. A good comedy can be taken next such as Yeates’ Pot of Broth or Lady Gregory's Workhouse Ward. Then a more serious play can be taken for the next offering. This holds true of plays for children as well as for adults.

It is well in working up country plays to try to act the plays in other communities than the ones for which they were originally intended.

In giving plays in the country, the country poor farm and the country orphanage are very often neglected; yet these are the very people for whom the joy of seeing a play would mean more than to almost any others.

May Day needs greater emphasis in the country. The custom of hanging May baskets on neighbors’ doors should be revived.

Something more than fire-works and speeches should be arranged for Fourth of July. This is the time when community singing and community drama should be worked into a festival or pageant.

But, important as Fourth of July is in any country community, the country fair is even more important. Here, if any sense of beauty is to be developed in the community, the outdoor play or pageant, or possibly, the indoor pageant, should be made part of the day's entertainment. If possible this play or pageant should deal with the fruits of the earth, with flowers, or it may be that a simple agricultural pageant could be worked up about the story of Proserpine. The pageant given in connection with a country fair at Amenia, New York, proved the most interesting feature of the fair.

Christmas celebrations should also be worked up. There should be a community Christmas tree with carols and a community en-

• Reprint from “The Playground”.

Digitized by CjOOQle
877

tertainment in the town hall. In prairie towns where no trees can be had the custom of burning the Yule Log out-of-doors should be revived. Community singing and community drama can often be brought into closer accord. For instance, a production of Hiawatha can use Coleridge-Taylor’s Hiawatha cantata as part of its work.

Wider use should be made of the porticos of town halls and other halls and other public buildings in villages, as places in which to stage simple outdoor plays.

The wisest thing that can be done by any country community is to plan a program a year in advance and then stick to it. Such a program in advance has been most successfully carried out in Bennington, Vermont.

Rural Pageants.

A Historical Pageant is one of the most useful forms of drama for the country; first, because it uses people of all ages; secondly, because its group work banishes self-consciousness; thirdly, because taking costumes from trunks in attics gives people a feeling of reality. They are dealing with what they know, with something definitely relating to the life about them.

Pageantry is the drama of numbers, and as most country districts are sparsely settled one of the problems of country pageantry is to make a few people seem as many as possible. This can only be done by having the first scenes in a pageant have but few characters, saving the most for the last scene.

Wherever possible, several villages should unite in giving a rural pageant, each village taking an episode as was done in Amenia, New York and in Thetford, Vermont, and as was planned for several Western communities such as Fox River Valley.

It is difficult to work up a good local country pageant unless the wealthy citizens of the community will finance it, because a pageant-dramatist is needed to write it, and an artist of this type must be adequately paid. Perhaps in time to come agricultural colleges can supply this lack by having courses in pageantry, which will teach people how to develop the historical drama of their section.

Pageants that have been prepared in advance dealing with some well-known national theme are good for country districts. Such a pageant as Miss Nina B. Lambkin’s AMERICA YESTERDAY and TODAY will prove useful along these lines. Hiawatha, while not strictly a pageant, uses a great number of people and has mythical and historical significance that make it very well worth while.

A pageant can be worked up the winter before it is produced, thus giving everyone something to do in the long winter evenings. Peope can study the sources from which the pageant originated; can memorize their parts; can plan their costumes; can rehearse the pageant music and the pageant chorus. The pageant itself should not be rehearsed until just before it is needed, as this stales it.

Where villages unite in giving a pageant, each village can rehearse its own episode, and the final rehearsal of the whole pageant need not take place until just before the pageant is given.

Digitized by LaOOQle
378

All rehearsals, unless there is a very large town hall available, should take place outdoors. Amateurs never seem to get over the effect of rehearsing a scene in too small a space. If they rehearse in a cramped hall to begin with, when they get out of doors they still tend to huddle together like a flock of sheep. The sense of space, pageant picture and pageant grouping are utterly lost.

Rural Drama Bibliography.

One of the best and least expensive bibliographies on dramatics, festivals, pageants, rural recreation, games, athletics, stories ana folk-dancing is contained in:

Sources of Information on Plays and Recreation by Lee F. Hamner and Howard R. Knight. Published by the Department of Recreation, Russell Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd St., New York City.

Complete list of plays, pageants and operettas for young people, as well as suggestions for songs, dances, carols, costumes and community programs for Thanksgiving, Christmas, May Day and Fourth of July can be obtained free of charge from the Playground and Recreation Association of America, 1 Madison Avenue, New York City.

Plays for Children.

THE FIRST THANKSGIVING DINNER by Marjorie Benton Cook. Seven boys and three girls of twelve to fourteen years. Simple setting. Pilgrim costumes. Plays twenty-five minutes. Can be ordered from the Drama League Book Shop, 7 East 42nd St., New York City, Price 25c.

MOTHER GOOSE’S CHRISTMAS VISIT by Edith T. Langley is a Christmas play with a few songs introduced. The words and music of these songs are included with the play. The characters are the familiar Mother Goose characters. There are five boys and seven girls. The costumes are simple. The play lasts twenty minutes. It is good for rural communities, where all the Mother Goose characters will be readily recognized. Published by Samuel French, 28 West 38th St., New York City, price 25c.

JINGLE BELLS by Mr. and Mrs. Lewis is an excellent Christmas operetta in two scenes, playing three quarters of an hour. The characters include Santa Claus and Dame Claus and their eight children. The lines are jolly and the music has swing. It is published by Chas. Ditson & Co., 8 East 34th St., New York, price 40c.

THE ENCHANTED GARDEN by C. D. Mackay can be acted indoors or out of doors as a May Day play or a June graduation play. Most of the characters are flowers. There are also bee, butterfly and will-o’- the wisp. There are ten characters. Boys and girls can be used interchangeably. As many other children as desired can be introduced as extra flowers or attendants of the queen. With a dance or two it plays about forty-five minutes. Published by Samuel French, 28 West 38th St., New York; price 25c.

THE GARDEN DRAMA by Frances Shaw is a jolly play wherein all the characters are vegetables. As this play is privately

Digitized by ^.ooQle
879

printed, copies of it can only be obtained through correspondence with the Educational Dramatic League, 105 West 40th St., New York City.

Plays for Girls Only.

SIX CUPS OF CHOCOLATE, published by Harper Bros., Franklin Square, New York City; price 25c. This has proved to be a very popular one-act play for 6 girls. It has no pretentions to literary quality, but the lines are bright and unstilted. It requires every day costumes and an interior setting.

THE BURGLAR by Margaret Cameron is published by Samuel French, 28 West 38th St., New York City; price 25c. This is a play in which five girls may take part. They should be of high school age. The “burglar” who causes much excitement turns out to be the cat. This is a good farce.

AUNT MAGGIE’S WILL by Elizabeth Gale is published by Samuel French, 28 West 38th St., New York City; price 25c. This is a play in three short acts. It has ten female characters which can be played by girls of high school age. The theme is the test of a young girl’s housekeeping ability. There are many amusing situations.

THE FARMERETTE by Emma G. Whiting is published by Walter H. Baker, Co., 6 Hamilton Place, Boston, Mass. There are seven girls in the cast of this play which holds the interest and is easily produced. In three short scenes.

Plays for Farmers’ Wives.

THE GIRLS by Mabel H. Crane is published by Samuel French, 28 West 38th St., New York City; price 25c. There are nine female characters in this one-act play. It is especially suitable for older women, as the “girls” are middle-aged women who have a reunion after many years’ separation.

THE OLD PEABODY PEW by Kate Douglas Wiggin and JOINT OWNERS IN SPAIN by Alice Brown are listed under Special Plays with a Royalty.

FASHION REVIEW DOWN PETTICOAT LANE is a pantomime with music that is a great improvement on the old * 'album’ ’ idea. It requires a cast of thirty women and girls. It shows fashions from the Indian time to the present, and should send people to their attics for costumes. It can be inexpensively arranged. Camp Fire Girls or Girl Scouts can be the Indians. Music and costumes fully suggested. This play can be ordered from the Woman’s Press, 600 Lexington Ave., New York City; price 25c.

Plays for Men and Women.

BETWEEN TWO LIVES, a drama of the Passing of the Old and the Coming of the New in Rural Life by Charles William Burkett is published by the Orange Judd Co., 317 Fourth Ave., New York City; price 50c. No better play for a rural community than this is could be imagined. It is in three acts with simple interior scenes. There are eight men and six women in the cast. The play has lively action, bright lines and is packed full of rural wisdom. It has

Digitized by ^.ooQle
380

already had at least one hundred productions in rural communities, and always proves immensely popular.

THE DEPOT LUNCH COUNTER is published by Samuel French, 28 West 38th St., New York City; price 25c. This is a roaring farce with a cast of characters which can be subtracted from or added to at will, since there are always people coming and going to a depot. This play has not the slightest claim to literary distinction, but it can bring people together and give them a good laugh. It is essentially the type of play which causes people to want to get together and see another play, and for this reason it can be used as a dramatic stepping stone.

Pageants.

AMERICA YESTERDAY and TODAY by Nina B. Lambkin is published by T. S. Dennison Co., Chicago, 111., price 75c. Or it can be ordered from the Drama League Book Shop, 7 East 42nd. St., New York City for the same sum. This is a pageant applicable to any community. It is in three episodes, and plays one hour and fifteen minutes. The first episode shows the spirit of Indian days, the second episode shows the spirit of the Wilderness, and the third episode shows the spirit of Patriotism. The pageant is flexible in its cast. From seventy-five to five hundred people can be used according to what is desired. These characters of course include men, women and children. There are very clear stage directions, and pictures that will be a help to any amateur producer. There are also plain directions for dances and drills. The dialogue is simple and easy to learn. Besides the main characters, such as Indians and Pioneers, there are symbolic characters, such as “The Little Town Spirit” and “Rural Interests”. Both these characters lead groups that have a distinct bearing on farm life. This is essentially a pageant that will be useful to a rural community.

A PAGEANT OF INDEPENDENCE DAY by Thomas Wood Stevens can be obtained from the Drama League Book Shop, 7 East 32nd St., New York City, price 75c. This pageant is far superior in literary workmanship to the pageant above mentioned, but it is only adaptable to rural communities that can furnish at least one hundred and fifty people and adequate costumes. From one hundred and fifty to five hundred people can take part in it. The scenes cover the period of American History from Indian Days to the present. The pageant is a very fine one, and for communities that can stage it adequately, should be a great success.

HIAWATHA by Florence Holbrook is published by Houghton Mifflin & Co., Boston, Mass., price 15c. This is really a play which can be built into a pageant because as many Indians as desired can be added to the cast. It will take a cast of at least thirty-five to make it truly effective. Its original cast has nine boys, three girls and “extras.” In order to add Indian dances to it, Marie Ruef Hofer’s “Harvest Festival” should be purchased. It is published by the Clayton F. Summy Co., 63 East Van Buren St., Chicago,

111.,	price 50c. This has some splendid dances, and itself would make a very good pageant for a country fair, where it could be acted on

Digitized by floosie
381

the floor of a hall. For the HIAWATHA pageant, Camp Fire Girl costumes can be utilized as well as Boy Scout costumes, to which Indian fringe can be basted for the time being. An Indian pageant is one of the easiest to give because its costumes are so inexpensive.

Special Play* with a Royalty.

For all of these plays there is a $5.00 royalty for each production; but the plays themselves are extremely worth while doing— more so than the average play.

JOINT OWNERS IN SPAIN by Alice Brown is published by Walter Baker Co., 5 Hamilton Place, Boston, Mass., price 25c. This is a one-act play with four female characters. Simple interior setting. It is touching and charming and teaches sympathy with those who have to live in an old ladies’ home. Royalty, $5.00.

THE LOVING CUP by Alice Brown is published by Walter Baker & Co., 5 Hamilton Place, Boston, Mass., price 25c. This is a play in one act which can be given either indoors or out-of-doors, since the scene is a country picnic. It is a play that could be acted with special ease in a rural community. It has four men and nine women and as many other characters—men, women and children—as desired. It shows that kindness in any rural community is one of the best and most essential things. The play has humor and a good plot. Royalty, $5.00.

THE OLD PEABODY PEW by Kate Douglas Wiggin is published by Samuel French, 28 West 38th St., New York City, price 25. It is in two acts and has one male and eight female characters. It is ideal for production in a town hall or in a church. It was first acted in an old church in Hollis, Maine. It plays a full evening, has a gentle romance running through it, and has old fashioned costumes, such as can be found in any rural attic. There is a great deal of fun in the lines and it is always enjoyed by country people. Roya 1 ty, $5.00.

For Yeate’s POT OF BROTH and LADY GREGORY’S WORKHOUSE WARD address Samuel French, 28 West 38th St., New York City.

TEACHING FOLKS HOW TO PLAY.*

The value that we seek from the playing of games is often lost because the person who is directing does not understand the psychology that is necessary in the bringing out of the play spirit. This necessitates, in most cases, a study of the group of people and the environment in which they live, and a knowledge of the theories of play. These few points may be of help:

1.	Don’t scold. A cross word or look will very often spoil the whole game or play time, not only for the individual but for the entire group.

2.	You will have to feel play if you are to teach it. If you

* Courtesy of the Association Monthly.

Digitized by CjOOQle
382

are bubbling over with the spirit of play the group will catch it very quickly, but if you are not, don’t blame them.

3.	Modify your discipline to conform with play ideas.

4.	Be brief and to the point in your explanations, speaking distinctly.

5.	Lose as little time as possible in getting the group started in the actual playing of the game.

6.	Know exactly how to play the game before you attempt to teach it.

7.	Be companionable.

8.	Insist upon fair play.

9.	Watch the game for waning interest. Stop one minute before anyone gets tired of it, then when you suggest it the next time they will be eager for it.

10.	Don’t let your dignity prevent you from enjoying the game yourself. This is the common meeting ground of girls and leaders. Don’t lose the opportunity by staying out of the game.

In planning a program for a party, whether it be for girls alone or for boys, it is well to have these points in mind:

1.	The secret of a happy evening is to make everyone perfectly comfortable from the time she enters the door until she leaves. Often one forgets to plan for awkward moments. Maybe just a few guests arrive at first. All the games have been planned for the group as a whole. Remember that they might arrive a few at a time, and arrange stunts that the few can enjoy until the “crowd” arrives.

O’LEARY A Girl’s Game With a Rubber Ball.

By OSCAR E. RUTHER, Leavenworth, Kansas.

During the last few years a game has been developing in many cities that merits a description. The game consists in batting a small rubber ball with the hand a certain number of times and of performing a definitely outlined set of movements while reciting the following:

One,	Two Three, O’Leary

Four, Five, Six, O’Leary Seven, Eight, Nine, O’Leary Ten, O’Leary, Postman.

In starting the game the girl throws the ball against the ground, and then bats it against the ground twice while counting one, two, three. On three the ball usually is given a stronger bat so that it rebounds higher, and then, upon saying the word O’Leary, the player successively performs the following movements:

Exercise No. 1.

1,	2, 3, O’Leary, Swing the right leg outward over the ball,

4,	5, 6, O’Leary,	”	”	”	”	”	”	”	”

7,	8,9. O’Leary,	”	”	”	”	”	”	”	”

10,	O’Leary, Postman.

Digitized by LaOOQLe
883

When saying the last line catch the ball, and after a short rest take up No. 2, and then 3, etc.

No. 2. Swing left leg outward over ball.

No. 3. Swing right leg inward over ball.

No. 4. Swing left leg inward over ball.

No. 5. Form a circle by grasping hands and make the ball pass through from below.

No. 6. As 5, but have the ball pass through from above.

No. 7. Grasp the edge of the skirt with the left hand, and upon O’Leary make the ball pass upward between the arm and skirt.

No. 8. As 7, but have the ball pas through from above.

No. 9. Catch the ball in the hollow formed by holding the left thumb and forefinger together.

No. 10. As 9, but right.

No. 11. Perform a complete turn left.

No. 12. As 11, but turn right.

After performing the prescribed movement while reciting 1, 2, 3, O’Leary the ball is caught and held for a moment before beginning to count four, five, six.

Should the player miss at any one exercise she must again start from the beginning. If several girls are in competition the next one begins upon the failure of the one performing. In this case it is customary, upon the next trial, for the player to begin with the exercise she missed at the preceding trial. Agile pupils will be able to add more difficult exercises.

Keep Swimming Pools Clean.—To keep a swimming pool clear of dirt and sediment sprinkle a little ammonia alum in the water occasionally. This will send the sediment to the bottom and keep the water clean and clear.

Wanted: A few copies of June, 1919 and March, 1919 copies of Mind and Body. Let us hear from you if willing to sell yours.





CATALOG UPON REQUEST

CHICAGO

Gymnasium Equipment

COMPANY

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND OUTFITTERS

THEO. A. GROSS, President 1040 W. Lake St.	CHICAGO
Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Equipment Steel Lockers

Years of intensive specializing in these particular lines have made MED ART products pre-eminent—the first choice of those who know—and who consider quality and permanence as well as price.

Write For Catalog “L“

It is a recognized guide on Gymnasium, Playground, Swimming Poo! and Locker Room planning, equipment and operation. Sent on request to those who are interested. Write for it on your letterhead.

Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

3500 DeKaib St., St, Louis, Mo.

THE CHICA60 NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FOR WOMEN ONLY	ESTABLISHED 1903

FRANCES MUSSELMAN, Principal TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—REGISTRATION SEPTEMBER 25 and FEBRUARY S Accredited by State Department of Public Instruction. Theoretical and practical tx mining in all branches of physical education, preparing young women to become Directors of Physical Education in Public and Private Schools, Colleges and Universities, Young Womens' Christian Associations and Playground*. A strong faculty of teachers with a national reputation. Hundreds of our graduates arm holding responsible positions in the best institutions of the country. Exceptionally fine dormitory for non-resident students.

SIX WEEKS SUMMER TERM for 1920 opens JUNE 28 SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN For catalogs address Registrar, 430 S. Wabash Are., Chicago.

Physical Training Teachers and Supervisors

We Can Place You In Better Positions

The Rock; Mountain Mors Agency

PACIFIC OFFICE:

326	Empire Building	1812	Northwestern	Bank	Bldg.

Denver, Colo.	Portland*	Oregon

WM. RUFFER, A. M, Manager FRANK K. WELLES, Mgr.

Established

1873