MIND AND BODY

Vol. 37	April, 1930 No.	386

PUBLISHED BT lOND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM. MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota. V,

■g	1	■ ■	..... ......................

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm9 Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

♦—— ■■ ♦

HOW BEST TO ADMINISTER THE SCHOOL HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION PROGRAM

Edwin C. Broome, Superintendent of Philadelphia Public Schools

There are three definite, but closely related parts in a complete plan of physical and health education: Health Service, Physical and Health Education, Recreation. This afternoon’s program recognizes these three phases. All three phases are directed toward a common objective,—the building of healthy bodies and healthy minds.

The approach to the problem may be from three different directions; but it should be a coordinated approach if there is to be a minimum of wasted energy and resource, and a maximum of effectiveness. We have now heard what should constitute a suitable program in each field of our subject, from a practitioner of

Address delivered before the Health and Physical Education Section, Department of Superintendence of the N. E. A.—Atlantic City, N. J., February 24, 1930.

Digitized by Google
2

recognized distinction in each field. My task seems to be to discuss the most effective plan of administering a total program of health, physical education, and recreation in a public school system.

My approach to the subject will naturally be that of a superintendent of schools in a large city. In a large city every human and professional aspect of the problem is present. There is also the advantage of an administrative and supervisory staff of sufficient extent to ensure that every item of the problem shall receive attention by qualified experts following a unified and thoroughly coordinated program. The fact that this ideal state of affairs exists in few, if any, large cities, makes it a more attractive center around which to group our arguments.

Any plan of health and physical education should properly be directed towards four objectives:— (1) Correct information, frankly but tactfully conveyed; (2) proper health habits, firmly fixed by appropriate practices; (3) sane and wholesome attitudes, sedulously cultivated through proper instruction, good example, and abundant practice; (4) properly developed physiques.

I.	Organization of the System.

What form of organization is best calculated to realize these results? On this point the experts are not in entire agreement. A complete organization of physical and health education for a large city embraces six fields:—

1.	Physical training and corrective work.

2.	Recreation, including all athletics.

3.	Instruction in hygiene and physiology.

4.	Medical service.

5.	Nurse service, and health guidance and advising.

6.	Sanitary supervision of school property, equipment, and environment.

These general classifications will have to speak for themselves’ There is insufficient time allotted to describe each in detail-Some experts advocate the inclusion of all these activities in one department under a single director. Others would organize them under two coordinate departments, as follows:—

Numbers 1, 2, and possibly 3, under a department of physical and health education; and numbers 4, 5, 6, and possibly 3, under a department of medical and nursing service. Local conditions and size of school may control the policy in some measure, as well. Both plans are working well in large cities, but it would seem logical that all enterprises that contribute to the health of the children should be united in one department, under a single director responsible to the superintendent of schools.

One argument against the single department plan is that neither a physical educator nor a physician can possess sufficient knowledge of the entire field to give it adequate supervision. That is true in the case of directors whose training has been confined to the narrow field of their major interest. If a director

Digitized by t^OOQle
3

can be secured who has been broadly trained in the philosophy of education, child psychology, economics, sociology, educational administration and supervision, physical education and public health, and has common sense and qualities of leadership, it wouldn’t matter materially whether he held a degree in medicine or in physical education. Such a leader can intelligently direct the work of school physicians and nurses, as well as that of supervisors of physical training. It is essential that the director be an educator who can administer his department with the point of view of an educator.

This is the major consideration in the organization of health service. There are some minor considerations which deserve brief attention. One is the question of the full-time or the part-time school physician. There are advocates of both plans. The problem of cost enters at this point. It is difficult to secure competent and experienced physicians on full time for the salaries usually available; and it is more difficult to secure a sufficient appropriation to pay experienced physicians salaries that will compensate for the surrender of private practice. The difficulty is partially met in some large cities by the employment of several full-time medical supervisors on relatively large salaries to direct the work of the other part-time school physicians. Usually nurses are on full-time service; and should be.

The term of employment is another subject to be considered. Probably the most approved practice is to employ doctors and nurses for twelve months, with a month’s vacation. This plan provides health service for summer schools and vacation playgrounds, affords time for a sanitary survey of schools, for clinical service, and for service to children of pre-school age so that their physical handicaps may be removed before they enter school.

The next item may or may not come logically under the heading of organization, but it is important. The entire recreational program, also all athletics, intra- and inter-school, should be under the supervision of the department of physical and health education. The coaches should be staff men and women on staff salaries. This is one effective means of curbing athletic hysteria, and of providing that athletics will assume their proportionate place as a part of the school program. Another means is that of having a program of supervised games for all pupils, in grades above the sixth, at any rate, as a required part of the school work. Two hours a week through the school year for each pupil would be a reasonable requirement. This work should be supervised by the regular instructors in physical education, and should be evaluated, as arithmetic and language are evaluated, and credited for graduation. It is quite as important in the general education of the child.

No organization for health education is complete without adequate eye, ear, nose and throat, and dental clinics. These are costly, and, where necessary, the expense might be shared by the board of health with the board of education, provided a workable plan of cooperation for their control can be devised. This plan
4

is justifiable on the ground that such facilities should be at the service of all children who require it, whether in public school or not.

A recent development has appeared in the form of a plan of periodic health examinations for teachers. The effectiveness of a system of physical and health education will be greatly furthered if the teachers in the schools are examples of good health, practice sound health habits, and exercise the commendable practice of a periodic inventory of their own physical systems. This is a good way of making the teachers sensitive to the value of health as an educational and life problem. In our city we have had a plan of periodical health examinations for teachers for four years. The examinations are required of all from clerk to superintendent. They are made by men and women physicians on our medical staff.

Some progressive cities have provided for a mental hygienist or psychiatrist in the organization. Not being a specialist, I am unable to express a valuable opinion on the desirability of this addition. We all consider the psychological examination as necessary for the examination and classification of a typical child. The field of psychiatry or mental hygiene is so uncertain that we are not yet ready to condemn a school board as unprogressive which has not added a psychiatrist to its staff. In fact, it is practically hopeless to expect to secure an appropriation sufficient to employ a first class psychiatrist from public funds. Moreover, in the larger cities there are mental clinics in hospitals where mental cases can be handled at little or no cost, and receive much better treatment than could be received from a second-rate psychiatrist employed by the board of education.

Perhaps the establishment of mental hygiene service will be the next step forward.

II.	Administration of a Program of Physical and Health

Education.

The experts again are not entirely in agreement as to what si the best plan of administration of a program of physical and health education. It would be difficult to prove how much of this lack of agreement is due to hitherto unsurmountable factors in local situations, some traditional and some political, and how much is bom of sincere conviction. There is rather general agreement, however, that the entire program of health, physical education, and recreation for school children should be financed and controlled by the board of education, and directed by the superintendent of schools; and not partly by the board of education, partly by the board of health, and partly by welfare and other well-intentioned, but precariously supported organizations. The latter plan, which is so prevalent in the cities of the country, causes conflict of authority, duplication of effort and expense, entrusts the vital responsibility of the health of children to many whose appointment is due more to influence than to merit, and re-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
5

suits in a total cost to the community considerably in excess of the expense of the same service under single control.

We are aware of the fact that in certain cities where dual control of school health service, or triple control of health service, physical education, and recreation exists, there is effective cooperation between the board of education and the other departments of the city. In several states, notably in Pennsylvania, the plan of dual control of the health service is fixed by statute. But we are expected to be advocates of plans which we believe to be correct in principle, and not apologists for plans which may work tolerably well under tactful administration, but which are basically unsound, and owe their persistency to statutory mandate or to the influence of local tradition.

One of the most important, but difficult problems in the administration of a program of physical and health education is that of convincing all the teachers that the physical and health program is a vital part of the educational plan, and not an appendage; that it is not only as important as any other subject of the curriculum, but is more important than any other subject of the curriculum, and should receive more time, and as skillful treatment. If it should ever become my good fortune to build a curriculum for a school system of a newly organized community, a systematic program of physical and health education would be the center of the curriculum, around which the rest would be built. The health program would commence before school age with pre-school clinics and health advising in the homes. It would proceed by carefully graded stages throughout the school course. It would embrace physical exercises, including corrective work, health service, health education, recreation, and organized games and athletics, each feature varying from time to time in its proportion of attention according to the age of the children. Success in physical exercise, improvement in physique, knowledge of the facts and principles of hygiene, and the practice of good health habits, would be definite determinants in promotion from grade to grade. Under such a plan it is conceivable that a boy might fail of promotion for cigarette smoking, neglecting to clean his teeth, or other practices detrimental to his health.

Perhaps even some of the older established communities will soon be courageous enough to strike out boldly on such a course, and give health its proper place in the plan of public education.

Such a program as outlined this afternoon will cost money, -much more than the American people have yet seen fit to expend in the interest of the health of their children. A school board that has been willing for years to spend $25. a pupil for instruction in Latin has as yet been unable to find more than $5. a year per pupil on the health program of its high school students. To carry forth such a program also will require a change in our plan of teacher training, providing for the thorough preparation of the intending teacher in physical and health education.

Digitized by UjOOQle
6

HEALTH ASPECTS OF OLYMPIC GAMES

In connection with the Olympic games held in Amsterdam in 1928, special arrangements were made for physical studies of the athletes before and after participation in the contests. Physicians from various parts of Europe who had given special attention to the medical problems of athletics were invited to participate in the work. The results of their observations, which have just been made available in a German publication, constitute a remarkable and interesting commentary on what athletics do to and for the human body.

An investigation of the sprinters, including the athlete who won both the 100 and the 200 meter event, revealed a tendency toward low pulse and low blood pressure. The same was true for the middle distance runners, who had an average pulse rate of 67 and average blood pressures of 119 systolic and 81 diastolic. The long distance and marathon runners had even slower average

Sulse rates than did the middle distance runners. The former ad pulse rates around 61 and blood pressures of 116 systolic and 76 diastolic. The marathon runners had pulse rates averaging 58 and blood pressures averaging 123 systolic and 78 diastolic. The observers are convinced that there is evidently something more required than a first class circulatory mechanism to make a successful marathon runner. They venture the suggestion that it is something in the liver or possibly a psychologic factor which enables the marathon runner to plod along heedless of the distractions that waste some of the energy of the more emotional competitors. The marathon runners are in general older than the runners of the sprints and middle distances. Younger men seem to lack the stamina for feats demanding greater endurance. The same is true of other prolonged physical efforts, such as arctic exploring or mountain climbing.

The weight lifters are men of a different type from racers, including either runners or cyclists. Nine out of fifteen weight lifters had pulse rates over 80. Not one cyclist out of sixteen and only three runners out of seventy-seven reached this figure. Furthermore, the blood pressures were almost invariably higher for the weight lifters, with an average of 134 systolic and 90 diastolic. Five men in the group of weight lifters had diastolic blood pressures of 100 or over.

Of particular interest were the studies of the hearts of athletes made before and after competition. These studies included all the usual methods of physical examination. The use of the X-rays indicated that the heart becomes smaller after prolonged physical exercise, apparently because of actual loss of material through the work of the muscle. Dr. Herbert Herxheimer, who

Reprint, The Journal of the American Medical Assoc.

Digitized by LaOOQle
7

has devoted himself for many years to study of the effects of exercise on the human heart, was more concerned with the ultimate effects of the sport on the heart than with the immediate effect. Through his examinations he confirmed his previous observation that such sports as cycling, rowing, long distance riming and ski racing tend to cause permanent enlargement of the heart in relationship to the body size and weight. Such changes do not occur in every case, since there are certain types of constitution, which seem especially adapted to certain forms of work and sport, which do not react as does the average body. The electrocardiographic studies of the heart were made by Dr. S. Hoogerwerf of Leiden. These investigations showed that com-

Eetitive races, boxing, and wrestling place great demands on the eart. After the contests, men had extra beats of various portions of the heart, prolonged intervals in the conduct of the beat, and similar disturbances.

A beginning was made in investigation of the reaction times of various athletes. As might be expected, the quickness of the start, the response to unusual situations, the ability of the boxer and of the wrestler to protect himself depend on the reaction time. The few studies that were made indicated the desirability of more extensive investigation of athletes by this method.

Roentgen studies were made of the joints of athletes of various types. It was found that certain sports influence the formation of bone and of joints particularly. The greatest number of changes were found in the middle distance runners. Indeed, it has come to be realized by the athletes themselves that the distance races produce tremendous strains. The tennis elbow and the internal dislocation of the knee are forms of joint injury particularly frequent in athletes in various forms of sport.

The studies that have been made of the physiology of muscle indicate that lactic acid is formed in the process of muscle activity. Drs. I. Snapper and A. Grunbaum measured the lactic acid output in the urine and in the perspiration of athletes of various types. Football players, rowers, ana swimmers gave the greatest output and sprinters the smallest of any of the athletes studied. 'Drained athletes, except swimmers, seldom have albumin in the urine after competition. Untrained athletes may show albumin after an extra-ordinary effort. Sugar was found in the urine of one football player and one water polo player who had not had sugar previous to the competition. When the athlete first begins to perspire, he gives off more lactic acid than after the perspiration has continued for some time. Sometimes the concentration in the perspiration is ten times as great as in the blood.

The games at Amsterdam were the first in which a specially selected group of experienced physicians were assembled to make serious studies of the effects of athletics on the body. The essays that have been collected by Dr. F. J. J. Buytendijk of Groningen indicate the importance of such observations for the selection of

Digitized by v^ooQle
8

athletic types, for the limitation of competition, and for the general physical good of the athlete himself. With the experience gained by the first group, it should be possible to organize more perfectly for future Olympic games.

German publication—Buytendijk, F. J. J.: Ergebnisse der sportarztlichen Un~ tersuchungen bei den IX. Olympischen Spielen in Ams~ terdam, 1928. Berlin, Julius Springer, 1929.

LESSON PLANNING IN HEALTH EDUCATION

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we will begin the publication of a series of illustrative lesson plans in health education. The importance of planning lessons in this subject is ovbiously just as great as in any other. Unless each lesson is carefully prepared beforehand by the teacher there is little likelihood that it will be well taught. It is hoped that the ample lesson plans which will appear in Mind and Body during the next few months may be helpful to our many readers who are either now teaching the subject or who are preparing to teach it.

It is of great importance that the teacher determine upon a specific aim for each lesson and that he keep this aim in mind while teaching. The specific aim of a particular lesson must, of course, be in harmony with the general aims underlying the topic of which it is a part and in harmony with the objectives which have been set up for the entire course in the same school grade. It is also of importance that the teacher, by means of a carefully chosen approach in each lesson, have the pupils set up an aim for themselves. Such pupil aims should set up definite questions for which the pupils will seek answers during the lesson; the teacher should arouse the curiosity of the pupils and a desire in them to achieve the aim.

Before presenting any definitely worked out illustrative lesson plans to the reader, it will be well to set down a general outline for lesson plans and to follow this with a brief discussion of several parts of the outline.

Of the several types of lessons taught in classrooms, those most often used in health education are the development lesson, the review lesson, the textbook lesson, and the project lesson. The development lesson is easily the most important of these four types.

General Outline of Lesson Plan Subject Grade Type of Lesson

Topic: Indicate the topic of the lesson; also definite page and section reference in the Course of Study.

Digitized by

Google

i
9

Materials: Indicate all materials which are to be used in the lesson which require definite provision on the part of the teacher.

Teachers’ References: Indicate reference books and specific

pages.

Pupils’ Texts: Indicate text books and specific pages.

Elements of the Plan:

I. AIM:

General— Specific—

II. CONTENT:

Brief logical analysis of subject matter. It should not include material beyond that which is intended for children.

III. METHOD

Development Lesson

1.	Approach

2.	Development

3.	Conclusion

4.	Assignment

Review Lesson

1.	Approach

2.	Organization

3.	Conclusion

4.	Assignment

Textbook Lesson	Project Lesson

1.	Approach	1.	Purposing

2.	Assignment	2.	Planning

3.	Supervised Study 3. Executing

4.	Recitation	4.	Judging

5.	Assignment	5.	Assignment

Outcome: A brief summary statement by the teacher of the results of the lesson. This part is to be filled in after the lesson has been taught. The plan should be gone over carefully by the teacher after the lesson has been taught, checking the content to indicate the work actually covered. Variations in method should be indicated briefly under method.

The Development Lesson

We will conclude the article in this issue of Mind and Body with an illustrative plan of a development lesson; but before reaching this point, it is important that we discuss, at least briefly, the four points which we have enumerated under Method in this type of lesson.

1. Approach'—(Apply Law Of Readiness)

a.	Recall facts (by pupils, by teacher) already known, bearing on day’s lesson.

b.	Create atmosphere.

c.	Stimulate class. Arouse curiosity and interest.

d.	Statement of pupils’ aim (by pupils or by teacher).

Digitized by t^ooQle
10

The approach should break down the barriers put up by the pupils at the beginning of the lesson. To accomplish this, the teacher should aim to stimulate interest and to arouse curiosity. Another purpose of the approach is to bring into the consciousness of the pupils those ideas which they may already have in their possession regarding the topic to be discussed. Such ideas as they may possess have been gained from various sources, such as concrete experience, previous school work, books, or cohversa-tion in the home. These ideas are very often vague and inaccurate and must, therefore, be made clear and correct in order that they may serve as an apperceptive basis for assimilating the new experience of the lesson. The approach should thus, if possible, adjust the pupil toward the new situation. In the development of this adjustment or attitude it is not necessary, as we have already indicated, to review the work done in the preceding lesson; in fact, the approach may include material that has not previously been discussed in class.

“Suppose, for example,” says Bagley, ' that the lesson has for its object the development of the principle that vapor condenses with a fall of temperature. The approach would naturally involve the explicit revival of those experiences that the pupil has had touching this phenomenon. That is, he has had certain experiences in which the phenomenon was implicit, but not explicit. He has seen the vapor from his expired breath condense upon the window pane. He has seen the vapor from the tea-kettle condense on reaching the cold air. If he lives in a mountainous country, he has seen rain or snow falling upon the mountain when it did not fall in the valley. The teacher now directs his attention to these experiences without telling him, perhaps, what he is to do with them.”

The best method for the teacher to use in the approach is, in most cases, to elicit the appropriate experiences from the pupils by means of well-chosen questions. In order to illustrate this point we quote again from Bagley: "In the illustration cited above, the teacher may introduce the lesson somewhat in this way: What happens when you blow your breath against a cold window pane? At what other times have you seen 'steam’ gather on window panes? Are the kitchen windows covered with steam every time cooking is done? On what kind of days have you noticed that this doesn't happen?” Because the class does not know what the teacher’s questions are leading up to, there is great danger that pupils will wander from the point. The teacher should, therefore, be on her guard to prevent the discussion from running into irrelevant channels.

Although the approach is of great importance, the teacher must guard against making it too lengthy. The duration of this step will vary with particular lessons but should seldom be more than twenty percent of the time consumed by the entire lesson. A notable exception to this rule obtains in lessons which are

Digitized by (^.ooQle
11

largely or perhaps entirely concerned with old materials, in which case the approach will usually occupy a much greater part of the recitation period.

Statement of the Aim. The teacher having prepared the class for the assimilation of the new material by means of the approach, should then show the need of that new material from the pupils’ standpoint. By stating the aim the teacher links the old and the new. The aim is sometimes stated at the very beginning of the lesson, as in the case of a lesson which is concerned with working up old materials, but is usually most appropriate at the end of the approach. The aim should be definite and relevant in order to induce pupils to concentrate on the problem; and it should relate the new subject matter to the needs of the children in order to arouse interest. By way of illustration we will revert again to the previously quoted lesson on condensation of vapor. “It may be assumed,” writes Bagley, "that the preparatory, informal conversation concerning various well-known phenomena. of condensation will have aroused in the pupils curiosity to know the cause of these phenomena. The approach will not have fulfilled its function if some result has not been gained. The aim should then be so stated that the pupils will understand that the following steps are leading up to an explanation of this thing that puzzles them. Thus the aim may take some such form as this, ‘To-day we shall try to find out why the steam gathers when we breathe upon a cold window pane, and why the steam forms at the mouth of the tea-kettle’.”

2.	Development

That part of the lesson plan which deals with development should give a brief statement of the method of development, devices, pivotal questions, use of materials (i. e., text books, maps, charts, drawings, pictures, graphs, etc.) to correspond with parallel headings outlined under Content.

A comprehensive consideration of this part of the lesson would be too lengthy for inclusion in this article. Our readers are referred for complete information to the numerous books which include discussions on this subject. The illustrative lesson plans which are to be printed in Mind and Body will afford practical examples of the development step in lessons. The dominant method of this step is that of questions and answers, and we feel obliged to repeat a warning which was previously made, namely, that the teacher must guard against letting the discussion run into irrelevant channels.

Chi account of the great importance of proper questioning, we deem it advisable to take sufficient space to review a few points concerning this art. Most of the material on this subject which follows is a summary from “How To Teach” by Strayer and Norsworthy.

Questions are the most important tools used in schools to gain responses, and these responses are secured by stimulating certain nerve connections to activity. There are several kinds of
12

questions which may be used. Selection should be made on the basis of the response which is desired. Drill questions are of little value in health education. They involve memory, but memory of a rote type. Questions involving the memory process should be of a higher type: they should involve active thought which leads to the answer by a process of selection and rejection of past experiences. Many questions should call for comparison, or analysis, or judgment, or organization, or a combination of these. Other good questions are directive in effect: they set the child thinking in one direction rather than another; they suggest the line of search rather than the response. Another good type of question is one which is related to the last mentioned: it stimulates the pupils to ask further questions Jay developing an attitude of inquisitiveness. Obviously the type of question which is selected must vary with the particular group of children and with the type of lesson.

A good question should be thought-provoking. It should rarely be framed in such a way that the answer is a mere “yes” or “no”. Furthermore, it should be framed with regard to the readiness of the response. We do not mean to indicate that the right response must always come immediately, for, as Strayer clearly states: “Seme of the best questions are put with the intention of forcing the child to realize that he can’t answer—that he doesn’t know. If that type of response comes to that question, it is the best possible answer. Nor need the whole answ'er come immediately. For instance, in many of the judgment questions the thinking process aroused may take seme time before the judgment is reached, and meanwhile several partial an-wers may be given. But if the question asked started the prcc-sess, without waste of time in trying to find out what it meant, the question is good.”

It is not sufficient that there be readiness of response: the good question must secure the appropriate response readily. To do this it must be on a level with their stage of development. Thus, acc.unt must be made for individual differences. Furthermore, the question in order to obtain and hold the attention of the class must be directed straight at the point at issue. If it does this will not encourage guesses. Finally, it is obvious that a ready response may be obtained only if the question is interesting. Interest may be obtained by use of exaggeration, contrast, life, etc.

A third quality of good questions is that they make the best use of the time at the disposal of the pupils, and that they serve as the best means of gaining the greatest development on the part of the learner in a given time. Thus, the teacher should not ask several questions when one will sene the same purpose. If the teacher will bear in mind the facts that associations are systematized about central ideas, and that the set of the mind in a certain direction is characteristic of all work, she will obtain economy of response by presenting a logical sequence between questions.

Digitized by v^ooQle
13

A further requirement of good questions is that they must stimulate most of the class to mental activity, otherwise the responses will be gained from only a few pupils. The teacher must observe a proper distribution of questions among all pupils, bright and dull. It has been previously indicated that in doing this the teacher must vary the question according to the individual ability of the particular child.

3.	Conclusion—(Fixing. Apply Law Of Readiness)

Use as many varieties of fixation as possible.

a.	Read from text.

b.	Rapid questioning—cardinal points.

c.	Outline major points on blackboard.

d.	Use of many charts, models, etc.

Recall and satisfy the pupils’ aim.

4.	Assignment

a.	For home study before next lesson.

b.	Sometimes a general statement of the next problem to be solved.

(Often it is better to develcp this in the rext teaching lessen.)

Illustrative Lessons

Following is the first of the sample lesson plans which will be printed. It is a development type of lessc n designed for use in an eighth grade. The length of the period is forty-five minutes. As indicated at the beginning of the plan, it is supposed to be the seventh in a series of lessons on the general topic: Resume of Health Habits.

HEALTH EDUCATION GRADE 8B DEVELOPMENT LESSON Topic: Resume of Health Habits—Lesson 7

Teachers’ References: Williams “Personal Hygiene Applied”

Chapter X

Williams “Healthful Living” Chapter IX

I.	AIM General

To promote ajhealth consciousness through a resume of the essential habits as stressed in the preceding grades.

Specific

To encourage^exercise and other health habits contributing to body welfare through^proper elimination.

II.	CONTENT

Elimination and Exercise

1.	Lungs

a.	Increased oxygen demand through rapid exercise of the large muscle groups, e. g., running, jumping, vigorous exercise of arms and legs

Digitized by CjOOQle
14

b.	Increased carbon dioxid elimination (note fallacy of “deep breathing exercises” unless they follow vigorous muscular work)

2.	Skin

a.	Effect of all exercise on body heat (cf. Metabolism—Lesson 5)

b.	How the excess heat is lost through the skin

(a)	Radiation—the flushed skin

(b)	Perspiration—evaporation—pores

c.	Shower baths following exercise

(a)	Cleansing the skin

(b)	Alternate temperature and in vigor

3.	Kidneys

a.	Effect of all exercise on circulation

b.	The relation between perspiration and elimination through kidneys

c.	The need for drinking water as an aid to elimination

4.	Large intestine

a.	Exercises that aid in elimination through (a) increased strength of abdominal muscles, (b) stimulation of liver and intestinal secretions: e. g., turning and bending of trunk, raising of straight legs and bent knees when flat on back

b.	Regular habits of evacuation necessary to maintain muscletone of large intestine

hi; method

Approach

a. Have pupils of class recall their physical response following recent activities; e. g., running, jumping, competitive games. Make no attempt to restrict their answers but jot down the

Srinciple reactions; e. g., breathlessness, stronger eart beat, flushed skin, perspiration, fatigue, thirst.

b. State pupils’ aim—‘To explain these reactions in terms of body functions’.

Development

a.	Develop the fact that the activity of large muscle groups makes immediate demand for more oxygen and elimination of carbon dioxid. Explain circulatory response in same terms. Show general physical effect of “warming-up” exercises. Outline.

b.	Correlate energy, heat, and regulatory function of skin. Note need for perspiration in fevered conditions. Elicit responses concerning shower-bath reactions. Outline.

Digitized by LjOOQle
15

c.	Explain fatigue as uneliminated waste products in the worlang muscle. Show need for varied activity—correlate with physical education lesson. Develop the role played by the kidneys in the elimination of the waste products of exercise. Outline.

d.	Show relation of good muscle-tone (abdomen— voluntary, large intestine—involuntary) to proper evacuation of bowel. Develop exercises that produce this. Correlate diet and regular habits. Outline.

Conclusion

Summarize briefly—rapid oral drill.

Assignment

Short paper “My favorite outdoor game,” or something of similar nature.

Editors Note: Two more lesson plans will appear in each of the next few issues of Mind and Body.

WHAT SHOULD A COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL AND HEALTH EDUCATION CONTAIN?

William A. Stecher

1.	What is understood by “Physical Education”; by “Health Education”?

2.	Is there a difference between Physical Training and “Physical Education”?

“Physical Training relates to that part of Physical Education that is concerned with muscular exercise. It is one of those five fundamentals that are embraced under the term “health practises.” Things that one should do, in order to be healthy.

“Physical Education” is a broader, more inclusive term. It embraces all phases of education through physical means; it includes everything that helps to educate, to develop all body parts—not only the muscles.

In considering a course of study in physical education several things are of great importance; they should influence a selection of material.

1.	Without proper exercise no organ will develop to its fullest capacity.

2.	Normal growth demands the use and the development of all potential powers of the child, physical, mental, social, emotional, etc.

3.	Proper, vigorous muscular exercise is needed for the growth and development of the vital organs. Lack of

•Outline of an address, AOHU Teachers Association, Physical and Health Education Section, Honolulu, November 1929.

Digitized by
16

suitable exercise means stunted growth and poor development of heart, lungs, circulation, nerves and other vital organs. Physical education materials that favorably influence vital organs are more valuable than those that develop mainly coordinative skills.

Fundamental Physical Training Activities

Practically all worthwhile physical training activities can be grouped under four heads: i. e. running and swimming, jumping, throwing and climbing.

In any selection of activities these four types of muscular activity should dominate.

Running, also swimming should be used in all its various forms from simple dashes and endurance runs and swims to the intricate running demanded in vigorous games and contests. To raise the endurance runs and swims of all pupils in a city even slightly has more value than the training of an Olympic Champion.

Jumping should be employed from its simplest form up to the mixed forms in fencing, apparatus work, hurdling, diving, etc.

Throwing should be used not only in the simple distance and high throws, but also in its more intricate and difficult forms in games like basketball, football, baseball, cricket, bowling, etc.

Climbing should be used not merely in its simple forms but also in all those intricate exercises employed in moving the body upward, downward or over objects by means of the arms and legs. Climbing has a real life value—and yet a test—Philadelphia high schools showed that there were numerous girls who could not climb one foot.

These four groups of exercises, in their main forms are measurable. Because of this it becomes possible to determine performance, and to check up results. There is no guess work, no opinion as to the outcome. One can always be sure of prograss or retardation. With their related forms, these groups of exercise would be sufficient for a well rounded physical training course of study.

Next we need a definition regarding health work.

“Health Training’’ is that part of Health Education that is concerned with the formation of health habits, health practises, things that one is to do, in order to remain healthy.

“Health Education’’ is the broader, more inclusive term. Its field embraces food, air, exercise, cleanliness and rest. It also is concerned with health knowledge. Health Education, therefore should be divided into 1) Health Habits and 2) Health knowledge.

The functioning of Health Education in general education should be approximately as follows: In the lowest grades of the elementary school (123) the aim should be to form and develop hygienic habits of living. In grades 4 to 6 the formation and development of correct health practises should be strengthened by learning the reasons why such habits are necessary. Habits and Knowledge.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
17

In the higher schools health habits of the community should be stressed and reasons given why such health practises are necessary.

Based upon suitable projects, health principles should be formulated in the higher grades.

So far as the school is concerned, what are the Fundamental Health Practises and Knowledge.

Practically all worthwhile Health Education activities can be grouped under five heads, namely: Habits and Knowledge relating to food, air, exercise (work), cleanliness and rest.

I.	Health habits to be formed.

Personal cleanliness, embracing all body-parts.

Food, habits, how to eat, drink, when to eat, etc.

Sleep, Fresh Air and Sunshine

Work, Play, Rest, Posture

Care of Eye, Ear, Nose, Throat

Mental and Social habits

Environmental cleanliness

II.	Essential Knowledge to be acquired Bones, use, composition, hygiene Muscles, use, hygiene

Foods, values, selection Blood, circulation Respiration

Excretion (elimination)

Nervous system Sense Organs Disease Germs

Current Topics in Hygiene and Physiology should be used inwall grades as they present themselves. If a special campaign is on in the interest of health this should form the approach for instruction as well as for the formation of health practises.

After a worthwhile program of activities has been selected there come Administrative Problems and Procedures. How can we make a program function:

Success in any form of education is based upon a knowledge of the make-up of the pupils. So far as effective work is concerned in Physical and Health education, there is need of a Personal History Card for every pupil. Every pupil should receive a thorough examination when ne enters school, and at least once a year thereafter. This card should show the following items so that the teacher may know the child.

a)	Is the child normal physically, mentally, emotionally, socially?

b)	In what respects is he sub-normal, defective?

c)	Should this defect or sub-normality be treated by the school or by other agencies?

The card also should show what efforts have been made to remedy any defect and the results of such efforts. It should be a

Digitized by Google
18

cumulative history of that child, going with it from the first grade to graduation.

The educational value of Tests and Measurements in Physical and Health Education. The modem school is using scientific devices as means for measuring various abilities of the child, also as means for determining progress.

The Binet Test, for instance, tells us about the intelligence of the pupils. The result of this measurement of mental ability, the Intelligence Quotient, shows the teacher the mental grade of each pupil. Those who need most help may therefore receive it without a waste of time upon such who do not need help. Educational journals are full of articles based upon knowledge through Binet tests.

What we teachers of physical and health education need is a device that would give us the Physical Performance Quotient of every pupil. Something that would help us in showing the parents of any pupil that, measured by an accepted standard, the boy rates 70 per cent that, physically, he is subnormal or perhaps, that he is far advanced physically, for his P. Q. in 135; he is distinctly a person of superior physical achievements.

Our work never will get the attention it deserves until we have developed standards of physical efficiency for each chronological age, and for both sexes. By means of the Binet Test it is possible to say that this pupil is one, two years ahead of his age, or that he is backward two, three years.

By means of standardized tests in fundamental physical performances, we should be able to say likewise, this pupil physically is one, two, three years ahead of his age, or the reverse. If a school principal is undecided as to the wisdom of promoting a pupil we should be able to say either yes or no based upon a knowledge of his P. Q.

In order to formulate such standards much research work is needed. And after many facts have been gathered much patient, sympathetic work is needed to show school officials and parents that we have a real science of physical and health education.

THIRTY-FOURTH NATIONAL TURNFEST of the

AMERICAN TURNERBUND Buffalo, N. Y.

June 24-29, 1930

I.	Obligatory Tactics and Free Exercises for Actives

ARRANGED BY ANDREW LASCAR I

A.	TACTICS

The class is arranged on the field in a front line consisting of ranks of four members each.

A—March eight steps forward................... 1—8

B—Face left about, march four steps forward, and four

steps in place............................ 9—16

C—Three-quarter wheel left, three steps forward and close..l7—32

Digitized by CaOOQle
19

D—One-quarter wheel right, and eight steps forward..33—44

E—Face left about and eight steps forward...........45—52

F—One-quarter wheel left, three steps forward and close,

and four steps in place..........................53—64

G—Open ranks to the left in running, to the instructor’s command.

B.	MASS EXERCISES

Music—“Nibelungen March” by G. Sonntag.

Publisher: Carl Fischer, Cooper Square, New York, N. Y.

Music played as written once through, ninety-two beats to the minute, two counts to the measure.

Exercises are arranged in one group.

GROUP 1 EXERCISE 1—(32 Measures)

The following exercise is performed on the lines of a cross.

It is done left only.

A—Face left, lunge left forward, swing right arm fore-upward, left arm backward, hands clenched (Fig. 1)..... 1—2

B—Lower trunk, bend left knee a little deeper and slowly raise left arm fore-upward. The movement is slow.

The fall-out position should be completed on the fourth

count (Fig. 2, on count 4)......................... 3—4

C—Swing arms fore-downward.................................  5

Swing arms fore-upward................................   6

D—Raise left leg forward, raise trunk, and swing arms fore-downward and then to sideward position, fingers

extended (Fig. 3).................................... 7

E—Close left leg to right, and swing arms downward to

position............................................. 8

NOTE—Free arm swinging is accompanied by slight knee dipping (bending and straightening) on each count. The arms are relaxed during swings.

F—Free arms swinging forward to shoulder level........... 9

G—Free arm swinging downward to sideward—shoulder

level................................................ 10

H—Continue free arm swinging............................11—14

I—Rise on toes, swing arms fore-upward, tense them with

fingers extended..................................... 15

J—Lower heels, swing arms fore-downward..................   16

Repeat the exercises three more times, always facing

left on each lunge (on the lines of a cross).........17—64

EXERCISE 2—(32 Measures)

A—Face right, lunge right sideward, arms sideward (Fig. 4) 1—2 B—Bend right knee gradually a little deeper, clench right hand and slowly bend right arm to strike from head, turn head right look at right biceps. The trunk bends

slightly to the left with left arm parallel to the left leg

and fingers extended (Fig. 5, on count 4).......... 3—4

C—Three-quarter circle inward of right arm. (Pendulum

swing of the arm) (Fig. 6)	  5
20

D—Pendulum swing of right arm downward and to the left

(shoulder level)......................................... 6

E—Raise right leg sideward, straighten trunk, pendulum swing of right arm downward and to the right extend

fingers, raise left arm sideward (Fig. 7)...............  7

F—Close right foot to left, arms swing side-downward to

position................................................. 8

NOTE—Dipping of knees: Swing arms sideward bend knees deep, immediately rebound about six inches. This is done in one count.

G—Swing arms sideward with dipping of knees (Fig. 8)......... 9

H—Continue dipping knees (arms remain sideward)...........10—14

I—Straighten knees, rise on toes, swing arms side-upward ...	15

J—Lower heels, swing arms side-downward................... 16

Repeat the exercise three more times always to the right, on the lines of a cross.

EXERCISE 3—(32 Measures)

A—Place left foot forward, swing arms forward (Fig. 9). 1—2

B—Layout left forward, raise arms fore-upward slowly, the movement should be completed on the fourth count.

The body and arms should be in a straight line with

the left leg (Fig. 10, on count 4)................. 3—4

C—Swing arms fore-downward..................................  5

D—Swing arms fore-upward....................................  6

E—Swing arms fore-downward to sideward, straighten right

knee and trunk, raise left leg forward (Fig. 3).......... 7

F—Swing arms downward, close left foot to right.............. 8

NOTE—Dipping of trunk: Bend trunk forward, raise trunk about six inches and bend again, arms downward in a relaxed position.

G—Bend trunk forward, arms downward (Fig. 11)................ 9

H—Dip trunk forward (raise trunk and bend again)........	10

I—Continue dipping of trunk (arms remain in downward

position) .........................................11—14

J—Straighten trunk with swinging of the arms fore-upward and fore-downward at the same time jump upward with a half turn left to position, facing in the opposite

direction ........................................       15

K—Pause.................................................     16

Repeat the exercise three more times always to the

left..................................................17—32

TRIO

INTERLUDE (4 Measures)

Jump to side-stride-stand, bend trunk forward, trunk and

arms in a relaxed position (Fig. 12)................... 1—6

Jump to fundamental position................................. 7

Pause ...................................................     8

EXERCISE 4—(32 M^easures)

A—Place left foot sideward, swing left arm obliquely side-upward, bend right arm to strike from shoulder, turn head left (Fig.	13)................................   1—2
21

B—Face left, step left forward, circle right arm outward and downward to obliquely fore-upward and carry left arm to obliquely fore-upward position fingers extended (arms parallel) (Fig. 14)................................... 3—4

C—Bend arms, clench hands and carry them close to forehead, bend head forward, bend both knees and trunk slightly forward (Fig. 15, count 5), keep bending knees until elbows touch outside of knees in a crouching position. (Fig. 16, count 7—8), this movement is done slowly and should be completed on the seventh count, pause on the eighth count.

D—Return to position B by straightening trunk, knees and arms. Take two counts to straighten and hold posi-

tion B.............................................. 9—12

E—Face right transfer weight to right foot, raise left leg sideward, circle right arm downward and upward, left arm down. The body and right arm should be in line

with left leg (Fig. 17).............................13—14

F—Close left foot to right, swing right arm side-downward..l5—16

Repeat the exercise to the right, A to E..............17—30

G—Close right foot to left with half turn right, turning on toes, swing left arm side-downward, facing opposite

direction ..............—...........................31—32

Repeat all, left and right............................33—64

EXERCISE 5—(32 Measures)

A—Jump to side-stride-stand, arms sideward (Fig. 18).... 1—2

B—Raise arms side-upward (Fig. 19)...................... 3—4

C—Turn trunk left, bend trunk forward and circle to right, a whole double arm circle with trunk, arms move in line with the trunk. Circle completed on the eighth

count (Fig. 20)....................................... 5—8

D—Lower arms sideward....................................  9—10

El—Raise arms upward......................................11—12

F—Repeat C to the right.................................13—16

G—Bend trunk left, swing left arm side-downward, place left hand on left knee, fingers in rear, thumb on knee

cap, right arm remains upward (Fig. 21)...............17—18

H—Bend trunk right, change arm position. (Swing right

arm sidedown-ward—left	side-upward).................19—20

I—Repeat H—left, right, left, right.......................21—28

J—Straighten trunk, arms sideward.........................29—30

K—Jump to cross-stride-stand, left foot in front, swing

arms downward..........................................  31

L—Half turn right on toes to position, facing opposite

direction .............................................  32

Repeat all..............................................33—64

Digitized by C^ooQle
22

II.	OBLIGATORY TACTICS AND DUMB-BELL EXERCISES FOR SENIORS

ARRANGED BY DR. LEOPOLD F. ZWARG

TACTICS FOR SENIORS

Formation—Front line, consisting of ranks of four members each.

March 12 steps forward and face left about in 4 steps.	16

March 12 steps forward and one-quarter wheel left by fours.. 16

The ranks one	whole wheel right......................  16

The members of each rank form on the left side of the left leader into open order, about seven feet apart, by facing left and marching forward and passing in rear of the left leader, facing right with a closing step upon reaching their places, at the sixth, eighth and tenth count respectively ................................................. 12

Pause ................................................... 4

DUMB-BELL EXERCISES FOR SENIORS

Music—The Wander and Turner Song „Wohlauf die Luft geht

frisch und rein.“

Tempo—March time, moderately fast.

Explanations

1.	The song comprises six regular verses to which another popular verse is added. Seven exercises have been arranged.

2.	Exercises 1, 3, 5 and 7 are similar; they are merely stepped up in difficulty by adding another movement. These exercises consist of marching and facing, alternated with arm, leg and trunk movements.

3.	Exercises 2, 4 and 6 are similar in design. They consist largely of big arm-swings and trunk movements.

4.	The exercises are described in the usual way, namely the movements on count one and the pause on count two. The actual execution, however, should be more continuous and should not show much of a pause. Each movement should be in rhythm with the song and one swing should lead into the next.

5.	An exception is to be made in that exercise which is executed with the ending or refrain of each song. This exercise remains the same throughout and is to be performed strictly as written, namely the movements on count one and a distinct pause on count two.

6.	Trunk bending, where it occurs, is to be executed vigorously.

EXERCISE 1

Three steps forward, face left (on toes of left foot) and

close right leg on count four—1 to 4

Swing arms fore-upward and bend them to thrust—5.

Pause—6. (Fig. la and b).

Digitized by t^ooQle
23

Thrust arms upward and swing them fore-down and backward—7. Pause—8. (Fig. lib).

Swing arms fore-upward and bend them to thrust—9. Pause—10.

Thrust arms upward and swing backward as before—11. Pause—12.

Swing arms upward and bend to thrust—13. Pause—14. Thrust arms upward and swing them fore-downward—15.

Pause—16................................................... 16

Repeat all three times. This will complete marching on the lines of a square and the showing of the exercise in

four different directions.................................. 48

Refrain—“Valeri, valera....”

Jump to a side stride- swing arms side-upward and strike bells, knuckles out, holding them together—1. Pause—2. (Fig. 2).

Bend arms, lower bells over shoulders (to strike, elbows pressed backward and upward, the back of the hands toward the rear), raise the chest and look upward—3. Pause—4. (Fig. 3).

Return to former position—5. Pause—6.

Return to position—7.	Pause—8............................. 8

Repeat ....................................................  8

Total.................................................  80

EXERCISE 2

Lunge left sideward, swing both arms left sideward (right arm bent at right angle, the radius bone of each arm on top of the ulna) and bend the trunk right sideward—1 and

2.	(Fig. 4).

Swing arms downward and right sideward (left arm bent at right angle) and bend trunk left sideward—3 and 4. (Fig. 5).

Swing arms downward and left sideward and bend trunk

right— 5 and 6.

Swing arms to right and bend trunk left—7 and 8.

Continue swaying left and right till count 14.

Lower arms and return leg to position—15. Pause—16................... 16

Repeat, beginning right.............................................. 16

Repeat left and right................................................ 32

Refrain—“	Valeri,valera ”

As in Exercise 1....................................................  16

Total................................................... 80

EXERCISE 3

As Exercise 1 with this change: The facing upon the fourth count is to be right, not left (marching right upon the lines of a square, the left foot begins, as usual), and with this addition:

Digitized by uooQle
24

With each arm-swing backward from the upward position, bend the trunk fore-downward, and straighten with the return movement of the arms, namely:

Bend trunk fore-downward upon count—7. (Fig. 6). Straighten upon count—9.

Bend upon count—11.

Straighten upon count—13.

EXERCISE 4

Stride left forward, swing arms fore-upward and bend the upper trunk backward—1 and 2. (Fig. 7).

Lower arms side-downward, palms turned upward (keep arms well back and palms up as long as possible), bend upper trunk still more (Fig. 8 a), then, as the arms lower from the sideward position, straighten the trunk—3 and 4. (Fig. 8b).

Repeat arm and trunk movements as on count one and two (the left leg remains forward)—5 and 6.

Repeat arm and trunk movements as on count three and four—7 and 8.

Continue these movements up to count 14. On count 15 return left leg to position, straighten trunk and lower arms.

Pause on 16..............................................  16

Repeat, beginning with right leg.......................... 16

Repeat left and right...................................   32

NOTE1—The swinging of the arms fore-up and side downward is to be a continuous, somewhat circular movement (backward), so as to bring about a most effective bending of the upper trunk, and circumduction of the shoulder joints.

Refrain—“Valeri, valera...”

As in Exercise 1.............................................. 16

Total...................................................  80

EXERCISE 5

As Exercise 3, with this change: The facing upon the fourth count is again left (marching left upon the lines of a square), and

with this addition: With every bending of the arms to thrust, bend knees moderately deep, and straighten them as the arms thrust upward. The whole exercise is now executed as follows:

Three steps forward, face left and close right leg upon count four—1 to 4.

Bend knees, swing arms fore-upward and bend them to thrust—5. Pause—6. (Fig. 9).

Straighten knees, thrust arms upward, swing them foredown and backward and bend the trunk fore-downward—7. Pause—8. (Fig. 6).

Digitized by Google
25

Straighten trunk, swing arms fore-upward, bend them to thrust and bend knees—9. Pause—10.

Repeat movements of counts seven and eight—11 and 12. Repeat movements of counts nine and ten—13 and 14. Straighten knees, thrust upward and swing arms fore-

downward—15. Pause—16 ................................... 16

Repeat three times......................................  48

Refrain—“Valeri,	valera ”

As in Exercise 1.......................................   16

Total................................................... 80

EXERCISE 6

Stride left backward, turn trunk left and raise arms left sideward (right arm bent at right angle, backs of hands upward)—1 and 2. (Fig. 10).

Turn trunk right and swing arms, horizontally, right sideward (left arm bent at right angle)—3 and 4. (Fig. 11). Turn trunk left and swing arms left sideward—5 and 6. (Fig. 10).

Turn trunk right and swing arms right sideward—7 and 8. (Fig. 11).

Continue this swaying movement up to count fourteen. On count fifteen lower arms and return left leg to posi-

tion. Pause cn count sixteen................................. 16

Repeat, beginning with right leg............................  16

Repeat left and right........................................ 32

Refrain—“Valeri, valera....”

As in Exercise 1...........................................   16

Total .................................................. 80

EXERCISE 7

As Exercise 5, with this change: The facing upon the fourth count is right, and with this addition: The arm movements begin immediately with the first marching step, as follows:

Swing arms fore-upward (Fig. 12a) and bend them to thrust with the fust step (Fig. 12b)—1. Step on right foot and keep arms bent to thrust (Fig. 13)—2.

Thrust upward and swing arms fore-down and backward with the third step (Fig. 14a)—3. Keep arms backward and complete closing step (Fig. 14b)—4.

Continue as described in Exercise 5.

III.	OBLIGATORY TACTICS AND FREE EXERCISES FOR

WOMEN

Arranged by Otto Eckl Tactics For Women

Formation—Front line, consisting of ranks of four members each.

Digitized by v^ooQle
26

Counts

March forward fifteen steps.................................. 15

Face right about.............................................. 1

Repeat in opposite direction................................. 16

The ranks quarter wheel right................................. 4

Form left passing in rear..................................... 8

Open ranks from center outward through forward................ 4

Free Exercises

Music—“Spring, Beautiful Spring” by Paul Lincke.

Publisher—Edward B. Marks Music Co., 225 West 46th St., New

York.

Introduction ..............................................16	M

Exercise 1—Strain No.	1 with	first ending...............32	M

The next strain is omitted.

Exercise 2—The Strain marked No. 2 playing first ending

and no repeat............................................’...32	M

The next half of No. 2 is omitted.

Exercise 3—Play No. 3 as marked using 2nd ending with no

repeat ................................................... 32	M

Exercise 4—Continue into next strain omitting the repeat

and play 2nd ending..........................................32	M

Exercise 5—This strain is marked No. 4 and begins with an Interlude of four measures which is to be omitted and play

No. 4 as written (with	repeat).............................32	M

Exercise 6—Continue with 2nd half of No. 4 without repeat, playing the second ending which is the finish.

EXERCISE 1—(Shot Putting)

1	Rise on toes and raise arms side upward to circle upward to circle over head, wrists crossed (5th crossed).

2	Bend knees half deep and lower arms sideward, palms up (2nd).

3	Glide left sideward and cut left with the right foot (glisse, coupe); 3-4 arm circle left beginning to left to position both arms upward, raise right arm to upward position.

4	Face left and step left forward on left toe (eleve), the arms swing downward in a whole circle forward with a slight dip of the knee and wave of the trunk finishing in the position arms upward. (Fig. 1).

NOTE—Wave—with the stepping and dipping of the knees and downward swinging of the arms the trunk relaxes or inclines forward a bit, and with the straightening of the knees there is a simultaneous straightening of the spine starting in the lower spine and traveling upward, finishing in a backward bend of the trunk.

5	Face right turning on left toe and placing right foot sideward, dip the trunk right sideward (bending and rebounding) carrying the right arm sideward and bending the left arm curved over head. (Fig. 2).

6	Repeat the trunk dipping right.

Digitized by Google
27

Straighten the trunk, and layout right sideward, bending the left arm to strike over the shoulder with hand open and palm forward; the right arm remains sideward; the head is turned right (shot put position). (Fig. 3.)

8	Hold.

9	Straighten the left knee and trunk and the left arm upward, raising the right leg sideward. (Fig. 4). and resume position in count 8.

10	Resume position 9.

11	With bending left knee, and left arm to strike over shoulder, step right sideward with bending knee and cut right with the left foot.

12	Face right and step right forward with a dip of the knee and straighten the left arm obliquely fore-upward, the right arm opposite.

13	Face left on right heel (front) changing position of arms and continuing movement of arms to position hands grasped loosely ova* head; the weight is now evenly divided on both feet in the side stride stand.

14	Whip the trunk and arms backward (bending with rebounding).

15	Whip again.

16	Close the left foot to the right and drop the arms loosely side-downward to position.

17—32 Repeat to opposite side.

EXERCISE 2

1	Swing hop left sideward (step left sideward, swing right leg forward with hopping left) facing 1-8 left, the arms swinging fore-upward to circle overhead (5th).

2	Step right forward dipping both knees deep, the body bending forward (relaxed) the arms swinging fore-downward and back loosely. (The body is facing obliquely left forward). (Fig. 5).

3	With a dip of knees straighten them and the trunk the arms swinging fore-upward; and swing the right leg backward.

4	Close right foot to the left with a slight dip of the knees and circle the arms forward with a wave of the trunk, finishing with the body bent backward and the arms obliquely side-upward.

5	Lower the trunk forward dipping deep and rebounding to a horizontal position with the hands behind the head. (Fig. 6).

6	Again dip the trunk forward.

7	Straighten the trunk bending the upper trunk backward extending the arms obliquely side-upward.

8	Face front on heels (1-8 turn right) and arms fore-downward.

9-16 Reverse all.

17-32 Repeat all.

EXERCISE 3—(Discus Throw)

1	Lunge left sideward, bend body forward (Fig. 7) with the arms hanging loosely forward and circle the body and arms to the left over the left knee. (Fig. 8).

Digitized by

Google
28

2	Change knee bending, straightening and turning the trunk to the front, and arms continue to the left obliquely side-upward position.

3	Three step turn left starting left foot, the arms to circle over head. (Three step turn left—a whole turn left advancing left with three steps.)

4	Place right foot in rear of left bending both knees (courtesy) the arms obliquely side-upward, the trunk slightly bent left.

5	Dip the knees and the trunk forward, the arms swinging loosely forward down and back.

6	With a dip straighten the knees and trunk and swing arms fore-upward.

7	Bend both knees swing the arms fore-down on left side of body to left arm sideward, the right wrist across left knee; the body is bent forward and turned left: the head looks over right shoulder (discus thrower). (Fig. 9).

8	Hold.

9	Straighten knees and step right sideward, straighten trunk and turn slightly to right the arms swinging forward to hands over the right shoulder; head to the front.

10	Fall out left sideward and straighten arms sideward, head right.

11	Pirouette (cross step turn) right, the body inclined slightly forward the arms remaining sideward.

12	Step right sideward, turning body right with swinging the left arm obliquely fore-upward the right arm opposite.

13	Dip the knees and change position of the arms, the left arm continuing the swing in a circle forward to position both arms upward.

14	Lunge left obliquely backward outward, the body bending loosely forward over the right leg, the arms swinging fore-downward and back. (Fig. 10).

15	Straighten left knee and the trunk, the arms swinging fore-upward with swinging the left leg backward.

16	Close the left foot to the right and swing the arms side- . downward.

17-32 Repeat to opposite side.

EXERCISE 4

1-2 A whole turn left moving left sideward with a balance hop and knee swing hop, the arms sideward on balance hop and circle over head on knee swing hop.

3	Jump to side stride stand with a bending and straightening of knees and 3-4 double arm circle outward to wrists crossed loosely in front shoulder high.

4	Dip knees and 3-4 double arm circle inward to arms upward.

5	Face left and dip knees and the trunk forward the arms dropping fore-downward and back.

Digitized by v^ooQle
29

6	Straighten knees with a dip and the trunk, rising on left toe with the right leg extended backward, the arms swinging thru forward to obliquely side-upward position.

7	Lunge backward right with bending the trunk forward the arms fore-downward the hands touching ground. (Fig. 11).

8	Face front (right) turning on heel closing the right foot to the left with straightening the trunk to position.

9-16 Reverse.

17-32 Repeat all.

EXERCISE 5—(Sprinting)

1	Raise the arms upward, the hands passing shoulder, elbows bent (as tho stretching).

2	Stretch arms upward as far as possible.

3	Balance step left sideward the arms dropping softly, left arm sideward, right arm curved over head, the body bent left.

4	Face left and balance step right backward the arms dropping fore-downward and backward the body inclined softly forward.

5	Rise on right toe swinging left leg forward the arms fore-upward, straightening body. (Fig. 12).

6	Step left forward with a dip of both knees, whole arm circle forward with a slight wave of the trunk.

7	Kneel right bending body forward the hands on floor (on your mark).

Hold.

9	Rise from right knee, dipping both knees, lifting the trunk to half forward swinging the right arm forward and the left back. (Fig. 13).

10	Dip knees and change arm positions.

11	Three soft running steps forward starting right foot, trunk erect and swing the right arm forward to the left arm.

12	Step left forward dipping both knees and circle both arms a 3-4 circle forward with a wave of the trunk to arms obliquely side-upward (breasting tape).

13	Face front (right) and lunge right sideward arms to circle over head.

14-15 Slowly bend right knee to deep knee bend with right heel lifted from floor. (Fig. 14).

16 Straighten right knee closing right foot to left the arms side downward.

17-32 Repeat all to opposite side.

EXERCISE 6

1	Step left across right bending both knees slightly, the left arm stretches forward the right opposite, the body slightly inclined forward. (Fig. 15).

2	Shift weight back on right foot and hop right carrying the extended left leg sideward left, the left arm curved over head the right arm sideward.

Digitized by v^ooQle
30

Fallout left sideward, arms changing positions thru upward. (Fig. 16)

4 Face left on heels and with a. dip of knees circle both arms forward to obliquely side-upward standing erect on left foot with the right leg raised backward.

5-6 Lower the trunk slowly forward to a balance stand the arms sideward. (Fig. 17).

7	Face front turning on left toe finishing on left toe with right leg extended sideward, trunk erect, circle arms outward, left arm curved over head, right arm sideward.

8	Close right foot to left and arms side-downward.

9-16 Repeat starting right.

17-31 Repeat left and right.

32—	Step left across in front of right and fall obliquely left

forward to lying position on left side as follows:—

Count 1—Step left, across in front of right bending knees deep swinging arms fore-downward with bending body forward hands touching ground. (Fig. 18).

Count 2—Fall to a seat on left side. (Fig. 19).

Count 3—Fall to lying on left side extending left arm, head resting on it, right arm curved in front, left knee bent, right leg extended. (Fig. 20).

NOTE—This falling is to be done quickly. Upon signal from leader all will rise.

NOTE—This drill should be executed like a dance. The movements should be soft and performed in swinging manner. That tenseness common to free exercises should be shown only in certain positions as can readily be determined from the description.

All movements are performed to one measure. If more than one movement is performed to a measure the three beats or counts to the measure is indicated.

PRESERVING AND PROMOTING THE HEALTH OF WORKING CHILDREN*

Hugh Grant Rowell, M. D.

Certain general considerations will be helpful at the beginning of this article:

1.	Many persons enter some sort of employment during adolescence.

2.	Such employment is legalized in the United States under certain restrictions which are devised to protect the worker against hazards to normal growth, to good health, and morals.

•Reprint from the American Child

Digitized by Google
31

Not all states have such restrictions and regulations, or at least their adequacy is much greater in some states than in others. They usually include limitation of the length of the working day and week, prohibition of night work, requirement of a physician’s certificate of physical fitness before entering employment, forbid-ing work in specified dangerous occupations, etc.

3.	At certain ages, and when previous education has not reached a given point, employed adolescents in some states are required to continue part-time education and this is usually given in the day time in continuation schools.

4.	The continuation school is the logical place not only for the study of the health of working children and the effect of work upon health, but also for constructive health work with employed children, this being the one place, at least in theory, reaching them all. Milwaukee is the present leader in the research field. New York State and New Bedford, Massachusetts, have made outstanding contributions.

5.	Protection and promotion of health is just as desirable in continuation schools as' in public schools. The continuation school may be considered as at the beginning of a career of work, and a well-planned, well-conducted health program in such schools may do much to offset certain possible disadvantages of beginning work at this age.

6.	Educational programs in continuation schools are somewhat uncertain as yet, chiefly because of the very limited amount of time available, and the wide range of mentality of the pupils.

Situation

Regardless of the exact provisions of the laws regulating age for employment in the various states, a summary would show the period of adolescence to be the age at which the granting of employment certificates is permitted. It is generally believed, and most of the laws provide, that gainful labor outside the home shall not begin before the age of fourteen.

Ten years ago this statement would not have been true, and it would have been necessary to point out the exploitation of young minors by parents and employers and to predict disaster to the health and growth of such children. Today, the chief problem is how to permit certain adolescents to enter industry with a minimum of loss, or with no loss whatever, of present and future well-being—physical, mental, and social.

The period of adolescence is, for a number of reasons, not an ideal time for beginning a career of employment. However, in many instances, if employment is not permitted, an actual hardship is worked upon the individual who has completed as much schooling as he can because of limitation of mental equipment or loss of interest in school. Such an individual may well become a disciplinary problem for school and community, and work, in some -rases, seems the most promising remedy for this.

Nevertheless, adolescence is in all instances a period of instability for both boy and girl, and, in an important number of cas-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
32

es, of serious stress and strain, mental as well as physical. Any control plan involving this period of life must give consideration to several important factors. Important emotional changes occur at this period. Social interests and outlooks take on new directions and emphases.

Physically, adolescence represents the second period of rapid physical growth, the first occurring from the fifth to the seventh year of age. At pubescence, the beginning of adolescence, the boy or girl grows rapidly and increase in stature often occurs, seemingly at the expense of increase in weight and strength. Such rapid growth often results in definite forms of physical stress and strain and against these the child unconsciously develops a protective mechanism. This partly or wholly explains the apparent laziness or apathy of many adolescents. A striking illustration is the doubling of the heart’s volume in a year or two between the thirteenth and fifteenth year. As a result, there may arise cardiac symptoms, including feeling of fullness and shortness of breath; and examination may reveal irregularities in rate (which are not uncommon in children), hypertrophied left ventricle of the heart, or even the additional factor of temporary hyperthyroidism, particularly in girls.

It is because of these rapid growth changes that it is necessary to insist that, while it is permissible and in seme instances even desirable for certain adolescents to begin their working life, such activities should be conducted under strict supervision and there should be a very definitely planned program for determining (1) whether a given adolescent should enter industrial life at all; and (2) if he is allowed to go to work, that his employment shall be of such a nature that no physical, mental, or social hazard shall be involved or allowed to enter during the period of controlled employment.

Such requirements are perfectly consistent with the general standards by employers, since an employee must be able to perform regularly and acceptably the duties or tasks assigned, and since an employee increases in value as the period of employment increases—the ill-adjusted laborer being expensive and unprofitable. Hence, in addition to any reasons attributable to the paternalistic interest of employer in employees, it is logical that the employer should be the first person eager for suitably selected adolescent employees.

Continuation School Education

Whatever may be the elements of strength and weakness in continuation schools in terms of pure education, much of the welfare of the adolescent laborer lies in their hands at present. In addition to cooperating with state bureaus of labor and industry in studying the workers on the job, such schools exercise a certain social and moral supervision over the child laborers, and provide definite instruction of educational, social, and moral nature. Criticism has been levelled at continuation schools because of
33

their educational programs. What is the situation with which they deal?

For perhaps half a day a week many working adolescents attend continuation schools. The continuation school pupils form a conglomerate group, varying from individuals of mentality just high enough to permit them to escape institutional care to bright adolescents of real talent. Testing, whether of the general type for determining the I. Q. or of more specialised type for determining special skills, abilities, and aptitudes, reveals a wide spread of individuals—which, in turn, means that the continuation school curriculum, if effective, must be developed with this wide range of equipment in view. In seme instances it is an accepted practice to use part of the school time to improve the individual in the chosen field of employment. This is exemplified by the continuation schools maintained by some department stores, under supervision of educational authorities. In other instances no such attempt is made and pupils will be found taking sc-called academic courses—usually training in the English language, household arts, fine arts (frequently show-card or other commercial arts), printing and other trades, shop work such as automobile repairing, and a variety of courses planned for such purposes as social improvement, recreation, and home-making. Time is exceedingly limited and instruction must therefore be superficial. This is not to question its value, but to stress the point that somehow, out of a school week of only a few hours, time for health work must be discovered.

At present there is no continuation school with a complete health program worthy of the name. An experiment being conducted in the West Side Continuation School in New York City gives premise of affording much light on this field. This demonstration now has excellent health service, but the other portions of the health and physical education program are either uncrystallized cr as yet unattempted. Encouraging work of various kinds has been done in New Bedford and Fall River, Massachusetts, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Theoretically, the health program of continuation schools should perform the same threefold function as that advocated for any other school1 : (1) health service, (2) physical education, and (3) health education. But while the basic theory is the same, certain adaptations will be necessary owing to the highly specialized situation found in continuation schools.

Health Service1 2

The general practice, in the case of a child of the controlled ages who plans to enter a career of work, is for the individual to secure a statement from the employer describing the job, and

1	Wood, T. D. and Rowell, H. G. Health Supervision and Medical Inspection of Schools, (p. 331. W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia. 1927.

2	The author recognizes that at present mich of this work, especially that for determining that a child is physically fit before he enters employment, is in many places quite unrelated to the continuation school.

Digitized by uooQle
34

showing hours of employment. In the majority of states the child must have reached a certain grade in school, varying in different states or else, in some instances, obtain a certificate stating lack of mental ability to attain that grade. The child must have reached a certain age, usually fourteen years or more. The child must obtain certain educational documents from the school which he attended last. In spite of the fact that public schools generally have cumulative health records for each pupil, no state as yet requires that such records, or copies thereof, be brought to the certificating office with the other school data. Herein lies the first basic weakness of the present control plan. No advantage is taken of the health record of the child which should have been kept from time of his admission to school. Moreover it is quite probable that until more attention is given to health records in many public school systems, little information of real value can be obtained. In defense of certificating offices, which are often severely criticized for passing individuals who later turn out to be unfit, it may be stated that, were there available a really good health record of the child in school, many mistakes would be avoided.

The child goes to some central point for his physical and medical examination, or, in some states, he may have the examination made by his family physician if he cares to pay for it himself. The latter plan has usually been a failure. Whether a small fee might not justly be charged for the physical examination at the certificating office may well be considered, since the child is being given a service which will result in monetary gain to him. The fee might be collected from the first week’s wages, and the funds derived used for improving the health service.

The most satisfactory form yet developed for recording the certification examination is that now in use in the New York experiment. This form was developed under the advice and supervision of industrial and medical experts, and has been revised from time to time as weaknesses or new needs were discovered. It covers the broad field of inquiry necessary for a correct opinion as to the fitness of the child for a specified job.

For general use, the Minimim Standards of Physical Fitness for Children Entering and Working in Industry* as set up in 1923 have been found most practicable. However, an individual must be passed for a specific job, and this means that special standards may be needed for that job and the case judged accordingly. (This applies only to permissible forms of employment, certain jobs being prohibited by law for children under specified ages.) Obviously tne examiner, to pass on cases effectively, must be familiar with the job in question and very often with the place of employment as well, if the examination is really to determine fitness for a specific task. 3

3	Physical Standards for Working Children. Bureau publication No. 79 of the Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor, Washington, D. C. 1923.

Digitized by CjOOQle
35

Recent studies in New York under the State Department of Labor* have revealed many instances of children working at jobs for which they were unsuited and therefore in situations involving actual or potential health hazards. If a child is permitted to accept a job and receives physical damage therefrom, beyond incidental and uncontrollable accidents, one of two kinds of error exists: either the standards under which the child was passed for the job are incorrect, or there has been laxity in maintaining these standards.

The author in no way wishes to blame certificating officers or state departments of labor for the unsatisfactory certification. It is plainly due to a lack of funds and it is for this reason that the suggestion was made that certificating offices may have to charge very moderate fees for the health examination, possibly omitting t’ e fee if the child is not passed. Twenty-five to fifty cents per examination would help the certificating office budget markedly and this fee is extremely modest compared with the cost to the child for service elsewhere.

Certain adolescents, of proper physiological age and physically fit, are passed without.question for certain jobs. But there are others who, upon examination, are found to be unfit for the particular job in question (1) permanently or (2) temporarily, pending certain remediable measures. Some children, if they could be followed, might be tried on certain jobs and checked after two to four weeks to determine their fitness to continue. This is using the Test of Labor which the author found useful in his experience in the child labor field.

For the permanently or temporarily unfit, further services are necessary. Among these are (1) vocational guidance, including the establishment of an employment bureau in the certificating office or the continuation school; and (2) follow-up, i. e., directing the child toward remedial measures which may secure or improve fitness for work. Such remedial measures frequently fit a child for a job similar to the one for which he had been declared unfit previously, as where nearsight is corrected by glasses. If the defect cannot be cured, a change in the type of work contemplated may be necessary.

Follow-up work has many ramifications. Teachers in continuation schools are expected to spend part of their time visiting homes and plants, thus making useful contacts with the parents and employers, and also observing the children at home and at work. Visiting teachers have proved useful in follow-up work, especially with problem cases. The certificating office must also maintain contacts with hospitals and clinics where children who cannot afford private medical services (and they include most children in this group) may be sent for consultation and treatment. Contacts must also be maintained with the various social agencies interested. 4

4	The Health of the Working Child. Special bulletin No. 134, Bureau of Women in Industry, New York State Department of Labor.

Digitized by f^ooQle
36

The basic necessities for proper and adequate health service

are:

1.	Well-lighted and ventilated office, equipped in about the same manner as the medical offices of a hospital clinic.

2.	Physicians and other personnel in sufficient numbers to handle the children thoroughly and expeditiously. Usually it will be necessary to train the physicians in certificating office practice unless they are used to industrial work. A splendid example of what can be done is found in the New York demonstration. Certain eminent specialists acted as volunteer instructors for the staff physicians, giving one or more periods to demonstrating the best technic in their individual fields. As a result, the physical examinations now being made in the demonstration are outstanding.

3.	Adequate records and record systems, including, if possible, use of the previous school health record of the child.

4.	Availability of data to those whose work is influenced by it, such as teachers and those carrying on other branches of the health program.

5.	Adequate understanding of the purpose and scope of the program by all concerned, including employers, children, parents, schools, social agencies, and clinics.

6.	A well-organized follow-up system.

7.	Health check-ups at stated intervals, either on change of job or a certain number of months after the certificating examination.

8.	Adequate clerical help.

Physical Education

Since there is no well-organized physical education program in any continuation school, so far as the author knows, the suggestions below have been evolved from a knowledge of continuation schools and the needs of pupils. It may be mentioned that Springfield, Massachusetts, is experimenting in physical education programs for the vocational group.

Two kinds of physical education may be advocated: (1) A general program, (2) a corrective or preventive program based on the needs and hazards of specific industries and on individual handicaps. It seems quite possible that the physical education program will be, at least in part, an extra-curricular activity, voluntary in attendance, because of the limited school time of the continuation school pupil.

In developing the general program, the plans of community centers for individuals of similar age may be used. There are game programs of a degree of organization compatible with the physiological and mental ages and social status of the groups con-, cemed, which can be adapted to the facilities available. Continuation schools are usually located in old buildings, often poorly planned and equipped, and with very limited grounds. If there is any sort of gymnasium indoor games are possible, though an outdoor program is always preferable. Games selected should be

Digitized by LjOOQle
37

ones which the individual may carry on in the community after the two brief years in continuation school.

The exercise needs of different groups vary. Stenographers and clerical workers require a general medium type of exercise. Assuming that they exercise at all, they are the group that later use radio setting-up exercises or play tennis and golf or hike. The shop worker often prefers a more strenuous big-muscle activity program. As will be shown later, certain preventive and corrective exercises may be needed to offset industrial work which sometimes results in physical asymmetries or defects.

Dancing, especially social dancing, may well be included in the physical education program, if for no other reason than because such instruction may result in a different type of social dancing than now exists among continuation school groups. The social values of dancing are well recognized and utilized in continuation school recreational-social programs.

Good posture is needed by the industrial group. Standing, sitting and working posture, properly learned and practiced, means more efficient and less fatigued workers. In any work, whether seated work, shop work, or industrial arts classes, the individual should be instructed in general methods which are satisfactory not only from the viewpoint of shop efficiency as determined by time and motion studies, but also from the viewpoint of preventing industrial deformities and defects.

A corrective •program, is distinctly worth while, in that it assists the worker to avoid many industrial discomforts and health hazards. To teach a normal worker to sit properly is important, but to instruct an individual with poor posture how to improve existing defects by properly prescribed exercises, may mean far less industrial fatigue and therefore better ability to hold down the job. The difficulty with corrective programs for adolescents is to find a means of making such programs interesting. Close follow-up of corrective class cases is necessary and much individual attention must be given.

Health Education

The term health education is used here in the sense of health instruction. At the present time the author can point to no ideal health education program in continuation schools. Excellent classes in child hygiene and home hygiene are found in many cities but such work reaches only part of the pupils.

Four plans of health education are possible: (1) lectures, movies, demonstrations, to large groups, as at assemblies, (2) formal classroom health lessons, (3) the correlation plan, (4) some combination of 1, 2, and 3.

The first two methods require special periods to be assigned from an educational week which is usually only three or four hours in length.

The correlation plan has several advantages: (1) It is now used successfully for other subjects in continuation schools. Frequently English language, spelling, arithmetic, etc., are combined
38

with an industrial arts lesson. Health materials may likewise be worked into most lessons by a careful analysis of the lesson to be given. (2) It requires the least amount of classroom time. (3) It reveals the relationship between health and other subjects. Health is a twenty-four hour a day subject, not half an hour a week. (4) It is the soundest educationally.

However, the correlation method necessitates a carefully planned and integrated curriculum and requires more skill in handling than the old-fashioned health lesson. More teaching ability and greater knowledge of a group and its needs are required of the instructor. At present, probably no subject is so poorly taught as health.

In planning any type of health education program for continuation schools certain factors must be kept in mind: (1) The wide spread in mentality of the piipils. (2) The range in types of instructors, varying from the academic teacher to the teacner of shop work. (3) The very limited time available per pupil for health instruction. (4) The needs of the specific situation as shown by analysis.

In general, it is agreed that these governing factors will result in a health education program based on fundamentals only. A few basic facts will be taught well, and these will be the content of the course. It will do the pupils of higher mentality no harm to have these fundamentals driven home once more and it is essential to pupils of lower mentality that they make these attitudes, facts and practices part of their lives.

Standard health habits are emphasised in many continuation school health programs and this is right. But more important is the need for an adjustment of attitude and method of living, necessitated by the specific industry which the student has entered. A stenographer, for instance, may well be urged to see the value of outdoor exercise after a day’s work and to avoid the typical stenographer’s lunch of soda fountain saccharinities. But the boy working on a farm or in a factory needs other instruction. This problem is not difficult, practically, since the continuation school class groupings are usually according to industrial activities. It does however mean developing several program-entities to meet the specific needs of different groups.

Much help in setting up a health education program may be derived from certain scales, such as Wood and Lerrigo’s Health Behavior.6 In using such a scale for continuation school work, the wide range of mentalities of the group must be kept in mind. Previous background must also be considered. Until health education in public schools has reached some such level as set up in the Wood-Lerrigo scale, material in continuation schools must be adapted to the situation by determining what health instruction the pupils have already had and how much they have retained, considered in terms of habits, attitudes, and knowledge.

6 Wood, Thomas D. and Lerrigo, Marion, 0. Health Beharicr. Public School Publishing Compayy, Bloomington, Illinois. 1927.

Digitized by UjOOQle
39

It would be desirable to construct special tests of health habits, attitudes, and knowledge for use in continuation schools, but for the present the few existing tests may be used and the situation thus analyzed. In using such tests6 it would be helpful if mental measurements had previously been taken and the I. Q’s of the different classes determined. But rough standards can be found without this from a study of published reports on mental testing in other continuation school groups. In general the stenographers have shown the high mental levels and the shop classes the low.

The continuation school teacher, at present, has practically no health background. Training continuation school teachers in health work is now recognized as a necessity and credit is given in some cities for courses developed for this purpose. Such credits should be required of every teacher in this field.

Health courses for continuation school teachers are still in the experimental stage, and only theoretical discussion of the situation is possible. The writer’s course at Teachers College has brought to light interesting problems. Such courses ought to include subject matter needed for simple instruction in the fundamentals of personal, community, and home hygiene, and each student should be expected, under supervision, to adapt such subject matter to his special field, whether it be art, shop work, or language and spelling instruction. Certain health truths will not prove readily adaptable to some of the teaching situations without much ingenuity and may have to be presented to the pupils without attempt at correlation. Too much naivete or false interest is to be avoided.

Since there are so many different types in a continuation school, it is essential that each teacher make a definite analysis of his teaching situation and his group to determine its needs. If then, certain simple but fundamental subject matter in the field of health is supplied, it will be possible for the teacher to determine what parts are needed by his particular group and to find places in the teaching situations for using the material.

Almost any continuation school teacher finds a definite need among his pupils for fundamental material on (1) social hygiene and relationships, (2) sleep, (3) food, (4) diet, (5) clothing, (6) play and social activities, (7) dental hygiene, (8) eye hygiene, (9) use of professional health service, (10) mental hygiene, (11) shelter botn for living and for work, (12) cleanliness, (13) community hygiene with special interest in control of communicable disease, pure food and water supply, and waste disposal.

While many schools teach this material by various devices, it is preferable and not particularly difficult to utilize the analysis approach. Professor R. G. Reynolds, Principal of the Horace

6 The test developed by the American Child Health Association in their Sckocl Health Program Study deserves careful trial in the continuation school field. The author is less enthusiastic about the strictly health knowledge type of test.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
40

Mann School, pot much valuable information merely by asking his teachers to list twenty-five items taught in their work and to suggest health material which could be taught in correlation.

The approach and lesson detail is different, depending on the group taught. The shop instructor, for instance, may teach proper sleep habits by showing that sleeplessness results in fatigue and fatigue in carelessness and industrial accidents. The academic teacher may show her group of stenographers that proper sleep means more accurate work, less criticism, and raises in salary. This is only setting up specialized situations in terms of the specialized pupils. With continuation school pupils the life situations are so varied and specialized that the more general plans used in public schools will not work out satisfactorily.

A teacher of shop work and a teacher of an academic class find that their pupils need instruction regarding diet. Both begin by inquiring from their pupils what they would like to have for the next meal. There is an immediate contrast in replies, the shop group probably emphasizing plenty of meat and the academic group (often stenographers) preferring sweets. Etch group works out a meal of different content and of different caloric value, the one intended for the individual doing heavy labor, the other for the semi-sedentary person. In the latter group the problem of dieting reducing will present itself and frcm this will come a discussion of the height-weight-age tables and their proper uses. It is well agreed that the fundamental appeal to girls is through their desire to be pretty and popular.

Contrast, too, the probable lesson in dental hygiene for shop workers and boys in art classes. Both need good teeth, but in the case of shop workers, the maintenance of health in order to do a good day’s work and so earn good wages may be stressed more effectively than with the art group, where the beauty of good teeth will have more appeal.

First aid and safety are well taught in the shop atmosphere. Most shops use safety posters liberally, and their appeal is easily recognized by the boys. The need for wearing goggles for persons working on certain machines can be thoroughly appreciated. The pupil in household economics will not need such instruction, but will learn of the hazards of gas and electric household apparatus, of street and home safety, and of the sort of first aid needed in the home as contrasted with shop first aid.

Lessons on posture, and they are most necessary, are based on the life situation of which an important factor is the work situation. Practical applications are made in many instances by the pupils themselves. A comfortable chair for the stenographer and how she should sit versus how to plane a board and still avoid a low shoulder, illustrate different approaches.

Similarly in considering working conditions, the need for well-lighted, well-ventilated, quiet offices are studied by the academic group while the shop workers take up the subject from the point of view of factory hygiene.

Digitized by Google
41

Mental hygiene problems are numerous and must be given careful attention. Many are preventable through health education. The social hygiene problem also must be met squarely in continuation schools.

Special classes in home hygiene occupy a well-deserved place in the curriculum, since most of these adolescent girls will marry within a very few years and will practice the art of home-making chiefly on the basis of what they have learned from these courses.

It may be that teachers of certain continuation school classes cannot handle health teaching. Some doubt is expressed whether shop teachers can do so. There is no proof of this. The author believes they would be most successful. However, if it is shown later that shop teachers cannot teach health, then some more academically trained teacher must accept the task and teach shop pupils health in terms of the life situation, shop. But such a teacher would not have the standing of the shop instructor with the pupils, nor would the educational opportunity be as good outside the shop.

In developing health instruction in a continuation school, the supervision of a well-trained health education specialist will make possible a stronger program. Such an expert will have to be, or become, familiar with the peculiar problems of continuation school education and the situation, educational and otherwise, in the particular school where he works.

With all the difficulties of organization and administration of health education which have been presented, three facts may be stressed:

1.	A health education specialist is needed in all continuation schools.

2.	Much research must be made in this field before clear-cut definite programs can be outlined.

3.	A well planned program will be based considerably on local needs discovered and met through: (a) certification examinations, (b) testing of health habits, attitudes, and knowledge, (c) consultation with those in the best position to give technical advice, (d) actual analysis of the needs of a class by the teacher, (e) the use of every possible individual, situation, and sound means to surround the pupil with the atmosphere of health in its broadest sense, during his entire time in continuation school.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Individual Gymnastics,” a Handbook of Corrective and Remedial Gymnastics, by Lillian Curtis Drew; published by Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia; clothbound, 276 pages with 127 engravings; price, $2.25.

The earlier editions of this handbook of corrective and remedial gymnastics were accorded favorable reviews in these columns. Any book which appears as a fourth edition has undoubtedly proven its value. On the basis of experience extending

Digitized by CjOOQle
42

over many years, the author is well qualified to suggest practical ways and helpful exercises suited to individual needs. Many additions have been made since the publication of the first edition and we are glad to bring this book to the attention of our readers.

“Mechano-Therapy,” by Mary Rees Mulliner, M. D.; published by Lea and Febiger; clothbound, 265 pages with 57 engravings; price $2.75.

Mechano-Therapy provides a valuable text for mechano-therapists and physical educators engaged in corrective gymnastics. The subject is covered in an unusually comprehensive way and is presented in a clear and interesting style. Readers will find the subject-matter generously illustrated with well-selected engravings. We do not hesitate to recommend this book as a valuable source of information to all teachers of physical education.

Following is a partial outline of contents: Protective Devices; Procedures of Massage; Physiological Effects of Massage; Active Movements; Prescription of Exercises; Faults of Posture; Disorders of Joints, of Organs of Digestion, of the Nervous System, and of Menstruation; Diseases of the Heart; and Mechano-Therapy in Pregnancy.

“Good Times for All Times” by Nina B. Lamkin, edited by Samuel French; bound in cloth, 377 pages, 6 1-4” x 9 1-4”; price $4.00.

In this book with the sub-title “A Cyclopedia of Entertainment,” we find forms of recreation for the Family, the Club, the School, the Neighborhood, and the Community. The author has supplied material for any form of entertainment you might desire. If you are having a family party consult “Good Times for All Times” to see how to amuse them. If the church group wants something different you will find it here. If you are celebrating some special holiday or having a spring festival you will get many suggestions from this book.

There are lists of plays for various groups—for the littlest ones, for the middle-sized ones, for older boys and girls, for high schools, for women’s organizations, for churches, for girls’ clubs, for men and women. There are also plays listed for holidays that come in the fall, in the winter, in the spring, and in the stunmer.

One chapter is devoted to dances for plays, festivals and pageants. Descriptions of a number of dances are given, as well as the name of the selected music. These include some natural dances as Balloon Play, Bow and Arrow Dance, Dance of the Elves, Flower Children, Dance of the Poppies, Sleighbell Dance, and some folk and historical dances. Other chapters give suggestions for costuming and for producing the play.

So, under this title “Good Times for All Times,” Miss Lamkin has compiled a mass of valuable material which ought to be

Digitized by

Google
43

of service to the teachers of physical education, to directors of recreation, or to any leader interested in producing plays or pageants or otherwise responsible for the social life of a group.

—Janet B. Walter.

“Cooperation and Competition: An Experimental Study in Motivation,” by Julius Bernard Mailer; published by Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, 1929; clothbound, 6 1-4” by 9 1-4”, 176 pages.

This book will be of great interest and significance to all teachers and parents. Two forms of motivation were chosen for investigation: self-motivation appealing to the desire for personal gain, and group-motivation appealing to the desire for group gain. The former involves only the interests of the individual in action, while the latter involves, in addition, the interests of the group of which the individual is a member.

Among the important findings of the investigation were:

a)	“The efficiency of work under competition was found to be consistently and significantly higher than under cooperation.

b)	“The difference in speed increased with the progress of work, under the two forms of motivation. The curve of self work tends to rise with repetition while the curve of group work drops consistently. Group work shows greater unevenness and less persistence.

c)	“Girls were found to score lower in cooperation involving speed.”

In conclusion, the author states the educational implications of the findings: we wish it were possible to reprint them in their entirety.

“The situation of competing for a personal prize has on a whole a greater appeal to children of Grades V to VIII than the situation of competing as a group for a group prize. They will work at a higher efficiency in the former situation and will choose it more often as their goal of work when they can have an opportunity to choose. With the progress of work the speed of self work was found to increase while that of group work decreased consistently.

“A maximum of cooperation is obtained when a group is of highest homogeneity. The sectioning of classrooms on the basis of intelligence and other factors would thus augment the cultivation of cooperativeness.

“We are led to the conclusion that cooperativeness as measured by our tests is influenced by environmental factors. It is a habit pattern acquired in accordance with the general laws of learning.

“The frequent staging of contests, the constant emphasis upon the making and breaking of records, and the glorification of heroic individual achievement and championship in our present educational system lead toward the acquisition of the habit of

Digitized by v^ooQle
44

competitiveness. The child is trained to look at the members of his group as constant competitors and urged to put forth a maximum effort to excel them. The lack of practice in group activities and community projects in which the child works with his fellows for a common goal precludes the formation of habits of cooperativeness and group loyalty.”

The Beginning Teacher by John C. Almack, Ph. D. and Albert R. Lang, Ph. D., Houghton, Mifflin and Company, Boston, 1928. Cloth bound, 5” x 8”, xvii & 478 pp.

To the beginning teacher it is immediately important that the applied aspects of teaching be thoroughly grounded in consciousness; otherwise, what should exist as a joyous, creative effort might otherwise be hopelessly muddled and lost in disillusion. The need of a handbook which presents in precise manner the chief elements of teacher function, namely, management and technique, is obviously necessary as guide and mentor. As such, this book acts as a friend in need. Briefly, everything is here that a teacher, whether beginner or otherwise, should know or should want to know. Its contents cover the entire field of teaching; its viewpoint is modem.

Especially helpful to teachers of physical and health education are the chapters devoted to intermission and play; to the teaching of health and hygiene; to holiday and special programs. “If the playground is to be merely a place of amusement a program is not especially needed; if it is looked upon as a place where moral ideals are to be developed and beneficial results to be achieved, a program is essential.”

Each chapter concludes with a commendable assortment of exercises and problems.

The Beginning Teacher is designed “to serve as a text book in high and normal schools, and to supply material for use in teacher’s state reading circles.”

—E. Boyd

The American Academy of Physical Education which was initiated in the fall of 1926 was finally organized on New Year’s Day in New York City with the following charter members: E. H. Arnold (deceased), Jessie Bancroft, John F. Bovard, Wilbur Bowen (deceased), Howard Braucher, John Brown, Jr., William Burdick, Clark W. Hetherington, Amy Homans, A. S. Lamb, William LaPorte, J. H. McCurdy, R. Tait McKenzie, George Meylan, Jay B. Nash, J. Anna Norris, Paul C. Phillips, Dudley Reed, F. R. Rogers, C. W. Savage, E. C. Schneider, Carl Schrader, William Stecher, Thomas Storey, Jesse F. Williams.

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie is President and Prof. J. B. Nash, Secretary of the American Academy of Physical Education.

Digitized by Google