MIND AND BODY

Vol. 31

No. 334

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE W-M. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

. CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14* iqi6> at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1870.

♦--------------------------------------------------

Qriginal articles and reprint^

I-------------------------------------------------4.

SPECIAL WORK, BOARD OF PUBLIC EDUCATION, PHILADELPHIA, DIVISION OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

WM. A. STECHER, DIRECTOR

The Division of Physical Education is prepared to give special individual instruction to pupils that need it. This work, if it is to be successful, needs the cooperation of the family physician. Your attention is, therefore, directed to the following:

1.	A state law makes physical education obligatory for all pupils attending school. Practically all pupils take part in the regular physical education work with great physical benefit.

2.	So far as this regular obligatory work is concerned your attention is directed to the great difference between non-competitive and competitive work. In non-competitive work excessive nervous stimulation is entirely lacking. Its general effect, therefore, is mildly stimulating.

3.	A few pupils however, because of structural defects or functional disturbances, should not take part in regular class work, until such time as they may be able to resume the regular work, you prescribe. Our teachers of physical education are competent to give the kind of work desired by a physician,

Digitized by LjOOQle
388

5. On the reverse side of this card you will find groups of ailments that call for special individual work. Please indicate by check mark or by other entry the type of work that for the current semi-annual school term would be most beneficial to the

Jmpil named on the card. (See individual exercises printed be-ow)

6.	There may also be a very few unfortunates who for the time should be forbidden to take even the mildest form of exercise. A new excuse card from the attending physician may be required if apparent change seems to make this desirable. A card, however, will be good for at least one month.

7.	Pupils who do the special exercises satisfactorily will receive a passing mark for this physical training work.

Individual Exercises No. 1

Exercise for Heart Cases.

Functional heart lesions are serious but far from hopeless, and carefully prescribed exercises should help to preserve bodily health and promote cardiac compensation. In all exercises done by pupils with cardiac lesions the pulse rate and respiration should be watched at first to ascertain the response and limitation. Later the pupil should be thoroughly acquainted with his own capacity so far as prescribed exercises are concerned.

In employing resistance exercises the movements must always be carried out slowly and with such degree of power as the momentary condition of pupil will permit. (Schott, Chapter XII.)

Resistance is necessary in order to increase muscle tone. This is achieved by the employment of a second person or by the pupil himself. Antagonistic muscle movements are valuable in obtaining this result when self-resistance exercises are used.

Movements should vary so that new muscle groups are brought into play covering the whole skeletal musculature. These movements should be repeated in several cycles, so that one-sided fatigue is prevented. (Schott, Chapter XII.)

In prescribing exercise for heart cases it is well to remember that easy exercises performed over a long period are preferable to vigorous exercises performed a limited number of times.

Easy Resistance Exercises.

1.	Arms. Arms raised forward, shoulder level, tips of fingers touching, operator’s fingers on outer wrist of pupil. Thumb on palm. Move arms sideward, operator stepping forward to follow movement and offer resistance to this action.

2.	Legs. Pupil’s hands placed on back of chair, raise leg backward, operator offering resistance by placing hand on ankle of pupil.

3.	Trunk. Operator on right of patient, right arm across chest of pupil, grasping left shoulder, left hand in small of back.

Digitized by ^ ooQle
339

Pupil bends forward until a right angle is achieved, operator resists trunk bending.

Bibliography.

“Balneo Gymnastics of Chronic Heart Treatment,” Tneodor Schott, M. D., 1914, Philadelphia.

Individual Exercises No. 2.

Medium Resistance Exercises for Heart Cases.

The pupils employing these exercises should consist of two classes:

1.	Those who have taken the east/ resistance group for a time, and who in the opinion of the physician have developed sufficient

2.	Those heart cases which demand separation from the reserve strength to progress.

work of the normal group but are capable of more than the easy resistance group.

These exercises should be performed in a complete cycle, be-before repetition. Note any evidences of arrhythmia, tachycardia or bradycardia. Be sure that the pupil’s pulse returns to normal after a reasonable rest period.

Starting position.

Supine lying position, heels together, arms at sides.

1.	Raise arms forward, lower sideward, raise forward, raise upward, raise forward, lower to original position at sides. In all six movements of the arms the pupils should employ sufficient self-resistance of antagonistic muscle groups to raise muscle tone. Care should be taken to see that this self-resistance is not overdone and that a certain thoracic mobility be retained.

2.	Raise left leg forward, flex the knee, straighten the leg, and lower. Repeat with the right leg.

Employ no self-resistance and breathe eas’ly throughout exercise.

3.	Raise arms foreupward, rise to sitting position lowering arms to touch toes, lower trunk backward to original position, raising arms foreupward, lower arms foredownward to original position at sides.

Employ no self-resistance except that necessary in lowering trunk backward.

When the cyle is completed begin again at first exercise and continue, with necessary rest periods for the prescribed duration. (See P. E. H. 5.)

Bibliography.

“Die Gymnastik der Herzleidenden,” Drs. Juliun Hofman und Ludwig Pholman.

“Mechano-Therapy.” Thomas Dowse, M. D., Scotland.

Individual Exercise No.3.

Heart Exercises (continued).

Mild General.

Compensation is usually good in children who are recommended for this type of work, so that much of the work done by the normal pupils may be included.

Digitized by kjOOQle
340

Running and jumping should be omitted, but the various ball throws can be used to advantage. Little if any apparatus work should be given, but some of the less vigorous games may be played.

The child should be made to feel that he is a part of the class in the tactics and setting up drill, but omit running and jumping from his program, also see that he is privileged to discontinue at any time when the slightest dyspnea is evident. For after-school work recommend deep breathing and moderate walking.

Individual Exercises No. 4.

Medium General.

The same work can be given as in Mild General with the inclusion of short running (not sprints but jogs) and a little jumping (for exercise and not competitively). This child can play most of the class games that demand little sustained effort,

1.	e., volley ball, end ball, captain ball, etc.

Watch for dyspnea and pulse irregularities.

Individual Exercises No. 5.

Dysmenorrhea.

1.	Dysmenorrhea means painful menstruation. Painful menstruation among girls of school age is due usually to an excessive congestion of blood in the pelvic region. The congestion is caused first by menstruation itself. It is aggravated by poor posture and by lack of exercise. The posture assumed by many pupils crowds all the organs in the pelvic region causing pressure and increased local congestion.

2.	The purpose of the following exercise is to increase the blood circulation, thereby decreasing lo:al congestion and removing the pressure that causes the pain.

Note. These exercises are beneficial only for spasmodic or congestive types due to faulty circulation, flabby musculature, constipation and strain from faulty posture. They should not be used with demonstrable pelvic disease.

I.	Breathing Exercises. (Dr. Mosher’s exercises 1 a, b, and c)

la. Pupil lying in a horizontal position on back, knees flexed,

arms at side to secure perfect relaxation. One hand rests on abdominal wall without pressure.

b.	Pupil is directed to inhale slowly, raising the hand by lifting abdominal wall (without straining) then to see how far hands can be lowered by exhaling and by voluntary contraction of the abdominal muscles.

c.	Repeat ten times night and morning every day during the month, even during the menstrual period.

II.	Leg Exercises. The largest muscle masses in the body are to be found in the legs, thighs, and buttocks. Exercise of these parts does much to increase the circulation, and to relieve local congestion.

la. Pupil standing with heels together, hands resting on back of a chair. '	"

Digitized by i^ooQle
341

b.	Heel raising and lowering.

c.	Twenty times twice a day morning and night.

2a. Same as la. Pupil standing with heels together, hands resting on back of a chair.

b.	Deep knee bending putting some work on the arms to relieve strain.

c.	Repeat five times morning and night during month, even during period.

III.	Abdominal Exercises.

a.	Pupil lying in a horizontal position with knees slightly flexed.

b.	Draw knees up as far as possible toward chest and then lower.

c.	Repeat this exercise ten times night and morning.

Menorrhagia.

This means a prolonged or too copious period of menstruation. It is usually due to some pathology of uterus, tubes, etc., and is very uncommon among girls of school age. No exercise is recommended for such cases..

Individual Exercises No. 6 Overweight Cases.

The excessive accumulation of fat must be considered as a symptom rather than a disease. It is due to overnutrition, to underoxidation, or to a combination of both acting together. The obesity may be local or general; when general in its distribution it may be slight, moderate, or excessive. The first calls only for checking the further development; the second and third forms call for reduction. In reducing, diet plays such an important part that the teacher should impress its importance upon the pupil.

In selecting cases for reduction a thorough physical examination should first be made, as obesity is often accompanied by affections of the circulatory system. (McKenzie, “Exercise in Education and Medicine/’ Chapter XXIX.)

Interest in walking, games, and other forms of general activity should be stimulated. In addition to the regular class work in free exercises the following exercises are recommended (they should be executed vigorously and for a gradually increasing number of times.)

Medium Endurance Exercises.

1.	Arm circles forward, first left, then right.

2.	With hands on hips—bend and straighten the knees.

3.	Standing position (one hand on wall, stall bar, etc., for support)—swing left leg forward (waist high) and backward: repeat with right leg.

4.	Standing in a stride position with hands on hips—rotate the trunk. (Beginning to the right).

5.	Supine lying position—raise left knee to chest, straighten leg forward and lower; raise right knee to chest, straighten leg forward and lower.

6.	Vigorous exercise in rope jumping.
842

Individual Exercises No. 7.

Great Endurance Exercises.

1.	Arm circles forward, first left then right.

2.	Walking with bent knees (squat walking).

3.	Standing position (with support)—swing left leg forward (head high if possible) and backward; repeat with right leg.

4.	Standing in the stride position with hands behind neck— rotate the trunk, beginning to the right. (Trunk circumduction.)

Later with arms overhead.

5.	Supine lying position with hands behind neck or grasping support overhead (stall hars)—ra;se both knees to the chest, straighten leg forward and lower.

6.	Supine lying position with feet fixed—raise body to upright position and lower to starting position.

7.	Vigorous exercise in rope jumping.

Individual Exercises No.8.

Underweight Cases.

In prescribing work for this type child the competitive spirit must be eliminated. It is well to remember that exercises performed over a long period are preferable to vigorous exercises performed a limited number of times.

Easy General Exercises.

Supine lying position, hands at sides.

1.	Raise arms foreupward (overhead) and return to starting position.

2.	Raise left knee and lower; raise right knee and lower.

3.	Sitting position, with hands on hips—lower trunk forward and return.

4.	Sitting position—raise arms, sideward palms up, and raise chest; lower.

5.	Standing position (with one hand on chair, stall bar, wall, etc., for support). Swing left leg forward and backward ten times then right leg.

Individual Exercises No.9.

Medium General Exercises.

The pupils using these exercises should consist of two classes:

1.	Those who have taken the easy general exercise for a time and who in the opinion of the physician have developed sufficient reserve strength to progress.

2.	Those underweight cases which demand separation from the work of the normal group, but are capable of more than the easy general exercises.

Supine lying position, heels together, arms at sides.

1.	Raise arms foreupward, lower sidedownward.

2.	Raise knees to chest and lower.

3.	Raise knees to chest, straighten legs forward, and lower.

Sitting position with hands on hips.

1. Straighten arms sideward, palms up, and raise chest; and lower.

Digitized by foiOOQle
343

2.	Bend trunk left and raise; bend trunk right and raise.

3.	Bend trunk forward and raise.

Standing position.

1.	Alternately raise the left and right knee forward.

2.	(With support.) Swing left leg forward and backward ten times; then right leg.

Individual bxerciseg No.10.

Flat Feet.

Foot troubles, as a rule, are due to weakened muscles of the feet. This results in a falling of the arches or in a pronation or supination of one or both feet. Many of the exercises given below should be performed daily in the home. Their object is to strengthen the foot muscles so that the defect is remedied.

Exercises.

A.	Sitting on a chair or siool.

1.	Purpose: To make the feet more flexible.

Sitting on a low stool, with the knees crossed, the right knee on top. The right ankle is grasped by the right hand, while the left hand grasps the toes and the lower part of the right foot, the thumb pressing in on the anterior arch. Reverse the position for exercise of left foot.

Exercise: (a) Pull the foot straight down and stretch it, at the same time pressing it with the thumb. Flex the foot well up and stretch again.

(b)	With the foot flexed, supinate it with the hand.

(c)	Starting with the foot flexed, pull it down, in, and up, making a semicircle inward.

2.	Purpose: To exercise the supinators of the feet and to increase muscle control.

Position: The legs stretched forward and the ankles flexed.

Exercise: Stretch the feet down, in and up, making a semi-. circle inward, and concentrating the movement in the ankles.

3.	Feet on the floor, parallel and some distance apart. Raise inner border of the feet twenty to thirty times.

4.	Place toes protruding over the edge of a book, feet turned forward. Turn toes under and then straighten twenty to thirty times.

B.	Standing.

5.	Purpose: To exercise the extensors and supinators of the feet.

Exercise: Rise to the tiptoes, and in coming down roll on the outer edge of the feet, keeping the front part of the feet on the floor.

6.	Purpose: To stretch the muscles of the feet and legs, particularly the muscles in the back of the legs.

Position: Standing, with the hands on the hips, the feet straight.

Exercise: Bend the knees as far as possible keeping the heels down on the floor.

Digitized by

Google
344

C.	Walking.

1. With shoes off, walk about the room, heels on the ground, the toes protruding upward, three to six mintues.

Bibliography.

“Manual of Corrective Gymnastics,” Lippit.

Individual Exercises No. 11.

Exercises for Hernia.

The teacher should be certain that the hernia has been reduced. The exercises have the object of strengthening the abdominal muscles. Care must be used to progress slowly.

Lying flat on the back.

1.	Slowly raise the knees to the chest and lower.

2.	Slowly raise the knees, straighten the legs upward and then lower.

3.	Body lying on back on a board with feet elevated one foot and strapped. Raise the body slowly and carefully. Later make the exercises more difficult by raising the arm overhead.

4.	(Same position as No. 3.) Twist upper body left and right. Later make more difficult by moving the arms in the same direction.

5.	Position as No. 3. but feet elevated two feet. Grip end of board with hands. Now raise right leg to a perpendicular position and then swing over to left as far as possible and back to position. Repeat eight to twelve times.* The same with left leg.

6.	(Same position as No. 5.) Raise right leg as far overhead and back as possible. Same left leg.

Individual Exercises No. 13.

Chorea.

Chorea is a disturbance of coordination characterized by irregular involuntary contractions of the muscles, accompanied by psychic disturbances and frequently by endocarditis.

The treatment of the acute attack consists of rest, isolation, tonics. When the acuteness of the attack has subsided, the treatment should begin with massage for the first few days, followed by simple, slow, passive or resisted movements, in which the limb is held quiet for a few minutes.

After this, rhythmic, passive movements are indicated in which the patient should take no active part.

Later on, rhythmic exercises sufficiently active to tire the muscular system moderately will be in order. These should be done with the patient by herself, and any excitement or the competition of class drills should be sedulously avoided.

The keynote of such treatment is the rhythmic repetition of simple movements to overcome the irregularity of the twitching.

Simple dancing exercises to music emphasizing the rhythm and taking away the mental strain necessary to follow movements done to command also are recommended.

Bibliography.

“Exercise in Education and Medicine,” McKenzie. Page 657.
345

FRESHMAN HYGIENE

Dr. Bessie Noyes, Professor in Biology, North Carolina College for Women, Greensboro, Nortn Carolina.

While we are not primarily training teachers at the North Carolina College for Women, a great many of our students go out into schools and teach. They go into rural schools, into elementary schools and high schools. The freshman course in Hygiene is required. I have a feeling that it belongs in the freshman year. In our school we have no compulsory sciences of any sort. That means that a girl can go through without taking any chemistry, physics or any biology. Very frequently students come to us without having had one year of training in any science. You can readily see the problem we must face. We will have one girl come from a good high school, and we will also have a girl from a rural school who has not had more than seven months’ or even six months’ training during her elementary school years. We have those two girls in the same class and we have to try to find a course that will appeal to them both because they have to take the same final examination.

them. We try to find	r	it most of all when they come

to college. The first reaction is that they have come to get an education. If you follow them closely you will find that that is not the thing they want most. The thing our girls want is to be popular. I do not know whether that is the thing to start out with in a college girl’s course, but it is what we are doing. You can use that as a basis. If a girl is going to be popular what are the essentials for popularity? We strike at the particular requisite.

People do not want cross folks around them. That leads us into our mental hygiene program. People do not want friends around who are not good looking. That leads into the subject of personal cleanliness, care of the hair, skin, clothing, etc. Naturally we take up the physiology that seems to us to be necessary to get over the points we are trying to make. In taking up personal cleanliness we dwell upon a great many things such as the structure of the skin and the hair. Later the discussion leads into the question of internal cleanliness and that is a large field for discussion. We do not try to enforce anything that does not appeal. We try to find something to which the students respomd readily and willingly. You can tell whether or not they are interested.

Later in the year we have a woman physician talk to our girls on the subject of sex hygiene, giving them a course of seven lectures. She tries to treat it in a fairly broad way. She takes

Giver at Health Education Conference, Cambridge, Massvchasetts, June 23rd—28th, 1924. Arranged by Health Education Division, American Child Health Association,

I am continually

something that will interest

Digitized by L^ooQle
346

up the structure of the organs involved and from that leads nto a bit of community hygiene. In the state of North Carolina, a physical examination is required before the issuing of a marriage certificate. We try to impress our girls with the importance of this.

We shift from the personal viewpoint to the community one. We talk about the laws in regard to the care and sale of milk in the state. Sometimes during the college year girls are out on account of mumps, chicken pox, and various other diseases. This serves as a basis for a discussion of the special disease and a general discussion of contagious diseases, quarantine, public health inspection, etc. We discuss such subjects as will help the students to become better citizens. Every year we vary the subjects a little bit because we find that different situations create different interests.

The amount of infirmary expense we have is not proportionally larger for the fifteen hundred students we have at the present time as compared with the five or six hundred students present four and five years ago. Therefore, our president really feels that the work we are doing is worth while from a financial standpoint.

CHILD HEALTH WORKERS MEET IN KANSAS CITY

By Anna B. Towse, Editorial Associate, Division of Publications American Child Health Association.

What are we doing to protect the lives of our children? That was the question asked and answered by the men ana women who journeyed from all parts of the country to Kansas City in October to meet with the American Child Health Association at its Second meeting. The city in the Middle West became the Mecca of pediatricians, nurses, nutritionists, educators, public health specialists, community organizers and social welfare agents responding to the clarion note of Child Health.

Figuratively, no group of children of the country was overlooked. The rural child with his inadequate recreational facilities claimed equal attention with the child whose city environment brings to him the best that a modem child health program affords. Authorities in pre-school child health contributed their quota of information. The health habits of the school child were summarized from the findings of a survey made by the Association of fifth grade children in aighty-six cities of the United States. What communities are doing and ought to do to insure better health conditions for their child population was discussed by community organizers. In fact, community organization for child health was featured at the three day session at Kansas City.

In the general sessions and at group discussions the importance of training leaders for child health work in a community

Digitized by L^ooQle
347

program included the physician, health educator, public health nurse and community organizer.

In the absence of Herbert Hoover, president of the American Child Health Association, Dr. Thomas D. Wood, professor of health education at Columbia University, and third vice-president of the Association, presided.

Tue keynote of the Association's policy was sounded in the telegraphic greeting from its president, the Honorable Herbert Hoover: "This year has been one of great accomplishment and great growth in the work of the Association. It is finding itself by extending cooperation with all of the forces in America making fundamental progress in the protection and development of our children. It is only through continued voluntary cooperation of all these forces that we can accomplish the stupendous problem which lies before the Association.”

In his report of the year’s achievements in its national program, Courtenay Dinwiddie, general executive, briefly outlined the cooperative work referred to by Mr. Hoover,—the clean and safe milk campaigns carried on with the state health departments and dairy commissions of Louisiana, Florida, Kentucky, South Dakota, North Dakota, Delaware and Michigan; birth registration campaigns, also a part of the state health department programs in Arkansas. Iowa, New Mexico, North Dakota, Tennessee, South Dakota and Missouri; the midwifery program conducted in Halifax^ County, Virginia, among colored mid wives in the hope of decreasing infant and maternal mortality; the survey of crippled children with the state health and educational departments of Maine, the pre-school project of the Parent-Teacher Association in Georgia, the nursing service among Chippewa Indians which resulted in the appointment of two Indian nurses by the State Health Office of Minnesota, stimulating health interest among state and private groups in Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and Illinois. Fifty $500 health education scholarships were awarded by the Health Education Division through an appropriation of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Applications came from 1,644 teachers representing 52 cities. Many of the teachers, awarded the scholarships, took summer courses and several are studying during the college year.

Information of practical value to professional workers of a community health program was given by staff members of the child health demonstrations in Fargo, N. D., Athens, Ga., Rutherford County, Tenn. and Mansfield, Ohio.

“What are the Fundamentals in Community Protection of Child Health,” was answered by Dr. Walter H. Brown, director of the child health demonstration, Mansfield.

‘ Satisfactory Community sanitation is a fundamental in any child health program. No program for the protection of child health can possibly succeed which does not provide for adequate control of milk and water supplies as well as proper disposal of wastes. But the highest development of chilo life demands more than a sanitary environment. It demands that some at-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
348

tention be given to the heredity of our off-spring and the health of their parents.”

Certain minimum child health services in a community program considered by Dr. Brown were: prenatal, natal, infancy, preschool, school, adult education.

Dr. William J. French, director of the Fargo Child Health Demonstration talked on “Training Leaders for Child Health work in the City.” Dr. French said: “The child health problem must be attacked from two angles. First, the most important, right living on the part of the family group, and second, proper living (functioning) on the part of the community as a whole. These two interact and are interdependent. There are really six groups from which we must draw our child health leaders: physicians, nurses, teachers, social workers, spiritual advisors, ana the citizens of the community who may not belong to any of these professional groups but who may be said to be the representatives of the family group. Training of all of them must begin early and must be of a positive not a negative character”.

Quoting his special reference to health leadership in the schools. Dr. French said: “It is hoped that the day is not far distant when teachers will be taught in the normal schools the essentials of health and the importance as well as the advantages of teaching positive health.”

In her discussion of this same topic from the viewpoint of the rural community, Dr. Florence Brown Sherbon, director of the Kansas Bureau of Child Research, University of Kansas, outlined the requiremets in a training course for the rural child health worker. She also made a plea that “the country child should have an equal chance for equal health with the city child.”

“The standard of the rural child health worker cannot be too high,” emphasized Dr. Sherbon. "It has need to be even higher than that of the city worker because of the remoteness of the rural worker from expert advice and the support of boards and officiaries. Rural child health problems present a social, geographical and often a political complex, which must usually be analyzed and handled by a single worker, whereas in the city it would be handled by various specialized groups.

“The rural worker should have a high appreciation of country life. He should be imbued with a spirit of appreciation of the importance, beauty and dignity of country life, not of the missionary who carries to the benighted a message bom of conscious spiritual superiority. The rural child health worker must establish a mental residence in the country.

“The successful rural child health worker must be conscious of the strategic value of ru'-al people to the world and must share their sense of their personal work,” continued Dr. Sherbon.

An afternoon was devoted to the subject of the essentials of preparation of physicians, health educators, public health nurses and community organizers in a community child health program. Dr. Mayzck P. Ravenel of the University of Missouri, presided at this meeting. Dr. Clifford G. Grulee, associate pro-

Digitized by kjOOQle
349

fessor of pediatrics, included in the training of the physician “an adequate knowledge of prenatal and obstetrical conditions which have a bearing upon the mortality at this age,” and he emphasized the importance of infant welfare and nutritional training, a preparation for preschool health work, as well as the usual study of contagious diseases and prevention in relation to a community child health program.

The training of health educators was outlined by Prof. C. E. Turner of the Department of Biology and Public Health, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Miss Emma Dolfinger, director of the Health Education Division of the .American Child Health Association, presided at the discussion of the teachers’ section in which Miss Mildred Sykes, assistant supervisor of nature study, Los Angeles, and Miss Elma Rood, director of health education, Child Health Demonstration, Mansfield, Ohio, spoke. Miss Sophie Nelson, director of the Visiting Nurse Association, St. Louis, Mo., discussed the training of the public health nurse.

At the group discussion for the nurses’ section, Miss Dora Peterson, field advisory nurse of the Child Hygiene Division of the Minnesota State Board of Health, contributed to the rural work phase and Miss Phyllis Dacey, superintendent of the Visiting Nurse Association of Kansas City, Missouri, talked on the nurses’ duties in city work. E. M. Morgan of the University of of Missouri and an expert in rural sociology analyzed the community organizer’s preparation, saying that he must know a great deal about leadership:

“I would just as soon invite a physician into my home to treat my children who had never had a course in physiology as I would expect a social worker to get anywhere in community organization whc knew nothing about the nature and behavior of society. I want the social worker to know sociology.’’

Barry C. Smith, director of the Commonwealth Fund of New York, presided at the meeting when Dr. Brown spoke and Bleecker Marquette, executive secretary of the Cincinnati Public Health Federation, answered from practical experience the query, “Will Communities Pay for an Adequate Health Program?” R.

H.	Hixson, representing the Oklahoma City Public Health Association, outlined the “Relation of the Press to Community Child Health Work” and Dr. Annie S. Veech, Chief, Division of Child Hygiene, Kentucky State Board of Health, raised the question of “Joint Responsibility of Public and Private Agencies and Obligation of a Community in the Observance of a Child Health Program.”

“The death rate of the infant and the preschool child is everywhere too high,” said Dr. Veech. “Children are growing up. with physical defects uncorrected, leaving them unfitted to grasp in childhood available educational opportunities. Many are failing to reach their highest adult development. The least we can hope to do is to give every child a chance to attain through environment, health and education, his best development. Each

Digitized by L^ooQle
350

Community is a problem unto itself and it is only as it awakes to its responsibility that we may have any hope of its children.” Dr. George Clark Mosher of Kansas City, Mo., awakened the assembly to the importance of a greater maternity program, when he said, “The lives of eighty mothers out of eveiy hundred of those who die in child bearing could be spared. Eighty per cent of the tragedy in obstetrics is preventable and the most important work cf the present generation is that of the American Child Health Association, directed toward preventing such a heavy toll of mothers and expectant mothers. All reforms in maternal welfare must come through more thorough education of medical students, doctors, nurses and the laity.”

Phases of maternity work and the health program for babies and younger children in urban and rural districts were featured on the program. School medical inspection, school nursing and the special duties and opportunities of the home economics and physical education teachers in a school health program were subjects treated by specialists in those fields.

During that week of October in Kansas City, medical men from the middle and south west gathered to exchange ideas. It was most appropriate that they fshould participate in the "give and take program” of the Amencan Child Health Association.

Two joint meetings were held with the Kansas City Annual Fall Clinical Conference and Medical Association of the Southwest. Before his audience of physicians and child health specialists, Dr. George E. Vincent, president of the Rockefeller Foundation, emphasized the importance of the old-time family physician in his talk'on “The Doctor of the Future.” Sally Lucas Jean spoke on “Internationalization of Child Health and its Significance.’ At another joint session. “Pediatrics and Obstetrics” was the general subject discussed by such specialists in the field as Dr. Fred L. Adair, associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology, Medical College, University of Minnesota; Dr. Richard M. Smith, assistant professor of child Jhygiene, Harvard School of Public Health and D*\ LeRoy Hunner, associate professor of clinical gynecology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore.

But it was at the group discussion and round table luncheons that many gems enriching a community child health program were dropped.

Dr. Henry S. Curtis, director of Hygiene and Physical Education, Jefferson City, Mo., presided at the round table luncheon discussion planned for physical education specialists. “The Feasibility of and Necessity for Providing Open Air Playgrounds for Children, Especially for Pre-School Children” was the topic. Miss Ethel C. Perrin, staff associate of the American Child Health Association was responsible for getting together this group of prominent persons interested in a community playground program. Dr. Curtis offered the following practical suggestions:

“All agree that the preschool child is our largest problem and in the matter of recreation his play is important in its relation to his health.

Digitized by Google
351

“The home yard is not always appropriate for older children, but it is appropriate for a pre-school child. Such things as sand, a swing, seasaws, and wading pools are part of the equipment of the preschool child.

“The Oakland Recreation Committee supplies plans for back yard playgrounds. In a community with several families to combine in buying equipment, the supervision can be in the hands of one of the mothers or an older girl.

“A tree is of fundamental importance as a place around which all forms of plan can center. It provides for sandboxes, swings may be hung from its limbs and it teaches children to climb. The fittings of a monkey cage are a very good type for a little child’s activity with swinging rings, climbing poles, bars, etc.

“The problem is most acute in large cities. A little child cannot go any long distances from home. The playground, therefore, must be in its own neighborhood.

“To solve the difficulties the following plans have been tried: (1) interior courts in the tenement house districts were required by law as an experiment in New York City and Berlin, (2) regulations calling for buddings to be the same height so that roofs could be railed off (3) fire escapes are being used in New York City, and (4) the new school houses have flat roofs arranged for playground activities.

‘Every town should have some plan fo’> its preschool children’s play, beginning with the pen for the baby and developing coincidentally with the age of the child.

“A lot of one hundred twenty-five feet square is as good as a larger one. People should be made aware of the necessity for plan and organization.

“It was found in city work that the children did the resting in their homes. They frequently stayed an hour or less at the playground, and the attendance was six or seven times as many as were present at any one horn. In such short visits there was little time for the child to rest.

“Some want games, some discovery. Some want some other definite thing. It depends on what attractions are on the playground. Part depends on what the home provides. The men’s organizations are all wanting to do something for children. In Springfield, Mo., the Kiwanis Clubs opened eleven playgrounds.

“In a backyard with a tree, a trapeze, parallel bars, sand bin, and swing should not cost much more than ten dollars.

“Parent-Teachers Associations can be taught and they are doing good work for preschool children. The country child needs practically the same things that the city child needs but the country child is more nearly normal in its activities than the city child.”

Professor F. W. Blackman of the University of Kansas, was of the opinion that the greatest problem is to allow children the opportunity for normal play.

Prof. E. M. Morgan of the University of Missouri, brought up the problem of the playground for smaller towns where the

Digitized by L.OOQ Le
352

school grounds can be used in the summer holidays and on Saturdays but not for the rest of the week. The cooperation of men’s organizations was cited for making generous donations for the establishment of playgrounds, especially the Kiwanis club of Spring-field, Mo., which has opened eleven playgrounds.

Dr. William French, director of Child Health Demonstration, Fargo, N. D., told how organized play in Fargo has filled the need for playgrounds usually felt by community health organizers: “The people of Fargo hesitated to put in playgrounds. The population is thirty-seven thousand. The city is built without crowding, there are no tenements and the opinion was that ‘playgrounds were not needed.’ Organized play has, however, been put on and has now been passed over to local responsibility. Children are weighed, milk is served and rest periods are provided as a part of the play program.

“The Kiwanis Clubs will have to be converted because they are not interested in preschool children as much as in school children. The playgrounds in Fargo, N. D., were not visited by preschool children until a special person was put on to get the younger children. No formal program succeeded. Families, also, have to be taught. Someone should work out a solution othis problem.

To this contribution Miss Perrin added:	“The playgrounds

of Fargo had health as their backbone. The whole program eluded rest. It is a mistake to have unbalanced activity. Nutrition and rest went in hand in hand for health.”

Dr. Florence Sherbon of the University of Kansas, briefly summarized the economical question of playgrounds: “The question frequently asked is ‘What is the minimum cost of play-equipment of a proper sort?’ In the fair grounds, one hundred dollars was spent for apparatus. Ladders, trapeze, etc., were provided and were found acceptable to the children. It was pretty well proveed that good playgrounds need not be costly.

“Preschool children have been examined since 1911 and many of them showed chest and shoulders poorly developed. The playgrounds should make their contribution to the correction of such defects.”

At the meeting of the Board of Directors, Hon. Herbert Hoover was unanimously re-elected president of the association and Edward M. Flesh, treasurer.

A New Bureau of Recreation.—C. H. English, who has had long experience in recreation in many cities, is now serving as Supervisor of Playgrounds in the new department known as the Bureau of Recreation which has been created in the Chicago Department of Education.

The Bureau of Recreation has three divisions: one, the Department of Playgrounds with 61 year-round, equipped, supervised playgrounds; two, the Department of After-School playgrounds; three, the division which has to do with recreation activities in the community centers of which there are twenty-one. The budget for the current year is $750,000.
353

POSTURE WORK AND HEALTH EDUCATION.

By Bessie L. Barnes, Supervisor of Physical Education, Brookline, Mass.

About ten years ago we started posture work in the public schools of Brooldine. We had a teacher who was specially trained for that work and we took the children who had the most glaring defects. Out of the school system of 4000 children, we selected 1000 children who were to come to us once a week. Through the cooperation of the teachers we brought the mothers there, explained to them what should be done, and urged their cooperation. The children went back into their classes after a few months without standing out as seriously defective. That work continued until the School Board felt that we were working too intensively with a small proportion of children.

In physical education, as in other departments, the most expensive children are those who are slowest to comprehend class work and who need individual instruction. The child came back after this individual work ready to receive the training in the large group.

We do not do special posture work as such now, but we emphasize preventive work. Our plan in the elementary schools is activity—purposeful, efficient, and something that the children will love to do outside of school. In grades I to VI inclusive we have only fifteen minutes a day, one period a we 3k being given over to exercise in the gymnasium. During out-of-door season all work possible is out-of-doors. Ordinarily all that you can do in fifteen minutes with forty to sixty children is to think just what you would like to do.

Our main purpose is to give the children something they will love to do outside of school hours and thus increase the time of activity. We want to instill in the children that love for the right sort of activity, that they will use play time for it. You do not find the children doing “hips firm” for the fun of it. That has its place possibly in the formal two-minute drill of the school room. The real work of the educator is to furnish opportunity, the children will do the rest. We use large muscle activities such as climbing, running, hopping, handsprings, cart wheels, etc. This plan has prevented posture defects to such a degree that if we were to take out all this larger activity and put back the definite posture work it would be a great loss to us. The children come to the special teacher with the regular teacher once a week. We have from forty to sixty children in that organization. However, with small groups each child is learning to control himself, learn new activities by suggestion and have time to do what he wants to do with the apparatus. Children find the greatest pleasure

Given at Health Education Conference, Cambridge, Massachusetts, June 23rd-28th, 1924. Arranged by Health Education Division, American Child Health Association.)

Digitized by v^-ooQle
354

in inventing things, and are very quick to discover those exercises leading to greatest development. Children are constantly on the aleH to have an apportunity to practise those things for which we wish we might have time in the class period.

The following communication, which should be of interest to all teachers of physical education was recently sene to the superintendent of a large school system, by the director in charge of the work.

1.	I am much concerned about the decreasing number of physical education teachers in the elementary schools. During the school year 1922-23 we had 34 full time and 116 part time teachers of physical education. During the school year 1923-24, we had 33 full time and 92 part time teachers. The indications are that even with a constantly increasing number of pupils we shall have a still smaller number during the school year 1924-25.

2.	I realize that the organization of Junior High Schools is responsible for some of this decrease. If, however, schoolmen had a conception of the increased value of physical training when conducted by trained specialists, there ought to be a gradual increase instead of a decrease of such teachers in the lower grades.

3.	Health and physical vigor can be measured by physical performances. Weak, sickly children cannot run so fast, nor throw and jump so far as healthy children can. Our physical accomplishments, therefore, are a fair “measuring stick” of the health and vigor of the participants. Our reports show that in schools where we have trained specialists handling the physical training and the after school work, our results are twenty per cent better than where the regular classroom teacher conducts the work.

4.	It is, therefore, fair to assume that when trained specialists conduct the physical training work the resulting health and vigor are greater than where classroom teachers are held responsible for this type of school work. A specialist is capable of detecting a falling off in physical performance. Any such indication leads to an inquiry as to the cause. There may be wrong physical habits, or perhaps approaching disease, or wrong home conditions, etc. Many school systems are now using teachers of physical education as their “Health Lookouts”. No other teachers can so quickly detect a falling off in physical performance and vigor or a lack of improvement. My plea is that we should use these ecialists more than we now do.

5. Physical ucation teachers, like physicians, nurses, and principals, should not, in the lower grades, be included among the necessary number of teachers based upon enrollment. Physical educators should be “Health Officers” whose duties consist not only of teaching but also of follow up work and corrective work. Further duties of these specialists should be the stimulation of play and athletics, also the supervision of health practices.

A PRESSING NEED

Digitized by

Google
355

6.	It is a physical impossibility to have such teachers handle classes continually all day, and at the same time organize the play at recesses, conduct after school play, weigh and measure all children twice a year, give individual corrective work to those that need it, give first aid treatment to the injured, and the other duties devolving upon such specialists in school systems that strive to improve the health of their pupils by a full utilization of all means at their demand.

7.	If we continue the present practice and set aside for pupils in the elementary schools two half-hour periods of physical training work a week, a physical training teacher should have not more than seven teaching periods daily or thirty-five periods weekly. Assuming that classes average forty pupils per class there should be a special teacher of physical education for every seven hundred enrolled pupils in a school.

8.	This will add to the cost unless we adopt a •‘garyized” type of school organization. Under a “garyized” plan there would be no additional cost in order to have the desired number of special teachers of physical education in every school. So far as I can observe there is no movement in our schools leading to an increase of “garyized” schools.

9.	I therefore recommend that the Board of Superintendents adopt as a policy, to be introduced as rapidly as circumstances permit,-“The appointment of a teacher of physical education for every seven hundred pupils enrolled in an elementary school.”

CROSS COUNTRY RUNNING FOR WOMEN.

You will find that the vast majority of people who express any opinion whatever on the subject of Cross Country Running for women state that it is not good for them, both on account of its being too strenuous, and also because of the risk of chill from swampy ground or frosty air. Both of these assertions would have grave foundation, were this sport not well organized and the runners looked after.

There is undoubtedly no healthier form of exercise, providing it is undertaken in the right way—that is by running with a good club where the members are properly supervised. As the title implies, the running is done entirely in the country, for the most part across fields and grassy slopes, where the freshness of the air cannot be questioned.

Then, too, the exercise itself is of a gentle sort, there being no competitive aspect at all, so that as soon as the “out of breath” stage is reached, or the legs tire, the slow run is changed to a walk. The pack endeavors to keep together as much as possible for the sake of sociability; but after a few runs some of the stronger ones feel the changes of walking irksome, and want to progress. In such case there are two remedies for preventing the runners from straggling out too far. One is to start the slower ones off in charge of

Digitized by LjOOQle
356

gling out too far. One is to start the slower ones off in charge of a leader, five to ten minutes before the rest (who meanwhile remain warmly covered), so that eventually the two “packs” meet about a half or three-quarter way round the course. The other is to have a pacemaker in front, who runs at a medium pace, and a keeper at the rear, whose duty it is to see that no one is left behind or gets disheartened.

Girls who run for the first time are cautioned to go carefully and not to try to keep up with the more experienced runners, at the expense of their own personal comfort and enjoyment. Then, too, care must be taken to prevent a chill after the run is over, for although gentle, the run over a 2 1-2 to 3 1-2 miles course never fails to cause the whole surface of the skin to perspire. This in itself is extremely beneficial to the system, but to guard against the dangers of chilling a rub down is essential and a change of clothing advisable. A bath of hot water is prepared against the return, for feet and legs become wet and muddy, however fine the day. It is a good thing to drink a cup of hot tea immediately after dressing, as this also helps to counteract the possibilty of catching cold.

As regards suitable clothing for Cross Country Running, it has been found that a warm sweater and knickers, and plimsolls with just a small sock of some sort, to prevent chafing of the feet (stockings are ruined by wet and mud), form the most satisfactory costume. This, however, is not regulation, and any attire giving perfect freedom of movement passes muster.

There is really no better way of spending a Saturday afternoon for those who are at all attracted by this form of exercise.

Fresh air in plenty, gentle movement, and heaps of fun are some of the attractions it offers to its followers. Those who find field and track events strenuous will discover that a run across the fields with a “half time” just whenever required, will not harass them in any way. Splashing through unsuspected mud, squeezing through hedges and clambering over stiles are causes for merriment rather than distress, as is the case when dressed for ordinary walking.

Occasionally, for those who wish, a race for the last 1,000 meters (the limit distance for women) finishes the run. On another afternoon a paper chase is organised, and provides an hour’s excitement. Sometimes a social run is arranged between two or more clubs, so helping on the friendly club spirit and social intercourse.

The aches and pains of stiffness experienced after the first run only are soon forgotten when, after a week or two, the invigorating effect produced by the enormous amount of fresh air taken into the lungs during a run is found to last, not only for an hour or two as at first, but almost to the end of the week; so that each Saturday is looked forward to with eager anticipation by the Cross-Country woman.—F. B.

Digitized by LjOOQle
357

THE TEACHING OF HOCKEY TO GIRLS.

D. H. Cooke, M. B. A. P. T„ M. I. H.

Hockey, it must be remembered, is a complicated and highly organized game. In my opinion it should not be begun before tweh-e years of age. Up to this age the children should have played rounders, captain ball, net-ball, etc., and learnt to observe rules and play in definite positions.

When beginning Hockey, do not attempt to teach the game itself straight off without leading up to it. I recently saw a teacher who after a short explanation of the game put the children in their places on the field, told them which goal to hit towards and then started “play.” The result was a crowd cf children struggling round the ball; and her frequent exhortations to “keep your places” and “pass,” had very little effect. The game was constantly stopped while players we~e sent back to their positions, but as thy had no idea of passing to one another they were soon in a hopeless muddle again.

Hockey is one of the most difficult of all games to teach, and is too often taught in the above haphazard manner. After years of practice, I have found that the following procedure has given good results, so that those that never attain team standard, play the game intelligently and know what they are supposed to be doing.

First Lesson.

(a)	Correct way to hold stick

(b)	The drive.

(o)	This may be learnt in the gymnasium or playground during the Physical Training lesson.

The stick should be gripped with the hands close together, the right hand under the left, about six inches from the end of the handle. It must be held firmly, but not so that the position is cramped.

Warn the children that they must not put their first fingers down the stick; beginners nearly always do this and need constant reminders.

(b) This is the commonest stroke in Hockey—of course varying with the power which is needed. The full drive would, for instance, be used for a long shot at goal or by a goal-keeper; the half drive in mid-field play.

Teach the correct action first. Make the children take stride standing position, and tell them to imagine they have a ball in front of them a little nearer to the left foot than the right. Chalk marks can be made on the floor to indicate position. Demonstrate the stroke, emphasising the point that the stick must not rise above shoulder level, either at the beginning or end of the stroke. Tell them to swing their sticks back from the shoulders,

Reprint from “ Pn>sical Educational,” England.

Digitized by LjOOQle
858

keeping the arms straight, just brush the spot on which the ball would be and follow through, transferring the weight from the right to the left foot and letting the arms out to their full length, turning the wrists over at the finish of the stroke to prevent “sticks” in front.

Second Lesson

(a) Hitting the Ball.

<b) Stopping the Ball with the Stick.

(c)	Dribbling The Ball.

(o) and (6) Children in lines facing each other, fairly wide apart. Make them hit the ball across from one to the other, passing it down the lines, and stopping it dead each time before they pass it on. Two or three sets can be made up for this, and it can be played as a game to see which set can get their ball down the lines and back to the starting point first. Vary this by letting the children run races; by this means the fastest runners with the best staying powers, who will later do for forwards and half-backs, may be picked out.

(c) Demonstrate this and explain that the ball must be kept close to the stick and taken along with little short taps—beginners always tend to hit the ball yards ahead and then run after it. Space the lines wide apart, number them in twos, let the ones dribble the ball across to each other, the first girl taking it across to the one opposite and returning to her place, while the one now in possession of the ball takes it on in the same way; when it reaches the ena of the line the twos return it in the same way.

Third Lesson.

(а)	|Hockey Team Race.

(б)	Passing While Running.

(c) Shooting At Goal.

(o) Form the girls into teams and arrange Hoc Key relay races. See that each girl dribbles the ball down the course close to her stick and brings it bacK over the starting line before the next girl carries on. Then send some of the girls down to one goal circle to practice shooting at goal; let them take turns to be

fjoal-keeper. Make the goal-keeper wear pads. Select five for earning passing and let the others form sets for practising hitting and stopping.

(6) Put the five girls in position to form a forward line. Take first the wing and inner from one side, show them how to give short diagonal passes to one another on the run, then let them practise this while the two on the other side are taken in the same way. Next take the centre and two inners together, and finally all five, directing them when to pass. They can then practise alone while the next five are taken, then change over with some of the other girls, till all have been coached and given an idea of passing on the run. They must learn to pass diagonally; the ball should be passed ahead, xso that the player it is intended for can just reach it when running.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
869

Fourth Lesson.

(o) Hookey Tag.

(ft) Passing Ana Tackling.

(c) Positions on the Field.

(а)	Divide the players into two teams, and tell each player to mark one of the opposing team; then space out the couples to cover the whole ground. Show one couple how to bully off. The player who secures the ball immediately passes it to one of her own side, who quickly gets free and passes again, and so on. Set one girl for each side to umpire, counting tne number of passes made. See that the players do not crowd together and that they try to get away from their opponents to take and intercept passes. The team with the highest number within a given time, e. g. five minutes, wins. The ball may only be kept for three seconds, and neither capturing the ball at the beginning nor intercepting a pass scores a point.

(б)	Next divide the girls as in the last lesson for hitting practice, etc., and take five forwards, two half-backs and two backs and coach them in this way.

Take, for instance, the right wing and inner, and show them how to apply the short passing, and the left-half and left-back how to tackle. If the half is unsuccessful in tackling the player in possession of the ball, the back must tackle. Take the others in the same way, then change and instruct the other sections.

(c) Put the girls in their places on the field and make them repeat the names of the positions.

Before the next coaching the girls should have had a short lecture, pointing out briefly what they are required to do in the various positions. Point out that the success of a good team depends upon their playing together.

Fifth Lesson.

Before starting play impress these two points on the girls:

(1)	When their own goal is being attacked THE DEFENDING FORWARDS MUST NEVER BE IN THE GOAL CIRCLE, they should be waiting just beyond the twenty-five yard line for their backs and halves to send the ball up, so that they can take it quickly up the field. Beginners must be very strictly watched over this, otherwise they will never learn to play an open attacking game.

(2)	Forbid the half-backs to be in either goal circle. There are occasions, of course, when halves must go into the circle, but beginners should never be allowed to form a habit of doing so. When their own forwards are attacking in the opponents’ goal-circle the halves should be just outside the circle, ready to send the ball in again whenever it is cleared out, and when their own goal is being attacked they should be waiting to try to secure the ball from their own backs when it is cleared, to send it up to their forwards.

Having put the girls in their places, blow the whistle and start the game. Let them play hard for the first ten minutes;

Digitized by CjOOQle
360

then stop them, gather them together, and tell them their chief faults. Too much stopping of the game makes the players lose interest. Beginners must always keep the same places for the first few practices; afterwards they can try other places and choose the one which suits them best. It is a good plan to stop the game sometimes and see that each girl is in her proper place. If a forward constantly hits the ball straight in front of her (a common fault with beginners) stop the game and point out the mistake.

Teach the girls that they must playfsilently and not call out to one another.

Umpire strictly and explain the reason of each rule. I once took over a team for coaching that had no idea of the reason why on one occasion a comer hit and on another a twenty-five yards bully was awarded; they apparently thought it was merely a whim of the umpire’s!

Much practice in taking corner hits and in rolling in will be necessary.

Occasionally vary the practice by arranging Hockey relay races, and Hockey Tag, for practice in dribbling and quick passing.

A Junior team should be formed as soon as possible to stimulate the interest of the young players and make them feel that they are playing real Hockey.

COMPETITIVE TEAM ATHLETICS FOR GRAMMAR GRADE PUPILS BASED UPON AGE STANDARDS AND ABILITY REQUIREMENTS DEMONSTRATED FORjTHE FIRST TIME IN ST. LOUIS AT THE LAST PUBLIC SCHOOL FIELD DAY, MAY, 1924.

A. E. Kindervater, Supervisor Physical Training, St. Louis Public Schools.

The big aim in our Public School Field Meet was to demonstrate to the parents and the public, with as large a number of pupils as could be crowded into such a program, the major outdoor physical activities that are practised regularly in our school yards. On account of the limited time at our disposal (from 1:00 to 4:30 P. M.) each school carrying grammar grades was allowed to enter but one team of ten in the competitive events. The three following activities were selected for this competition: Fifty Yard Dash, Standing Broad Jump and Basket Ball Far Throw. These three events were also used in our Physical Efficiency Test for both boys and girls in the Grammar grades. The age limit for all participants, except in the relay race, was under fifteen years.

The ability requirements were based upon the standards published by the Committee on Physical Efficiency Tests appointed by the American Physical Education Association, and by such

Digitized by LjOOQ Le
361

tests as we had made in the St. Louis Schools during the last five years.

Boys,-Fifty Yard Dash—Maximum Time allowed—6 3-5 seconds Standing Broad Jump—Minimum requirement—6 ft. 9 in. Basket Ball Far Throw(overhead)—Minimum requirement—40 feet.

Girls, Fifty Yard Dash—Maximum time allowed—7 seconds Standing Broad Jump—Minimum requirement—5 ft. 9 in. Basket Ball Far Throw (overhead)—Minimum requirement—34 feet.

The Organization and Preparation for this Competition.

The participation of the schools in this field day was entirely voluntary, and each school was privileged to select the activities which it wished to enter. Schools that had large yards naturally selected the dash; schools with smaller yards chose either the throw or jump. In our city as in other large and older cities the play spaces vary in size from very small to very large. Recognizing these conditions, the above three events were selected so as to offer an opportunity to each school for participation.

Teachers in charge of the Physical Training classes readily discovered the best runners, jumpers, and throwers during the outdoor practice of the physical ability tests and organized the teams accordingly. During the three weeks preceding the field day, the assistant supervisors of Physical Education visited .each teacher in charge of a team and assisted her in all final preparation. Printed programs for the afternoon events, entry blanks, score cards, and a list of officials and the committees selected to assist in the program were mailed to all the schools from the office of the Superintendent during the week previous to the field day. All officials and committees, except some of the timers, were selected from the principals and teachers of the participating schools. All schools were closed at 11:30 AM. on that day so that every teacher and pupil might attend. The interest manifested for Physical Training and its demonstration to the public was shown by a voluntary participation of 79 grammar schools out of a possible 107.

Equipment and Arrangement for Competition.

In order to stay within the time limit for the competition work, special arrangements were made for all teams entered to be on the field and start the three events simultaneously. Two sets of ten lanes each were provided for the dash, one set for the boys an4 one set for the girls; two long jumping pits, each of which accommodated ten jumpers, one pit for the girls and one for the boys; and two long take-offs for the throw, each of which accommodated ten throwers, one take-off for the boys and one for the girls. The meet was held in the American League Base Ball Park where one dares not mark the field, so strips of white canvas, three inches wide were substituted for lines and fastened to the ground
362

with staples. These strips were used at the start and finish of all events except the take-off and finish in throwing. To avoid fouls and overstepping the line, and to show clearly the finish in the throw, wooden 2 x 4’s were placed at the take-off and finish of the far throw courts. Twenty basket balls were provided in the ball throwing event, (ten for each sex). The boys’ events occupied the west side of the field and the girls’ events the east side. The finish lines of all events faced the Grand Stand, so that the spectators could see and follow up the different results.

The Lineup of Teams and Method of Procedure.

The above mentioned Base Ball Park is provided with a large Grand Stand ana two pavillions, besides the bleachers. The two pavillions were reserved for the participating pupils,-one for the boys and one for the girls. The teams accompanied by the teacher in charge, and a standard bearer who carried the name of the school, were seated in the pavillions in alphabetic order. As soon as the officials had received their instructions and taken their places on the field, the teams were called on the field in alphabetic order and lined up in column formation preparatory to begin. The captain of each team carried the entry card for his or her team. This card bore the names of each member, all of whom were certified by the Principal as eligible to participate. The card was handed to the Scorer, who after finding it correctly certified, used it as that team’s score card. As soon as a team finished an event these cards were collected by the Clerk of the Course and delivered to the Auditing Committee.

Methods of Procedure and Scoring.

The Leader in charge of each event lined up the competing teams in alphabetic order. That meant that six teams-three of girls and three of boys-were ready to start simultaneously.

In the 50 Yard Dash the ten members of a team started at the sound of the pistol, each in his own lane. The Timer stood at the finish and caught the time by the flash of the Starter’s pistol. At the end of 6 3-5 seconds (for the boys and 7 seconds for the girls) the Timer signalled the two judges of the finish who at once lowered a strip of heavy muslin about six inches wide, across the finish line, chest high. This strip separated those who had pass-ed the line in 6 3-5 seconds and those who had noi made the distance in the required time. Each member that passed over the line in time, scored 10 percent; if all passed over, that team scored 100 percent. The time for starting, running, and scoring took less than two minutes per team. The officials necessary for the dash included one Starter, one Timer, and two judges of the finish.

After scoring, the results of each team’s performance were announced to the audience by megaphone, and the teacher in charge led her team off the field for dismissal. Teams making the highest scores were detained in order to settle a possible tie. The teams could be identified on the field by their school banner.

As there were but twelve entries for the Girls’ Dash, they were added to the 23 entries for boys. This left the ten lanes

Digitized by
868

provided for the free Girls’ Dash to be used for the Boys’ Shuttle relay. This relay for the boys, six to a team, was placed on the program as a special feature for the older boys in the grades. The age limit was 16 years.

In the Standing Broad Jump k and in the JBasket BalljFar Throw the ten team members^stoodj on the take-off mark and jumped or threw, one at a time, in succession. This procedure showed plainly a fair or a foul, jump or throw. The officials necessary for these events consisted of one group leader who assembled the teams, called them to their marks, and who gave the members the signal to jump or throw; two judges of the start; two judges of the finish; and one scorer.

In the Shuttle Relay Race five teams started at the same time, each boy running 50 yards. The officials necessary in this event, were: one starter, one expert timer for each team, and two judges at the end of each lane (ten in all). The three teams making the best scores were declared the winners. Forty-nine schools entered teams in this event.

The practical, ethical and social values of the above method of competition, especially for grade school pupils, are so evident that I need to mention only those of most importance.

(a)	The creation of a genuine	spirit, including cooper-

ation, leadership and fellowship, this fitting of the individual into the whole in order to reach the goal.

(b)	Stimulating a keen competition among the ieam members, each one trying to do his best for his own team and school, not for himself, and greatly modifying that nerve racking, often very unpleasant and unhygienic result in competition of one school against the other on the same track, especially when finishes are close and judges are biased or incompetent.

Some of you will claim that this method of competition will not bring out all the ambition and energy in a child, that it lacks excitement, joy, satisfaction, etc. But it is a question with me, whether we a^e not doing the immature participants of this age, physically and mentally, more harm than good by stimulating such extreme exertion and nervous excitement. Our experiment in this direction proved very satisfactory.

(c)	The simplicity of arranging for, and conducting such a meet. In marking the requirements or standards in each event with a start and a finish line on the field, all tedious measuring with a tape line is avoided. Since we are not concerned with individual records, and rate our team members according to a fixed standard, the same as in the other curricular subjects, we need not measure each effort separately but have to reach the standard in order to pass.

By having the team members on the starting line at one time and having them finish their event in less than two minutes, a great deal of time is saved; and tedious waiting on a het and often sunny field is avoided. This saving of time becomes especially valuable when handling large numbers, and having only 3 1-2 hours of time at one’s disposal of which 11-2 hours is given to mass

Digitized by Google
864

exhibition features. The great satisfaction of the participants as well as the spectators in being able to see and hear the results made by each team and school. As the determining of the efforts of the participants is so simple, professional officials are not necessary. School principals and class teachers can act as well. It is a splendid means of stimulating the interest for physical education among the school faculty.

In closing I wish to go on record in stating that this method of procedure in conducting competitive team or group athletics with grammar grade pupils in large numbers, and limited time was the most satisfying in all my 43 years of experience in teaching, and supervising this type of work.

In case of a smaller number of teams with more time and equal opportunity for practice, I should have preferred that each team take the three events in rotation, thereby showing its all around physical ability and establishing a record for itself and its school as a standard for the other schools to work towards.

In order to give you a complete picture of this Field Day let me tell you something of the exhibition features of the program:

1.	Mass drill of 800 boys, demonstrating four different objectives: (a) athletics, (b) fighting activities, (c) play activities and (d) health or big muscle activities. These 800 boys reached the field in open order in five minutes time and left the field in even less time.

2.	Three folk dances by 1400 girls dressed in white.

3.	Mass Maypole Dance of 19 girls to a group around

25 Maypoles.

All three numbers accompanied by appropriate band music. Besides these 2675 pupils, a mass chorus and school orchestra of 1200 b<?ys and girls were seated in the Grand Stand and entertained the audience with songs and orchestra music during the athletic part of the program, and also accompanied the folk and Maypole Dances.

5615 pupils in all participated voluntarily in this Field Day work, with a cooperation, sp>rit and enthusiasm to be remembered.

SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPLES DEVELOPED AND THE POINTS EMPHASIZED AT THE 1924 HEALTH EDUCATION CONFERENCE HELD AT CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

(Concluded)

RELATION OF SPECIALISTS TO GENERAL HEALTH

PROGRAM

I.	A specialist is defined as:

A person on the school staff with specialized technical training, not a special teacher whose work is dissociated from that of class room teacher.

Digitized by LjOOQle
365

II.	Function of specialist in relation to program:

A.	To improve work of class room teacher through supplying sound information or special technics (as in physical education.)

B.	To supervise instruction when this specially trained person has also had adequate teaching preparation and experience.

C.	To supply fresh material and inspiration to the class room teacher.

III.	Specific function of each specialist:

A.	Function of nutrition supervisor when one is present on school staff.

1.	To give to the teacher information concerning the nutritive requirement as revealed by modern research.

2.	In co-operation with other supervisors of instruction to develop types of method and correlation.

3.	To co-operate with the school medical staff in remedial work with undernourished children.

4.	To supervise school lunches in the absence of any other adequately trained person.

B.	Function of Home Economics specialist:

1.	In addition to teaching the technic of her subject, to demonstrate in the home setting, the application to daily living of scientific principles underlying health.

2.	Relation to other teachers.

Where there is no nutrition specialist, the program of the adequately trained home economics teacher should be arranged so that she may do, in her own school, the type of work outlined for the nutrition specialist. (Leadership, guidance, help, co-operation with other specialists, as well as with the class room teacher.)

C.	Function of the physical education specialist:

1.	To suggest, adapt and inspire the performance of such activities as will provide for the best growth and development of the individual and of the group, based on the physical examination.

2.	To provide that health instruction which is organically related to the physical education program. The instruction in the above paragraphs may be given by the class room teacher under supervision, the special teacher or the supervisor.

3.	To develop permanent recreational interests that will carry over in adult life.

The numerous other specialists often associated in a health program were not discussed, due to time limitations.

IV.	Co-ordination of work of specialists.

Satisfactory co-operation is possible only when the superintendent sees this need and provides for it. The specialists can provide the service, but the superintendent must give the opportunity to render this service. The best use of spec-

Digitized by kjOOQle
366

cialists is made when there is an administrative director who co-ordinates the work of specialists. This person is responsible for administering the program as a whole, for bringing about the co-operation of all services to the best interests of the child, for securing the co-operation of all school principals with all specialists. In addition this office serves as a clearing house for the problems from all fields, and as a repository for all records.

IV.	Relation of specialists to class room teachers.

The ultimate responsibility for health education of the child in the school lies with the class room teacher.

The principal function of the spcialist is to give consultation service to the class room teacher.

VI.	Function of outside agencies:

Valuable service may be rendered by outside official agencies, including Feoeral, State and City departments, supplementing the service of members of the school staff.

VII.	Health education in schools without special health supervisors. In schools where there is no special supervisor of health education, the responsibility for the health education program must rest with the superintendent or his assistants whose duty it will be to use doctor or nurse and all other available specially trained workers m city, county, or state, to assist teachers on the technical side, while they themselves provide the enthusiasm for health which will cause the principals and teachers to make it a major educational objective.

A need is recognized for the further development of methods by which growth and the physical status of the child may be used in the measurement of health improvement.

A standardized method of recording the physical condition and physical defects of school children would be extremely useful.

All data regarding the relationship of groups of children to the normal weight for the height and age should carry with them when presented to the public, a statement showing how the data were collected, including the method of taking weight and height, the unit of measure used, the nature and the presence or absence of shoes or clothing, whether height or age were taken at the same time, and the method by which each was computed.

The use of growth as a means of interesting children in health should not be confused with the use of growth as a measure of health improvement or as a diagnostic agent.

Educators are urged to use such definite measures of the value of the health program as are available, to appreciate the limitations of those measurements which are not definite, but to remember at the same time, the importance of the effect of health education upon attitude and school morale.

Digitized by LjOOQle
367

PRE- SCHOOL HEALTH PROGRAM

I.	Since the habits and attitudes acquired in pre-school years play an important part in adult life, a health program should be formulated for the pre-school years.

II.	Child care and child training are inseparable. Parents, teachers, doctors, nurses and social workers should not only minister to the child’s physical needs, but should be so versed in child management that in the performance of physical care, they also help to establish right habits and attitudes.

III.	Laboratories in the pre-school field, such as habit clinics and nursery schools, are performing invaluable service in providing information related to child care and child training for parents and professional workers. The need for extending this type of experiment is recognized. Such centers are most effective when associated with institutions of higher learning.

IV.	The health of the child is ultimately the responsibility of the home. All forms of organization that unify home and school, such as Parent-Teacher, School Nursing and Visiting Teachers Association should be encouraged and developed and their activities co-ordinated. The rural districts are particularly in need of this type of service because of the isolation of the rural home.

♦------------------------------------------------+

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

♦------------------------------------------------

OBLIGATORY EXERCISES FOR 1924-25 GYMNASTIC MEET FOR HIGH SCHOOLS PHILADELPHIA

Horizontal Bar (Jump High)

From a straight arm hang, upper grip, hip-swing-up to support frontways. Underswing and swing backward. On the next forward swing, knee-swing-up left between the hands. Change to under-grip left. Swing right leg over bar and dismount with a 1-4 turn left to a stand.

Parallel Bars (Head high)

From a cross-stand frontways, with a running start, jump to an upper-arm-hang and swing stem (uprise) backward to a straddle-seat in rear of hands. Roll forward to a straddle-seat in front of hands. Legswing left backward between the bars with a 1-4 turn left to support-lying frontways, grasping far bar Change left hand to under grip. Front vault dismount.

Side Horse.

From a side-stand frontways, with a running start, outer grip on pommels, jump to a free-support and squat forward to support rearways. Flank swing left (both legs under left hand) to support frontways. Legswing right forward under nght hand

Digitized by CjOOQle
368

and left forward under left hand to support rearways. Squat backward to a stand frontways and follow at once with a front vault, as high as possible.

Rings (Jump high)

Jump to a hang and then three short swings. On the third forward movement swing to a free inverted-hang. Lower body and legs, hips bent, to a hang rear-ways. Return to a free inverted-hang. Bend hips and lower legs as slowly as possible to a hang. Jump to a stand.

Mats (at least 24’ long)

With a running start, dive and roll forward immediately adding two more successive rolls forward without use of the hands. Face about and execute two successive cartwheels.

SPECIAL EVENT

Rope Climb

This shall be a speed event.

The climb is to be executed in free style, hand over hand. The climb will begin from a sitting position on chairs, with the feet off the floor.

The distance shall be approximately twenty feet, the finish line to be a suitable one designated by the referee.

The signals for starting shall be as follows:

1.	On your mark.

2.	Get set.

3.	Go.

On the signal "Get Set” the contestants are to raise the feet from the floor and thereafter to keep them off the floor until the finish of the race.

REVISED RULES FOR ELEMENTARY SOCCER

By Albert Nathan, St. Louis, Mo.

Elementary Soccer has been played in the St. Louis public schools with great success and is very much liked by all the pupils. It can be played by any number from 20 to 60.

The playing field is arranged as per diagram below: Size, 30 by 60 feet and upward.

Object of the game:

To kick the ball over the goal line between an imaginary line drawn between the reach of the player’s hands and the ground Arrangement of the players.

The players are divided into two teams. The team lines up according to size of the players, the tallest standing on the right, the smallest on the left. The players then number them-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
869

selves from right to left consecutively. The players having the odd numbers will be forwards, those having even numbers will be the guards.

How to place the players: See diagram.

RED TEAM	BLUE TEAM

How to play:

The players are lined up as per diagram, No. 1 of each team standing opposite each other, the ball lying between them. The referee, placing one foot on top of the ball, blows his whistle, at the same time removing his foot. Each player then tries to kick or pass the ball to one of his own team members and the game is on.

Rules

1.	Forwards may only kick the ball, or butt it with their heads. They may invade the Guard Area.

2.	Guards may kick, butt, or use their hands, but cannot leave the Guard Area.

3.	Distinguishing guards from forwards: When players are Forwards, they should not wear their caps; when Guards, they should wear them.

4.	Time limit of Periods:

As soon as the referee blows his whistle for the beginning of the game, the time-keeper will look at hie watch, and after 3 minutes of play, he will blow his whistle, thereby terminating play. The ball, wherever it may be at the time, is placed on the ground. The forwards will then exchange their places with those of their guards. Numbers 2 will then stand opposite the ball and play is resumed, as in the beginning, by the blowing of the referee’s whistle.

Digitized by LjOOQle
370

This change of players will also take place if a goal is kicked before the 3 minute period has elapsed, but the ball is £hen centered.	'

After each score or time limit period, the next player in numerical order will take the kick-off.

5.	Time of the game: The time of the game depends upon the length of time of the Physical Training period in the school or it may be pre-arranged.

6.	Scoring:

One point is scored for each legally kicked goal.

The team having scored the most points wins the game.

If the score is tied, one half point should be allowed to each team.

The team having won the most games at the end of the season should be declared Champion.

7.	Ball out of play:

The ball is out of play when it leaves the field side lines between the Guards Area. The referee shall then blow his whistle ?,nd any one of the forwards, on either side, may retrieve the ball, stand on the side line and throw the ball into the field. He must throw the ball from behind his head with both hands at right angles to the side line, i.e., he must not throw the ball to either his right or left side.

When the ball leaves the field on the side line of the Guard Area, or illegally over the goal line, it becomes a goal lack and the player who will have the next Kick-off will kick the ball into the field.

When a foul is committed, the referee places the ball as near as possible on the ground where the foul was made. The offending team must retire ten feet away from the ball. The player of the other team, who had the kick-off in that period, then kicks or passes the ball to one of his team mates and the ball is in play.

8.	Fouls:

It is a foul if a forward touches the ball with his hands

or arms.

It is a foul either to trip, to push, or to hold a player.

9.	Referee;

He alone is the arbitrator of the game.

He should see to it that the game is played strictly according to the rules.

He shall decide all fouls, out of bound balls, and scores.

He shall blow his whistle when a foul is committed, when a ball is out of bounds, and when a score is made.

The players should continue to play until they hear the whistle of either the referee or the time-keeper.

10.	Players: It is expected that the players will abide by all decisions of the referee, show the greatest possible interest in the game, and play hard and fair.

Digitized by v^ooQle
371

«------------------------ .

News, notes and comments

♦----------------------------♦

PHYSICAL EDUCATOR’S CLUB OF CHICAGO.

In an address before the Physical Educator’s Club in Chicago, Mr. Grant Beebe, Principal of the Lane Technical High School, stressed the value of routine formal gymnastic work in the High Schools. “Physical training as a special subject in the school curriculum has an important place in the training and education of the boy and girl,” said Mr. Beebe, “I learned, early in my college experience, the value of formal gymnastics, and believe it has greater value than any other one phase of physical activity. What our boys and girls need is a training that teaches discipline and respect for law and order. Formal gymnastics, when progressively applied, carries with it lessons in character building and discipline in greater measure than any other sport.”

“I am not unaware of the value of the highly organized competitive game, and would not think of eliminating them, but I do raise the question: .Are we not getting too much of it in our schools? I have heard many principals complain that the few who are skillful enough to make the teams monopolize the gymnasium periods at the expense of a mass of students.” Mr. Beebe cautioned the physical teachers to gua^d against the tendency of boys overtraining and burning themselves up by too frequent participation in the more popular sports. “Perhaps a rule permitting students to engage in only one major sport, or limiting the number of pre-season practice games and post-season exhibition games, is advisable. That is up to you physical teachers,” said Mr. Beebe.

“In my thirty years of experience in school work as well as in athletic sports, I have always been immensely interested in the school physical work, and have watched with interest the progress and growth of same, and would regret to see the program jeopardized because of instances like those which frequently occurred in the earlier days when teams played any old way to win, and the games were loose and poorly managed. There is too much tendency to give way to the more popular activities. The students demand it, teachers say; we must give the students what they choose. Is this the best policy, I ask. Too often students choose least what they need most. We must have courage enough, as educators, to insist occasionally that students take what is best for them.”

Principal J. E. Adams, of the Waller High School, also addressed the meeting, emphasizing the value of games as an important part of the physical training program. “I am particularly interested in games in which a large number can participate.” said Mr. Adams. “You physical educators are to be congratulated for the splendid progress you have made, particularly in teach-

Google
372

ing boys to be good losers as well as winners. There is a tendency on the part of special teachers to see only their own subject, and demand more time for it than the curriculum can permit. The principal must keep in mind the whole training of the child,” said Mr. .Adams. "Your slogan, that a sound body makes a sound mind, is equally true when reversed; a sound mentality influences a sound body.”

''We need the specialists in our school program, but if there is not room for all of them, I would be the last one to reject physical subjects.”

Dr. Max Schmid thofer’s lecture on “Cause and Prevention of Colds” was received with interest. The doctor stated that the predominating medium of infection was through the nose, caused in most instances by the unshielded sneeze or cough. He admonished the physical educators to teach their children the importance of guarding against the open sneeze. Another prevailing cause is low resistance due to change in diet, particularly in the fall, when we change from fresh fruits and vegetables to the canned variety which contain less vitamins. Then there is the shut-in season which we must guard against. Too much clothing, overheated rooms, and poor ventilation, all have a tendency to lower bodily resistance, and this is when the Influenza Baccilli gets in its deadliest work. Prevention! Careful selection of foods; guard against constipation, get fresh air, and exercise.

Mr. R. H. Crock, the Senn High School Coach, gave an elucidating interpretation of foot ball rules covering thep lays and points.

Mr. Max Strass, the Presiding Officer, announced that the Chairman of the Program Committee, Mr. Fran? Gerlich, was preparing a program of discussions, lectures and demonstrations for the February meeting, at which two more high school principals are to be the guests of the Club. Formal and informal work; How much time to be devoted to each, will be the chief discussion topic.	THEO	A. GROSS.

Publicity Committee.

The following conventions should be of special interest to teachers of physical education. The Eastern Section meets at Rochester, New York, April 2, 3 and 4. The Middle West section meets at Chicago during the middle of April. The National Association meets at Los Angeles, Cal. June 25, 26 and 27.

At the last meeting of the national council the 1926 meeting was awarded to Newark, N. J.

Dr. Walter H. Brown, director of the Child Health Demonstration at Mansfield, Ohio, has been appointed director of the demonstration to be opened in Marion County, Oregon, the early part of 1925 according to an announcement made by the Child Health Demonstration Committee representing the American Child Health Association and the Commonwealth Fund of New York City. Dr. Brown went to Oregon January first.

Dr. William DeKleine, health officer at Saginaw, Michigan, has been appointed to succeed Dr. Brown at Mansfield, Ohio.

Digitized by v^ooQle
373

Malnutrition cases in the elementary schools of Bridgeport, Conn., show a decrease of almost 33 per cent between the years 1921-22 and 1923-24. This progress is attributed to health education training and instruction for malnourished children.

PITTSBURGH CHAPTER PROMOTES LONG SWIM IN COMMUNITY POOLS.

To encourage more interest in swimming by the people of Alleghany County, the Life Saving Committee of the Pittsburgh Red Cross Chapter, of which A. R. Gray is Chairman, is promoting a unique contest in the several community houses which have swimming pools.

Teams of both sexes are eligible to compete in this 500 mile team Marathon. The teams are made up of five members each and the age limit is from 5 to 60. The date set for the close of entries was October 15, and the start of the race the week of October 27. Each community house was limited to two teams of boys and two teams of girls, and each 100 yards covered by each member of the team will count a mile in the contest, though each member of the team is required to swim at least 100 yards on the night designated in order for the record of the team to count towards the grand total.

The team completing its distance before properly appointed judges, in each class, will be declared winner, and at the close of the race a special event will be arranged between the two winning teams. This will add interest to this interesting and unusual competition.

Following are the rules for the contest, which may be interesting to other chapters anxious to promote this form of water event:

Rules For 500 Mile Inter Community House Marathon Swim.

1.	Each team will swim one night each week as per schedule which will be sent out. No credit will be allowed for any swimming, except that done at scheduled time and in the presence of the official judges.

2.	No credit will be allowed a team unless all five members swim 100 yards or more. Team members are not required to all swim at the same time, but each team member must swim at least 100 yards on the scheduled evening.

3.	No team will be allowed credit for a greater distance than the minimum distance covered by any member of the team. For example, if four members of the team swim 300 yards and the fifth swims only 100 yards, the team can be credited with only 100 yards.

4.	Results of each night’s swim must be certified by the two judges and mailed to Chairman of Life Saving Committee, American Red Cross, within 24 hours after swim is completed.

Digitized by t^ooQle
374

5.	The Life Saving Committee will act as referee in this contest and their decision on any question which may come up will be final.

6.	Each one hundred yards actually covered by the swimmers will be counted as one mile in this content.

7.	No credit will be allowed any swimmer who does not swim one hundred yards without pause or rest. Any style stroke is permitted.

A suitable trophy will be presented to each of the two winning teams, one to the boys and one to the girls.

At the finish of the Marathon a special swim will be held by the two winning teams for the Marathon Championship of Allegheny County.

A LIFE SAVING PENTATHLON.

Recommended by the Red Cross Life Saving Service.

Another type of life saving contest is the pentathlon, which is conducted against time. There are two swimming teams, but only one member of the team is in the competition, the other acts as subject, but should be about the same weight as the rescuer.

The distances for the pentathlon are all fifty feet. If the pool is longer a small cord over the fifty-foot line will serve as a finish. Any assistance on the part of the subject will be cause for disqualification. To receive credit for national records, contestants must be Red Cross Junior Life Savers and senior Red Cross starter and referee must be used. There must be at least two timers, one of whom should be a Red Cross official. All starts are made in the water from the wall or turning board. The event is finished when the heai of the contestant reaches the finish line.

Event 1. Tired swimmer’s carry. Record. 14 1-5 seconds for fifty feet.

Event 2. Retrieving ten pound object placed on bottom at 25-foot mark in at least six feet of water. This must be retrieved by surface dive and carried 25 feet across finish line. Time, 12 seconds.

Event 3. Cross chest carry race. This must be done according to Red Cross technique, the subject securely held by placing arm over the shoulder, across the chest and under the opposite arm. Time, 163 -5 seconds.

Event 4. In the free style rescue, the time for the speed swim and the return with the patient is 26 4-5 seconds.

The head carry race for fifty feet record is 16 3-5 seconds.

The grade in each event will be attained by comparing the contestant’s time with the record figure for the event. Equalling the record gives 100 per cent and one point is added for every 1-5 second by which the record is beaten. A point is deducted for each 1-5 second slower than the record time made. The final

Digitized by v^ooQle
375

score is the addition of the points in the five events for each individual. A general use of this pentathlon would determine the best individual record holder of the Scout organization in the junior and senior classes.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE NATIONAL EDUCATION

ASSOCIATION

Character education—Our boys and girls are the greatest asset of the Nation. It is essential that they shall receive proper character training. Honesty, integrity, and truthfulness should be emphasized in all the work of the schools. We believe, however, that the responsibility for character building must fall primarily upon the hiome. At the same time teachers must bv precept and example do everything possible to develop the highest type of character in the boys and girls under the'r influence. We believe that religious education is fundamental in the development of character. Holding to these views, we urge that the school, the home, and the church cooperate fully in the training of our youth.

The day has come when parents, teachers, and leaders in religious, moral, and educational work must cooperate for the protection of our boys and girls of high-school age. Manners and morals today need safeguarding and direction. Many forms of recreation now prevailing should be eliminated and all recreation should be supervised. We recommend, as a preliminary step to this end, that efforts be made to secure for all high schools teachers whose sole duty shall be to give moral and social guidance to pupils and to confe'- with parents and teachers regarding such forms of recreation as will prove wholesome.

Everything should be done to inspire in our children a love for and sympathy with the children of other nations. We there-fore endorse the efforts to secure help through American children for the destitute children of foreign lands.

“Put a boy born of gentle white parents among Indians and he will grow up like an Indian. Let the child born of criminal parents have a setting of morality, integrity, and love, and the chances are that he will not grow up into a criminal but into an upright man. I am as certain of these great truths as I am of great truths in the plant world. Put a plant into close quarters without sunshine and room to grow normally and you’ll get a hoodlum plant. The only place hoodlums grow is in dark, dry, cramped surroundings. Change these surroundings; put a little love and care and sunshine into their lives and you get opposite results.—1 uther Burbank.

“Farmers often say their children do not need physical education because they have plenty of exercise on the farm” says Henry L. Curtis. But the strength of our fathers came from

Digitized by LjOOQle
376

three types of activities; chopping, mowing and cradling. Each of these represent a pretty complete gymnasium so far as physical exercise is concerned, but the boy who is riding a mowing machine does not get any better exercise than the girl who is running a typewriter. The work of our fathers has gone, never to return. At its best, farm work over-develops certain muscles and leaves others untrained.”

Explanation of requirements for the Missouri "State Letter” in physical training.

Health. The candidate must have glasses, if needed; at least two-thirds heading, no troublesome adenoids, or enlarged tonsils, skin in good condition. Must not have lesions of heart or lungs, round shoulders or stooped shoulders, irregular shoulders, deformities of chest, spinal curvature, or flat feet. Must have chest expansion of at least two inches. Must look healthy.

Scholarship. For one hundred points candidate must have passing grade for the year, in all subjects. For two hundred points, must have practically Phi Beta Kappa standing for two years.

Sportsmanship. Must know five rules of sportsmanship and practice them in games and in life of the school. For one hundred points in swimming, must be able to swim one hundred yards by any stroke. To gat one hundred points on games, must know the rules and be able to coach or umpire the game. Must also be a superior player.

In each of the games the player may make two hundred points instead of one hundred by coaching or umpiring a group of grammar or high school children for at least ten periods, (not recesses).

EPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL HYGIEN|7

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL	Pv

The following material on vacc’nation, which appeared in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal under date of May 1, 1924, is so worth while that the Editor of this Department is very glad indeed to pass it on:

Compulsory vaccination against small pox is necessary; it is safe; it is an individual boon and a public duty; and it is the one sure means of protection against this dreaded disease.

1. What is Vaccination? Vaccination is the introduction into the skin of the virus of vaccinia or cowpox, causing a local eruption and benign constitutional reaction which result in protection against smallpox.

2.	Vaccination is necessary. Virulent smallpox is always endemic in Asiatic countries, and also in various countries of Europe. This country is exposed to the introduction of this dis-sease through our ports, because the incubation period of the disease is in many cases longer than the duration of the sea voyage. Virulent smallpox has been introduced into this country on

Digitized by kjOOQle
877

several occasions in this way. Smallpox is endemic in the United States, and while the majority of cases are of a mild type with a low fatality, the virulence of the disease has increased several fold in the past five years, and there have been outbreaks of a virulent form of the disease in several states.

3.	Vaccination is Safe. Since 1902 all vaccine virus produced in the country is subjected to the rigid regulations promulgated by the Hygienic Laboratory of the United States Public Health Service. All steps in the process of manufacture and of testing of this product are specified by the Hygienic Laboratory. All manufacturing establishments are subject to inspection by the Federal authorities, and from time to time these authorities examine the products of all the laboratories for harmlessness and potency. Vaccine virus as it is produced today contains the virus of vaccinia or cowpox propagated on the skin of healthy calves and is a highly refined and harmless prophylactic agent. If vaccination is properly performed and the vaccination site is properly cared for, the danger attending it use is negligible.

4.	Vaccination is a Public Duty. Experiences all over the world show that vaccinations properluy made and resultiug in successful “takes” give a high degree of individual protection against smallpox. One successful vaccination gives, as a rule, complete protection for a period of five to seven years, while two successful “takes” usually confer a life long immunity to this disease. A person vaccinated once and at a later time contracting smallpox, as a, rule contracts the disease in a less serious form (variloid) than unvaccinated persons. A review of the statistics of all countries, and particularly of the various states in the United States of America, shows that the number of smallpox cases is in direct proportion to the number of unvaccinated persons. Therefore, it becomes a public duty of every person to be vaccinated.

That the laws requiring the vaccination of all children as a requisite for school attendance violate no constitutional rights of the individual, is a decision of the highest courts of this country.

5.	Universal vaccination is the most successful means available for preventing smallpox. The claim that general sanitation and that isolation of smallpox patients are sufficient to control smallpox is fallacious. Smallpox appears in some of the most sanitary communities and among people of strict hygienic habits; on the other hand small pox can be controlled by vaccination even in the most insanitary districts. Isolation while desirable and helpful can not alone control smallpox, because many cases are not detected and isolated until they have had an opportunity to spread the disease to others.

A study of the smallpox situation in this country and a review of the laws relating to vaccination and their enforcement in the various states show conclusively that the best vaccinated states have the least smallpox. Massachusetts with its compulsory laws and with its free distribution of vaccine virus enjoys an almost complete freedom from this scourge. Other states in which there are no compulsory vacination laws, or in which such
878

laws are not enforced or have been repealed, have smallpox as an endemic disease, with cases running at times into the thousdands.

Because of the long continued freedom from this disease, and of the mildness of the majority of cases, many people feel that smallpox no longer possesses its old-time menace, and they, therefore, nave become indifferent to the value of vaccination. Hence, it is all the more important that every effort be made to maintain the present vaccination laws on the statute books, and to encourage the people to be vaccinated. Any relaxation of enforcement and any steps which would result in a larger proportion of unvaccinated persons in our communities, would inevitably invite the invasion of and spread within our communities of this great pestil-lential scourge.

. Marion County, Oregon, has been chosen as the field of the fourth demonstration in the Commonwealth Fund Child Health Program, which is conducted jointly by the American Child Health Association and the Commonwealth Fund.

The Marion County Demonstration will cover a period of five years. It is the first of the demonstrations in the Commonwealth Fund Child Health Program to be located in the Far West, adapted to health needs and conditions typical of the Far West. The three other demonstrations already under way are in Athens, Georgia; in Rutherford County, Tennessee; and in Fargo, North Dakota.

Marion County won the Far Western Demonstration in competition with more than thirty cities and counties in the Pacific Coast and Rocky Mountain States. Communities in the following states applied for the child health demonstration: Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. The decision in favor of Marion County was made after a careful investigation of each application and a study of local conditions which began last March and has just been completed by the committee. In making its choice the committee considered four factors: 1.—the need for child health work in the different communitees applying; 2—the local health and economic conditions and resources of each community

3—	its possibilities as a demonstration and educational center;

4—	the probable influence of the demonstration center upon health activities in other communities.

Marion County is almost an all-American community. Its population is estimated at fifty-five thousand, with 90 percent American bom. It is essentially a rural county. Its crops include berries, hops, nuts and flax, and it is developing dairying and canning interests. The variety of Marion County’s commercial and agricultural pursuits was considered a favorable factor by the Demonstration Committee. The committee felt that the County’s many interests indicated a greater stability of resources than could have been looked for in a one-crop or a one-industry community.

The committee believes that exceptional public interest and support have been manifested by Marion County to obtain the

Digitized by ^ooQle
879

demonstration. The state and the county health and educational leaders will cooperate in the local program. The School Board of Salem, the state capital, has already offered the demonstration staff conveniently located and completely equipped headquarters. The Salem civic clubs assure the maintenance and upkeep of the headquarters. The citizens of the county have agreed to designate the Demonstration as the full-time county health unit, to support to the extent of their present budgets, and to work to increase the appropriations for child health each year, so that, at the end of five years, they will be in a position to take over locally the financial and administrative responsibility for the complete program. The Commonwealth Fund will finance the expenses necessary from other local sources during the period of the demonstration.

Radio now brings Scouting into the home. A radio Tribe of Lone Scouts of America has been organized by Station W. L. S., owned and operated by the Sears-Roebuck Agricultural Foundation of Chicago. Even the most isolated boy can join and be a Scout. All he has to do to get in it is to write to the Tribe Chief, Radio Station W. L. S., Hotel Sherman, Chicago, and say; “I want to be a Scout.” He fills out his appplication, sends it in with fifteen cents, and receives the official Handbook, his membership card, and a badge, which is the gift of the Sears-Roebuck Agricultural Foundation.

The Tribe meetings are held by radio each Wednesday evening at 7:15 central standard time. Famous Scouts tell the members about the Scout tests and the good turns and useful things that Scouts do. The Scout spirit is always uppermost. Contests are held and useful prizes awarded.

The Lone Scouts of America and the Boy Scouts of America are under the same national officials, the President of the United States being the honorary president of both. Armstrong Perry is the Chief of the W. L. S. Radio Tribe and Supreme Scout Torkel Gundel is the assistant. More than half of the 50,000 Lone Scouts live on farms or in small villages. Lone Scouts are always welcome at Boy Scout camps, rallies and other gatherings as well as at events planned by their own organization.

Teachers can secure free literature for their own use and for distribution to pupils by writing to the Lone Scouts of America, 500 North Dearborn St., Chicago, 111.

To make good sportsmen of all Americans, to help them all learn to play the g?me, is the aim of the national recreation movement, 600 representatives of which from every State in the Nation recently met in Atlantic City, N. J., for the Eleventh National Recreation Congress under the auspices of the Playground and Recreation Association of America.

“Good sportsmanship is the development of the highest ethical standards for one’s own life and for one’s relations with others, and it is the opinion of this convention that this result can best be accomplished through recreation,” said Joseph Lee, president

Digitized by t^ooQie
m

of the Playground and Recreation Association of America. “The secret in the importance of play which warrants serious consideration I y a great national convention such as this, is the fact that it teaches honesty, fairness, quickness of decision, self-control, resourcefulness, and loyalty. With these qualities developed to their highest degree m every Amencan, we shall truly become the nation of the greatest sportsmen the world has ever known.”

Delegates to this congress, who include people from every walk of life, state and city officials, industrial and labor leaders, school, church, and civic representatives, as well as those directly engaged in recreational work, met to determine how the cities and communities of America may find for their people the greatest happiness, health, and sane living through development of recreation.

Our inventions and mechanical progress have shortened the Nation’s hours of labor. America has spare time as it never had before, according to Matthew Woll, vice president of the American Federation of Labo,\ This convention, therefore, sought the solution of one of the most important problems in American life in fostering spare time recreation as a necessary antidote to the incessant grind of the wheels of this age of machinery.

Every phase of recreation was discussed in order that the delegates might take back to their communities a broader picture of the possibilities of this great force, together with a practical working knowledge of how to accomplish the greatest good at the least expense through methods discovered in the different sections of the country and made available to them through the exchange of information and opinion provided by means of this nationwide conference.

SCHOOL HEALTH WORK IN WORCESTER, MASS.

By Helen M. Johnson.

Children are the future wealth of our country. Massachusetts realized this in 1907 when she passed a law promoting school health work. This was the beginning of Worcester’s school health work which has now come to play such a very important part in our schools. At the time when this work was started in Worcester fifteen doctors were appointed to carry on the work, and later on one nurse. There were 19,000 children under their care; but as the work was new, not very much was accomplished during the first years. This was not the doctors’ fault entirely, but of the public in general, for uninformed people thought that the doctors were encroaching upon their responsibilities. As a result, the people instead of aiding this new work hindered it a great deal. After a few years it was decided that more could be accomplished with a smaller staff of doctors, so the number was reduced to five part-time men who spent three hours daily in this work, and one who gave his whole day to the work. This man

Digitized by
381

was given the title of Director of Public Health. The work that these physicians do in the schools is wholly preventative, so that the real responsibility of bettering the defects rests with the parents. The aim of this organization might be stated in this way: “to try to prevent all diseases, and so keep the children of Worcester physically fit.”

During the first years of this work the department was greatly handicapped by the small number of nurses on the staff. Not only was the number inadequate, but nurses were needed who could speak foreign languages. This was necessary because a great deal of the work needed to be done in the foreign parts of the city. This defect was remedied by adding more nurses to the staff, until now we have 23. These nurses spend all their time in visiting the schools and homes. They have become so necessary to the school that at the present time if a nurse misses one day at the school the principal is sure to call up to find out what is the matter. The nurse not only helps to examine the children, but also instructs them in matters of personal hygiene. The “follow up” system is also carried on, so that whenever a child is reported absent from school the nurse goes to the home to find out the cause of the absence. In this way the work is brought directly into the home, and it is only when the home cooperates that the best results are obtained. The doctors on the staff examine the nose and throat while the teacher undertakes the eye and ear examination. The doctor is not allowed to examine the chest of the children without special permission by the parent. This is another indication of the fact that if more freedom were allowed this department it could do a great deal more work than it is able to at present, tied down as it is by so many limitations.

Along with the accomplishments that are actually being made in the schools is the work carried on by the clinics. Foremost among these perhaps is the Dental Clinic. There are now six dental hygienists in Worcester whose duty it is to impress upon the children sent to them how they may best protect the mouth, and how necessary it is for the young people to take care of their teeth. They should know that teeth beginning to decay can be filled without pain, but that if they are not taken care of this can not be said to be true later on. There are many other clinics which are doing splendid work in Worcester, and among these are: the eye and ear, mental, and hospital clinics. It is interesting to note to what an extent the school itself is cooperating with this department, for the children are allowed to go to the hospital climes during the regular school hours.

One of the most interesting and important features that has been developed is the so-called Controlled Fresh Air Units. These were started four years ago by the Director, and have proved very successful, until now there are thirteen of these units in Worcester. They are not only creating a great deal of interest in Worcester, but over the entire country, as well. Usually the children that are placed in these rooms are those whQ are w-
882

derweight, or who have returned to school after a serious illness. It is not right to expect a child who has been out sick five or six weeks to come back and take his usual place in his class. The windows in these rooms are kept open all day long. If the child is cold he is allowed to put on h’*s wraps, but the windows are never closed. The desks and chairs are movable so that if a child is bothered by a draft, or by the sun, he is allowed to move to a place where he is not bothered by either. When a child enters this room a careful record of his weight and general physical condition is token. The children are weighed regularly so that it can be seen if they gain anything.

While the children are in this room special attention is given to their tonsils, adenoids, and teeth. Not only are these things noted, but also the number of hours of sleep, of play, glasses of water, of milk, number of times they brush their teeth etc., are all recorded by the teacher. This is so that she will be able to understand each child’s individual problem. They also have a feeding period during the morning when all the children have crackers and milk. From tMs description one might get the idea that it resembles a hospital. This is not so, and if one were to enter any of these rooms he would find an active group of children all working busily. They may be allowed a little more freedom than they are in the other rooms but this only adds zest to their work. All the regular subjects are taken up in this room, but as they are all correlated with health they are taught in a much more interesting manner than they are in the regular grades. It is interesting to note from the records how rapidly the children improve mentally as well as physically under this regimen.

Through lectures and the Parent Teachers Association the teacher and the parents learn just what the aim of this department is, so that they mav cooperate with them. If there were classes for the teachers where they could be instructed concerning the early symptons in some of our more common children’s diseases it would be a great help to the city of Worcester. In this way the spread of any disease could be largely eliminated, and all dread of an epidemic wou’d vanish.

The cost to the city of Worcester for all this good work is comparatively small. During this last year $32,000 was spent. There may be some who will ask “What has Worcester to show for the expenditure of all this money?” Let these people visit the Public Schools of Worcester, and their Question will be answered in a very convincing way. An examination of the attendance record for the last year indicates that the average percent of attendance was 93. This record could hardly have been as high as this if it were not for the remarkably effective work which the School Hygiene Department has earned on. By caring for all the minor ills in the schools, and by preventing epidemics all this has been accomplished. The Schick Test has done spectacular work in preventing an epidemic of diphtheria. Nearly all the children in the Worcester schools have token this test, and it is to be highly recommended for the effective work it does.
388

The good people of Worcester should realize more keenly than they do the good that is being done by this department, and cooperate with it in every way to further and enlarge this work. We all know it is not possible to stay at one place, but that we mast either fall back or go on. It is up to the people of Worcester to say which it shall be—but of course Worcester is to go on and on and on!

BOOK REVIEWS.

“Clog and Character Dances” by Helen Frost, 65 pages, 8 x 11 inches, illustrated, Quarto cloth. Price $2.60. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

This book contains eighteen dances, with full explanations and so arranged as to progress from the simple to the more complex

Each dance is so written that little previous knowledge of technique is needed to be able to understand and teach the steps. The fundamental steps of clogging are simply and clearly explained, with accompanying music for the practice of those steps. Any variations are also explained, pictures and diagrams being shown for the benefit of the reader. The music has such a good swing, the feet just naturally dance.

Those who are acquainted with Miss Frost’s first book "The Clog Dance Book” will welcome with joy this grouping of a second edition. Those who do not know either book will find in each a splendid addit:on and supplement to their own collection. This type of dancing seems to me to help fill in the gap between gymnastic and aesthetic dancing.

The boy who usually stands with a sheepish grin on his face during the dancing period finds his feet tingling in response to his primitive, inborn tendency to “shake a leg” to any alluring, well marked rhythm.

Besides aiding the boy to forget self, clogging helps to alleviate the awkwardness and self consciousness of the girl in her “teens” by developing in her a fine sense of rhythm and a joy and exhilara-ation of body movement.

Lillian C. Watt.

"The Dance in Education” by Agnes L. and Lucille Marshal with foreword by Dr. Jesse F. Williams. Published 1924 by A.

S.	Barnes and Company, New York. 224 pages with 15 photographic studies and music. Size 8 3-4” x 11 1-2 inches. Bound in cloth. Price $10.00.

The book is divided into four parts.

Part I consists of an Introduction, Method of Presentation and Model Lessons.

Part II under “Studies in Natural Movements” the authors give a number of musical compositions fitted to certain natural activities, as rotation and relaxation, walking, running, skipping, leaping, galloping.

Digitized by CjOOQle
384

Part III consists of fifteen dances embodying the various movements and steps presented in Parts I and II.

Part IV is an Egyptian Dance Drama.

This book is designed primarily for college work or for those interested in advanced natural dancing

Its aim is to correlate the dance with other subjects in the curriculum, especially music, painting, sculpture, literature, and history. It is the hope of the authors to have dancing incorporated into the educational curriculum with full academic standing.

Unless the user of the book is familiar with this particular type of dancing, the book would be of little value. For one who has had instruction in it, however, it would be usable as a reference book. The descriptions are rather nr eager so that it is difficult for the ordinary student to be able to follow the text and interpret the dance.

The bibliography with the key to references in the back of the book would be of service to those correlating the dance with literature, sculpture and other subjects.

Janet Walter.

“Slavic Folk Dances,” compiled by Marjorie Crane Geary; published by The Woman’s Press; 48 pages with 18 dances with music and 22 photographic illustrations; paper bound, price $1.75

This book contains several dances of the following peoples: Czech, Moravian, Slovak, Silesian, Serbian, Russian, Ukrainan.

The dances are easy, simple, and spirited and will be fine material for the teacher of elementary work. The book is simply arranged with the description and illustrations opposite the music for each dance.

Janet B. Walter

“The Diving and Swimming Book,” by George H. Corsaa, Sr. A. S. Barnes and Company, Publishers, New York. 162 pages, 6x9 inches. Price $3.00.

Persons interested in diving and swimming will obtain a great deal of very useful information from the context as web as frnm the profuse number of illustrations in this book.

Unfortunately, Mr. Corsan has denounced the teaching of the breast stroke, which in the opinion of the reviewer has great value. There are many graceful and speedy swimmers in the country today who do not seem to have been handicapped in any way by first learning to swim the breast stroke, see Olga Dorfner, Elizabeth Becker and others.

Some methods of procedure for teaching children and adults to swim do not conform to the best of modern pedagogical practices and theories.

Practical exposition of principles and methods which apply to a program for teaching large numbers simultaneously is one of the book’s features. This book should be of great use to teachers of physical training,

John Alexander, Jr,