LIBRARY , niversity of Montana-

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 25	NOVEMBER,	1918	No.	273

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Direct* Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at Nev) Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

0 --"- ————————~ ........... -O

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS j

O’* ■ —i■     ■ f ■ — n —	1M.T. —D ——	n, —— — T»»0

PHYSICAL TRAINING AN ESSENTIAL TO THE BETTER HEALTH DEFENSE OF SOCIETY*

THOMAS S. STOREY, M. D., Ph. D. Professor of Hygiene, College of the City of New York and Inspector of Physical Training, Military Commission, State of New York

Good health—good, active, aggressive health—is the most important thing in this world.

If you want some first-hand original information concerning the importance of health, go ask the man that has lost it. If you want an experienced estimate on its value, go to the woman that is trying to buy back the health she once had.

I suppose there is no family in the world that has not at some time or other experienced the mental, physical or economic losses that are due to poor health, preventable disease, or postponable death; and I suppose there is no individual in this world that has not or will not sooner or later feel those losses himself.

*An address presented before the Associated Academic Principals, State of New York.

Digitized by
Good health is the most important thing in this world, not only for its own sake but for the larger reason that the full and complete measure of the success of every human enterprise depends upon the quality and endurance of the good health that supports it. The measure of your success depends upon the sort of health that backs up your enterprise, whether it be mental, moral or physical.

Have you ever thought over what the world loses every year —every day—because of poor health, avoidable disease, and premature death? The slaughter in the great war now raging in Europe has shocked us beyond expression. But every year of ordinary peace brings the world a greater unnecessary death rate and a greater preventable morbidity rate than accompany this great war. The ravages of weak health, of preventable disease, of postponable death are greater, far greater, year in and year out, than the ravages of this awful war. There are about 3,000,000 people sick in these United States in any given day. Something like 1,500 persons die daily of preventable disease in the United States. A comparatively small part of the earth’s population is in this country.

I can’t estimate the economic losses that occur daily or yearly because of inefficient health and unsuccessfully resisted disease. Great economists have tried but their estimates can never even approximate the real loss.

There are other losses of greater importance than the economic losses. They are world losses in intellectual output; losses in public service; losses in ideal commercial, professional, educational and religious progress; and, greatest of all, losses in human happiness—which follow this world-wide careless waste of human health and human life.

You must easily recall the names of great men whose usefulness to this country, or to some other country, and through such country, to the whole world, would have been continued at least for the period of an average life time had they been protected in health.

I do not know intimately very many communities represented here today. Perhaps I am not very well acquainted with a single one of the communities which you represent. But I know that no community exists, or ever did exist that has not a long list of useful, public spirited citizens whose importance and value to the community was limited or cut short through poor health, preventable disease and postponable death. Your communities must have had such experiences.

If there were some way to save this human resource; some way to conserve these community assets for longer periods of time, would there be a community anywhere in this world that would refuse to go to any extreme for the purpose?

What would you not give if your father at sixty were as robust and active as Mr. X at eighty? What would you not give if that child of yours could have had enough vigorous health

Digitized by Google
275

to have recovered from that last illness? What would you not give—but I need not ask—you know! I know!

Suppose there were some way in which you could reduce absences on account of sickness in your schools. Suppose you could secure an influence that would relieve your teachers of depressing, deadening fatigue and keep them off the sick list, would you be interested?

Nations, states, cities and even smaller communities, realizing the value of this human resource, have accomplished a remarkable progress in the prolongation of human life and in the reduction of poor health and the restriction of certain forms of disease. Morbidity rates are enormously decreased. The average duration of human life has been doubled in comparatively recent years. Wherever scientific knowledge and community resource have been brought together, we have found it possible to buy more health and longer life. Some years ago, in 1900, I believe— it was shown that the average age of the rich Frenchman at death was fifty-seven years, while the average age of the poor Frenchman at death was thirty-seven years. The difference was—and is —due, not to the mere possession of wealth, but rather to the purchase by the rich of better sanitation and more effective protection from preventable disease.

Larger communities and more intelligent communities, have invested their capital in health protective measures and those investments are yielding large profits. I need only refer to Havana or Panama or to any one of a number of larger American cities to illustrate my point. Greater advance can and will be made along those lines but there is a limit beyond which the community cannot go unless it goes as a community of intelligent individuals of whom practically every one—not a bare majority, not a two-thirds majority but a near unanimity—practices regularly intelligent habits of health acquisition and habits of health conservation. There is a point or a line beyond which the power of community law and the might of the community's dollar cannot go without the help of community education. Beyond that line lies a region that can be reached only through the health education of the individual members of the community. That education must begin in childhood and it must be continued through the elementary and secondary school age. It must be an education for the fixation of intelligent health habits that will be practiced thEOUghout the life of the individual.

Organized society may purchase the extinction of the malarial mosquito. It may buy the eradication of the yellow fever mosquito, the rat of bubonic plague, the tick of spotted fever, the fly of sleeping sickness or the louse of typhus fever or of trench fever. Organized society may buy clean pure water and it may purchase a successful food inspection. But it cannot buy habits of personal hygiene that produce human health; that defend the individual from disease and postpone his death. It cannot purchase health habits that give the individual resistance to disease, making it harder for him to become sick and easier to recover. It
276

Cannot purchase the personal consciousness of individual obligation in the health affairs of the community that is essential to an effective defense of the community health.

We have two ways in which we may successfully defend human life against poor health, preventable disease, and post-ponable death; two ways in which we may save our children, our kinsman, our countrymen and mankind in general from these merciless enemies of life, prosperity and happiness.

On the one hand, society may, and does, enact and enforce laws for the defense of the public against the insect, animal and human carriers of disease. It may and does provide opportunities for the community practice of health habits. In these and various other ways the community spends its resource and applies its scientific knowledge for the protection of human health and vitality through a control of envirorment and through a police supervision of social activities.

On the other hand, society may provide opportunities for public irstructicn in the principles and practice of health. It may offer school experience that lead to the establishment of intelligent health habits in school children and it may establish laws which make better health education mandatory.

Both these types of defense are essential to the safety of the public health. Neither one may achieve success without the other. Community hygiene depends on personal hygiene and personal hygiene is helpless in the absence of community hygiene.

It is only through a combination between organized community activity and intelligent, educated, individual support within the community that society may defend its health. The individual who acquires health habits, renders a community service.

We have here in the State of New York various sane and intelligent legislative enactments for the health defense of the commonwealth. These laws are being operated more or less effectively but their real use, their greatest value, will come only when the people of the State are possessed of a sufficient health education to enable them to understand, appreciate and cooperate with the State in its plans for the acquisition and conservation of human resource.

The health laws of the State to be effective must be sop-ported by a people trained to understand and trained to obey these laws. The hygiene of the State as a whole cannot be better than the hygiene of the people who make the State. An effective physical training of the individual is then a contribution in the service of the State.

The legislature of this State in its session of 1916, went farther in this direction than it has evei gone before. It went farther than any other State legislature has ever gone to bring community hygiene and individual hygiene together. The legislature enacted laws which now make physical training mandatory for all the children in our elementary and secondary schools.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
277

The legislature gave us a program of physical training that is now a part of the rules and regulations of the Regents of the University of the State of New York. This program is a plan for the health education of our children which the State Department of Education is obliged to supervise; it is a program which the schools of the State are obliged to operate; and it is a program whose operation the State Military Training Commission is obliged by law to inspect.

If you make this program effective in your school, you will thereby add to the health intelligence apd the health habits of the individual members of this great commonwealth and you will meet your serious obligations to the health welfare of your pupils, your teachers, and your community. And it will follow —it must follow—that the public defense against poor health, preventable disease, and unnecessary death, will become enormously more effective. It is the only way in which the defense may be made truly effective. If every school child is taught habits of health, every citizen will soon practice these habits. Our State laws on health will no .longer lack the support that is essential to their success. An army will be added for the protection of the State in which every man, woman and child in the State will be trained for offense and defense in the campaign of the commonwealth gainst the enemies of its health, vigor and happy longevity?

The State program on physical training now before you is made up of three main divisions. These divisions are essential to the completeness of any effective plan for health education.

The first division deals with health examination—that is— with medical inspection. Personal health is on the average impossible in the absence of regular individual health examinations and consequent attention to the special health needs revealed by the examination.

The second division of the State program covers the instruction of the school child concerning the care of the body and the laws of health. With the successful development of this instructional relationship, we should be able in time to secure an intelligent understanding of the laws of health and therefore intelligent standards, intelligent cooperation, and intelligent aggressiveness on the part of society in its relation to the health problems of the community. The children you teach to-day will be influential voting citizens to-morrow. The health intelligence of the community to-morrow, therefore, depends on what you teach to-day.

The third division of the general plan is concerned with the establishment of health habits; particularly with habits of physical exercise for the various mental, moral and physical benefits that may be secured from such habits. Physical exercise in its various forms is perhaps the very greatest health habit we possess. Unfortunately, too many of us never learn the habit. If this State program succeeds there will appear a generation of citizens who will practice useful habits of active recreation.

Digitized by LaOOQle
278

The general program of physical training is now contained in the rules and regulations of the Regents. It includes the mandatory requirements of the State concerning health education.

The more detailed syllabus that accompanies the general program indicates to the individual school the various ways in which the general requirement may be met. As a rule, the syllabus contains a choice of programs under each division with additional instructions to the effect that the individual school may submit, if it desires, a syllabus of its own in conformity with the general program of physical training. If this syllabus so submitted meets with the approval of the Regents, it may be put in operation by the school authorities concerned.

The State program and its elastic syllabus for the rational application of its general plan of health education is before you.

You will find many obstacles in the way of rapid application but you will never find an obstacle that is worth permanence. Sooner or later, every interference with the operation of this program in its general scope must disappear. No people were ever given a greater or more significant opportunity than our State has here given us. We must get together and realize that opportunity.

Two million children fall under its influence to-day; two million lives may be prolonged; two million future citizens may be saved the loss of working days, of income, of productivity of civic and military usefulness and of happiness. And each year a new army of untrained children will come to you for health education. You can make these lives more useful and more enduring. Here is the way.

HABIT IN THE HOME

By GEORGE VAN NESS DEARBORN, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, Professor of Psychology and Education, Sargent Normal School, Cambridge; Psychologist to the Forsyth Infirmary for Children, Boston; etc.

II.	The Formation of Habits

In our previous discussion of habit we met with some of the many extremely complex conditions that make up actual habits and which are to be considered in the theory of habit.

When one tries to specify somewhat, to understand the concrete constructive conditions more in detail, he is confronted first of all by the whole impulse to activity which underlies necessarily our psychology and physiology of reflex movements, of instinct, and of emotional reaction. For our present purpose we can do nothing more than to merely realize that this impulse actually exists always and in all parts of every normal child, and that it matters little which of these three names be given it: reflex action, instinct, or emotion. Plainly enough, it underlies always and everywhere the formation of habits also.

As another step into detail we must consider how complete (in theory at least) is that division-line between the salisfactiotis and the dissatisfactions in life, whether this difference be continually felt or |

Digitized by Google
279

not felt, conscious or subconscious? The child from the very dawn of his mentality shuns experience that is unpleasant, (whether it.be a positive pain or an unpleasantness or the lack of pleasantness) and on the contrary tends to continue and to repeat experiences of whatever kind that are pleasant or satisfaction-giving. This is an universal basis of all life and without the dream of a doubt provides the chief incentive to habit-making.

Corresponding somewhat to this, but on the physiologic side, is the almost neutral impulse to learn by doing things, for this doing tends inevitably to mechanize the movements. This organic impulse is the ultimate energy, dunamism, of the whole neuro-musculo-glandular apparatus by which vital motions are performed; therefore inherent and irresistible, as has been discovered practically, in the last few years, in the earliest school-grades:— children of four or five or six no longer are expected or desired to "sit still” more than a very few minutes at a time.

One of the most important factors of this broad pleasantness which every child continually seeks as a principle of his being, is usually slight but none the less of a maximum influence because in health it is universal and always in action, forever exerting its influence. This factor, is the satisfaction or pleasantness coming from normal bodily activity, the joy of making bodily movements however simple or crude, the real even if mild delight of doing things.” “Polyanna” the Joyous knew about this consciously enough; and the present writer has just set it forth from a plain scientific viewpoint in his "The Influence of Joy”. As a matter of technical psychology, which is here, foitunately for my readers “tabu”, this satisfaction of movements comes in some unknown way to the child’s mind through the so-called movement-sensations or muscle-joint sensation (kinesthesia) which we shall have to explain somewhat in a later article. To feel a sample of this sensation, let the reader close her eyes and then attend to the sensations in her arm as she slowly bends it. Mere breathing is another easy example. It seems that in general free muscular movements are pleasant and that they are so somewhat in proportion to the mass of muscle that is contracted. In children (there is no doubt) these movement-sensations give rather more satisfaction than they give to most adults, perhaps because children are more nearly normal than adults, fresher from Mother Nature's bosom and Mother Nature’s splendid joyfulness. However exactly it may be, bodily activity plainly gives so much enjoyment (kineuphoria) to the vigorous child that before he is a year old, sometimes before he is an half-year old, the child is deliberately doing things, always ‘‘starting something,” as it were, in addition to his almost incessant reflex or impulsive activity. Thus in the course of a day very many movements of “all sorts of kinds” are made by the normal child. Those acts that are found to be the more pleasant for any reason whatever, intrinsic or otherwise, will certainly tend to be repeated oftenest and so to form themselves into habits, which are actions mechanized by repetition.

Again, the child makes many movements purely on a basis

Digitized by LaOOQle
280

of the imitation-instinct, and in this way too, none too well as yet understood by psychologists, the child has his experience of movements further enlarged. From these his habit-forming impulse can choose movements to be made habitual as well as from those movements produced reflexly or deliberately (or emotionally.)

Again, study of the senses shows the parent, just as sensetraining (so much needed now in school!) shows the child, that oftentimes there are concerned in habit-formation pleasant experiences from more or less random exploration of the body, inside or out. Parts of the body are designed to furnish merely satisfaction when they are stimulated just as other parts, the tongue for example, are meant to give exquisite pleasure. It, then, is obvious enough that exploration is certain to give a child’s movements a long new list of satisfactions. And because these satisfactions are remembered, and attached to will to form desire, these movements, too, tend to be mechanized into habits.

These body-exploring expeditions, simple or elaborate, help to make the child familiar with himself, (“skilful” is the technical term) and so provide him with still more of the conscious motor “material” on which and on which alone he can sooner or later make himself “captain of his soul”. It is enough at present that we see how deliberate exploration, while making the child “skilful” in himself, also provides new movements that may become habits.

In addition to these incentives to act in all sorts of natural ways, so to say, there are doubtless others though of less importance for the most part. In particular children no limit is assignable to their motives for doing things, since the human will is free, even to irrationality and indefinable caprice. One principle underlies them all, none the less, however complex their motives, proverbially and uniquely secret:— “ ‘One thing at a time and that done well’ is as good a rule as any can tell!”, which probably most of us have heard from our wise old grandmothers. Physiology has been slow compared with Grandma, for physiology has appreciated this principle of voluntary movement and of habit-making and of habit-bending only a few years! Although there are billions of nerve-units in the brain, each perhaps having to do with personally voluntary movements, it really appears that they work together so that only one voluntary action can be performed at a time, all hough many reflex movements are always being arranged and directed simultaneously. Moreover, to make the matter clearer, it appears that all our “behavior” (action) is divided up into more or less separate movements. The fact, for example, that a baby commonly learns to grasp perfecly perhaps weeks before she can possibly turn a door-knob or unscrew the cover of a mailing-case; and the other set of facts that a man may suddenly lose his knowledge of how to use his pen-knife or how to wind his watch or what a pencil is for -

that each movement somehow is a definite and separate thing or process or act. The whole system of nerves works on this “symbolic” plan of action, whether the “action” be a muscula
281

ment or a feeling or only an action in the technical neural sense, that is, a thought. Morton Prince, the famous authority on the subconscious phases of mind, terms these “neurograms”; memories are of this nature too, and, above all, habits, which are only memories organically expressed.

These definite actions are definite because more or less exactly defined! and more or less invariable, although always under conscious control from the more personal brain’s “gray-matter”. It is like any other process, carried out by a machine — a great Hoe newspaper-printing-press, for example, which takes rolls of spruce-paper and turns them into wonderously printed and folded, newspapers at the rate of half-a-thousand a minute; such a machine plainly could not work backwards, leave out part of its movements, lose a gear or two, or have the sequence of its actions re-arranged in any way without utterly deranging it and spoiling its ability to pile up the newspapers counted in a dozen piles ready for the boys. So it is, more or less precisely, with the far more complex movements of the body. With no perfectly definite facts to use as to the brain’s exact action in a habit-action, it is extremely likely that the set of motor elements is mostly definite in its action in each case, and more and still more definite progressively, as the habit develops fixity; whether this be a definiteness of nerve-paths, or of nerve-strains comparable to the electric strains in a telegraph wire (or more probably of both, somehow) we do not as yet know.

But all normal acts, as we saw last time, with only rare exceptions, are already habits. Walking is a habit and so is eating and dressing; yes, and coughing, and writing a letter and teasing the cat. These are somewhat like spring-guns, hidden in the underbush, only that here very many paths lead to their discharge in each case — they are set so as to act at the most distant approach sometimes and by paths the most unlikely. This far-reaching and surprising fact makes habit-formation easy, but habit-bending hard — sometimes so hideously, frightfully hard! too hard to live with, indeed.

“What! from his helpless Creature be repaid Pure Gold for what he lent him dross-allay’d—

Sue for a debt he never did contract,

And cannot answer — Oh the sorry trade!’*

But the Twentieth-Century psychology is beginning to show us how the debt may be answered and how, moreover, as we shall see, the debtor in the answering becomes a personality, a real WOMAN of a real MAN.

As the actions become more mechanical inevitably they lose gradually their consciousness for the child, but in normal boys and girls (and it is only the normal whom we are discussing in these articles) never for a moment do habit-actions pass, in the waking state, beyond the pale of personal control into pure mechanism; in regard to some of the physiologic processes, on the other hand, this statement would not be at all true; herein is one of the distinguishing marks of habits. In the case of habits, however, which develop some unpleasantness (for example, if one may pardon the

Digitized by

Google
282

reference, picking the nose) the relief is apt to become more and more grateful and so, again, help to fix the habit. And here is another road that leads to the Rome of our present discussion, another path that is sure to fire the trap-gun of the habit-life.

As we saw last time, from one view-point, of theory at least, the ideal adult is a personality so perfectly homogenous, so exquisitely in control of every bodily action (and all “mental” actions involve the body) that habits in the voluntary apparatus do not form at all. The basal reason why this never occurs in fact even in old persons, and much less in the still-learning young, is that all children have feelings and emotions based in pleasantness and unpleasantness, which take part of their actions quite- out of the range of “cold-blooded” logical intellectual control, and put them within the influence of the numerous sensations which are distinctly agreeable or disagreeable or (as in the case of taste and sexual sensations) even intensely pleasurable at almost every age. This difference suggested now is about that between the pleasantness of chewing an old piece of spruce gum that has lost all its .flavor and that derived from the chewing of an extra-delicious chocolate cream when one is hungry for sweets: in one case the pleasure was purely kineuphoria, (coming from the mere movement), in the other this element, now mostly drowned out, had added to itselr the far more intense enjoyment of the sense of taste at its “best”. Thus there are many habits which are very firmly implanted in the action-system because they cater directly to real sensory pleasure. In the child far more habits arise as relief-movements or out of the kineuphoria itself, in fact from negative stimuli in a degree, than from acts which in themselves give pleasure because actuating such pleasure-sense-organs.

Habits may be usefully divided into two classes, motor habits proper and general habits. Those we term “motor” habits are relatively simple and single and definite and muscular. Those we term “general” involve far wider tracts of the body, usually in fact the entire body, include conspicuously mental processes, and in many cases practically are what we know in the household as “dispositions”, more or less precisely. But remember that here as every elsewhere, the two classes merge, so that many actual habits are neither one nor t’other — or, they perhaps are both!

With this distinction in mind, it is to be observed in relation to our former topic that the general habits — needless crying, dis-orderliness, shyness, slowness, fast-eating, bad posture, are examples — come to a far less extent from relief-movements than do the motor habits proper of which there are legions each habit more or less well defined from each other. But even in the “general" class, one sees well-knit habits which plainly arise in useful relief-reactions; such are shyness and contradicting, for examples. As we shall see in a later article, the more frankly and purely motor a habit is, the less life-important and the more hardly is the habit overcome; the reason will help us to understand the surest means of this overcoming; so that the whole matter hangs together well, in theory and in practice.
283

Our emotions themselves, in a broad sense of the term, are habits, although hereditary. As part of their material, so to say, are the sensations coming from various sense-organs, usually pleas-ureable or at least pleasant. Now, if these sense-organs are artificially stimulated it is obvious that the child evokes a strong stimulus to the repetition of the action which stimulated them. Thus, in general are the emotional habits, (partial as well as artificial factors of emotions) started, and developed. In normal children they right themselves sooner or later and do little or no harm. But they are the hard ones to cure, not only because the child hates to give up his pleasure (in this quite like his father and perhaps his pious maiden aunt!), but also because the movements and actions are oftentimes parts at least of elaborate motor emotions and instincts firmly planted in the entire organism. Of these habits, it need hardly be said, masturbation is the typical and the extreme example.

As we shall see when we come to it, the homogeneous-personality method, like perhaps none other conceivable, tends to explain the conditions and to orient the child in regard to all the far-reaching relations of these habits of the emotional class, so that immediately the mental attitude rights itself, and this is usually, in normals, all that greatly counts. The homogeneous-personality plan is only a phase of education rightly applied at the right time. Because these affective habits — the bullying and fighting habits are other examples — have so many roots and rootlets so widely spread through every part and aspect of the entire personality, body, mind, and soul, they are the habits most firmly fixed and are very common; but, for the very same reasons, intensive rational “education” habit-wise renders them of relatively small account in normal personalities.

It is useful, as already hinted, to think of habits, especially of the narrower motor sort, as bodily memories of which a child is easily and very variously reminded. Just as a casual memory may consist primarily of an acting group of ideas and sights and odors, sounds and muscular sensations, fused into a dynamic realty, so even motor habit consists of a functional group of bodily reactions knit together for a time or for life by the wondrously complex duty of the nerves; even when not in process of recall or action, it maintains its character in the subconscious phases of the deeply mysterious mind. Without a realization of this sub-sensory aspect of their minds, even to the professional psychologists habit were a profound mystery still, because so much of it is hid in these dark deeps of mind. Yet we cannot here either describe or discuss “the subconscious” for lack of space and opportunity; but the literature of this interesting subject is easily at hand for all who would be really wise in their own mind’s lore.

Another matter that may lead some parents to a better understanding of the habits of their children is the fact, certain and even obvious enough .when you think of it, that each child in general is responsible for his own habits. Oftentimes parents take far too much responsibility and care and worry on themselves for

Digitized by Google
which no one ever will thank them, and that for the reason, in the main, that to a degree, little as they suspect it, they are actually meddling. This is progressively truer and more significant as the child goes on from the end of his first year. No child is his parents’ property; no parent has property-rights in his child any more than in the aurora borealis or in the Pacific Ocean! It is on this account ethically speaking, that the over-average parent should worry less about his always autonomous child, (provided of course, he be normal). We never can escape, to he sure, the irrefutable sophistry of quartrain LXXIX of the	,already quoted,

nor need we try, but at the same time the doctrine of human personality necessitates that in the formation of each adult personality every one shall get precisely that to which his outfit, actual or potential, of body and mind and will, in some way, long to define, but certain ss the day, entitles him. In the vast and always enticing Game-adventure which life essentially is, it is this very aspect of it, double yet always unified, of inconsistent, yet somehow real responsibility that lends half at least of the interest.

But not only as a matter of ethical philosophy but plainly as a matter of biology, too, the particular habits of any “growing" child are essentially his own and not those of his forbears. Hence the responsibility, like the credit, is personal in every normal case. The fond mother can no longer in these days of psychologic research and wisdom, excuse any of her children’s bad habits by the all-too-easy thought or even remark that Tommy gets that habit directly from his father (or from his paternal grand sir) “and cannot help it”. Habits may of course be acquired from anyone whatever, whom a child can directly imitate, but they arise, for the most part through nurture and not by nature, that is, properly speaking, inborn. We have yet to learn that acquired characters are inherited and habits are plainly in this class. The broad adult dispositions (toward gluttony, for example, moroseness, shiftlessness, obstinacy, erotism) may possibly be inheritable to a degree as tendencies or qualities of the lower or higher parts of the nervous system. But children’s habits, largely impersonal rather than frankly racial, are not known to be so influenced. There is no “determinism” then, or a minimum of it at most, in habit-formation, — it is all “freedom”. And yet to a considerable degree it is a freedom whose deciding will at first, though less and less each day and month, is outside the child in the child’s personal environment, — a naturally vicarious will which even a year or two of life normally abandons to a slight extent, and then more and more throughout the long civilizing dependency of the new generation. As a matter of fact, so effective is the imitative process in all young people all the way up, that habit has no need of heredity to help it, so to say, for under the usual family conditions the child is apt to become rather too much like its parents in behavior if anything, with too little personality of his own; this seems to be a result of our present woefully narrow mode of education. However fond a parent may be of himself and of his own ways and habits and principles, he certainly should refrain from
285

molding or wishing to mold his son into his own image. Evolution comes not so!

Nor should parents desire to train or to keep a child too close to a “type” of any kind whatever. Nature knows nothing of types; they are but concepts in the student’s mind. Life inheres wholly in individuals, the richness and reality (Royce) of whose existence depends in part at least on their infinite variety, indeed on their actual uniqueness. Every infant bom has inherent and indispensable in its life-principle an unique personality to be evolved, partly it is plain, even mostly, by its habits. Much parental wisdom of the highest and yet deepest kind is essential here in every child-trainer (the term is not a pleasing one). Successful parents must have intuition and not a little knowledge of human nature in general (psychology) and of little naive Annette and Paul in particular as unique but always more or less definite and de-fendable personalities which their respective habits shall help unroll. It really is too often forgot and far too easily ignored when kept in mind, that variety in very truth is the spice of life. Nowhere at all else is variety more important than in the human ego, and yet always in moderation. Of all the functional factors of this variety habit is by far the most fruitful; and of all the means of preventing exaggeration and one-sided excess, “excentricity”, no means could be more efficient than a balanced self-knowledge, or, as I have clumsily enough termed it, a homogeneous personality.

Much of our discussion has been about the formation of habits more or less harmful to the personal or social organism. In the evolution of the efficient and worthy human personality the not-too-firm fixation of beneficial habits is, after all, rather more important. Encouragement is a part of our subject not less, or not much less, important than the discouragement of habits. And no man can exaggerate in ordinary terms the value of the right kind of encouragement coming from the right kind of people in the right way to the right child! Science designates the gist of the reason for the power of this influence as the steneuphoric index — the greater or less dependence of enjoyment on energy-expense and vice versa. Adapted to habit-formation this ratio is fundamental in the evolution of character, since it means happiness in soul-growth. Both of these processes or states, happiness and growth, are inherent rights of the child which parents discourage, passively or actively, at their moral peril. Encourage your boy’s useful habits by all explicit means as well as by the intensive habit-wisdom which next time we shall consider more in detail and, if it may be, justify as a means of grace for our children.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN RURAL SCHOOLS

Read before the Physical Education Department of the National Education Association, Pittsburgh, Pa., July 2, 1918, by LAURENCE S. HILL, Director of Physical Education, Albany, N. Y.

Physical Education in rural schools is a problem that has not yet been satisfactorily solved. It is a problem that presents sev-

Digitized by Google
286

eral angles. We must determine the needs not alone of the boys and girls of the rural schools but also the needs of the rural communities in a physical, moral and social way. We must determine what physical education should include and how to inaugurate and organize its various phases.

There has been rather consistent opposition to physical education in the rural communities. Judging from the testimony of several district superintendents and many teachers of rural schools and from our own experience in New York State, we must conclude that opposition to this so-called “fad” had its beginning in several facts. First, it involves the expenditure of money. This has been our experience in the solution of most problems as well as in the accomplishment of most aims. The problem is indeed difficult of solution when communities come to value money more highly than they do activities that make for greater social, moral and physical efficiency. It is easy to measure the value of tangible things, but difficult to estimate the growth in education, refinement and culture on the part of the child. This is the reason why people generally are willing to spend money on those things the results of which are apparent at once and measurable in dollars and cents, but hesitate and often refuse to give to their own community those things which are necessary for the fullest development of the boys and girls.

Another reason for opposition to physical education in the rural schools is that the people of these communities do not realize the value of this phase of education. They do not appreciate the need for a well organized health program. They haven’t the right conception of what it is, what it includes and what it should accomplish. The feeling is general that they are getting all the physical education they need in their daily labors. They point with complacency to the fact that they have all the fresh air there is, regardless of the need that city folk may feel, that the city people may need physical education,—not they. They do not know the corrections necessary for occupational defects, the physical need of social life, and of that type of activity that will diminish the exaggerated awkwardness of the country lad. Here, too, the i ural school teacher is apparently lost. She is apt to know , nothing or very little about physical education and health education. She takes a very small part in the affairs of the community. She has not made herself felt in the life of the child out of the school. The teaching of physical training seems but to add one more burden to the many she is already carrying. She is not capable of giving a good account of herself in the health education of the child. She therefore is opposed to it. Not the least of all causes for opposition is that in many of those districts where physical training has already been inaugurated the instructors supervising the work have not been properly trained. Their knowledge of physical education is limited. Is it not just possible that this last mentioned fact may in some degree be attributed to the systems of physical training common in various institutions of learning throughout the country in which the supervisor, perchance, has
287

learned' gymnastics but missed the mark in Physical Education? From some of these institutions one gets the notion that athletics is physical training, or that calisthenics is physical training, and that these activities comprise all there is to physical training. The institutions themselves seem to have the idea that they are sting physical training, for upon investigation we find pub-

in their catalogs the statement that they have courses in physical culture and naturally we find the students going out from these institutions to promote the same type of education. With such conditions it is little wonder that we find opposition to physical training as a part of the school curriculum.

Now what can we do to overcome this opposition? We must go slowly. We should give entertainments, play and athletic festivals with as many children taking part as is possible. This is the best means of popularizing the work I know of. At these festivals offer games or events suitable for adults, especially those activities that bring back fond memories. Don’t lose an opportunity of getting the parents to the school or playground to inspect the work.

I have received many reports from rural school supervisors of physical training concerning the difficult task of winning the support of teachers, parents, and trustees. In every instance where festivals or physical training demonstrations have been given these supervisors and their superintendents have been enthusiastic over the support of the community won for the work as a direct result of these demonstrations. People will listen to talks on various health topics and become enthusiastic supporters of a health program once they are won over to what physical education means. You must show them what they are getting for their money.

The most vital factor in the physical education program is . after all the teacher and the supervisor. People of proper training, of faculty for the work, with enthusiastic interest, and with a vision of the possibilities of the work and opportunity for service will do more to develop wholesome recreational and civic activities than any other possible agency. They will popularize this training in the rural communities and wipe out the opposition to it.

And now we must determine the needs of the boys and girls of the rural schools and of the rural communities. These must necessarily be stated in general terms. In the first place healthful and attractive surroundings are essential to the physical, mental, social and moral welfare of the children and to the life of the community. Instruction in personal hygiene and sanitation of the schoolroom and yard is needed, and in order not to blush with embarrassment and to teach effectively, hygienic and sanitary conditions must exist, beginning with the teacher and the buildings. It is useless to preach if preaching is all we do. It is absolutely necessary for the boys and girls to learn these laws of health through observation and practice. Attention must be called to them of course. Morning inspection of pupils, room, buildings and
288

yard must be conducted. These must be followed up by visits to the home to see that instructions are carried out.

School life is a severe nervous strain if the child is expected to always observe proper decorum and to sit still for long periods. We are fighting nature if we compel the child to do this. On the other hand school life will not become a nervous strain if sufficient periods are given for relaxation and physical exercise. Inhibition is one of the needs of the child but all inhibition and no relaxation makes of the child a nervous wreck. It is not a question of whether the school program affords time for this relaxation through activity, it is a matter of changing our school program if necessary to meet the needs of the child. We are beginning to get away from the obsolete idea of fitting the child to our system of education. In the rural communities, this idea makes way very slowly. In making our education satisfy the needs of the child the first need which appears is his physical need.

Traditional school life has a harmful effect upon the normal posture of the body, and poor posture in turn works great havoc with the health of the child because of the crowding of the vital organs of the body. Muscular weakness, fatigue and the occupations of rural life are common factors of bad posture. The rapid growth of children which saps the power and efficiency of the muscles, the excessive fatigue of supporting muscles which results from hard labor, and long periods of sitting and standing are other common causes of bad posture. The need of postural exercise is apparent. The natural tendency to avoid the fatigue of holding one fixed position is one cause of restlessness of children.

Rhythm and grace of movement is a need of the child. Observe how one moves, walks, and talks and you will learn a great deal about him. The habitual rhythm of motion is fundamental for full intellectual development. There is a profound and close relationship between our muscle habits and thinking. The rural child is conspicuously wanting in spontaneous graceful movements. We know, now, enough about the developments of children and adolescents to know that the powers of activity are always developed before the powers of control. A great many people live and die undeveloped. They have no control. No phase of our education can train the individual in this respect quite as well as can games, athletics, rhythmic exercises, exercises to response commands, and other branches of physical training. No where will boys and girls receive this type of training if not during the years of school life.

The children of the soil need physical, mental and moral courage. Exercises and games which require nerve, daring, courage and skill should be given. Through the appointment of leaders the individuals acquire confidence in themselves and the ability to lead others. They will acquire the ability to stand defeat as gracefully as victory, recognition of the rights of others, cooperation, self-subordination for the good of the majority, and leadership through team games and athletics. These rural children .need perhaps more than any other one thing, the social aspect of
289

these games and contests. Rural communities must have more wholesome social life. There is a dire need for social centers in the country. Entertainments, festivals, and community “sings” will do more to bring our country brothers out of their shells than any type of activity yet observed, and the vehicle for inaugurating these social gatherings is the supervisor of physical training who must act as a general community leader.

We must give these children something they can use when through school as well as develop them while in school. We must develop the habit of wholesome exercise for after school life.

Activities that develop health, strength, intelligence and character must be given in order to give the rural children the fullest measure of physical education. Those activities are manifold. They should be utilized during frequent periods in the school program, during recess and after school. Directed play is needed for the rural children far more than for their city cousins.

To sum up these needs we may say that the rural child requires a special type of activity. It is useless to preach morality, self-control, recognition of the rights of others, altruism, self-confidence, determination, loyalty, cooperation, courage, skill, and a host of other attributes which the individual should acquire in school, if mere preaching is all that is attempted. It is necessary to give the individual opportunity to learn these valuable lessons for himself, and this he can do through normal directed activity better than he can in any other way. Children need activity intended to promote health, and body as well as moral discipline; activities for the health and happiness of all boys and girls at the same time as the mental and moral training. They need to realize the obligations to the society in which they live, and to have a readiness of spirit and body to meet those obligations in daily life. They need to be made conscious of the fact that it is not for themselves alone that they sing patriotic songs, perform daily drills, play games and undergo health examinations, but for themselves as happier, healthier, more efficient members of the community in which they live.

Space should be provided to serve not only for the drills, plays, games, competitions and the like, but also for entertainments and community gatherings.

In order to inaugurate a program of this character it is necessary that each community should have a general community leader. Whatever the future may develop in bringing this need to a practical realization in terms of specific organization, for the present, at least, this work must be done by the local leader of physical education. Now the usual instruction afforded by the majority of courses in physical education fails properly to equip its product with the necessary training. The physical director in a rural community, to be able properly to work out this program, must have a very definite and concrete notion of personal and school hygiene, health and sanitary inspections, inspection for signs of abnormality, and injury or illness, for conditions which call for immediate attention on the part of the teacher, and for

Digitized by Google
290

signs of disordered health for which children should be kept at home; for conditions productive of bodily deformity, posture, and the like; of the detection of defective sight and hearing; of the organization and duties of health officers and pupil sanitary inspectors; she must have a very definite and concrete notion of physical training, including calisthenics, athletics, games, dancing, swimming, etc., and all those terms imply, and the practical conduct and organization of these various phases of physical training into a rational health program; she must have a very definite and concrete notion of the nature and function of play, of child nature, of festivals and entertainments for old and young, of the social center or community center; and she must have a vision of the service and duties of a general community leader as well as a technical knowledge of her subject.

I wish I had time to elaborate on the training of a so-called General Community Leader. At Cornell University we have made a special study of the needs of the rural boys and girls and of the rural communities. A Division of Physical Education in the Rural Education Department of the Summer Session of the College of Agriculture has been organized for the purpose of training teachers of physical education as General Community Leaders for the rural districts. Besides the general training courses for physical directorships, special emphasis is made on Personal Hygiene and School Hygiene and School Inspection, Physical Diagnosis, First Aid and Home Nursing, with opportunities for hospital practice for the training in the duties of the rural school nurses; games, athletics and folk dancing with special reference to organized, directed rural recreation; Psychology and Child Study, Rural Leadership and Administration and Rural Sociology; and the practical oiganization and conduct of a department, of entertainments, demonstrations, festivals and pageants. We feel that teachers with faculty for the work, with enthusiastic interest and such training will solve the health problem in the rural districts of New York State.

The oft repeated assertion — that the rural communities are the basic social organization upon which rest the stability of the nation — still holds true. A proper conception, therefore, of Rural Physical Education, is a fundamental educational necessity if a definite program of development is needed. An adequately trained personnel to put this program in operation is the first step in this direction. In some of the states, this idea is already taking definite form in Legislation and educational organizations. A nation-wide movement to this end is indicated for the near future. This body can do no more constructive service for the general advancement of physical education in America than by a sane and enthusiastic support of that important phase of Physical Education so urgently needed in rural commnuities.

J
291

CHILDREN’S YEAR—A CO-OPERATIVE EFFORT*

By MISS JULIA LATHROP,

Chief, Children’s Bureau, United States Department of Labor, Washington, D. C.

It may be of interest to explain to you in a few words just how the Children’s Bureau entered on so audacious an enterprise as Children’s Year and why we believe that something is going to develop from this bold venture. As soon as war was declared by the United States, the Bureau started to try to learn how children were faring in the belligerent countries. We discovered at first a period of confusion. Then the second year of the war saw a wonderful recovery and in England and France the infant mortality rate was markedly reduced,—in the former country to the lowest point ever reached. It appeared to us that America in going into the war, mighty, untouched, vigorous, had many moral obligations whicji must be discharged behind the lines at home if we were to make democracy prevail. We felt we could do no less than call the attention of the American public to the fact that our fatalistic and complacent attitude in times of peace toward the waste of the lives of mothers and babies, was now, in view of the losses of war, unendurable and that there was a great opportunity for salvage behind the lines.

We knew very well that the Bureau itself could do nothing alone. A little handful of people with less than a handful of money could have slight effect over the United States as a whole. Perhaps it has a certain power of advertising and we tried to think

{‘ust how we could state the need for the protection of mothers and >abies so that its appeal could be heard at all against the tremendous and legitimate competition of the government loans, food, fuel, Red Cross, — each one of which makes its stirring appeal to every American citizen.

If we have been wasting the lives of 300,000 or more children under school age, the little army of 15,000 or more mothers who die needlessly each year when children are born seems perhaps small, but certainly it is not necessary to state how serious is the matter of which it is the index. It seemed to us fair to follow the authoritative statement for which sanitarians like yourselves are responsible, that if children were well-born and well cared for, this waste of infant life would not exist, and that in this country with our methods of public hygiene and sanitation it would be very easy to save half of the annual loss. We determined to ask the American people if we could not all pull together and try to save one-third—the lives of 100,000.

In order to make the State responsibility clear we have a quota for each. We admit these quotas are not very fair, except on the theory of nbblesse oblige. Because New York, for example, has done wonderful things in reducing its infant mortality rate, we can expect it will do more. We assigned these quotas on the basis

•Read at the Annual Conference of Health Officer at Saratoga Springs, June, 1918.

Digitized by UjOOQle
292

of the child population under 5 years in the various States according to the 1910 census.

If there has been any health officer in the State of New York discouraged from doing work for children by any misunderstanding, I am sure his ardor and interest in the subject which is proposed have not been quenched or his efforts lessened to save the children in his own locality, because it is a public effort; it is a great community responsibility. The studies of infant mortality which the Children’s Bureau has made have shown clearly what can be done by the individual family and have marked clearly the line where the responsibility of the community begins for food, sanitation, and protection. No State in the Union is so well equipped by law and resources as is New York to give that community protection.

As a start in the Children’s Year program we wanted some activity which would appeal uniformly to people throughout this country; seme simple, reasonable thing that we could all do together. When we found that Wisconsin had had a very great response in an effert to weigh and measure its babies we finally decided that the weighing and measuring test was the best and most economical first step we could take. It was thought that perhaps we could get half a million children for this test. At the present moment we have printed more than 5,000,000 weighing and measuring care’s and we are in trouble with a large number of States in this country because we have not printed more and are inclined to stop at 5,000.000. As a piece of advertising it is not possible to estimate its results. If we had some form to show how many grown persons are interested in the weight of each baby we might make an approximation.

The Bureau is not in itself interested in this test per se in any great degree, although I believe we shall be able to secure from it some valuable data. There are parts of the country in which it has been skillfully and wisely done. The Smithsonian Institute, through its anthropological division, has been helpful in the manner of conducting it and is offering very active co-operation in at least one State. Five hundred thousand obviously good cards signed by physicians will be tabulated to give a series of normal weights and measures. What is most valuable is what happens locally,— and we are looking now for follow-up work. We are looking to see what the communities will do when the results have been brought to their attention. There has never yet been a community in which something is not done the minute competence and intelligence point the way.

We hope that the great result of this follow-up work will be to emphasize the importance of keeping children well, instead of curing them when they are sick. This is something richer and better than any record of life saving which the year itself will give. Certainly if we can get parents to feel that their children must be systematically watched and tested to see whether they are keeping up to the normal standard of development and vigor, we shall have achieved one result in harmony with the work of preventive medicine. That 100,000 phalanx will come — if not this year
293

another year, — but it will come all too slowly unless the medical officers of the United States help to make it come.

It is true the Bureau hasn’t any money. We wish it had. The Federal government could make no better investment than to put its money alongside of local funds, as it does through the good roads bill, etc., for the purpose of protecting mothers and babies. All money must at present be raised locally. We are cheered to see that from various parts of the country reports of amounts raised are being received in increasing numbers.

New York has the most brilliant record yet reported, because nowhere else has a health officer gone to his board for money-and been forced to take twice the amount requested, as has the health officer of Buffalo. States, cities, and communities have raised large sums for practical follow-up work; namely, public health nurses, provisions for conference centers, well baby clinics, the protection of food, or other work which local needs demand.

How the milk supply is to be dealt with in this country is a problem to be solved by experts of a class to which the writer will never belong. The Bureau has just published a bulletin by Dr. Mendenhall which has already been widely distributed. It is addressed to lay readers, and is entitled “Milk as an Indispensable Food for Children.”

There is a greater burden upon the medical profession in the country with the war on than there ever was before and therefore we are very much concerned in a matter in which the whole country is gravely interested — that is, how to develop a nursing service which will aid the public health officers who are as truly serving their country as though at the front. From authorities in the profession who are as concerned with this question as any of the laity, information comes from vaiious parts of the country of plans under way to train lay people, as public health visitors in England are being trained, not to usurp the function of physicians, but to make their work reach further.

Vassar has a summer training camp for college women. Five hundred and fifty came there recently, many direct from graduation, with as great a degree of patriotic ardor as that experienced by a man leaving for the front or a woman entering the army nursing corps, and registered for an intensive three month’s training which will entitle them to enter the best schools for nurses in this country and enable them to graduate in two years. This seems to indicate that we are not mistaken in thinking that nursing is a profession which appeals to young women with a patriotic ardor for service and that we may hope that the whole public health question will be greatly served if we draw into the nursing profession women equipped by native ability and by training to carry on public health nursing in this country, to administer the nursing side of the war hospitals as well as of civilian hospitals and in general to relieve the diminishing force of physicians in all. practicable ways.
FEET AND INCHES

AGE

TABLE FOR AVERAGE AND INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCES

yL!	3  Mos.	6 I Mos.	9 1 I® 1 3 | 6 |» | 11 | 3 | 6 | 9 | 12 Mos. | Yrs. (Mos.|Mos.|Mos.l Yrs. |Mos.|Mos. 1 Mot.! Yrs.										3  Mos.	6  Mo.,
List.				Dist.				Dist.				Dist.		
10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	| 12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	13.1
10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.
9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.1
9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12 3	12.6	12.9	13
9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11 6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.!  J
9	9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.
8.9	9	9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.
8.6	8.9	9	9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10*3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12
8.3	8.6	8.9	9  i	9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.
8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	1 11.3	11.
7.9	8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.
7.6	7.9	8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11
7.3	7.6	7.9	8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	9.3	9.6	9.9	1 10	10.3	10.6	10
7	7.3	7.6	7.9	8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10
6.9	7	7.3	7.6	7.9	8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	9.3	9.6	9.9	10	10
6.6	6.9	7	7.3	7.6	7.9	8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	9.3	i 9.6	9.9	10
6.3	6.6	6.9	1 7	7.3	7.6	7.9	8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	9.3	9.6	9
6	6.3	! 6.6	6.9	7	7.3	7.6	I 7.9  '	8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	9.3	9
5.9	6	6.3	6.6	6.9	7	7.3	7.6	7.9	8	8.3	8.6	8.9	9	S
5.6	5.9  i	6	6.3  i	6.6	6.9  !	7	7.3	7.6	7.9	8	8.3j 8.6		8.9	t
5.3	5.6	5.9	6	6.3	6.6!	6.9	7	7.3	7.6	7.9	8 1 8.3  ... I		8.6	I
5	5.3	5.6	5.9  —	6	6.3| 	!	6.6	6.9	7	7.3	7.6	7.9j 8		8.3,		.

Example for Boys	No.	1 Age		9 4-12 Distance 9 5-12ft.			
	No.	2		10 3-12	“ 10 2-12 “	Age	12 yrs.
a team is composed	No.	3		11 3-12	“ 10 7-12		
of ten boys of va-	No.	4	a	12 7-12	“ 13		
rious ages, add the	No.	5	“	13 5-12	“ 12 7-12 “		
ages, divide by ten,	No.	6	it	14	“ 13 8-12 "	Distance	11 feet 11 ind
add the jumps and	No.	7	a	10 6-12	“ 10 9-12 “	j	i
divide by ten; then	No.	8	a	13 2-12	" 13 4-12 “		Points \
see how many points	No.	9	**	11 6-12	“ 12		
the average age and	No. 10		“	14	“ 14		'
average distance							j
should be credited				120	119 6		
with. Points are at							

the extreme right. Average age 12 years. Average dist. 11 ft. 11 in.

Digitized by

Google
0	r  1 RUNNING BROAD JUMP, CONSIDERING AGE AND SEX.														
	*	13	3	6	9	14	3	6	9	15	3	6	9	16	
; i	lot.	Yrs.	Mos.	Mos.	Mos.	Yrs.	Mos.	Mos.	Mos.	Yrs.	Mos.	Mos.	Mos.	Yrs.	
		Dist.				iJist.				Dist.				Dist.	Points
	u	14.3	14.6	14.9	16	15.3	15.6	15.9	16	16.3	16.6	16.9	17	17.3	11.25
	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	15	15.3	15.6	15.9	16	16.3	16.6	16.9	17	11
	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	15	15.3	15.6	15.9	16	16.3	16.6	16.9	10.75
	13 3	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	15	15.3	15.6	15.9	16	16.3	16.6	10.50
	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	15	15.3	15.6	15.9	16	16.3	10.25
	|2 9	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	15	15.3	15.6	15.9	16	10
	(2.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	15	15.3	15.6	15.9	9.75
	(2 3	13.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	15	15.3	15.6	9.50
	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	15.	15.3	9.25
	11 9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	15	9
	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13  I	13.3  I	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	14.9	8.75
	fl.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	14.6	8.50
	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	14	14.3	8.25
" .jj	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	14	8
	10 6	10 9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	13.9	7.75
. !	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11 6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	13.6	7.50
	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	13.3	7.25
X	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	13	7
X	,9.6	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	12.6	12.9	6.75
/	9.3	9.6|	9 9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9'	12	12.3	12.3  j	6.50
	9	9.3  i	9.6  |	9.9	10	10.3	10.6	10.9	11	11.3	11.6	11.9	12	12.3	6.25
X	'8 $|  rr!	l  9 1  1	1 9.3| 1	!	9.6	9.9	10	10.3| 10.6  1		10.9	11	H.3	11.6	11.9	12	6

^ lample “rGirls

No. 1 Age 10 No. 2 " 11

Distance

No. 3 No. 4 No. 5 No. 6 No. 7 No. 8 No. 9 No.10

12

13

14 9

10 6-12

11	4-12

12	2-12

13 6-12

116 6-12

8	4-12

9

9 6-12 10 8-12 11 3-12

7	2-12

8	2-12

9 1-12

10

10 4-12 93 6-12

Age

Distance

11 8-12

9 4-12

Points 7.67

Average 118-12 Distance 9 4-121

If girls are judged by this table they should receive 2 points extra. 7.67 2.00

Final 9.67 Point*

L

Digitized by
FEET AND INCHES

TABLE FOR AVERAGE AND INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCES IN

ACE  9  Yrs.	3  Mo*.	6  Mot.	I 9 ' | Mot.	Yr*.	3  Mot.	6  Mos.	9  Mos.	11 f  Yr*. 1	3  Mos.	« T  Mos.	9 1 Mo*.	12 r  Yr*. 1	3  4os.	6  Mos.
Dist.			f	Dist.	]			Dist.				Dist.		
30	30 9	31.6 32.3		33	33 9	34.6	35.3	36	36.9	37.6	38.3	39	39.9	40 6
29	29 9	30 6	31.3	32	32.9	33 6|	I 34 3	35	35 9j	36 6	37 3	38	38.9', 39.fi  t	
28	28.9	29.6	30.3	31	31.9	32 6  I	33.3	34  1	34.9	35.6	36 3	37 j	37 9	38.6
27	27.9	28.6	29.3	30	30.9	31 6	32.3	33	33 9  1	34 6	35 3	36 i  1	36.9  i	37 i
26	26.9	27.6	28.3	29	1 29.9	30 6	31.3	32	32.9	33 6	34.3	35	35.91 36	
25	25.9	26.6	27.3	28	28.9	29.6	30.3  I	31	31.9	32.6	33.3	34	34 9	35.
24	24.9	25.6	26.3	27	27.9	28.6|	1' 29 3  |	30	30.9	31.6	32.3	33	33.9	| 34 <
23	23.9	24.6	25 3	26 |	26.9  |	27.6|	' 28.3  1	29	29.9	30.6	31.3	32	32.9	• 33!
22	22.9	23.6	24 3	25	25.9	26.6	27.3	28	28.9	29.6	30.3|	3!	31.9	: 32.
21	21.9	22 6	23.3  ! !	24 I	1 24.9  |	25 6	1 26.3  j	27	27.9|	28.5  p	29.3| 30 |		1 30. £	I 31.
20	20.9	21.6	22.31 23 |  	| i		23.9  1	24.6|	25 3  i	26	26.9]	I 27 6  i	|  28.31 29		29.9 30.	
19	19.9	20.6	21.3| 22 |		22.91  1	23 6| 24.3|  i		‘ 25 |	' 25.9|' 26.6  i .		27.31	I 28	| 28.!	$ 29.
18	18.91	19.6	20.3	21	21.9	22.6	23.3	24	24 9	1 25.6  I .	26.3	27	17.9| 28	
17	17.91 18.6  ..... | . .		19 3| 20 I		20 9	21.6	i 22 3  i	23  i	1 23.9	1 24.6	25.3	26	26.9j 2T	
16	16.91 17.6  	 . |		18.3	19 i  i	19 9	20.61213! 22  I |			i 22.9  j	I  1 23.6  j	i 24.3	1  ; 25	I 25.9j 26	
15	15.9! 16.61		17.3 18		18.9	19.61 20.3| 21  |			1 21.9	I 22.6	i 23.3	i| 24	| 24.9* 25  i !	
14  I	14 91 15.61  ... 1 |		16 31 17  !		17.9	18.61 19.31 20  | |.			i 20.9  | _	21.€	; 22.2	I 23	23.91 24	
13 1	13.9'i 14.6!  i i		15.3! 16 j  i I		16.9  |	17.6| 18.3! 19  i I			I 19.9	20 C	> 21.2	I 22	. | .. 22.91 25  I 		
12	12.91 13.6i 14.31 15 1  i i i	i				15.9	16.6	17.3j 18		1 18.9  1	19.(	I 20.2	I 21	21.9! 2!	
11	11.91 12.6; 13.3| 14 1 14.91  11 1 ( 1					15.61  !	1 16.3j 17		j 17.9  i	18.(	) 19 2	] 20	20 9 2  1	
10 !  .—i-	10.9! 11.6! 12.31 13  it)-				13.9j	14.61 15.31 16  ! 1			j 16.9  1	» 17. (	5 .8.:	1 19	1 19.9! 2 -1	1-	

Explanation: The result in average age and average throw may not always be found on above table; for each additional month—substract three inches—or 940 a point.

For every inch over the numbers on table give 3-100 of a point extra. Si

ample.

Digitized by ^•ooQie
i i 13 Mo«. Yr*.	3  Mo*.	6  Mot.	9  Mos.	14  Yrs.	3  Mos.	I 6 '  Mos.	f 9 TT5~ 1 Moi.| Yr».		3  Mos.	6 1 Mos.	r 9" i  1 Mos.	16 1 Yrs.	
Dist.  .... 1 |				Dist.				Dist.				Dist.	Points
» 41.3 42 !  ... . . i	! 42.9  i -	■ 43.6	44.3	45	45.9I	46.6	47.3	48	48.9	49.6	50.3  .	51  i	13
40.Si 41  1 |	[ 41.9	42 6	43.3	I 44	44.9  |	145.6  1	46.3	47	47.9	48.6	49.3	t 50	12.66
39.81 40  . - | . -|	40.9|	41 6	42.3	43  1	[ 43.9	1 44.61 45.3		46  !	46.9  j	47.6	48.3	49	12.33
38.31 39 |  I	i 39.9	40 6	41.3	42	42.9	|  43.6! 44.3		f" 1 45	45 9	46.6	47.3	1 48	12
37.3! 38  r . . !. .	38.9	39.6	40 3	41	41.9	42.6|  |	! 43.3	44	44.9	45.6	46.3	47	11 66
36.3j 37	37.9	38 6	39 3	40	40.9	41.61  1	! 42 3  :	43	43.9	44.61	45.3	46	11.33
.35.3 36	38.9	37.6	38 3	39	39 9	40.61	i 41.3	42	42 9	43 6	44.3	45	11
34.3! 35	35.9  1	36.6  	1	37.3  1	38	1 38 9  1	| 39.6	40.3  	1	41	41.9	42.6	43 3  - 1	44  1		10 66

33.3* 34 |	134.9:	| 35.6| 36 3)		1 37 1	1 37.91	38.6| 39.3	40	40.9	, 41.6	42.3	43	10 33
32.3j 33 ]	I 33 9  ]	I 34.61  |	| 35 31  |	I 36 '	| 36.9  |	! 37.61 38.3	39	39.9	1 40.6	41.3	42	10
31.8 32	32.9!  |	! 33 6  	1	134.31	I 35 |	35 9i  	1	36.61 37.3	38	i 38.9	39 6  1	40.3	41	9 66
30.31 31	31.9	32.6	33.3	34 !  j	34.9!	35.61 36.3	37	37 9	38 6!  1	1	39.3	40	9 33
29.3j 30	30.9  |	! 31.6	32.3  |	1 33 1  1	33.91  1	34 6| 35 3  i	36	33.9	37 6'	38 31  _	39	9
28.3| 29 j	'299;	I 30.6	31 3	32	32 91	i 33.61 34.3  J |	35	35 9	33.61  !	37.3  !	i	38  L .	8.66
27.3! 28 1  ! |	1 28.9'	1 29.6	30 3  |	| 31 :  1	1 31.9	1 32 6> 33.3  1 . .. .	34	34.9	35.6	1 36.3i 37  ' 1 .		8.33
26.31 27 1  1 1	1 27.9  1	28.6	1 29.3  1	30	30 9	1 31.6 32.3'  1 1 . 1	33	33 9  j	34 6	1 35.3  i	I 36	8
25.3 26  |	1 26 9	27.6! 28 3  |		1 29	1 29.9l 30 61 31 3  I" - ' |-		32	1 32 9  j	33 61 34 3		35	7 66
24.3) 25	I 25.9  :	i 26.61 27.3  i 1		28	' 28.91 29.6! 30.3  1 ! 1		31	31.9	32.6 33.31 34  1 |			7 33
23.3t 24 i  j	24 9	i 25.61 26 3  | . _ . j. .		1 27  t _. .	i 27.9  i	i 28.61 29 3  : j	30	1 30 9	31.6| 32.31 33  1			7
22 3 ! 23 j  1	23 9	1 24.6! 25.3  1 i		26	i 26 91 27 6l 28 3  i : i		29	29 9	30.6 31 31 32  1 j			6 66
21 3 22 i 22.9  1 1		| 23.6	24 3	25	25 9	I 26,61 27.3  i	28	28.9	29.6j 30.3j 31			6 33

Example: \ Average age of team 12 years 7 months—loss 9-100\	Q7	„ . *

For Boys:/ Average throw distance 28 feet 8 inches—gain 6-100/ Kej>uit	roint.

If this table is used for girls give teams etc. two points to the result. For instance, if

a team of girls at the above age (see boys example) would make an average throw of 28 feet

897)	0_	1

8 inches, their mark should be 200 J-10. Points

Digitized by

L,ooQle
SECONDS AND 1-10 SECONDS

AGE

9  Yrs.		3  Mos.		6  Mos.		9  Mos.		10  Yrs.	3  Mos.	6  Mos.	9  Mos.	11  Yrs.	3  Mos.	6  Mos.	9  Mos.	12,36 Yrs. Mos., M01.		
Time								Time				Time				lime		
14	7	14	6	14	5	14	4	14 3	14.2	14 1	14	13 9	13.8	■1 13 7	13 6	13.5	13.4	13.3
14	8	14	7	14	6	14	5	14 4	14 3	14 2	14 1	14	13 9	13.8	; 13.7  1	13.6	13.5	13.4
14	9	14	8	14	. (	14	6	14.5	14 4 zl4 3		14 2	14 1	14	1 13 9	13 8	13.7	13.6	13.5
15		14	9	14	8	14	7	14 6	14 5	14 4	14 3	14.2	14 1	1 14	i 13 9	13.8	13.7	13.6
15	1	15		14	9	14	8	14 7	14 6	14 5	14 4	14 3	14 2	| 14 1	14	13 9	13.8	13.7
15	2	15	1	15		14	9	14 8	14 7	14 6	14.5	14 4 zl4 3		| 14 2	! 14 1	14	j 13 9	13.8
15	3	15	o	15	li	15		14 9	14 8	14 7	14 6	14.5|	14 4	| 14 3	14.2  1	14 1	1 14  1	13.9
15	4	15	3	15	9	15	1	15	14 9	14 8	14 7	14.6|	14 5	| 14 4	j 14.3	14.2	14.1	14
15	5	15	4	15	3	15	9	15 1	15	14 9	14 8	14 7	14 6	14.5	1 14.4	14 3	14.2	14.1
15	6	15	5	15	4	15	3	15 2	15 1	15	14 9	14 8	14 7	14 6	14 5	14 4	14 3	14.2
15	i	15	6	15	5	15	4	15 3,	15 2	15 1	15	14 9	14.8	14.7	14 6	14.5	14.4	14.3
15	8	15	i	15	6	15	5	15 4	15 3	15 2	15 1	15	14.9	14 8	I 14.7	14.6	14 5	14.4
15	9	15	8	15	7	15	6	15 5	15 4	15 3	15 2	15 1	15 1	14 9,	14 8	14.7	14 6	14.5
16		15	9	15	8'	15	7	15 6	15 5	15 4	15.3	15.2	15.1	15 1	14 9	14 8	14.7	14 6
16	1	16		15	9	15	X	15 7	15 6	15 5	15 4	15 3	15 2	15.1	15	14 9	14 8	14.7
16	2	16	1	16		15	9	15 8	15 7	15 6	15 5	15 4	15 3	15.21	15.1	15 !	1 14 9	14.8
16	3	16	9	16	1	16		15 9	15 S	15 7	15 6	15 5	15 4	15 3	15.2	-15 1	: is	~14 9
16	4	16	3	16	2	16	I	16	15 9	15 8	15 7	15 6	15 5	15 4	15.3:	15.2	15.1	"l5
16	5	16	4	16	3	16	2	16 1	16	15 9	15 8	15 7	15 6	15 5|		  15.41	15 3	15.2	"l5.1
16	6	16	5	16	4	16	3	16 2	16 1	16	15 9	15 8	15 7	15.61	15 5	15.4	15.3	~l5.2
16	7	16	6	16	5	16	4	16 3	16 2,	16 1	16	15 9	15 8	15.7	15.61	15.5	z95.4	15.3
16	8	16	i	16	6	16	5	16 4	16 3	16 2	16 1	16	15 9!	15.8	15.7	15.6	15.5	15 4
16	9	16	8	16	7	16	6	16 5	16 4	16 3	16.2	16 1	16 |	15 9	15 8	15.7	15.6	15.5
17		16	9	16	8	16	7	16 6	16 5|	16 4	16 3	16 2	16 1	16 1	15 9	15.8	15.7	15 6
17.	1	17		16	9	16	8	16 7	16 6	16 5	16 4	16.31	16 2!	16 1	16 I	15.9	15.8	15 7
*												L				!			

Explanation:	1-10	of	a	second	equals about two feet of the distance (100 yards). Drive

1-10 2-10 3-10 4-10 5-10 stakes o o o o o ; two feet apart. Time the leading runner and estimate the following. Thus 1-10 of seconds will have to be recorded.
DS FOR GIRLS AND 100 YARDS DASH FOR BOYS

if  !i-	;ft	13  Yr».	3  Mos.	6  Mos.	9 I  Mos.l	14 | Yrs.	3 1 Mos.	6 i,  Mos.|	9 i,  Mos.|	15 | Yrs.	3 1 Mos.	6  Mos.	9  Mos.	16  Yrs.	
3		time				TTmij				Time				time	Points
:si.	ft 2	13.1	13	12.9	12.8	12.7J 12.6		12.5	12.4	12.3	12.2	12.1	12	11.9	11.7
	>■8.3	13.2	13.1	13 !	12.9	12.8	12.7	12.6	12.5	12.4	12.3	12.2	12.1	12	11.5
, L .f	ft 4	13.3	13.2	13.l]	13	12.9	12.8	12.7	12.6	12.5	12.4	12.3	12.2	12.1	11.5
	■3.5	13.4	13.3	13.2	13.1	13	12.9	12.8	12.7	12.6	12.5	12.4	12.3	12.2	11
ii;	B3.6	13.5	13.4	13.3	13.2	13.1	13	12.9	12.8	12.7	12.6	12.5	12.4	12.3	10.7
•(	*13 7	13.6	13.5	13.4	13.3	13.2	13.1	13	12.9	12.8	12.7	12.6	12.5	12.4	10.5
IK		13.7	13.6	13.5	13.4	13.3	13.2	13.1	1 13	12 9	12.8	12.7	12.6	12.5	10.3
■’	§13.9	13.8	13.7	13.6	13.5	13.4	13.3	13.2	| 13.1	13	12.9	12.8	12.7	12.6	10
	114	13 9	13.8	13.7	13.6	13.5	13.4	| 13.3	13.2	13.1	13	12.9	12.8	12.7	9.7
i f	§14.1	14	13.9	13.8	13.7	13.6	| 13.5	I 13.4	13.3	13.2	13.1	13	12.9	12.8	9.5
	§14.2	14.1	14	13 9	13.8	13.7*1 13.6		\ 13.5	13.4	13.3	13.2	13.1	13	12.9	9.3
]l‘ 1	■ 14.3	14.2	14.1	14	13.9	13.8 13.7  1		1 13.6  |	13.5	| 13.4	13.3	13.2	13.1	13	9
•-! 1	114.4	14.3	14.2	14.1	14	13.9| 13.8		!] 13.7	13.6	1 13.5	13.4	13.3	13.2	13.1	8.7
J	P 14.5	14.4	14.3	14.2	14.1	14	j 13.9	13.8	13.7	13.6	13.5	13 4	13.3	13.2	8.5
A	I 14.6	14.5	14.4	14 3	14.2	14.1	1  I 14	| 13.9	13.8	13.7	13.6	13.5	13.4	13.3	8.3
i' * j	I 14.7	14.6	14.5	14.4	14 3	14.21 14.1  |		l U	13.9	13.8	13.7	13 6	13.5	13.4	8
	14.8	14.7	14.6	14.5	14.4	14.31 14.2		| 14.1	14	13.9	13.8	13.7	13 6	13.£	7.7
	14.9	14.8	14.7	14.6	14.5	14.4	1 14.3	14 2  I . _	14.1	14	13 9	1 13.8  |	13.7	13. i	7.5
	15	14.9	14.8	14.7	1 14 6	14.5	| 14.4	14.3	14.2	14.1	14	13 9	13.8	; 13.'J	7.3
	15.1	15	14.9	14.8	14.7	14.6	14.5  i	14.4	I 14.3	14.2	14.1	14	13 9	> 13. £	7
	15.2	15.1	15	14.9	14.8	14.7j 14.6		14.5	| 14.4  |	14.3	14.2	14.1	14	13.£	6.7
	15.3	15.2	15.1	15	14 9	14.8	] 14.7  i	1 14.6  i	1 14.5  |	14.4	14.3	14.2	14.1  I	14	6.5
	15.4	15.31	15.2	15.1	15	14.9| 14.8'| 14.7			| 14.6	| 14.5| 14.4  l l		14.3	! 14.2	: 14.1	6 3
,	15.5	1  15.4!	15.3	15 2	|  15.1!	1 15	| 14.9! 14.8		! 14.7	| 14 6	| 14.5	1 14.4  i	14.3	14.2	6
	15.6	15.51 15.4		15.3	j  15.2|	| 15.1	1 15	| 14.9	14.8	| 14.7	14.6	14 5	14.4	14.3	5.7  1
	r	i i i I				i i i				i					

Example— Average Age 12 years 4 months.

Average Time 14 3-lojseconds.

-Points: 9 43-100

Digitized by Google
INVESTIGATIONS ON SWIMMING POOLS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA

H. A. WHITTAKER, Director, Division of Sanitation, Minnesota State Board

of Health, St. Paul.

This investigation was undertaken for the purpose of improving the sanitary condition of the swimming pools at this institution. The first experiments were conducted on the pool located at the men’s armory and gymnasium, and later comparative studies were made on a pool that had been recently installed at the women’s gymnasium.

The result of these experiments show that the fill and draw method, with the daily addition of hypochloride in the quantities used, did not keep the pool in a satisfactory conditions from either

Results on Methods of Operating Swimming Pools

Method of Purifying Water	Average number | of Tests |	Pool emptied	Chlorin (Parts per Mil.)	Hours Between Tests	Average Bacteria per C. c. !	B. Coli Found in C. c- Amounts.
Fill and draw		3 1	; Daily j	i ....	24	1,400	1
Fill and draw and hypochlorite	| 4	1 Weekly	| 0.65	1 24	1,900	1
Pressure filters			4	Yearly	! ....	1 24	13,100	1
Pressure filters and liquid chlorin		!  ! 6	i Yearly	!  I 1.00	i 24	j 20 |	0

a sanitary or an esthetic point of view. Recirculation and filtration improved the physical properties of the water, but did not materially improve its sanitary quality.

Recirculation, filtration and chlorin treatment provide a satisfactory method of keeping the water in these swimming pools in a sanitary condition, provided the detail rules for operation are carried out. The experimental results show that this method will keep the water in a 60,000 gallon swimming pool in a satisfactory sanitary condition for use by 100 persons during a ten hour bathing period, the number of bathers not to exceed thirty-five persons at any one time, provided the water is recirculated through the pool at the rate of 100 gallons per minute, and one part per million of available chlorin is added to the water. Comparative results on the methods covered by these experiments are shown in the above table.

Rules to Control the Operation of Swimming Pools

1.	The general supervision of the swimming pools and their equipment must be assigned to a person who thoroughly understands their operation, and who is provided with the necessary assistance and laboratory facilities for carrying on this work.

2.	The routine operation of the pools must be in the hands of a person especially trained to carry out the detail rules laid

Digitized by CjOOQle
301

down for this purpose and who can keep a daily record of the operating data. (See appended rules for operation and record sheet.)

3.	The quality of the water in the pool must meet the following bacteriologic requirements: The bacterial count must not exceed 100 bacteria per cubic centimeter, and organisms of the

B.	colt group must be absent in 10 c. c. amounts.

4.	The bathers must be under medical supervision, and all persons suspected of or suffering from communicable diseases must be excluded from the pool. (See appended rules governing persons using pools.)

Rules for Operation of Swimming Pools

Pool.—The pool must be cleaned whenever suspended material is present to the extent that it is visible to the naked eye. The bottom of the pool should be examined frequently, and any large material left in the pool by the bathers should be removed.

Filters and Chlorin Plant.—The filters and chlorin plant should be operated whenever the pool is in use and for at least one hour following, in order to. remove as much suspended material as possible before it settles to the bottom of the pool.

The filters should be washed whenever the piessure gages indicate that cleaning is necessary. It is preferable to wash the filters following a period of rest.

Chlorin should be added to the water in amounts corresponding to one part per million of available chlorin. This amount of chlorin is based on the assumption that the number of persons using the pool during the bathing period shall not exceed 125.

Record Sheet

The data for a month may be kept on a blank with thirty-one lines (one for each day) under the captions:

Year, month, day, hours. Plant:

Time operated:

Start:

Stop.

Total.

Filters:

Pressure gage reading: Before.

After.

Difference.

Washed.

Chemicals:

Alum, pounds.

Soda ash, pounds.

Chlorin, parts per million.

Pool:

Filled.

Appearance. Cleaned. Temperature. Number of bathers.

Rules Governing Persons Using Swimming Pools

1.	Any person who has been exposed to or is suffering from a communicable disease (typhoid fever, diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, etc.) should report the facts concerning the exposure to the person in charge of the pool and should not use the pool until permission is obtained from the proper authorities.

2.	Every person must take a thorough shower bath with the use of soap before entering the pool.

3.	Persons found polluting the water with their body discharges will be excluded from the pool. The trough along the

Digitized by ^ooQle
side of the pool is provided as a place to expectorate. • expectorate in the water.

4.	The water in the pool is purified and is safe for bath5 purposes, but is not a drinking water; therefore, bathers are warn against swallowing any pool water taken into the mouth.—A straction from original article in “The	”	A.	M. A., Ju

22, 1918.

THE FUNDAMENTAL REQUIREMENTS OF ENERGY FOR PROPER NUTRITION

Dr. Graham Lusk, Professor of Physiology, Cornell University Medical College; Scientific Director, Russel Sage Institute of Pathology, New York, in the issue of March 23, 1918 of “The Journal of the American Medical Association”, published data regarding nutrition, metabolism of boys from birth to 16 years, metabolism of men in industrial pursuits, metabolism of soldiers, metabolism of women in industrial pursuits and, reduction in the food requirement. Some of the data are based on observations of authorities, others are based on established and confirmed facts, and still others have for their basis estimates as close to the actual state of affairs as one can now attain. 1. Absolutely correct: Basal metabolism of all ages and sexes and the increase in metabolism due to a) standing; b) walking; c) carrying a load. 2. Approximately accurate: metabolism in industrial pursuits. 3. Hypothetic: metabolism of children during exercise.

The basal requirement of nutrition depends on the height and weight of the person. It also depends on the age and activity. For a child at birth the basal metabolism is 48 calories per kilogram of body weight per day. For a boy of 6 to 12 months it is 60 calories per kilogram. Severe crying increases the basal metabolism 40 per cent per hour. If the mechanical work done by the baby of 6 months were equivalent of 4 hours of crying, the heat production would be increased 29 calories. Since 15 per cent of the calories ingested are retained for growth, 70 more calories must be added to the basal metabolism of 50 calories per square meter per hour and 44 calories where the boys are 14 years old.

The basal metabolism of women is 37 calories per hour per square meter of body surface, or 93 per cent of that of men, measured by the same standard.

Effect of Exercise'—There are few data on which to base the heat production due to the muscular activity of boys. It is probable that an active boy produces twice the number of calories measured by his basal metabolism, whereas for one taking little exercise, a 50 per cent additional amount undoubtedly suffices. The study of Gephart has shown that boys between 13 1-2 and 16 years of age who actively indulge in athletic sports ingest 5,000 calories daily in their food, or threefold their basal requirement of energy. It should be remembered that an active boy is usually very active.

Digitized by UjOOQle
303

The metabolism of girls has never been investigated.

From the height-weight chart of Du Bois, the surface area in meters of the individual was calculated, and this was multiplied by 40 to give the basal metabolism per hour. The basal metabolism is the amount of heat, as measured in calories, which is produced by an individual lying in bed completely relaxed, at which time the oxidative activities are at their lowest ebb.

When a man stands upright or sits in a chair, his basal metabolism is increased 10 per cent. If he should be awake in the hospital ward sixteen hours and asleep during eight hours, his heat production would be:

(100-l-[10 x 2-3]) x calories of basal metabolism.

Metabolism of Soldiers

In a paper prepared by the author at the request of Major Murlin, in. charge of the Food Division of the Sanitary Corps of the United States Army, the following facts were brought out. It appears that the calories representative of the level of the basal metabolism of a man at the age of 35 years and of a given height are approximately the basal requirement of energy during the active adult years between 20 and 50. A man of a given height and of the average weight at 35 years of age may gain or lose 10 per cent of his weight without altering the basal metabolism more than 5 per cent.

If a soldier walks at the rate of 3 miles an hour, it requires an additional amount of energy equivalent to 1.1 calories to move a pound of his body through this distance each hour.

Since a soldier carries equipment weighing 44 pounds, and this is moved at the same expense of energy as the body weight when a speed of 3 miles an hour is attained, it is evident that 44 x 1.1 —48.4 calories will be required each hour for this amount of additional work. A walk at this rate is accomplished at a minimum expenditure of energy, and hence 3 miles per hour is known as the maximum economic velocity.

From this analysis it appears that the average soldier, or one of 5 feet 8 inches in height, requires 4,100 calories for this long day of exceptionally hard work. This is more than the 3,700 calories actually taken by a soldier in the average routine.

The 30 mile hike has been chosen as a type requirement because it may well be taken to represent the equivalent of the maximum of mechanical accomplishment in the day-to-day routine of a man doing the hardest labor, be he of the military or the civilian population. I have elsewhere estimated that to run lightly clad a distance of 40 miles in seven hours and thirty-three minutes, a man weighing 155 pounds requires 5,500 calories per day; whereas to make a record run of 80 miles, the distance between Chicago and Milwaukee, in fifteen hours, calls for an energy requirement of 9,200 calories. Human machines, however, are seldom speeded up to this maximum of capacity, and certainly could not long endure frequent repetition of such strain.

Digitized by Google
304

Extra Calories per Hour Attributable to Occupations of Men

Extra Calories of Occupation of Men	Metabolism	per	Hour

Due to Occupation

Tailor........................................ 44

Bookbinder.................................... 81

Shoemaker..................................... 90

Metal worker, filing and hammering............141

Painter of furniture..........................145

Carpenter making a table......................164

Stonemason chiseling tombstone................300

Man sawing wood...............................378

Extra Calories per Hour attributable to Occupations of women

Extra Calories of Occupation of Women	Metabolism	per	Hour

Due to Occupation

Seamstress, needle work........................... 6

Typist, 50 words per minute...................... 24

Seamstress, using sewing machine................. 57

Bookbinder....................................... 63

Housemaid (moderate work*)....................... 81

Laundress (moderate work)........................124

Housemaid (hard work*)...........................157

Laundress (hard work)............................214

*Cleaning windows and floors, scouring knives, forks and spoons, scouring copper and iron p&ts.

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR SCHOOLCHILDREN

One of the small but important bills recently passed by the general assembly of Maryland provides for physical education and training in the public schools. This bill was introduced at the request of Dr. William Burdick, director of the public athletic league. It directs that physical training shall be given the pupils in all public schools of the state and in all schools aided or maintained by the state. In the elementary public schools this is to consist of at least fifteen minutes on each school day and one hour outside the regular work in each school week. In public high schools, the period of physical training is to be at least one hour in each school week and two hours of directed play and athletics for all pupils outside of the regular classroom work in each week.

PREPAREDNESS THRU PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Napoleon once said that an army advances on its stomach. This is merely another way of saying that the soldier must have a strong, enduring efficient body, otherwise he cannot advance to victory. Have our propective soldiers of today strong bodies? We have lately conscripted 10,000,000 men, an enormous army, more men than any single nation has yet called out in the great world-war. However, we are told that probably half of these men

Digitized by v^ooQle
305

have obligations at home which may exempt them, and Dr. Sargent tells us that only 50 per cent are physically fit for military service. Consequently, instead of 10,000,000 men we have 2,500,000. And suppose our need was very great and it became necessary to call out men up to forty-five or fifty years of age. If only 50 per cent are fit during their most vigorous years, is it not probably true that a much smaller percentage could be called out among the older men? Under the circumstances I doubt if in this great nation of 100,000,000 people we could raise an army of 10,000,000 fighting men. We should all like to shoulder a rifle and do something toward teaching our opponents a wholesome respect for the American ideals of government, but could we? Is it not true that our muscles are flabby, our breath short, and our endurance lacking? We have done something of recent years thru boys’ clubs, city athletic societies, and municipal gymnasiums, but how small a percentage of our boys and men have we reached.

England furnishes us a striking example of this condition. We are told that the recent recruits from London are undersized physically and defective mentally, that they will make poor soldiers, and yet a great nation must lean upon such a feeble staff. They had no physical education and no physical ideals. Consequently these men fell into habits of physical inactivity and habits of living which have brought them weakness of body, disease of organs, and feebleness of intellect. Do you not think that we can avoid this condition in America—a condition which unquestionably prevails? Alcoholism, cigarette smoking, excessive use of tobacco, coffee and tea, venery, lessen physical efficiency, and there is no better means of preventing these defects than thru physical education. The physically trained man has too much respect for his body to abuse it.

Why does it take so long to get an army in shape? It is not merely the drill. It does not take six months to teach the drill, to give the soldierly ideals, to teach obedience or discipline. It does take six months at the least, however, to make men physically fit, to give them endurance, to remedy the effects of poor feeding and vicious habits, to give strong bodies. That is why the young men are chosen. There is a probability of getting them sooner into physical condition. There is less to undo. Preparedness demands an enduring body. One might take as a sort of text for an address of this kind William James’ statement that “intrepidity, contempt of softness, surrender of private interests, obedience to command, must remain the rock upon which states are built.” How shall we give our children the enduring bodies, the contempt for softness?

Our first work must be with the parents. The child must have a fair start. The father must be protected by the government in his right to earn sufficient to feed, clothe, and shelter his children properly. To that extent we must be factors in the nation’s political life. We must take steps to teach the parent thru school-extension work, community-center work, extra-school activities, newspapers, circular letters, public talks, the choice of proper food,
306

its proper preparation, the dangers of alcoholism and venery, the necessity of pure air, of exercise, and of proper clothing. Parents must be led to feel deeply their obligation to their children.

Our greatest responsibility comes when the child enters school, and here we need the cooperation of the physician. No finer blessing was ever brought to the child than this medical inspection. The child ought to be examined periodically as a means of prevention and preparedness for life’s struggles. There can be no doubt that many children are tubercular and they should be placed in sanitary environment and properly fed. What greater service can the school render than to teach the parents what to do? This is typical of other conditions which the school thru its medical examinations can find and remove.

The child ought to have from the beginning physical training. The play activities do not take its place. Both planned and spontaneous play are valuable, physically and morally, but children need systematic instruction which will remedy defects, correct faulty posture, deepen breathing, strengthen little-used muscles, and produce better physical condition. Such exercises should be continued until after puberty; then every boy should be given two things—the military drill and systematic athletics of such character as his body fits him to take part in.

I believe in the drill. The cadet must early learn to surrender h,is private interests and obey commands. Coordination and obedience are two of the rocks upon which soldierly ideals are based. Softness, lack of intrepidity, are soon taken out of the cadet, or he must leave the ranks. He must be a real fellow among real fellows. Can any father doubt the value of this discipline to the boy?

The American boy needs discipline. He has had too little training, he has been babied too much. He needs discipline, and cadet-corps training is a remarkably effective way of giving it. We used to have a severer home discipline. The Puritan idea, prevailing in Colonial, Revolutionary, and early national days, was, “spare the rod and spoil the child,” and the child learned earlier and better the mastery of self. But thru the influence of Rousseau, Froebel, and Herbart we changed from the old form of discipline and began to study natural instincts, to utilize as was fit and proper the child’s love and his desires. Unfortunately we have swung to an extreme and are getting along without much discipline. The boy is allowed to control himself while he is still the creature of impulse. Can we wonder at the great increase of juvenile vice and j crime? He is exposed to these things before the development of ! his powers of self-control has made him in any measuie immune. We need to get him past the impulse-governed period of his life into the age where he is controlled and disciplined. This the drill will accomplish. I believe that athletics are of great value. Boys who pit muscle against muscle, quickness of thought and judgment against quickness of thought and judgment, who without retort, with mastered temper, receive the jeers of their fellows and rebukes of the coach, who also learn to take blows and pains without whimpering, who learn to take their medicine, even if that medicine

Digitized by

Google
307

be undeserved defeat, are receiving valuable moral lessons. It is unfortunate that so few boys get this athletic training today. We need to provide for all boys athletic life as their bodies will enable them to endure.

The boy who has not developed in marked degree the muscular sense, who has not learned to take care of his physical condition and to look after the hygiene of his surroundings, is not prepared. It is true that athletics can be carried too far. I knew two young men, one a star football player, the other a teacher of boxing. Each should have been in perfect physical condition, but both faded to pass the physical examination necessary to enter the Army. They had been overtrained.

We need drill and athletics for another reason. Both give traditions, and you cannot overestimate the force of traditions. When a cadet puts on a uniform he is not merely putting on a garment of khaki cloth, he is putting on the professional garment of the men who have won for us the birthrights we value most highly. Across the Atlantic they have a principle, a tradition, they call the “noblesse	obligethe obligation of nobility. At some time in the

past an ancestor has worthily served the state, and because of this his king has given him rank or nobility. In so doing the ruler not only rewaded him for his service, but he placed on him and his heirs the obligation to show themselves worthy by deeds of intrepidity and self-sacrifice and gentlemanliness. Because of this tradition thousands of young men are today serving well and dying bravely. A traditional principle with the Englishman is that he must be a true sportsman, he must “play the game.” And today, altho the enemy has been guilty of many acts which are contrary to the principles of civilized warfare, and in the belief of many calls for retaliation in kind, yet he says, “No, so long as I play the game, I shall play it fairly and above board.” In our athletic work we are trying to give the American boy such principles, to build up such traditions, and we believe that there is one of our greatest sources of value.

Let me summarize by saying that physical education will contribute to preparedness, by giving the boy an enduring body, sound lungs, erectness of posture, a better knowledge of how to keep himself fit. He learns prompt obedience, the basal habits of system and order, a love of fair play, and a higher measure of courage.

These are some of the things that physical education in its broadest sense teaches. And in this sense our schools need young men and women in the work who are well prepared, who are clean cut, who are manly and womanly, whose ideals are high, who will take athletics out of influence of the sporting class and place it on the higher level where it belongs, who will emphasize the ideals of true sportsmanship, who believe in, and hold before their associates, the fact that playing the game is a thousand times better than merely winning. True preparedness then covers much, and physical education has an important part in the work. I trust that in this time of need we may give closer attention to this type of education.

Digitized by kjOOQle
By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

The National Commission of Physical Education of the Republic of Uruguay, South America, began the publication of a -monthly magazine named “Urugay-Sport” in January 1918. The publication is the size of “Mind and Body”, and is filled with interesting articles pertaining not only to sports but to all phases . of physical education. Being the official organ of this phase of government work each issue contains a summary of the resolutions passed by the commission. The magazine should be a great help in furthering the cause of physical education among our south American neighbors.

Prevalent Loss of Weight from Undernourishment.—As

a contribution to the subject of the influence on the public health of the prevailing scarcity and high prices of food, Frets gives the figures of the weight, month by month, of 103 inmates of an asylum for chronic diseases. Many of them were able to be up and about all day and do useful work. The figures show for 1915 an increase in weight of 77.5 kilograms for the whole group. In 1916 the whole group lost 117 kilograms. In the first nine months of 1917 there was a total loss for the group of 390 kilograms. This is a loss of about 3.9 kilograms per capita since the introduction of the bread card. In “The Journal”from the Mederlandsch Tikjdschrift voor Geneeskunde, Amsterdam Nov. 24, 1917, 2, No. 21.

Viewing, as we do, the more intensive co-operation of women from month to month in the hard work of today, we may therefore turn with some relief to certain tentative conclusions that have been arrived at by Mosher and Martin in a study of the muscular strength of college women at Stanford University, California. They submit that there is no difference in the muscular strength of men and women which is due to sex as such. The differences frequently found are attributable to. differences in the use of the muscles, brought about by the conventional limitations of activity or by dress. A high degree of muscular power in a woman, Mosher and Martin add, in no way lessens her racial efficiency. Lack of muscular power, as in the pectoral muscles, may be a distinct racial disability.

Whatever social personal preferences may dictate, the need of woman’s work at the present time is beyond dispute. Aside from the ethics or the philanthropy of the situation, it is gratifying to learn that woman is not penalized with all the insurmountable physical handicaps with which tradition has invested her; nor is she likely to suffer from the actual exercise of powers with which she has been endowed perhaps in more generous measure than

' "	■	Mi

Digitized by

Google
309

either mankind or woman herself has suspected. The poet may still be content with the Sanskrit characterization of woman:

‘ There in the fane a beauteous creature stands,

The first best work of the Creator’s hands,

Whose slender limbs inadequately bear A full-orbed bosom and a weight of care;” but the physiologist has discovered far greater potential powers in the so-called “weaker” sex.—Part of an editorial—The Journal A.. M. A., March 9, 1918.

The Cold Bath and Blood Flow.—Many of the methods of physical therapy at present in use are still based on admittedly empiric indications. The responses obtained or assumed to result from one procedure or another, such as applications of heat or cold in specific generalized or localized ways, frequently express themselves in the guise of vague feelings of well-being. The result is that descriptions of such effects are couched in most general terms. One hears, for example, that a cold spray or shower “affords excellent gymnastics for the skin,” or that cool baths are hygienically wholesome because they provoke a “healthful reaction,” sometimes spoken of as “skin training”. This, however, is not the language of physiology. An instance of the sort of investigation that is still urgently needed to give a tangible scientific basis to much of modern hydrotherapy is furnished by recent hemodynamic studies of Burton-Opitz. He has accurately measured the blood flow in subjects during immersion in cold water. The attempt was made to ascertain those tonic reactions which one ordinarily experiences in baths of from 32 to 34 C. (89.6 to 93.2 F.) A comparison of the values before and after the immersion showed very clearly that the cool water exerts a favorable influence on the blood flow, and that the increased flow is associated with a well marked rise in the systemic pressure and a slight acceleration of the respiratory movements.

The Oxygen Deficit in the Venous Blood. Arterial blood, as it is about to leave the heart to carry its essential components for the use of the far away tissues, is nearly saturated with oxygen. In the progress of the fluid laden with this indispensable gas through the body, the oxygen is gradually given up in successive portions. Finally the circulating medium returns to the right heart as venous blood more or less depleted in oxygen. In asphyxia, when no adequate provision is available for replenishing this loss, the last traces of transported oxygen may disappear from the blood; but under normal circumstances of life, the blood corpuscles never stay long enough in the proximity of the tissues to lose their entire store of oxygen. The magnitude of the removal of the latter has long been known through the investigations of various physiologists. Recently Lundsgaard, using the improved technic developed in the Hospital of the Rockfeller Institute for Medical Research, has completed new measurements of the “oxygen unsaturation” of the blood, as ascertained from a determination of

Digitized by LaOOQle
810

the oxygen-carrying capacity and the actual oxygen content of the venous blood in a group of normal persons. The average oxygen-combining power approximates 20 volumes per cent; the oxygen content of the normal subject resting as completely as possible ranged from about 10 to 17 volumes per cent. The difference between the oxygen capacity and the content of the gas actually present in the blood that has supplied the tissues thus ranges in health around an average of 6 per cent. In other words, little more than one quarter of the oxygen is withdrawn for metabolic purposes in each transit of the blood through the circulation. It will be interesting to see what renewed study in this field discloses when it is applied to the problems of the patient in the clinic.—Current Comment.—TheJ. A. M. A., March 9,1918.

MAXIMUM TEMPERATURE IN WHICH A WORKMAN

CAN WORK

What is the maximum temperature in which a workman can work without undue discomfort or injury to his health? This question was asked recently by a correspondent of Safety Engineering.

The inquiry was referred to Frederick L. Hoffman, Statistician of the Prudential Insurance Company of America and the following views are the result of his investigation of this important subject;

Mr. Hoffman bases his reply on the assumption that the question is limited to the qualification as to the extreme heat possible in a drying room in which heated air is used and in which workmen are required to handle materials. Perhaps a typical illustration, he says, would be the drying room of a linoleum works in which practically all the moisture is extiacted from the atmosphere and in which, as a consequence, acrolein is developed, which is considered more or less injurious to health. Thus, extreme heat and extreme dryness may be complicated by chemical factors, even more injurious than dry heat itself. Of course, extreme heat coincides with extreme atmospheric dryness which, as such, is injurious to health. It is usually considered that a relative humidity of less than 30 per cent is injurious to the human organism.

The second question is the degree of continuous exposure. Mere heat exposure, especially radiant heat in front of furnaces, even though over 2,000 degrees F., is not seriously injurious, in that it is rapidly disseminated and felt at most only by the front surface of the body for a very short period of time. Such heat exposure obviously does not require consideration in answer to the question.

The third factor, and perhaps the most important, is bodily exertion under extreme heat accompanied by extreme dryness. Such bodily exposure is much less trying under extreme dry heat than under extreme degrees of atmospheric moisture accompanied by relatively high, but not abnormal, temperatures.

According to the most recent treatise on “The Diseases^

Digitized by
311

Occupation” by Kober and Hanson, “exposure to dry heat for a short period is sometimes borne without serious effects in temperatures as high as 140 or 150 degrees F., provided the air is kept in motion.” This condition, of course, is radically different from excessive temperature exposure on the part of puddlers and electric fumacemen, who, for a very brief period, may be exposed to temperatures of 212 degrees F., etc., without serious injury. Mr. Hoffman states that he is inclined to think that a radiating tepi-perature may very materially exceed this figure without serious bodily injury, even though burns may be caused, which usually are of less consequence. It is said in the work referred to that “prolonged exposure, however, is usually followed by grave constitutional disturbances; these need not to be gone into.” It is also said that “the men engaged in handling molten metal and all others exposed to radiant heat not infrequently suffer from dermatitis, an inflammatory condition of the eyes, arid even cataract, induced by the partial dehydration.” This, in fact, is perhaps the most serious effect of extreme heat endured for a short period of time, but at frequent intervals.

The most scientific treatise on the subject is an address on “The Effects of Exposure to Intense Heat on the Working Organism” by Surgeon Charles N. Fiske of the United States Navy, published in the Transactions of the fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and Demography. Most of the observations have reference to heat affections in the navy, but they may possibly be more applicable to the question than information derived from other occupational experience. Referring to the temperature of the berth accommodation of the Marblehead, which was from 90 to 92 degrees F., it is said that this heat rendered it almost impossible to obtain refreshing rest. The fire room, however, had a temperature as high as 140 degrees, and it is said by Dr. Fiske that he, himself, had observed a temperature as high as 186 degrees, but that the average was 120 degrees and in the engine-room from 105 to 110 degrees. Under these conditions, however, work was considered endurable and no very serious cases of illness were experienced.

On submarines, under conditions of active service, equally high temperatures, if not higher, have been endured without fata results. One of the best authorities on this subject is Prof. Frederic S. Lee of Columbia University. He directs particular attention to the importance of air movement as separate and distinct from mere heat and humidity. He remarks: “In proportion, however, as the temperature of the air approaches or surpasses that of the body and the humidity of the air is sufficient to prevent the evaporation of sweat, loss of bodily heat by the customary channels becomes lessened. Without adequate means for eliminating the heat that is being constantly produced within, the internal temperature rises and a febrile condition results. Such a state is reached the sooner the more mechanical work is performed and the more heat is thereby produced. Its oncoming is favored also by a lack of movement in the air. With a continuance of

Digitized by

Google
312

1

the unfavorable environmental conditions a simple rise of interna temperature may pass into a higher fever characteristic of simple heat prostration, or a moderately severe heat stroke with a temperature up to 40.6 degrees C. (105 degrees F.), and finally into the hyperpyrexial or intense form of heat stroke, in which the bodily temperature has been known to rise to the phenomenal height of 47.6 degrees C. (117.8 degrees F.).”

Mr. Hoffman is of the opinion that the best practical information can be obtained from those in charge of linoleum works. Certainly in his own experience the temperature conditions there were the most trying of which he has knowledge. They do not compare with, but are in contrast to the excessive heat experienced in the lower levels of the Comstock Lode. A comparison really is difficult, if not impossible, for totally different bodily effects are experienced. In the Comstock Lode the air suffers also chemical contamination, as is the case in the drying-rooms of linoleum works.

In this investigation at steel plants, Mr. Hoffman states that he does not recall excessive temperatures much over 120 degrees

F., as far as actually determined. The enormous heat inside the furnace may be over 2,000 degrees, but it dissipates so rapidly in the general atmosphere that, as shown by the government report on labor conditions in the iron and steel industry, it rarely, if ever, exceeds 147 degrees F., which was ascertained 12 ft. away from the tap-hole of a furnace. Such a heat, of course, does not affect the body as a whole, which can only be said to be the case in a close compartment, such as the drying room of a linoleum plant or the engine room of a submarine.

It is stated by Dr. W. Gilman Thompson that the oil mixture in linseed manufacture is heated to approximately 450 degrees F., during which progress certain fumes are evolved. This temperature, however, has no reference to the heat conditions in the drying-room. In linseed oil manufacture the substance is mashed and pressed to a temperature of 125 degrees, but whether the men are exposed to this heat for a sufficient length of time to be injuriously affected, is not made clear by the available discussion. It is said that the workmen are protected from the excessive heat by drafts of compressed air.

According to an investigation by Mr. Hoffman, made some years ago, the temperature in drying chambers at linoleum plants may be raised as high as 180 degrees F., but this temperature may possibly not prevail when the rooms permit ingress and egress on the part of the workmen, while placing in or taking out rolls of linoleum. Of course, the time exposure on the part of these men is relatively short and it should not be understood that the work as such is seriously injurious or exactly proportionate to the degree of temperature exposure for a very limited period of time. The effects of sudden and radical temperature changes may, in the long run, be more seriously injurious to health than short-time exposures to high temperature, even though the latter are experienced at frequent intervals over comparatively long periods of time. This, however, is debatable.
313

C ■ -...  ■	——— ■■ O

j GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

O1 11 I ■	——————	' '	—	O

HAWAIIAN DANCE (2 Couples)

Arranged by MAY S. LUCKERT and HELEN STEMEN, Philadelphia, Pa.

Music: “Aloha Oe Waltzes”.

Arranged by Geo. P. Howard.

Grouping Introduction played once. 4 measures.

Girls seated in center back — boys on each side with one foot placed on bench on which girls are seated. During last half of third measure, boys slowly assist girls to rise and step into position for dance. All face front in couples.

Introduction Repeated 2 slow glides forward (outside foot) 1 step forward and point inside foot forward.

2 slow glides forward (inside foot) step and courtesy, all fac-

ing center.

I

Circle formation—all begin with right foot.

Girls begin facing out — Boys facing in.	Measures

Balance hop forward.................................. 1

Step back left and swing right leg forward........... 1

Cross right in rear, step left sideward, cross right in front (all make a half turn while executing this

part)............................................ 2

(Girls pass in front of boys)

Repeat all with left foot, boys facing out; girls in. 4

Repeat 6 more times making large circle, boys moving

opposite to girls............................... 24

—32

Couples finish facing front, a couple on each side of stage.

II

In couples facing front.	Measures

2 glides toward center of stage and 3 courtesies (arms

waving in direction of glides	and courtesies).... 8

Repeat opposite...................................... 8

Repeat all. ........................................ 16

—32

III	Measures

2 waltz balances (begin outside foot of each couple). 2

Waltz turn sideward away from	partnei............. 2

Balance-hop forward (outside	foot)................. 1

Step back, inside foot...............................  1

Step back, outside foot ...........................     1

Point inside foot forward............................  1

Repeat all beginning with inside	foot................  8

Couples face each other and repeat all............... 16

—32

Digitized by CjOOQle
314

On waltz turn couple on right passes between other couple, partners grasp left hands and balance-hop toward partners and finish step facing other couple.

Repeat step with inside foot back to place other couple passing between.

Couples finish facing each other.

IV

Measures

Point and extend twice with outside foot............. 2

Rear cross step, step sideward inside foot, cross step

in front with outside	foot.....................  2

in front with outside foot, girl passing in front. 2

Repeat opposite foot.................................  4

Repeat all........................................... 8

Finish with boy back of girl, grasping both hands —16

V

Couples facing rear corners	Measures

Boy—2 glides diagonally back and balance-hop........ 3

Cross step in rear..................................   1

While girl takes

2 glides diagonally back............. 2

and tour jete......................   2

(Couple on right begin with right foot, couple on left with left.)

Repeat 3 more times dancing in circle back to place ... 12

VI

This step is performed in a diamond-shaped figure Measures 4 skips diagonally right forward (begin left foot 1 measure

for each skip (arms wave from side to side)..... 4

4	glides diagonally backward, boy back of girl arms

forward........................................ 4

Repeat with opposite foot.......................... 8

Repeat all in circle (partners inner hands grasped). 16

-32

Couple on right faces rear and skips to rear first, left couple skips to front first.

Omit first ending in music.

VII

Couples facing front	Measures

1 glide and step obliquely back (toward center of stage)

boy back of girl, hands grasped, arms out........ 2

Same outward..........................................  2

Girl— 3 step turn toward center and point outer foot

sideward......................................... 4

Boy—‘S steps following partner and

point outer foot sideward.......	4

Arms waving low with trunk bending (Boy opposite

to girl............................................ 8

Repeat outward and	inward and end with............. 16

Tableau as in Grouping at beginning.	—32

il

Digitized by Google
£>■

o

NOTES AND COMMENTS

O I I I	I	I	1	in	II	I	I	in	I	1,11	I,	I	O

HEALTH HINTS

Published in the Life Extension Institute we find the following:	H

Now is the time to fortify against the winter season which brings to so many the recurring misery of colds, la grippe and bronchitis. These annual visitants are looked upon as more or less unavoidable afflictions, yet there are people who escape them, either by reason of a natural resisting power, or a resistance established by careful living.

One good authority has stated that 80 per cent of the people applying to him for relief of so-called colds were suffering from local and constitutional conditions that had simply been aggravated by exposure.

Exposure can at least be avoided when one is conscious of being below par; when fatigue, nervous depression, or digestive troubles warn us that our “guard is down”. At such times keep away from crowded assemblies; where the exhaltations of hundreds of infected air passages poison the atmosphere.

The tired business man would do well to go home and secure a good night’s rest and reserve his evening at the theatre or his late supper, if he must have it, for a time when he is fit and can really have an enjoyable evening without risk.

Over-work and great mental or physical fatigue lower the resistance, and should be avoided, especially when grippe is prevalent.

The tired housewife or business woman would do well to postpone her shopping trip until she is rested and prepared to enter the fetid, dust-laden atmosphere of the department store with a minimum of risk, or she should at least make such trips as brief as possible.

Dust is the aeroplane of the microbe.

Chest protectors are worse than useless. They might better be worn on the feet.

Open-work stockings and thin-soled shoes worn by women offer cordial invitation to colds, grippe, and also pelvic troubles.

Fresh air in the bedroom is all-important, but beware of bare feet on a cold floor.

In every household there should be an accurate thermometer. It should be someone’s duty to watch that thermometer from time to time, and not permit the temperature to rise above 70 degrees; preferably it should be kept between 6.5 and 68 degrees.

Nasal douches are, as a rule, to be avoided, except on medical advice.

Frequent, violent blowing of the nose, is also harmful and unnecessary, and if carelessly done by compressing both nostrils, may drive infection into the middle ear. Close one nostril while

Digitized by

Google
316

blowing gently through the other. You cannot blow out congested and swollen bones and tissues of the nose, and it is better not to try.

If the throat is sore, stop talking; spare your throat. Restrain coughing as much as possible. You cannot cough up a ; swollen or congested throat. Don't try—you will only increase the inflammation.

If there is a severe headache, faceache, earache, pain in the ..chest, sore throat, or high fever, there should be no delay in calling your physician.

PHYSICAL TRAINING WORK IN HIGH SCHOOLS Modified to Meet a Shortage of Teachers

WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia

Programs must be arranged with the view of one teacher tak-■ ing care of three or even of four sections or classes should this at times become necessary. This means, first, that only such types of exercise should be chosen for gymnastics as can be performed by many pupils at once. Second, that only such exercises should be selected as have great gymnastic value, and third, there must be definite training of competent pupils as class or squad leaders.

A.	Type of Work 1) Mass tactics based upon the army drill regulations. Principally marching in column formation.

• 2) A vigorous setting-up drill patterned after those in use in the army and navy.

. 3) Track and field events. The events to be considered are: a) speed running over short distances, b) endurance running, gradually up to 10 minutes, c) running broad jump, d) hurdling over low obstructions, e) throwing and putting.

. 4) Apparatus work consisting of a) climbing and b) vaulting over bars, horses, fences, etc.

5)	Combative events a) Staff wrestling, b) pulling and pushing, c) hopping contests.

6)	Mass games like a) dodgeball, b) battleball, also all kinds of relay races.

B.	Plan of an Effective Organization for Mass Instruction

and Competition

1)	Each section or room will form a company. The company will be divided into two platoons. Each platoon, as a rule, will be divided into two squads.

2)	The officers (leaders) of each company are

a)	one captain or company leader

b)	two lieutenants or platoon leaders

c)	four sergeants or squad leaders.

C.	Typical Program for a 45 Minute Gymnasium Period j

For three companies—approximately 120 pupils Assembling 6 minutes. At the command each company assembles at its designated place. Each sergeant takes the, attendance and reports to his Lieutenant.	J

Digitized by LjOOQle
317

1)	Marching 6 minutes. In squad formation. Officers responsible for discipline and carriage. At times the marching tactics should be performed in double time.

2)	Free Exercises 8 minutes. Squads are used as the basis of getting into open order. Officers supervise the work.

3)	Mass exercises of companies 10 minutes. Lieutenants in charge. Sergeants keep records of accomplishments.

Company A. Running Broad jump, each platoon has a jumping field.

Company B. Rope climbing, each squad has a rope.

Company C. Vaulting, each squad has a horse, a low horizontal bar or some apparatus permitting vaulting.

4.) Mass Competition by platoons, 10 minutes. “Pulling over a line” Platoon 1 of Company A against platoon 1 of Company

B.	Then platoons 2 of these companies. Company C then pulls against the losers of the first heat. Finals among, the; winners.

Fall in and Dismissal, 5 minutes.

GRIDIRON

C.	V. P. YOUNG.

As Played by Cornell S. A. T. C.

1.	A team shall consist of nine (9) men.

2.	The downs shall be three (3) instead of four and the distance to be gained ten (10) yards.

3.	A player can run with the ball on a pass from center until he is touched by an opponent or touches the ball to the ground.

4.	The ball can be kicked or passed in any direction to any player, and no player is off side after the ball has once been put into play.

5.	Five men of the side in possession of the ball must be on the line of scrimmage at the time the ball is put into play.

Penalty: Loss of five yards and one down.

6.	On any pass, except in the case of a direct pass from cen--ter, the ball becomes dead at the point where it touches the ground, or if blocked, at the point where it is touched by an opponent,-and goes to the opponents. In case of a direct pass from center' touching the ground, whether fumbled or otherwise, either side’ may recover the ball, and it becomes dead at that point.

7.	On a kick, the ball becomes dead at the point where it first touches the ground, and goes to the opponents of the side making the kick, but in case of a dropped kick, either side may recover the ball.

8.	If a forward pass touches the ground behind the goal posts it goes to the opponents on the twenty (20) yard line.

9.	In case of a kick or a pass over the side lines it goes to the opponents at the place where it crosses the line.

10.	The ball is down and the referee must blow the whistle when the runner is touched by an opponent, or when for any reason he falls to the ground (both knees or body touching the ground.)

Digitized by LjOOQle
318

11.	There is absolutely no tackling, no tripping, no unnecessary running into or tackling an opponent after he has passed or kicked the ball, or after he has touched the ball to the ground, or has called down. Penalty: Loss of fifteen (15) yards and one down. Any play or act which is palpably unfair, but which is not provided for in these rules, shall be disallowed, and, at the discretion of the referee a penalty of fifteen (15) yards imposed. A player may be disqualified at any time for indecent language or unsportsmanlike conduct.

12.	There shall be no interference with the players receiving a pass or making a catch, except such interference as is unavoidable in endeavoring to secure the ball.

Penalty: The ball shall go to the offended side with a fifteen (15) yard advance from the point where the offense was committed.

13.	In case a penalty carries the ball over the goal line, only half the distance to the goal line shall be allowed.

14. The length of halves shall be fifteen (15) minutes with a five (5) minute intermission unless otherwise agreed upon by the respective captains, and no substitutions shall be allowed during the course of a half except by the consent of the opposing captain, or by disqualification by the referee.

15.	The method of scoring and all rules and penalties not herein otherwise specified shall be the same as in football, except that no goal shall be kicked after a touchdown.

Danger of Error in Short-Period Tests. “A man breathes sixteen times in a minute. It is not enough to prove that the air he breathes in once will not harm him, nor that sixteen breaths of it will not harm him, nor the 960 breaths in an hour, nor the 23,-040 breaths in a day.

We note that actually a man may go for a month or three, or a year or ten, without seeming to be harmed by bad air, and then may begin to get pale, crotchety, out of sorts, or actually ill. Or, again, a man may go along in good shape for three months and catch a cold or measles or pneumonia. All of these things may happen and foul air be the most important factor in causing them, even though it has been proven that men are comfortable and well as a rule for an hour a day or week in foul air, provided it is kept right as to temperature, humidity, and movement.

“It is somewhat like drinking milk. The harmful milk for babies in summer is that which looks, tastes, and smells all right, that which on analysis seems to be passable at any rate.—Dr. W. A. Evans, in the Chicago Tribune.

How Will Federal Aid Help Your Own Schools, is

asked in “Public Service” in its issue of October 22nd.

For local schools, $100,000,000 is to be appropriated out of federal revenues—bill S4987 introduced Oct. 10 by Senator Hoke Smith of Georgia, chairman of the Senate Committee on Education, Senate Offices, Washington.

How much of that sum would your own schools get?

Digitized by CjOOQLe


319

How this federal money would be expended: 1. $50,000,000 (a) for improving (as by increasing teachers’ and supervisors’ salaries) public schools below college grade, (b) extending school terms, (c) consolidating and (d) supervising rural and sparsely settled districts. (i.e., almost $100; per teacher, four purposes).

2.	$20,000,000 for promoting (a) health education, (b) recreation, (c) medical and (d) dental examination of children of school age (not merely school children in public schools), (e) employment of school nurses, (f) establishment and (g) maintenance of school dental clinics, and (h) instruction of the people (not merely school people) in the principles of health and sanitation.

3.	$15,000,000 for (a) preparing teachers, (b) particularly for rural schools, (c) extending facilities for improving teachers already in service, (d) establishing scholarships to induce “talented young people” to prepare for public school service and (e) otherwise provide an increased number of trained and competent teachers.

4.	$7,500,000 for instructing foreign born illiterates ten years old and older (include compulsory attendance ages) in (a) English language, (b) duties of citizenship, and (c) appreciation of and respect for the civic and social institutions of your country.

5.	$7,500,000 for instructing native bom illiterates in (a) common school branches, (b) duties of citizenship, and (c) some definite occupation when necessary.

How you can earn your share: 1. By spending the same amount for each purpose. But there are other conditions. No state can share in the $50,000,000 unless it (a) requires every public school district to maintain a legal school 24 weeks each year (b) enacts and (c) enforces an adequate compulsory attendance law, and (d) requires that the basic language of instruction in the common branches in all schools, public and private, shall be the English language only.

2.	After two years no state may share in the $50,000,000 or $20,000,000, or $15,000,000 unless it has a satisfactory system of preparing teachers.

3.	Federal rules for accounting must be observed.

4.	No religious or privately owned or privately conducted school or college may be given any of this money for repairs or equipments or building or support. (Payment of tuition is not support, nor is a scholarship for attending a private school, support).

Who would execute the law: 1. The to-be-created cabinet post, secretary of education, ($12,000) with three assistant secretaries ($10,000 each), attaches at our foreign embassies, and other aids in supervision and investigation. The secretary’s term is the same as that of other cabinet members.

2.	For this central office $500,000 is proposed plus sums already appropriated or later to be appropriated to any bureaus or divisions from existing departments which the President may (not must) place in the proposed department of education.

3.	Each state will be represented by the educational authority, whether state board or state superintendent or other chief educational authority, which its legislature designates.
320

Child Welfare Legislation in 1916-1917.—A

the Thirteenth Annual Report of the National Child mittee, both good and bad legislation for child welfare was during the years named. Among the states which w their child labor laws were Connecticut, Massachusetts, Hampshire and Vermont, authority being given to some to relax the enforcement of these laws during the war. and California gave authority to relax their compulsory edt laws. Eleven strengthened their child labor laws. Among were Delaware, Illinois, Kansas and Texas, where new laws enacted, and Wisconsin, which added domestic service to of occupations for which work permits are required. Comp education laws were improved in six states, and mothers’ ] laws were enacted for the first time in Arkansas, Delaware, and Texas, and amended in ten other states. There are thirty-four states which have mothers’ pensions law.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Girls’ Clubs, their Organization and Management' Helen J. Ferris. 383 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 1-2 inches, illustra Published by E. P. Dutton and Co., 681 Fifth Ave., New Yo Price $2.00 net.

In this book Miss Ferris who is manager of the Wanam Girls’ Clubs has given us a slpendid working manual for club wo with girls. There are many books to which a worker among bo may refer, but few that are available for guidance in girls' wor From her varied experience Miss Ferris has selected such activiti as give breadth and depth to girls’ club work and tells how organize and conduct such activities. The book is warmly commended to all teachers.

Your Heart and How to Take Care of it, by Robert H. Babcock, M. D., LL. D. 235 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by George H. Doran company, New York. Price $1.50 net.

This treatise is the result of thirty years professional work among children and adults by one who believes that the great majority of people should know more of their hearts. After a non-technical introduction, the author discusses diseases of the heart that can be understood by the layman. He speaks of symptoms that need cause no worry and of these that should send you to a physician. The last chapters are devoted to “How to take care of the heart.” The book should be very helpful to teachers of physical training in aiding them to give sound advice to their pupils.

Digitized by Google