MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	APRIL	1934	No.	420

Philosophy of the Modem Dance Movement

By Martha Hill, New York University.

The modern dance is modem only in so far as it catches the spirit of our times. For a changed and changing world, there must be a new art and a new education built upon, but different than the old. The concept of education as life itself rather than the early academic concept of a life of the mind, which flourished only in its degree of removal from the world, or the somewhat later concept of education as a preparation for life, infers a new relationship between art and education. That which is significant and of value in any area of experience in the world today is by that token significant and of value in education. Therefore, that which is good in dance or any art should be taken cognizance of in education. Education has more or less reluctantly relinquished its once isolated position in the world. The scholar removed from the world, looked upon worldliness with suspicion. The last stand of this attitude is seen in the suspicion with which those arts of the theatre, drama and dance, are sometimes regarded.

Among the arts music has had the longest history in education and so enjoys the position of being a reputable educational pursuit; likewise, the barriers between music outside and inside education have nad more time to dissolve. At first music, too, had to be subjected to a process of adaptation before it could be permitted entry to the school. Very happily time has made it possible for a symphony concert to be as important educationally as it is aesthetically. The basis of judgment now very soundly rests upon the discernment of inherent value in music. If it is important as music, it has value from any viewpoint; if it is unimportant it is to be discriminated against from any viewpoint.

With the new concept of education, as life itself and as an integral part of the social order, the school accepts its responsibility to look upon every aspect of the social scene and to enter freely into participation in those areas which are contemporaneously significant in purpose and sound in expression. In a consideration of the place of dance in education, then, there are three questions to be answered: first, is dance an active element in contemporary culture? If so, what lines of development in dance are most closely knit into our social scheme and why is this so? Second, is dance today significant in purpose and if so what lines of development are most important? Third, are these lines of development sound in expression?

Digitized by ^.ooQle
2

There are two types of dance active in America today, both, indigenous and both to be taken account of in any survey of our contemporary culture. The first is the social dance, with its accompaniment of jazz music, its rhythms of urban life, and its assimilated styles of races and countries close enough to us to be affective, namely the style of dance of the negro and the Cuban and South American. This is the folk dance of America. It is significant in that it fulfills a social need. It remains simple in form so that large groups may participate. It is sound in expression in so far as it remains a dance of the people who dance it. The narrow scope of its significance is the factor which limits it. It is socializing and recreational and so reaches into simple areas of experience. It is important for what it is,—a simple and more or less improvisational form based in the urge to activity, the inherent response to rhythm, and the social factor of meeting and greeting which is the basis of all social folk dances of whatever period or of whatever people. The school has responsibility to recognize the place of the social dance and to give to it the degree of emphasis which its purpose and scope indicate.

The other type of dance active in America today and indigenous to this country is the so-called modern dance or free dance or creative dance. Interest in this form of dance has grown steadily within the last ten years and this, together with an increasing clarification of common purpose, marks the movement as both well founded in its premise and vital in its timeliness. It is unquestionably one of the elements in our contemporary culture. There are a great many reasons for this which one may propose and a great many more which will emerge as we gain sufficient perspective to descry them among the many influences which impinge upon us today.

Perhaps these causative factors may be more easily discerned through a discussion of the purpose of the modem dance. After many centuries in which dance became mere entertainment of a more or less superficial character and had lost its early status as one of the most significant functions of a community, it has today again assumed that early role and is avowedly serious in its intent. Built upon the attribute of movement which is a characteristic of all life, upon inherent satisfaction in the response to rhythm, and an urge to expression, the modern dance further sets for itself the purpose of communication. It is a group comment upon reality through the medium of movement. It places upon itself the requirement that it work in the true province of dance. The dance today is not pantomime or the “story-dance”. These are hybrid forms of a word-art and a movement-art and are not to be confused with pure dance. It is not music interpretation, one art never needing the services of another art for clarifying or underscoring its own purpose. It is not a system of body training, since movement in the dance is a means to an end and not an end in itself. And as has been said before it is not mere entertainment.
3

Unless the nature of dance is understood, discrimination between forms of dance is impossible. It is imperative that educators recognize spurious forms of the dance which would try to secure a place in education. Any new school of thought which is timely, no matter what its area may be,—art, education, religion, morals, manners,—initiates change, just as this new movement in dance is effecting change. Very often there may be outer change without inner conviction because the prevailing mode requires such a simulation of conformity. And so today we find instances of outmoded forms of the dance masquerading under new names just as we find certain educational projects which are forward-looking in name only.

To catch the essence of the modem dance in words is a most difficult task. To write down a formula by which one may recognize it and distinguish it from other forms of dance is well nigh impossible. More than words are necessary. The best avenue to understanding is to dance oneself, the next best device is to see dance frequently. As a last resort, only, talking about it and discussing it may give one some basis of judgment.

The first distinguishing characteristic of the modem dance is probably the type of movement which it employs. The modem dance uses the human body in a fashion designed to preserve its human quality. No tricks of technique are resorted to, to make the body’s limitations appear other than they are. Mechanically movement in the modem dance is comparable to movement in sports and in every day utilitarian activity. By contrast, the ballet was, according to its purpose, interested in giving the appearance of movement which transcended the limitations of the human body. The mere fact of lessening the base of support by lifting the body to the tips of the toes gave the effect of otherworldliness, of a defiance of the laws of natural movement such that the body seemed to move effortlessly in a realm beyond that of the everyday. The very beauty of the ballet is dependent upon this negation of reality. This is its essential quality. The modem dance, on the other hand, frankly plants its feet on the earth and moves in a world of reality. Another principle of movement in the modem dance is that of “follow-through”, the initiation of movement in a centre of weight and subsequent change throughout the body, resulting from that impetus. This in itself gives movement a directness rather than an artificiality. It gives a reason for being to each phrase of movement. The modem dance is not decorative in the sense that the ballet was decorative. It goes farther back and emphasizes the fundamental basis of movement. Another point of distinction is that of the focal point of movement. Many ballet dances are built as a series of pictures, the focus of interest being the varying points of rest to which the body comes again and again. The modem dance is interested in the “becomingness” of movement, the way the body moves from point of rest to point of rest. The modem dance, then, employs the dynamic line in movement, rather than the static. This, too, has its philosophical implications and is

Digitized by LjOOQle
4

linked with the purpose of the modern dance in a contemporary world.

The content of the modem dance, as its movement, is a point of comparison. Just as the modem dance accepts the limitations of the humanness of the body in movement, so does it accept the same boundaries for its themes. The ballet could dance fairy tale themes without seeming incongruous. One could be a bird or butterfly when flitting about on the toes. But let a person who is very plainly a human being attempt to be a fairy, a creature without real substance or weight, and the result is apt to be dangerously close to the ludicrous. This canon of a frank use of the human body is in key with the temper of the times. This same temper is responsible for the attitude of boys and girls in schools today who question the validity of a form of dance which does not permit them to be themselves. Their invariable comment is “It doesn't make sense”. Any form of art to be truly vital must speak out of its own time and place. Other forms may be of interest and have validity historically, but creative work must be done in contemporaneous terms.

The modem dance is dedicated to the cause of rediscovering our rich heritage of movement and our equally meaningful understanding of movement in order that it may say those things which it is important to say out of our feeling and knowledge of the world about us.

In relation to education, the factor of method of use of the modem dance is most relevant. The philosophy of the modem dance requires a creative method of teaching. Such a method places the emphasis of teaching upon providing students with the opportunity to discover and experience movement in the full range of its mechanical possibilities. The endless variation of form in time which is rhythm and form in space which is the spatial contour of dance are to be explored. From this experience the student finds a new understanding of the dance which gives him adequacy in building with other students simple dance sketches and dances. The old method of teaching dances has been supplanted by the new method of teaching dance. The fundamental nature of dance which is communal in spirit provides a rich soil from which individual styles may take their point of departure. The modem style is first of all a group style. This in itself is important in any justification of the modem dance in the modem world.

This in itself is indeed a new dance for a new age. With prophetic insight Isadora Duncan said “I see America dancing”. In so far as the dance in America remains true to its own nature and to its avowed purpose of speaking out of its own time and place it may hope to fulfill that prophecy.—	during

Schoolmen’s Week, Univ. 0/ Pennsylvania.

Digitized by
5

The Rating of High School Pupils in'" Physical Education

Randall D. Warden. Director of Physical Education, Newark Public Schools

The question of rating or marking high school pupils in physical education brings up naturally the subject of school marks in general, their value and worth to the pupil and the teacher, both from an educational standpoint and a practical one. Primarily, of course, the object is to enable the teacher, the pupil and the parent to arrive at a true estimate of the pupil’s ability and progress. The teacher hopes to have something definite to use as a guide for promotion and classification; the pupil to take something home that will show to his parents his rank in the subject; and the parent to see what use his children' are making of their opportunity. A contributory motive is that the marks may act as an incentive to the pupil to do better work.

All of these objectives have met with serious criticism as being unpedagogical, unfair, or even unethical. I shall not take the time to go into these various criticisms. Pedagogically we know that a pupil is not supposed to work for a mark but for the sake of knowledge itself. Nevertheless, the valuation of pupil’s work is rather indispensable and it is useless to argue unless you have something better to offer. The nearer we can approach real evaluation and avoid guess-work and partiality on the part of the teacher, the more efficient our evaluation of teaching becomes.

Physical education is not a pencil and paper subject and physiological differences in students and the teacher’s inability to rate emotional reactions make the grading of students a difficult problem. Many times a teacher realizes that his least skilled pupils are working the hardest. These are the very ones who need the work, and yet if their grades are low they will become discouraged and unhappy and may even try to avoid classes. Tests on skill must be made with the subjective judgment of the instructor but these can be made more valid and accurate if charts are kept and if tests are a definite part of the class hour rather than consisting of vague mental pictures in the instructor’s mind as he or she sits in the office making out the term marks.

Frequently, through these tests a person is discovered who is doing very creditable vi ork but who is not noticed in the group because the pupil is not outstandingly poor or good enough to show up to advantage in comparison with the exceptionally skilled members of the class. Such information is very valuable to the instructor because it enables him to grade his work and classes into squads to the very best advantage. Again, physical education is a subject in which the teacher has an excellent opportunity to measure character, personality, school habits and citizenship. These attitudes should influence our rating and in

Digitized by t^.ooQle
6

our ratings we should include such factors as neatness, interest, initiative, leadership, sportsmanship, and reliability. I see no valid reason why physical education should not be evaluated in very satisfactory terms. Nor can I see why the marks of a pupil should not be as useful as, say marks in Algebra and English. In fact, I believe they may be made to show in most definite terms the exact standing of a pupil.

Marking in physical education should have a six-fold basis:

1.	Attendance

A pupil cannot be passed who has been absent for a month. He should be required to make up lost time over a certain minimum allowed absense—say 3 days in a month.

2.	Equipment

Costume, shoes, towels, etc. One cannot do satisfactory work when he is not properly prepared for it.

3.	Attitudes

Cooperation which includes discipline, sportsmanship, neatness, leadership, reliability, etc.

4.	Physical Achievement

Definite tests in skills, posture and endurance which should be measured by improvement and accomplishment.

5.	Effort.

Willingness to carry out the teacher’s directions, and interest enough to repeat the task until success is achieved or learned.

6.	Extra-Curricula Activity.

Varsity sports, intramural sports, etc.

For purposes of convenience in marking individuals we should group these as follows:

1.	2. and 3. under one heading [Class Record] Value 30 points.

4.	Physical Achievement. [Chart Records] Value 30 points.

5.	Effort. [Teacher’s Rating] Value 30 points.

6.	Extra Curricula Activity. Value 25 points plus.

The following method of marking is based on a system of points or credits. The sum total of all requirements to reach distinction in physical education is 1000 points or credits. Anyone who earns these 1000 credits is given and becomes entitled to wear the school letter and rates on equal terms with the athletes who wear them. It will take a pupil at least two or two and half years to acquire the 1000 credits. Meanwhile he works to acquire bis term mark piling up as many extra credits as possible.

METHOD OF MARKING

No*: 1, 2, and 3—Each day the pupils are rated on attendance, equipment, neatness, discipline and attitudes. To avoid bookkeeping, no marks are put in the book unless there is some unsatisfactory item. But in the case of a delinquency, a demerit is placed opposite the name in the records. A monitor, one who may be excused from gymnasium work on account of physical disability or a selected honor pupil may be assigned to keep the roll book and record demerits dining the class period. He makes the notations against the pupil’s name as called out by the

Digitized by kjOOQle
—10 points —10 points -10 points

instructor during his class inspection, or as they occur throughout the period. At the time of making up the marks for the 30 points are allowed for a perfect mark in attendance, -ment and attitudes so that with three demerits a pupil would rate 24 points. Two points are deducted for each delinquency.

No. 4—During the term certain definite standard tests are practiced which will later be the basis of an examination. These are practiced throughout the term in the regular lesson period and consist of sport skills, athletic and gymnastic abilities. These tests are printed on individual charts and a record of a pupil's progress may be made from day to day. At a certain definite time known to the class the teacher gives the tests which are marked on the following basis:

[ATHLETICS [GYMNASTICS [SPORT SKILL These tests again can be marked by a monitor in charge of each squad taking the test.

Examples: Running High Jump —2'6” is 1 pt. [add. 1 pt. for

each additional inch up 10 pts.J

Fence Vault	—3’6”	is 1 pt. [add. 1 pt. for

each additional 2 inches up to 10

Basketball Shooting 1 goal snot in 60 sec. is 1 pt.

[Add. 1 pt. for each additional goal to 10.]

No. 5—At the end of the term the teacher also gives a test to his or her classes in work taught to them from the curriculum. METHOD OF TESTING—NO. 5. a—Marching—Free standing exercises of any variety.

Each pupil has a slip of paper on which he has written his name and home room number. Six or eight pupils are lined up at a time and given commands in tactics, Danish gymnastics, or rhythmics. The teacher marks each pupil and collects the slips. These marks are on a basis of ten and so entered in the roll book. Thus a pupil may add 10 points or any part thereof to his roll book total. If the classes are too large for the teacher to personally give all the tests, here again monitors may be used. A group of “A” pupils can be easily trained ih one afternoon to give the tests and rate the pupils with a fair degree of accuracy, b—Dancing—

Procedure similar to that given above. Each pupil is given the following test:—	tKtm

One exercise in natural rhythms A3 One exercise in a derived rhythm ■ >. .

c—Posture—

Pupils are tested for exercising—10 points the

One part of a dance

standing.

sture,

asis.

poi

ba

M* , im

marching, and

Digitized by L^ooQle
8

TERM RATING

Now then, as said before, if a pupil passes the attendance discipline-costume test, by not having demerit marks,, he gets 30 points and 30 points or any part thereof on the Physical Achievement Tests. In addition he may make ten points or any part thereof on a. [Marching and Free Standing Exercises]; 10 points on b. [Dancing]; and 10 points on c. [Posture] Thus his total mark would be 90 points if he gets a perfect mark in all three tests. But a pupil rates an “A" for the term if he makes 100 points. Thus he must earn some credits in addition to his gym marks if he is to rate an “A”. This makes it an incentive to take up extra-curricula work.

INSIGNIA AWARDS

Now comes the interesting part of this rating plan. Any pupil acting as a monitor or a captain in any capacity acquires 50 additional points. Any pupil participating on a school team [varsity] gains 50 points; or 25 points for taking part in an intramural sport, but a pupil may not play on both varsity and intramural teams in the same term. Any pupil conspicuous in sportsmanship, courtesy, leadership or scholastic affairs is given 25 additional points.

Again pupils who pass the Medical Examination and have no physical defects—eyes, ears, nose, throat—rate 25 points. These extra credits are added each term to the credits given in the gymnasium if the sum total of the credits equals 200 the pupil gets a short stripe to be sewed on the gym costume.

400 credits entitles the pupil to 2 stripes

600 credits entitles the pupil to 3 stripes

700 credits entitles the pupil to a chevron

800 credits entitles the pupil to 2 chevron [double chevron]

1000 credits entitles the pupil to a school letter.

Now on the report card is the term mark:

A equals 100 points or more. [70 credits must be made in

gymnasium.]

B equals 75 points to 99.	[65 credits must be made in

gymnasium.]

C equals 50 points to 74.	[50 credits must be made in

gymnasium.]

Below this is failure.

Each term’s mark is based on acquiring points as in the above tables, and then by adding the total points to the pupil’s credit for the various terms he has been in school, his right to insignia is determined.

WAYS AND MEANS

The question naturally arises—Who is going to pay for the insignia? Well, any director so futile that he is unable to get the athletic council or the school to give financial support to this plan will probably keep on marking by sitting at his desk and guessing what his pupils do. Poor fellow, he will permit gold footballs and school letters to cover the manly fronts of his eleven, nine or five champion athletes who need no recogni-

Digitized by Google
9

tion other than what they have in the headlines of the daily press, but for the 500 earnest workers trying to improve their health, their skill, their posture, their strength, or their endurance he will give no reward, no encouragement{ no tangible evidence that will show to the school not only their success but his as well.

Developments in Physical Education in the Primary and Higher Schools of Sweden

By Elin Falk, late Inspectress of Gymnastics in the Public Schools of Stockholm

From the U.S.A. have come mainly theoretical bases for the new lines of development, while Austria and Germany have contributed many good exercises. In Sweden the new ideas are getting better known; some gymnastic teachers in the public schools of Stockholm ‘have partially adopted them and are beginning to reform the older Swedish educational gymnastics, the special posture-gymnastics, dancing, games and athletics.

The reformers still use, leg, arm, neck, dorsal and abdominal exercises, trunk rotations and lateral flexions, of the gymnastic, dance, play and athletic types: some of which are special balance exercises also. They particularly endeavour to improve the manner of exercising: to make the positions and movements more practical, and thus better fitted for application during the rest of the school-day, as well as at home. Efficient resting positions are practised, too. Further, the instruction is combined with many auxiliary exercises. Less able pupils are taught to assume correct positions and movements at a large angle-mirror—a necessary apparatus in the gymnasium. The pupils, especially those with bad posture and untrained sense of rhythm, must not only see the teacher’s demonstration of the exercises, but be able to correct themselves at the mirror, with and without the teacher’s help. A whole class may walk, run or dance in one file toward the mirror, and every pupil, wnile passing it, correct faulty positions and movements as far as possible.

The new method uses the rhythmic way of exercising. The human body is a unity, a coherent complex of positions and movements: normally, not even a small head, trunk, arm or leg exercise, neither walking, running nor breathing can be performed most efficaciously, if several or all parts of the body do not take part, more or less. The performer must not use certain muscles with unnecessary effort and thus check the natural “rhythmic waves’’ of motion through the body—a very common fault, however, which ignores the natural law that the human body is an instrument with all parts more or less active in practically every exercise. The fault will decrease the bodily capacity for work and repose and induce bad posture.

Incorrect muscular adjustment still marks the style of the older Swedish educational gymnastics as well as the special pos-

(

Google
10

ture-gyxnnastics. Unnecessarily strenuous, graceless positions and movements are usual. In varying degree the dancing, games and athletics, and ordinary modes of working and resting of those who practise the old gymnastic style are characterised by the defects mentioned.

Closestanding, slots and quick leg swinging forward and backward with Knee bending with asymmetric Arm swinging backward and forward, for instance, uses certain leg and trunk muscles rather strongly [the so-called primary effect of the exercise;] the remainder of the body has relatively easy work [the secondary effect of the exercise] which is markedly accentuated in individual cases. These natural secondary “waves” which accompany the primary effect, are typical of the rhythmic method.

Usually, graceful rhythm is characteristic of normal small children, and they retain it—until homes and schools ruin it. Certain “uncivilised” nations, too, are beautifully rhythmic. The “civilised” Americans, it is said, have learned much from the naturally rhythmic Red Indians. Experience shows, however, that a suppressed sense of rhythm can be trained up again.

The rhythmic positions and movements stimulate easy breathing and heart action, and well accommodated muscular work by the rest of the body; individual expressiveness, very often real grace, beautify the exercises. The rhythmical method seems to make the individual better fitted for strong exercises as well, to develop his power of accommodating his strength and to improve the capacity for speed and endurance—this aids him in doing better his real work of life, and helps in the choice of bodily and, to a certain extent, mentally recreative exercises.

Rhythmic physical education assists in correcting or improving bad posture—mainly by gradually making stiff and deformed joints more supple, and by transforming maladjustments eventually, perhaps, completely so] into good “habitual”posture. * * *]. The rhythmic method seems to correct stiff joints letter than do “isolated” static extensions, e. g., Stretch stoop closest,anding with its stretching of the anterior muscles of the shoulder-girdle—as used by “the old school.” In exercises of this land, surely there is the risk of straining the lower thoracic and upper lumbar vertebral joints, which usually have sufficient or even too great flexibility, and the knee joints which, as a rule, are pressed backward to “lordosis of the knee.”

In resting positions the reformers teach rhythmic relaxation— the movements of the heart and respiratory organs pervading the organism. Gradually, rhythmic physical education provides the individual with more appropriate and beautiful positions and movements during everyday life. The rhythmic method helps to increase the power of relaxing the voluntary [striated] muscles, and this reflexly affects the involuntary [non-striated] ones, as well as the internal organs, thus a more perfect rest is acquired, whether asleep or awake.

Unfortunately it is commonly thought that keeping time in exercises and rhythmic performance are but different names for

Digitized by L^ooQle
11

the	same thing. The aim in keeping time, however, is to check

momentum, both in those gymnastic exercises performed several times in succession, and in the naturally repeated movements of walking, running, dancing, etc. In the leg exercise, above, the keeping of time requires that all the pupils swing the leg forward and backward respectively, simultaneously as fast and as many times as indicated by the teacher; during ordinary walking [marching] and running in time, all must lift the foot simultaneously, etc.

A pupil, however, might be able to march absolutely in time, yet be awakened in action, inhibiting desirable “by-movements,” thus exhibiting constrained and undesirable movements of the arms and legs, and restrained rotation and lateral flexion of the trunk and neck [head]—that is, his marching is arhythmic. He may be able to dance to the time of music, but his dancing positions and movements are stiff, jerky, and ugly, not rhythmic.

Music, applied to gymnastic free-standing exercises, very often makes the learning of their rhythm relatively difficult, especially for pupils with poor sense of time. In order not to contrast too strongly with their more time-sure fellows, they concentrate exclusively upon the keeping of time and ignore the rhythm. Of course it is preferable that the pupils become rhythmic and certain of time. But the rhythm of an exercise must be well learned by the pupils, before instruction in the keeping of time [simultaneity] begins. Besides very few musical compositions are suitable for adaptation to special gymnastic exercises. Music, composed for other purposes, can be used sometimes for gymnastic exercises to aid the keeping of time, but rarely as regards rhythm. For walking and running exercises as well as dancing, etc., which generally should be practised in every gymnastic lesson, there is a satisfactory supply of suitable music. Would it not be sufficient to use music only for those naturally repeated	movements'I

Following, are a few examples illustrating the difference between arhythmic and rhythmic positions and movements:

la. Arhythmic standing position. The feet are turned out [legs rotated outward in the hip-joints] to form a foot angle of 90 degrees or a little less. Through this the inner borders of the feet have to bear most of the weight of the body. If this position of the feet becomes habitual, the muscles and ligaments which sustain the arch of the foot are placed under such strain, that frequently they allow the inner borders to flatten little or much [“flatfoot”]—until, at last, the arch may be practically obliterated.

Usually the arhythmic standing position involves inclining the body forward from the ankles, stretching the knees forcibly, pulling the shoulders backward-upward and pressing the arms, with fingers tight together, to the sides of the body. Of course, other unnatural, individually variable, unnecessary muscular work is to be found combined with the above defects. Often the breathing is more or less restrained, which disturbs the work of
12

the heart as well. Even naturally good posture will disappear if such an “erect” position is adopted.

lb. Rhythmic standing position. The feet are closed: knock-kneed pupils have them a little separated, but pointing straight forward. In the close-standing position it is easier, than in standing with the feet turned out, to work against the flattening of the feet referred to above, and against unnecessary stiffening of the leg muscles; pupils especially disposed to flattening of the feet are taught to stand with the weight mainly on the backward and outer borders; the trunk and neck are made tall but supple, the shoulders are softly lowered, the arms relaxed with the palms turned backward or backward-inward. A beginner usually acquires or appreciates the rhythmic freedom of the position if he closes his eyes for a few seconds and makes up his mind to stand easy and straight. The pupil can facilitate the muscular work by effecting control, through placing one hand on the front and the other on the back of the neck; also the posture, controlling the inclination of the pelvis, with one hand across the upper abdomen and the other low over the buttocks.

2a. Arhythmic ordinary walking. The feet are turned out more or less. Girls and women, especially, also stretch the knee and foot joints of the forward-swinging leg, thus touching the ground with the toe first, and not, as they should, with the heel first; the rest of the body is stiffened, too, very similarly as in the arhythmic standing position. The arms seldom! swing easily and the natural rotations and lateral flexions of the trunk particularly are hampered entirely or partially.

2b. Rhythmic ordinary walking. The feet point straight forward in the direction of progress. Movement begins with a falling forward of the body—from the pelvis, from the centre of gravity. This “falling” is continual and is the dominating element of the forward momentum. It must be so regulated by the muscles concerned, that all the locomotor joints are affected in varying degrees by the softly surging waves of the action of walking. This rhythmic element is composed not only of a slight alternating fall and rise of the body [centre of gravity], but of small synchronised rotations and lateral flexions in many of the joints.

The “by-movements,” referred to earlier, amplify and soften the falling forward in walking, which latter is charged with lesser or greater individually characteristic waves of movement [providing individual gait], in such manner that no part of the body is unnecessarily constrained nor makes exaggerated and unnecessary movements. Surely, it is these rhythmic, well-accommodated waves of movement that make walking easy and often beautiful, and yield effectiveness, endurance and speed. Control of rhythm and carriagewith the hands can be used as in the standing position.

Auxiliary exercises for improving rhythmic action. These are performed once, or two or three times in immediate succession, and may be repeated during the lesson. Examples:—

Digitized by CaOOQle
13

1.	Contractions and relaxations: [a] Back-lying—tense, but small bendings of the head and neck, trunk, arms and legs— relaxation, [b] Close-standing—tense contraction of neck muscles with the chin drawn in—good posture.

2.	Loose movements: Close-standing—small trunk rotations from side to side with slight knee beading with loose arm swinging hands lightly beating the hips at the end of each swing.

3.	Relaxed resting positions: Lying on either side with the knee and hip joints more or less bent, the head resting on the upper-arm which rests on the floor; the other arm‘resting on the upper side of the body; sleep-like relaxation of the whole body.

4.	Exercises for correcting faulty breathing: The first and best exercise of this kind is short quick walking, running or dancing—with every pupil, on the teacher’s command, exhaling fully [blowing out, sighing audibly or shouting] once or twice. If possible, every pupil should be taught later to exhale silently, deeply ana smoothly, of his own accord whenever desired; inhalation, as a rule, follows automatically.

A good respiratory exercise, too, is volitional breathing [usually diaphragmatic] in back-lying or side-lying resting positions. During the exhalation the pupil relaxes all muscles possible, so that he feels as though his body would “sink through the floor”;

inhalation follows automatically.

* * *

Rhythmic methods should be used in other schoolwork also, especially during writing, drawing and handicraft lessons.—Phys. Edu. & Hy., England.

Rating Pupils in Physical Education on the Secondary School Level \j

By N. P. Neilson, Chief, Division of Health and Physical Education, State Department of Education, Sacramento, California.

School marks are primarily an administrative device that has developed naturally as a result of mass education. The demand for a comparative evaluation of the pupil’s accomplishments in the various school subjects forced teachers and administrators to evolve a rating plan. The need for such a plan was accentuated in the secondary school because of subject departmentalization and the large number of different pupils contacted by each teacher.

Marks have been given to pupils in the secondary school to satisfy the demands of parents who expect definite reports of progress; to reward and motivate pupils in their school work; and to serve as recommendations in connection with school graduation and entrance into institutions of higher learning. They have played a part in the student guidance and accounting systems. Pupil marks have served directly a useful purpose in

Digitized by t^ooQle
14

indicating to the pupil, and others who might see them, the teacher’s opinion of the pupil’s accomplishment.

Many researches carried on in the educational field have shown pupil marks to be unreliable. Some of the arguments against their use are: [1] Teachers give pupils marks in terms of their own subjective judgments which are rather unreliable;

[2]	Marks are seldom related to desirable educational objectives;

[3]	Pupils generally adopt good marks as their objective; [4] Teacher-Pupil personality adjustments are made more difficult; [5] Indoctrination by the teacher results rather than satisfaction of curiosity on the part of the pupil; [6] Marks contribute to pupil inferiority and superiority complexes; and [7] They are at best, but poor substitutes for a close personal relationship between the teacher and the pupil and between the school and the home.

Recently the tendency to change the nature of pupil marks and modify the form of report cards has gained momentum. Progress in this direction will, of course, be slow. The present system evolvted gradually over a long period of time, and people will, of necessity, yield rather stubbornly to radical change. Parents will expect their children to receive marks, pupils will expect marks, and teachers will expect to give marks until some satisfactory substitute can be developed. Nevertheless, we should recognize the advisability of discontinuing marks as whips to get pupils to work. It is obvious that better teaching methods recognizing the interests and abilities of pupils will replace external drives with internal drives in children. There should be less emphasis on marks, and more emphasis on the laws of learning.

In conformity with the statements made, it seems desirable that we eliminate as soon as possible the giving of composite marks to pupils engaged in physical education activities on the secondary school level. Such marks in the past have, of course, served purposes similar to those served in the academic fields. Por the teacher’s subjective rating, whether in terms of letters or numbers, we may substitute reports of progress in the accomplishment of legitimate objectives measured in definite units of some sort. Thus, if regularity of attendance is an objective, progress in its accomplishment may be indicated directly by stating the number of days the pupil has attended.

Physical education teachers in a position to adjust their present pupil rating plan might well consider adoption of the following items and units of measurement pending further research along this line:

1.	Regularity of pupil attendance [including tardiness]—Number of days present and number of times not tardy.

2.	Neatness and cleanliness of costume—Number of days costume has met standards of neatness and cleanliness adopted.

3.	Posture—Rating as indicated on the Brownell scale.

4.	Sportsmanship—Progress or no progress [an achievement scale measuring sportsmanship would be useful here].

5.	Effort—Satisfactory or unsatisfactory.

6.	Achievement in knowledge—Scores attained in objective tests.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
15

7.	Achievement in skills —Scores attained in different activities as measured on achievement scales.

8.	Achievement in attitudes—Satisfactory or unsatisfactory [achievement scales measuring different phases of attitudes would be useful here].

9.	Improvement in physical fitness—Rogers Physical Fitness Index.

10.	Taking showers—Number of days shower has been taken, stating also the number desirable for the particular pupil.

The Improvement of Children’s Lunches—

A Project

William C. Watt, Gillespie Junior High School, Philadelphia.

When one has a post of duty in the lunch room of a modem junior high school, it does not take very long to find that the lunch eating habits of the boys and girls there are far from satisfactory. I am not referring to manners or habits of eating, poor as many of them are, or to the habit of bolting food, which is common enough, or to the noise, but to the very serious practice of an improper choice of food.

The lunch that the average child brings to school, if it does nothing else but jade the appetite and kill desire, has done enough, How can a child look forward to lunch time, if, every day, he brings with him a bologna sandwich, or scraps of meat from the meal of the evening before? I have seen them open their lunches, and after disgustedly eating about half of the uninviting sandwich within, throw the remainder away. In many cases, the part that was eaten was washed down by water, milk or soup.

The children that bring money to school may have more interest in their food, but hygienically they are no better. Ice cream and cakes, pretzels and “popsicles” form the mainstay of their diets.

Are they the kinds of meals that growing boys and girls should have during hard days in school? I think not. I wonder how many cases of faulty posture could be traced to the malnutrition caused by those faulty eating habits?

The principal of Gillespie Junior High School challenged the mem' ers of the physical and health education department to improve the lunch habits of our children, and suggested certain procedures.

To experiment with the proposition, I took two of my gy-giene classes in the fall term of 1933-34, a 7A class, and a 9A class. I confess that they were two of my best classes, open to instruction and willing to learn, but I soon found that the lunch selections of children of high I.Q.’s are not so very different from those with low I.Q.’s.

The first thing that had to be done was to arouse the interest and co-operation of the classes. The conclusion that I was

Digitized by LjOOQle
16

driving for was not divulged. They were told that they were in a contest, 7A against 9A, to see who could produce the best posters, picturing proper lunch diets for school children. Each class was told, secretly, by the teacher, that it ought to win. In the case of the 7 A’s, superior intelligence and excellent work should win; the 9 A’s were told they should do better because of their higher age and their good work. The enthusiasm of each class was aroused, and they went to work with eagerness.

Each class was taken to the kitchen of the children’s lunch room for a visit. They inspected everything minutely, noting the care with which everything was prepared, and the spotless cleanliness of the plant.

The director of lunch rooms in the school gave the children a talk on diet, and the aims, purposes and procedures of those who have the duty of preparing children’s lunches. They aim to prepare clean food in an appetizing way, to serve healthful food, and to vary the menu day by day, so that children, through the week, may get the basic elements in different foods, and in different amounts.

This is done, first, of course, by having a certain number of standard foods, which are placed before the children. This is somewhat the same every day. As an inducement to the child with a limited amount to spend, in this case only a nickel, a special dish, which costs more to prepare than is asked for it, is concocted. This varies day by day. This preparation has all the nutritive value possible that can be crowded into a dish at that price. If a child, having just five cents every day, would buy just that dish, he would be treating himself well from a health standpoint.

The director of lunch rooms then gave the boys and girls a list of these five cent lunches. The classes went back to their rooms to discuss further what they had seen and heard, and what had to be done.

Back in the class rooms, we talked about the reasons for a balanced diet, especially for growing children, and the great harm that can be done to health by improper diet.

The factors which go into the making of a good poster were also discussed. Cleanliness, neatness, size, visibility, colors, regularity, singleness of purpose, and originality were all noted. The desirability of a striking poster was also mentioned. The scope of the poster was enlarged to cover a ten and fifteen cent lunch, as well as a five cent lunch. The classes had two weeks in which to do their work.

At the end of that time, on two different days, the classes came into their rooms with their posters, 100% prepared.

We reviewed the points which went into the making of a good poster. Their attention was attracted to the fact that these posters were not only to be rated from the standpoint of the pictured hygiene material, but that the other factors of any good poster had to be taken into consideration.
17

I let the classes rate themselves. One row at a time stood in the front of the room with their posters. The children indicated by a raising of hands whether or not they thought a poster was worth a P, F, G, or E. In this way the rating was done in the shortest possible time, and each child would immediately see why his poster received a certain mark in relationship to the others.

Incidentally, their eyes and their attentions were bombarded by a continuous barrage of healthful diets. Also, the remarks coincident with the failure or success of each poster helped to impress on their minds what they were striving for.

The E charts were kept, the rest were discarded. The children who made these charts are quite proud of the fact that the results of their labors can be seen in the lunch room at odd times to help others to make the proper decisions when buying their food. The dietitian finds them quite helpful in advertising the specialty for that day.

The results of the above experiment were more than satisfactory. I asked each class of children how many felt, honestly, that they were making a better selection of food than they had three weeks before.

About three-fourths of tl.e children raised their hands to signify improvement. Knowing that in a question of that sort, boys and girls are apt to raise their hands because they think they know what the teacher wants, or because they are just following suit, in each class, I asked about half of those with their hands up in just what way they had noticed an improvement. In every case, the answer was given without hesitation, and without stumbling. This, to me, signifies that they were telling the truth.

Many improved lunches were being brought from home. Parents were varying the filler in the sandwiches. Two different sandwiches were being given instead of a sandwich and much cake or candy. A great many were being made with a base of greens.

Those who bought their lunches were cutting down on ice cream, cakes and candy. They were making use of the above mentioned special for five cents, and if they had more to spend they were buying milk or soup or a good sandwich to go with it, rather than cakes; or candy or “popsicles”.

To summarize: even though this was just a simple little experiment, I feel that the results gained were really commendable. It at least was an unusual addition to normal class room work, and it resulted in an eagerness that was bound to produce results. The lessons that the children learned regarding balanced diets are bound to stick for a long time. A worthwhile by-product of this work was the increased attention to matters of diet at home, not only for lunch time, but for all the meals.
18

Art and Culture of the Body During the Renaissance

B. F. W. Heyden, Berlin. Translated by Leopold F. Zwarg.

The sociological viewpoint prevailing in science, is now applied in research to the history of art as well. It is seen more clearly that every style in art arose from the basic spirit of any given time. To recognize past styles of art, we roust analyze the social structure of that time. So far, investigators have assumed that any new style arose as an organic development from an old one, or perhaps from a purely philosophic point of view of any epoch. The relations of people to the mere physical, their care or contempt of the body, has not been duly recognized.

Natural relations between art and body culture should be the starting point of any scientific research in the field of art.

The purpose of this investigation is an analysis of works of art of certain periods, with a view of finding out what were the ideals concerning the human body. In finding the views of man on body development and body education we should be able to point out the relation of art to any given time.

Works of art of the twelfth and thirteenth century show us an athletic ideal of the human body. A typical example is the well known rider at the Bamberger dome. This rider represents a knight of unbroken primeval strength, of concentration and tension. It is the type of knight who showed his mettle in the crusades, which originated as an idea of atonement and negation of worldly pleasures. To him the crusades afforded a chance to follow his impulse of affirming worldly things. This was the time when the knights used all known forms of bodily exercises as training for their main profession. However, there were already signs of passive resistance against an idea foreign to him, an idea forced upon him and devoid of art, namely Christianity.

In the following century this ideal, known as asceticism became dominant. How was art affected, how bodily culture?

Domes with pointed towers, slender pointed arches, windows and niches, and dark mystic interiors were created dining this time. In close connection with this architecture were the plastic arts. The statues are spiritualized phantoms of men who carry a transcendental expression. The aristocratic ideal, as shown in the knight, showed already a preference for certain slender lines. The ascetic Christian carried this to an utter extreme. The well-formed human body is omitted. The deep folds of the garment indicate merely a skeleton beneath, with strong emphasis upon the joints. The statues are bloodless figures of pestilence, of the scourge; they denote a fear of death, destruction, and the last judgment. Could such men care about the mere body and its strengthening?

The knights still trained their bodies for their profession, but it was no more a conception of duty. Many strong knights

Digitized by CjOOQle
19

regretted their mode of life and turned to religion, a psychology unexplained to this day. The knightly ideal of strength was vanishing. Even the peasants were affected. Although they still celebrated their games, it was more because of tradition.

The ideal concerning the human body of all these men was what the art of the time depicted—a bony individual. It was a time without regard for education of the human body. There was a general endeavor to conquer the flesh for the sake of the soul. The meaning of life was to prepare for the beyond. Belief in hereditary sin and salvation through the supernatural were predominant. To this day humanity suffers from this schism in Christianity which tore body and mind apart.

The fifteenth century represents a time of gradual transition, the dying of an old and the birth of a new culture. This transition was closely connected with social changes. The revival of trade made the cities imi>ortant. The citizenry became a new social class and developed its own style of living as well as culture. A new ideal of art developed. In Italy and Germany it carried the stamp of individualism in accordance with the character of these people.

Although a rebirth of art was noticeable in many countries simultaneously, Italy took the lead, and from there emanated the new ideas. As early as the fourteenth century Italy’s art showed more emphasis upon bodily form than that of other countries [Giotto, Duccio, Pisano]. Italy had never quite lost its contact with and feeling for ancient art.

During the early renaissance there was still a preference for slender, thin, undeveloped youthful and angular bodies. Young men were the models. The figures of “Saint George” and “David” by Donatello and Verochio are examples. St. George represents a youthful and fearless warrior with a limber and well coordinated body. Garment and body are treated as a unity. The armor does not diminish the organism underneath it; on the contrary, it emphasizes the power of the body. This conception is decisive in the forming of a new viewpoint in art. Donatello, with “David”, shows for the first time the naked body. Many artists now sought to do likewise, and gradually the ideal of beauty is sought in the natural human body. In painting, a similar phenomenon arose.

During the middle ages, the nude was restricted; only poor and condemned people were shown naked. The rich were shown with clothes on, even in heaven. This class difference in art disappeared with the renaissance. The figure of “David” shows the formative age of a boy with soft forms. In spite of the immature slenderness of tne limbs, the skeletal frame shows strength and flexibility. We may say the same of the ‘ David” by Verochio. In the 16th century less slenderness is shown. Shoulders are broader, the thorax deeper, and the limbs more powerful. This becomes apparent when we put side by side the “David” by Verochio and the “David” by Michelangelo, or the

Digitized by <^.ooQle
20

“Perseus” by Cellini. Here we have fully grown and fully developed bodies with marked musculature.

The revolutionary change in the conception of artists may be briefly demonstrated by two religious themes: the Crucified Christus and the Pieta [Mourning of Mary over the Corpus Christus). Hardly any artist ignored the execution shown in one or the other. In the early renaissance the change is not so noticeable. But the complete change of viewpoint and different treatment of style is apparent in such works as the “Crucifixus” of Donatello and of Dtirer, and the “Pieta” of Fra Bartolomeo, and of Michelangelo. In the middle ages, the Crucified Christ was a bony skeleton. The artists mentioned showed him a man with a deep thorax and broad shoulders. Fra Bartolomeo does not show the hard, exaggerated naturalness of a decayed, dead body, as was the preference in middle age, but the plastic nobility of a nude body. This is true to a greater degree of the “Pieta” by Michelangelo. The dead Christ is like a sleeping youth of classic beauty.

The art of the high renaissance breathes the grace of refined repose. Its forms stand out freely and easily, and create a steady mood: the eye dwells quietly upon them. Thus it is like ancient art. Inspired to strive for perfection, it seeks to accomplish this through the living truth of naturalness. Through the contact with antique art, the highest perfection of the ideal of beauty is achieved. Moderation and harmony in old works are discovered and realized in the new art. Leon Batista Alberti taught the canon of Greek harmony with this sentence: “Beauty is a certain consonance, a harmony of the separate parts of the limbs.” Through his writings he became the teacher of all artists of the time, especially of Leonardo da Vinci, who wanted to base harmony upon natural sciences, namely anatomy and anthropometry. Vinci met Diirer in 1596, and may have influenced him, at any rate through Luca Pacciolo, in nis studies to construethe ideal proportion of man. His four books on human proportions are the products of his thoughts. Art tried to work like nature, to repeat the whole in the single parts, to give the impression of tne organic production.

The 16th century is the high point of this cultural epoch, with Raffael, Leonardo and Michelangelo as the trinity of stars. Michelangelo, influenced by antique art, embodies youthful and manly beauty in his “David”, and the “Chained Slaves” of the Sixtina. In the carton of the “Bathing Soldiers” he portrays the sons of nature in the Roman army, and shows his knowledge of anatomy and natural science. All artists were influenced by this. They dissected corpses. Textbooks of anatomy made their appearance. The ultimate exaggeration of this art resulted in. “anatomical men”, i.e. men whose muscle relief is visible beneat]h the surface of the skin. Signorelli's “The Chosen Ones” is an example. The contact with ancient art ended finally in pure formalism. It was thought that by exact copying of antique Grecian and Roman works a new culture could be created.

Digitized by L^ooQie
21

In what relation stands the history of physical culture to this history of art?

The literary current of the renaissance, called Humanism, also had as its slogan “Study the Antique Theory.” The Greek writers who contributed to the development and education of the body were studied and translated. Hieronymus Mercurialis wrote six books on “De arte gymnastica” based upon such studies. In this field, as in art, people tried to realize an ideal through theory.

Beginning with the middle of the 15th century, another type of art made its appearance, demonstrated by Pierodi Cosi-mo, Sandro Boticelli, and Andrea del Sarto. It is represented in the figure of Cortigiano, the ideal social gentleman of the aristocracy. His physical education aimed at strength, grace, and skill. All knightly exercises he must know to perfection. He must be familiar with all games of the nobility. In racing, jumping, wrestling he must show his mettle, and his dancing must be as good as his fencing. This is the education described in “Tractatus de liberorum educatione”, 1450, by Vittorino da Feltre. It need not astound us, therefore, that the Italians of this time were looked upon as masters in the “noble” exercises of writing and dancing, as well as in the art of teaching them. However, this education concerned only a certain class, the aristocracy. The common people kept their simple games and pastimes, depicted in copper and wood etchings. Apart from these games and rowing regattas, which came then into vogue, the masses were not affected by any new spirit.

The gist of our discourse is this: The art of the Italian renaissance shows on the one hand a dreamed ideal of the body based upon study of antique art and natural science; on the other hand a true ideal of an aristocratic society, with emphasis upon a well devdoped body. Art failed totally, however, to transmit this ideal of beauty of the body to the common people.

To us, at this day, it is quite clear that this idea of the renaissance, to reawaken interest in physical education, was doomed to failure. Neither mere copying of old works of art nor a translation of books could succeed in influencing the character of a people. The whole thing was merely a beautiful gesture of the well-to-do. The natural life and viewpoint of the Greek could not be rdived; it was too distant and consequently it became the ideal and the fetish of the renaissance.

In Germany, the culture of the renaissance bore more the stamp of bourgeoisie [burgher] than aristocracy. Here the change in the style of life was not so abrupt as in Italy; in Italy the art of the Renaissance created things for show, for the street. In Germany it influenced the interiors of churches, city halls, and the homes of rich patricians. This was according to the characters of these two people. The Italian prefers the effect, the German the deeper meaning or fervor. This is also the reason for more plastic art in the south and more painting in the North.
22

Nuremberg and Augsburg were the influential cities of this epoch. With the going of Adam Krafft, who still worked in stone, and the advent of Peter Visher the elder, and his three sons, Peter, Herman and Hans, who used the modem medium of bronze, the transition is marked. In “Stepping Youth” Hans Visher portrays youth; not a slender youth but a boy of the peasant type, strong, bony and muscular. In reviewing the high renaissance, the work of Albrecht Diirer may suffice, with the- mention of Lucas Granach. Diirer shows clearly the path of development. At first he is connected with late Gothic style, as shown by his non-plastic bodies which are lost in their wrappings. Italy shows him a new direction and makes him a renaissance artist. Clarity of space and bodily fullness show an increased feeling for life, in contrast to the old pictures of the dance of death. This change may be noticed also in the passion for wood cuts. The parts before and after his journey to Italy may be clearly discerned. One part seems to be based on mathematical construction, the other on living models.

His book on fencing should interest us here. However, it seems to have no special significance in relation to physical education. We may rather suppose that the books on fencing were a fad of the time. Diirer practiced this sport in Italy. This knowledge he may have put down in book form. On the other hand, the drawings may have been studies representing human movements.

The question arises, what body sense is shown in the creations of Diirer? It is the true middle class or bourgeoisie family spirit,—the quiet type, somewhat corpulent, which does not want to be disturbed in his snugness. These people of Dure: do not look as if they ever did much for the education of their bodies. The general influence of art at that time was therefore negative, as confirmed by the history of physical education.

Humanism, which blossomed mightily in Germany, ended in pure study of ancient literature. Its fine spirit brought no fruita-tion in the field of bodily education. The writings and thoughts of Camerarius, Erasmus, Zwingly and others did not stir the masses. The view of Comenius to make physical education a religious requirement could likewise not form a sound enough social basis. Therefore, the whole humanistic period has only theoretical significance, as far as physical education is concerned. The masses had no understanding of either Latin or Greek gymnastics. No one seemd to realize that the new ideas would have to be connected up with the habits and ideas rooted in the common people.

There was one exception. It was the Patrician class of the cities. As in Italy, it was their social code to practice fencing, dancing, and ball games. The art of Louis Cranash represents this class. This artist shows graceful, supple, and well developed bodies.

German art of the 16th century portrays the bodily ideals of a certain class, and it also indicates that such an ideal was

Digitized by <^.ooQle
23

lacking in the rest of the people. The lower middle class and the common people had their popular pastimes and their shooting contests. The Dutch painter Peter Brueghel, the Elder, [1529-65] is a representative of this class.

In the history of art we find epochs in which artists took the human body as starting points for their general viewpoints, and vice versa, where the general viewpoint is reflected in the treatment of the body. We find that the history of physical education was parallel with that of art. The 13th and 16th century lent emphasis to body culture, and the 14th was negative.

One important fundamental point should not be omitted. It is a criterion of the time for art as a whole. While in Greece, during its height, plastic art was a demonstration of public nudity, in the renaissance it was only a private specialty of the artists. The existence of professional models, on whom the artists had to depend, characterizes best the fact of a time without physical culture. It seems, therefore, that a really great plastic art can be created only when physical culture is not only of interest to artists, but a factor in the general education of a people.—From “Leibesuebungen v. Koerperliche Erziehung." NOTE: The original article is illustrated and has sixty footnotes, referring to different German and some Latin literature on art.

Intrajmural and Interscholaatic Athletics.—“Respecting the administration of interscholastic athletics, it has been shown that, among the schools included in this study, interscholastic competitions are confined mainly to a few sports, most of which have no recognised carry-over value. The sports in which the largest numbers of pupils participate are not necessarily the sports having long playing seasons. About two-thirds of the pupils who practice for interscholastic contests actually participate in them. The number of pupils practicing for interscholastic contests in certain sports is small compared with the number engaging in intramural activities in the same sports. When the amount of school and out-of-school time devoted to practice and contests in interscholastic athletics is compared with that for intramural sports, the amounts are seen to be about equal. That is to say, the cost in time to pupils engaging in interscholastic sports is not greater than the cost of pupils who go in heavily for intramural sports. The schools in this study participate freely in tournaments and. meets of various types. However, tournaments to determine national and state championships are being objected to strenuously, and tourna nents involving smaller

competing areas are being organized.”.........

“In many schools the amount of money taken in and expended for athletic purposes is large. The fact that interscholastic athletics is usually called on to be self-supporting and to support other activities in the school, creates the danger of overemphasis on the development of winning teams. There is a growing feeling that the educational value of interscholastic contests in certain sports should be established or disestablished
24

and a subsidy by the board of education given to the sports shown to be beneficial, in case a nominal charge for admission to contests throughout the playing season has failed to meet

expenses.”................

"Intramural and Interscholastic Athletics,” Monograph No. 27, published by the Office of Education, monographed in the National Survey of Secondary Education.

TO OUR READERS

We are printing herewith a sample of the kind of letter we receive every once in a while from seme subscriber whose income has been badly damaged by the depression.

“Mind and Body	“April	l"th. 1934.

New Ulm, Minn. U. S. A.

Gentlemen

“I felt that I must write and tell you how much I ap- ^ predate the fact that you are still sending me your magazine. We have been in great financial difficulties here. I was not paid for six months last year and worked for half pay during the past winter and expect to be laid off any day now. I have learned a lot from the magazine and used the material extensively in my work with leaders here. It is a magazine well worth having and I thank you again for your courtesy.

Yours very sincerely,”

The above will show you that Mind and Body has followed a plan steadily all thru the hard times of continuing subscriptions unless distinctly ordered discontinued. This has been done because many thousands of teachers have found it impossible to pay their subscriptions and yet we knew they needed the magazine in their daily work and we decided to continue sending so long as we were able to do this.

In the entire three years that we have followed this policy we have received not to exceed half a dozen letters telling us that we should not have continued the subscriptions. We take it for granted, therefore, that our action meets with the general approval of those who have benefitted by it. However, we wish now that each and every subscriber who has not been able to keep his subscription paid would write us, telling us definitely whether he finds Mina and Body of value to his work or not. We do not wish to send out copies which are not wanted or used but so long as we are able to do so we are glad to help those like the writer of the above letter. Eventually tiroes will improve for all of us and when it becomes possible for those whom we have helped in this way to pay for tneir subscriptions, we believe we will be paid. In the meantime we will carry on as best we can with the help of those who can pay. If you are one of the fortunate ones who still have a secure place in life and can pay your bills, we can certainly make good use of your renewal right now and it will be much appreciated. Save us the trouble of sending you a bill by remitting without being asked. It costs us a great, deal to send Dills to each subscriber. Please let us hear from you.

Digitized by v^ooQle
MIND AND BODY

VoL 41	April	1934	No. 420

i	■	■	-...—	—n	■ ■■■■ ■ ... . ■	■■

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE EmO Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

Jamas E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editori 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn. Entered qm tecond-class matter October 14, 1916, at the pottoffice at New Ulmt Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial

A phase of the physical education program in schools which is crying aloud for discussion and solution is that concerning the rating of pupils. It is truly amazing to discover the wide variety of plans in actual use, and to note the great differences in opinion, if any, as to what should constitute the elements of a good rating plan. We believe it would be a wise step on the part of the American Physical Education Association to appoint a representative committee to formulate one or more feasible plans. Such a committee should set down the objectives and principles, the elements to be included in ratings, suggestions as to relative weights of the elements, and practical procedures for administering the plans.

Recently we invited a number of leaders in physical education to submit their views on rating for publication in Mind and Body. We were very much interested to find that practically all declined the invitation with the plea that there was so much uncertainty in their minds that they were unwilling to set down their views for publication. We are, accordingly, especially grateful to Mr. Randall D. Warden, Director of Physical Education in the Newark, N. J. public schools for being the first to come forward with some definite views. We hope his article will serve as a stimulus to some of our readers which will result in an exchange of views in future issues of Mind and Body.

One of the most difficult problems facing recreation commissions and crime prevention associations in our cities is that of getting the real problem cases, the neighborhood Roughs’, into the club rooms and recreation centers which have been organized primarily for their benefit. For years we have held the opinion privately that there is really only one important reason why these

Digitized by Google
26

fellows do not participate, namely, that the rules and the customs in the club rooms and centers are too foreign to the habits of the fellows. If less pretentious places were established in which marring the walls and furniture need not be frowned upon too darkly, and where ‘hell* and 'damn* expletives would not result in expulsion,—in other words, if the patrons were made to feel more at home without the ever present consciousness of supervision and restriction, we feel certain that many would be in attendance frequently.

The objective being to reduce delinquency and to improve character, it is a first essential that these people be enticed into places where contact with uplifting forces may be made. But this cannot be done unless the standards are low enough to make a comfortable enviromnent. Once attendance is established a process of very slow and gradual elevation may be inaugurated.

Being strongly convinced of the importance of such a procedure, we naturally were pleased to read the opinion of Miss Claudia Wannamaker of the Institute for Juvenile Research, Chicago, which was given wide publicity recently by the National Recreation Association. We quote a part of her statement* “To compete with the exciting but destructive influences of the gang and the 'hangouts’ of the neighborhood and with the gaudy, unwholesome commercial recreation, and to exert an irresistible attraction for a crowd of young ‘toughs’, a different kind of recreational center, a different type of recreational leader and of recreational activities may be necessary instead of the conventional ‘refined’ atmosphere and more sedate activities appreciated by the more privileged groups. Unpretentious but comfortable neighborhood dub rooms for boys and men, presided over by more jovial, informal and less critical leaders, might exercise a real appeal to the boys and men who are now forced to go to speakeasies, so called drug stores, and disreputable pool halls to find the loafing space and fellowship which they crave.”

PYRAMIDS.

As given in Passaic, New Jersey, December 8, 1933.

	Groups of Three			
Music—“King	Cotton March"—Victor Record	19895		
Position of Girls ana	Mats			
xxxxxxxxx 1	2 3 12 3	1	2	3
xxxxxx	12 3 12	3		
xxxxxxxxx 1	2 3 12 3	1	2	3

Note: First girl cartwheels, next girl forward rolls, etc. Mark time; march when they get to places on mats. 32 counts.

1.	No. 1-3 Deep knee bending, raising arms sideward [palms

up]. Facing out.

No. 2 Jump to stride stand, raising arms overhead.

2.	No. 1-3 Raise arms upward.

No. 2 Bend trunk forward touching hands to floor.

3.	Return to first position.

4.	Position. Hold each movement 4 counts.

1-	No. 1-3 Deep knee bending, placing inside hands on floor. No. 2 Deep knee bending, placing both hands on floor.

Digitized by v^ooQle
27

2.	No. 1-3 Stretch both legs sideward and outside hand

diagonally up.

No. 2 Stretch legs backward.

3.	Retuna to deep knee bend position.

4.	Position. > Hold each movement 4 counts.

III

1.	No. 1-3 Deep knee bending, facing away from the center

placing both hands on floor.

No. 2 Down on hands and knees facing front.

2.	No. 1-3 Place both feet on back of No. 2.

3.	No. 1-3 Return to deep knee position.

4.	Position. Hold each movement 4 counts.

IV

1.	No. 2 Raise both arms sideward.

No. 1-3 Place hands on upper arms of No. 2.

2.	No. 1-3 Slide hands down to meet hands of No. 2 and

lean sideward at the same time. Place outside hand on floor.

3.	Return to first position.

4.	Position. Hold each movement 4 counts.

V

1.	No. 1 On hands and knees facing front.

No. 2 Face right and place hands on No. 1 back.

No. 3 Face right and grasp ankles of No. 2.

2.	No. 3 Raise legs of No. 2 as high as possible.

3.	Lower the legs.

4.	Position.

VI

1.	No. 1-3 Half knee stand [right and left respectively] to-

ward center and grasp hands of No. 2.

No. 2 Take step backward.

2.	No. 2 Stand on thighs of No. 1 and 3.

3.	Return to first position.

4.	Position.

VII

Variation of the above with No. 1 and 3 charging forward toward the center and grasping waist of No. 2. No. 2 raises arms sideward.

VIII

1.	No. 1-3 Take stride stand away from center.

No. 2 Take step backward placing hands on shoulders of No. 1 and 3.

2.	No. 2 Jump to a full arm hang.

3.	Return to first position.

4.	Position.

IX

1.	No. 1-3 On half knee stand facing center.

No. 2 Step back.

2.	No. 2 Step on thighs of No. 1 and 3.

No. 1-3 Place inside hands on No. 2's waist and outside hands on No. 2’s ankles.

Digitized by i^OOQle
28

3.	No. 1-3 Come to a stand position.

No. 2 Raise arms sideward.

4.	Position.

X

1.	All face left. No. 1 down on knees, keep body straight

up. No. 2 put hands on shoulders of No. 1. No. 3 bends and holds ankles of No. 2.

2.	No. 3 Lift No. 2’s legs to shoulder level. No. 1 raises

arms sideward.

3.	Return to first position.

4.	Position.

XI

1.	No. 1-3 Place inside hands alongside of hip.

No. 2 Put hands through loop.

No. 1-3 Take hold of wrist.

2.	No. 2. Do a back circle and return.

3.	Return to first position.

4.	Position.

XII

1.	No. 1-3 Face center.

No. 2 Take Y step backward.

2.	No. 2 Come to hand stand.

No. 1-3 Hold No. 2’s ankles with inside hand—outside hand on hip.

3.	Return to first position.

4.	Position.

XIII

1.	No. 1-3 Charge outside foot forward—outside hand raised

forward.

No. 2 Y step forward.

2.	No. 2 Back bend—No. 1-3 support with inside hand.

3.	Return to first position.

4.	Position.

XIV

1.	No. 1-3 Step back.

No. 2 Step forward.

2.	No. 1-3 forward roll.

No. 2 Backward roll.

3.	No. 1-3 Backward roll.

No. 2 Forward roll.

4.	Petition.

March to place for big pyramid—8 counts.

Count 1—All face tneir position—hold 4 counts.

Count 2—No. l’s take their position—hold 4 counts.

Count 3—No. 2's take their position—hold 4 counts.

Count 4—No. 3’s take their position and all should then be in place.

Hold figure 8 counts.

Count 5—No. 3’s return to place—4 counts.

Count 6—No. 2's return to place—4 counts.

Count 7—No. l's return to place—4 counts.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
29

Count 8—All face front—4 counts.

March back to place on mats and mark time until music finishes and stand at attention.—N&ws Letter, New Jersey Phys. Edu. Ass’n.

GYPSY TAMBOURINE DANCE

As given in Passaic, New Jersey, December 8, 1933.

Music—“Spanish Dance,” by Moszkowski, Opus 12 No. 1 Victor

Record 20521A

CLASS FORMATION

Figure One

Step sideward on right foot and hop on right, swinging left foot forward. Repeat to left with left foot.

Run forward with 3 little running steps starting right foot.

Turning body slightly right, bend both knees and strike tambourine with left hand in front of knees. Stamp left foot alongside of right, keeping weight on the right, raising tambourine overhead in left hand.

Repeat all, starting left foot moving backward on the running steps.

Turn body slightly left and strike tambourine in front of knees.

Stamp right foot alongside of left and raise tambourine overhead in right hand.

Repeat all, starting right foot moving forward.

Repeat all, starting left foot moving backward.

Figure Two

Balance diagonally forward right and diagonally backward

left.

Starting with right foot, move sideward to the right with two ‘Spanish Draw” steps.

Repeat all, starting left foot.

Repeat all, right and left.

Figure Three

Stamp right foot diagonally forward, right, bending both knees slightly, right arm curved in front of face, looking under the curved arm.

Stamp ball of left foot twice in back of right, keeping weight on right foot and knees slightly bent.

Step diagonally backward on left foot, lowering right arm across the body, and stamp right foot twice close to left, keeping weight on left and knees bent.

Repeat an. Starting with right foot, make one complete circle to the right with four [4] “Spanish Draw” steps.

Repeat the figure starting with left foot.

Figure Four

Step diagonally forward on right foot, hop on right foot and raise tert leg forward.

Turning body diagonally right, step down on left foot and

Digitized by CjOOQle
30

bring up right foot to left and step in place on left foot [a balance].

Two “Spanish Draw” steps diagonally backward left, turning to face front on the second step.

Repeat, all starting left foot. Repeat all right and left.

Figure Five

Jump diagonally left on left foot, clap hands, knees bent. Jump back to position, hands to the side starting with the right foot, right, left.

Same to the right. Alternate left and right, six times in all.

Hop on right foot, cross left foot over in front of right, turning on balls of both feet. Repeat the turn right.

Stamp forward on left foot and stamp on right foot alongside of left foot, striking tambourine on first stamp and raising it in right hand on the second stamp, body turned slightly right. News Letter, New Jersey Phys. Edu. Ass’n.

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller.

In this issue we present the second set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way but also a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress.This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high quality groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
g

CQ

o

o

n

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Mats for school grades 9A and 9B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semzster.]

Mats—-Girls—Grade 9A.

Fair	From	a	balance stand frontways

with the arms folded in front [tnlnk and leg horizontal] roll forward to a stand [the folded arms may be used for support on the mat].

Good Lying rearways with the arms folded in front. Raise the legs over head to a horizontal position. Return with a double legswing tucking the feet under [and at the same time crossing them] and rise to a squat stand with a half turn [arms folded in front] and follow with a roll backward to a stand [hands may be used in the roll backward].

Excellent Headstand [the legs to be straight before raising them]. Straddle legs sideward. Close legs. Roll forward to a squat stand and fold arms in front. Then follow with a second roll forward to a stand, [the folded arms may be used for support on the mat].

Lying rearways with the arms at the sides [on the mat], raise the legs over head to a horizontal position. Return with a double legswing tucking the feet under [and at the same time crossing them] and rise to a squat stand with a half turn, and immediately roll backward to a stand [the hands may be used on the mat wherever necessary].

From a stand with the right hand on hip, left arm free, step left forward and with a legswing right backward and upward roll forward to a stand—supporting on the mat with the left hand. [The right hand remains on hip.]

From a stand with arms raised, sideward step left forward, swing right leg backward and roll forward to a stand [without the use of the hands].

From a stand, two successive rolls backward without interruption to a stand.

Support lying frontways Jump to a squat stand left with a simultaneous legswing right sideward and forward under right hand [to a squat stand left with right leg forward between hands]. Roll backward to a stand.

Support lying position fronts ways. Push-off with the feet and shift the weight forward momentarily over the hands and immediately roll forward to a stand.
Fair

Good

Excellent

Lying rearways with the arms folded in front. Raise the legs over head to a horizontal position. Return with a double legswing tucking the feet under and rising to a squat stand [arms folded in front] and follow with a roll forward to a stand. [The folded arms are used for support on the mat.]

Headstand to be held at least five seconds. [Any method of getting into the headstand position may be used.]

From a stand grasp the ankles and then two successive rolls forward to a stand without interruption.

Grade 9B

From a stand roll backward to a side straddle angle stand

Sips are bent, trunk is in a redownward position, and the hands are on the floor]. Raise the trunk and jump with closing feet to a stand.

Lying rearways, arms at the sides on the mat. Raise the legs, swing them backward over head and roll backward to a stand.

Head stand [the legs to be straight before raising them]. Roll forward to a squat stand, grasp ankles and immediately roll forward to a stand [the ankles remain grasped during the forward roll].

From a balance stand frontways with arms folded in front [trunk and leg horizontal]. Roll forward to a stand — on one foot with the free leg raised forward. [The folded arms may be used for support on the mat.]

I

From a stand bend knee deeply and place the hands on mat [knees outside of the arms] assume a momentary squat hand balance position [knee resting on outside of elbows] shift the weight forward placing head on mat and then roll forward to a squat stand grasping ankles. Follow with another roll forward to a stand [ankles remain grasped during second roll.]

Momentary handstand. [The handstand position must be held for a moment,]
Fair

Good

g

eg

Excellent

eg

Mats—Boys—Grad* 9A

Lying rearways with the arms folded in front. Raise the legs over head to a horizontal position. Return with a double legswing tucking the feet under and rise to a squat stand; followed immediately with a roll forward to a stand. [The folded arms are used for support on the mat.]

Cartwheel [this exercise may be executed either on the mat or on the floor.]

From a stand roll backward through a momentary handstand position to a stand.

From a stand with the arms raised sideward. Step left forward, swing the right leg backward and roll forward to a stand, without the use of the hands.

Headstand. Roll forward to a stand on one foot with the opposite leg raised forward. Swing the free leg backward and roll forward to a stand.

Momentary handstand and follow immediately [bending arms and tucking head under] into a roll forward to a squat stand with arms folded in front. Roll forward to a stand [the folded arms are used for support on the mat].

From a stand with the arms folded in front. Roll forward [at the same time crossing the feet] and rise to a squat stand with a half turn [arms still folded] and immediately roll backward to a stand.

EThe hands are used in the >ackward roll.]

From a stand, dive forward and roll forward to a squat stand grasping ankles and immediately roll forward to a stand. [The ankles remain grasped during the second roll forward,]

From a lying position rear-ways with the hands over the head and touching the mat, raise the straight legs over the head to a horizontal position. With a quick straightening of the hip, snap up to a stand. [The hands are usedjjin the push from the mat.]
Grade 9B

Fair

Good

>

Headstand [the knees may be bent at the start and straightened to position]. Straddle legs sideward. Close the legs. Roll forward to a stand.

Momentary handstand. The handstand position to be held for a moment. [May be executed either on the mat or on the floor.]

Support lying position frontways. Push-off with the feet and shift the weight forward momentarily over the hands and immediately roll forward to a stand.

Headstand. Roll forward and in doing so cross the feet and rise to a squat stand with a half turn. Then follow immediately with a roll backward to a stand.

From a lying position rear-ways roll backward to a stand.

(j

O

Lying rearways with arms folded in front % Raise the legs over head to a horizontal position. Return with a double legswing tucking the feet under and follow with two successive rolls forward with ankles grasped. Finish in a stand.

Excellent

Support-lying position frontways. Squat forward with straightening legs forward to a sitting position. Roll backward through a momentary handstand position to a stand.

Cartwheel with a quarter turn to a stand with feet together facing toward the original starting point [round - off]. Then follow immediately with a roll backward through a momentary handstand position to a stand.

Support lying position frontways, With a quick raising of the hips and pushing off with the feet shift the weight forward over the hands momentarily and follow into a roll forward leading immediately into a snap up forward to a stand.

Digitized by
35

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

AN EVALUATION OF EXERCISES ON APPARATUS TO SERVE AS A BASIS FOR RATING IN COMPETITION

Teachers of physical education will be interested in the following plan which has been devised as a guide to judges and competitors in connection with gymnastic apparatus competition. We believe its value to be self-evident. It was used this year in Philadelphia senior high school boys’ gymnastic meets. The material presented here covers only tumbling, and vaults over the long horse.	/

LONG HORSE VAULTS V Graded Difficulty [Vault No. 1 most difficult]

NOTE: Take-off from both feet on all vaults. Use a Jump-Board ABBREVIATIONS: C—Croup of horse; N—neck of horse.

Vault No. Name of Vault	Brief	Description

1.. ..5heep Vault from C ........[heels backward; body erect]

2.. ..Pikers Leap from N.........[straight body; no assistant]

3.. ..5quat Vault from C ........[hips and knees bent]

4..	..5neep Vault from N......

5..	..5traddle Vault from C...

6..	..5toop Vault from N .....

7..	..Cartwheel Vault ........

8..	..5cissors without Turn __

9..	..Double-touch Stoop Vault

10..	..Double-touch Squat Vault

11..	..Hand Spring Vault ......

12..	..5.issors with 1-2 Turn .

13..	..Hand-Stand on N and Squat

Dismount.......................[momentary	handstand]

14..	.JIand-Stand on N & Straddle

heels back; hips straight] vertical body thruout] hips bent; knees straight] legs straight and apart] like stoop with legs crossed] touch from C & N, both hands simultaneously] as vault No. 9 and No. 3] arms straight] back-straddle vault]

Dismount.

15..	..5.uat Vault from N.......

16..	..Head Spring Vault .......

17..	..5.raddle Vault from N ___

18..	..Double-touch Straddle ...

19..	..Long Rear Vault..........

20..	..Neck Spring Vault from N .... JUDGING AND

momentary handstand]

'hips & knees bent]

'top of head touches N] the standard straddle] prefer to Vault Nos. 9 & 17] body makes a 1-4 turn] back of head touches N] SCORING

A vault is first judged on the basis of 0 to 100 points, same as exercises on other apparatus. Then, points are subtracted according to the grade of difficulty, as per the following table:— Vault Points Highest Possible Number Subtracted Point Score	Vault

1	.........._	0.............100	...........Sheep from C

2	__________Yt.____________99Y...................from	N

Digitized by v^ooQle
36

3

4

5

6

7

8 9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

1	.......... 99............Squat from C

2	..........98..............Sheep From N

3	.......... 97............Straddle from C

4	.......... 96............Stoop from N

5	.......... 95............Cartwheel

6	.......... 94............Scissors, no turn

7	.......... 93............Double-touch stoop

8........... 92............Double-touch squat

9........... 91............Hand Spring

10......._....90.............Scissors, y* turn

.Handstand &

.11

89-

squat

.12........... 88...........Handstand & straddle

.13........... 87...........Squat from N

.14........... 86...........Head Spring

.15........... 85...........Straddle from	N

.16........... 84...........Double-touch	straddle

.18........... 82...........Long rear

.20........... 80...........Neck Spring

TUMBLING

The following standard exercises have been evaluated so that a competitor may know beforehand what to expect.

Unusual exercises, as well as difficult combination and excellent execution, will be taken into account by the judges.

Exercises	Values	in	points

1.	Front roll ......................................... 5

2.	Back Roll ..........................................10

3.	Cartwheel or round off ...........................  20

4.	Back roll to handstand..............................30

5.	Headspring or handspring ...........................30

6.	One hand handspring ................................40

7.	Running front somersault ...........................50

8.	Standing back somersault ...........................50

9.	Single back flip or back handspring ................55

10.	Tinsicas [handsprings forward, landing on one foot..60

11.	Round off, single back flip.........................60

12.	Round off, single back somersault...................60

13.	Round off. series of back flips.....................70

14.	Standing front somersault ..........................70

15.	Round off, back flip, immediately followed by back

somersault .....................................75

16.	Front handspring, immediately followed by front som-

ersault ........................................75

17.	Front tinsica, immediately followed by front somer-

sault ..........................................75

18.	Cartwheel, immediately followed by side somersault ....80

19.	Round off. series of back somersaults...............80

20.	Round off, back flip, back somersault, back flip, back

somersault .....................................86

21.	Round off, series of back flips, followed by a back

somersault with half or full twister............90-100

22.	Side somersaults, standing or running ..............90-100

23.	Running or standing “Brannie” or no handed round-off 90-100

Digitized by

Google
Digitized by

	8 Years	9 Years	10 Years	11 Years	12 Years	13 Years
1.	Movies	Swimming -	Marching	Marching	Movies	Roller Skating
2.	Dolls	Movies	Swimming •	Movies	Parties	Volley Ball
3.	Jackstones	Dolls	Movies	Gym. Dancing	Reading	Parties
4.	Rope Skipping •	Marching	Parties	Swimming	Volley Ball	Swimming
6.	Story Hour	Parties	Roller Skating*	Parties	Swimming	Skating
6.	Roller Skating „	Roller Skating .	Gym. Dancing .	Roller Skating	Cooking	Reading
7.	Reading	Story Hour	Dolls	Reading	Roller Skating	Gym. Dancing
8.	Swimming •	Doll Houses	Reading	Cooking	Rope Skipping	Movies
9.	Parties	Reading	Cooking	Volley Ball	Drawing	Cooking
10.	Skating •	O'Leary	O'Leary	Rope Skipping	Paper Flowers	Marching
11.	Gym. Games *	Singing	Skating *	Checkers	Lanterns	Hiking
12.	Circus	Gym. Dancing *	Circus	O'Leary	Painting	Bead Work
13.	O'Leary	Skating .	Drawing	Paper Flowers	Story Hour	Dressmaking
14.	Drawing	Rope Skipping.	Rope Skipping.	Jackstones	Marching	Checkers
15.	Doll Houses	Jackstones	Jackstones	Dressmaking	Gym. Dancing	O'Leary
16.	Marching	Gym. Games .	Paper Flowers	Drawing	Bead Work	Drawing
17.	Gym. Dancing .	Bead Work	Lanterns	Dolls	Skating	Social Dancing
18.	Gym. Games .	Cooking	Story Hour	Painting	Singing	Bunco
19.	Singing	Paper Flowers	Checkers	Bead Work	Dolls	Painting
20.	Puzzles	Drawing	Painting	Bunco	Jackstones	Paper Flowers
21.	Checkers	Checkers	Bunco	Gym. Games	Dressmaking	Concerts
22.	Cooking	Circus	Calisthenics .	Skating	Plgd. Ball	Tops
23.	Bead Work	Tops ^	Singing	Story Hour	Hiking	Fancy Work
24.	Bunco	Puzzles	Dressmaking	Singing	O'Leary	Tennis
25.	Tops ,	Painting	Doll Houses	Fancy Work	Social Dancing	Lanterns
26.	Volley Ball ..	Volley Ball i	Volley Ball •	Lanterns	Fancy Work	Jackstones
27.	Lanterns	Lanterns	Puzzles	Tennis	Puzzles	Singing
28.	Concerts	Social Dancing	Tops.	Calisthenics	Tops	Gym. Games
29.	Fancy Work	Dressmaking	Gym. Games .	Apparatus	Tennis	Puzzles
30.	Paper Flowers	Marbles	Fancy Work	Social Dancing	Checkers	Circus
1.	14 Years Volley Ball'	15 Years Volley Ball	16 Years Volley Ball	17 Years Social Dancing	18 Years Hiking	19 Years Movies	
2.	Movies	Movies	Social Dancing	Swimming	Social Dancing	Tennis	
3.	Swimming -	Parties	Skating	Skating	Volley Ball	Hiking	g°
4.	Reading	Gym. Dancing	Movies	Volley Ball	Swimming	Reading	
6.	Checkers	Hiking	Parties	Reading	Tennis	Swimming	0
6*	Parties	Skating	Swimming	Marching	Parties	Marching	(J
7.	Cooking	Swimming	Reading	Tennis	Movies	Gym. Dancing	>  _Q
8.	Hiking	Social Dancing	Gym. Dancing	Movies	Skating	Social Dancing	T3
9.	Roller Skating.	Roller Skating	Marching	Parties	Bunco	Volley Ball	N  '6)
10.	Marching*	Cooking	Hiking	Hiking	Reading	Rowing	b
11.	Gym. Dancing«	Bunco	Cooking	Gym. Dancing	Basket Ball	Parties	
12.	Dressmaking	Reading	Bunco	Roller Skating	Dressmaking	Bunco	
13.	Bunco	Dressmaking	Roller Skating	Dressmaking	Gym. Dancing	Roller Skating	
14.	O’Leary	Tennis	Dressmaking	Calisthenics	Marching	Calisthenics	
15.	Tennis*	Concerts	Basket Ball	Bunco	Roller Skating	Skating	
16.	Bicycles	Marching	Indoor Baseball	Rowing	Fancy Work	Dressmaking	
17.	Drawing	Checkers	Tennis	Cooking	Indoor Baseball	Cooking	
18.	Concerts	Fancy Work	Calisthenics	Concerts	Captain Ball	Checkers	
19.	Playground Ball	Bead Work	Captain Ball	Checkers	Cooking	Concerts	
20.	Paper Flowers	Bicycles	Dramatics	Bicycles	Rowing	Apparatus	
21.	Social Dancing	Drawing	Fancy Work	Paper Flowers	Concerts	Basket Ball	
22.	Tops	Rowing	Rowing	Indoor Baseball	Bead Work	Fancy Work	
23.	Gym. Games	Calisthenics	Drawing	Apparatus	Singing	Lectures	
24.	Jackstones	Painting	Bicycles	Plgd. Ball	Dramatics	Croquet	
25.	Rope Skipping	Millinery	Gym. Games	Gym. Games	Apparatus	Dramatics	
26.	Bead Work	Gym. Games	Concerts	Gym. Relays	Calisthenics	Singing	
27.	Millinery	Basket Ball	O’Leary	Circus	Checkers	Gym. Games	
28.	Fancy Work	Tops	Millinery	Fancy Work	Playground Ball	Indoor Baseball	
29.	Painting	Dramatics	Paper Flowers	Rope Skipping	Millinery	Bowling	
30.	Puzzles	Marbles	Checkers	Drawing	Paper Flowers	Paper Flowers	
39

THE HOLLANDER.

A Dance for Pupils of the Fourth Grade, by Grace Evans, Salt Lake City.

Music: Where Oh Where Has My Little Dog Gone.

Figure 1. Step brush hop, starting right, repeat left.

Stepping in place, right, left, right, rolling arms in front three times, slap knees.

Measures 1-4.

Figure 2. Face partners, jumping to bending position [pigeon toed, arms relaxed, three counts] jumping to upright position throwing the hands backward over shoulders, three counts.

Rolling arms in front three times, slap knees.

Repeat.

Measures 5-8.

Figure 3. Join right hands. Four brush step hops to change places with partner.

Repeat back to position.

Measures 9-12.

Figure 4. Windmill. Right arm up, left arm down, hopping on right foot five counts, change on count six and repeat, left arm up, right arm down hopping on left foot.

Measures 13-14.

Figure 5. link inside arms, take two brush step hops and four running steps to exit.

Measures 15-16.

Health Education Notes

Howard L. Conrad.

IV. Teaching Procedures in Health Education. Lesson

Planning.

[Continued from March issue]

In health education, as in any subject, the necessity of lesson planning is apparent. Ruediger* says, “Teachers, like other professional workers need to plan what they are going to do. The lawyer plans his case, the minister plans his sermon, and the architect plans his structure. The plan, especially when explained, reveals the worker. All intelligent work requires planning in order to be effective.”

The planned lesson is a form of insurance against rambling, incoherent, and verbalistic teaching periods [provided the plan is a good one]. Effective lesson planning conserves the teachers time and energy, and assures both teacher and supervisor that the subject matter has been considered from the teaching viewpoint.

•Ruediger, W. C., “Teaching Procedures" Houghton Mifflin Co., 1982.

Digitized by LjOOQle
40

The lesson plan must cover not only subject matter but also method or technique. The teacher gets the subject matter from the course of study, or basic text, or both. In some cases the unit of instruction or significant phase of content is organized into lesson assignments by the course makers. If this is not the case the burden of this important task falls on the teacher. All subject matter of a given course cannot be absorbed in one exposure. Furthermore, if such “chunk” learning were possible it would not be advisable in view of the fact that subject matter to be real must be carefully oriented to the pupil’s life practices, habits, attitudes, and skills. The “psychologic” approach makes this imperative.

Morrison** defines a unit of instruction [“learning unit”] as “any division of subject matter, large or small, that when mastered gives one an insight into, an appreciation of, or a mastery over, some aspect of life.” If we apply this to some junior high school health education material in, for example, the seventh grade, we might find the following units.

I.	Our Body Cells, and how they live, develop, and make tissue.

II.	Our Bony Framework—Its parts, purposes, and care.

III.	The Body’s Muscles, and how they help us move and live.

Whether we call these divisions “Topics” or “Units” is of

little matter except perhaps that for some of us the term “learning unit” has come to assume a more definite meaning. These units in turn must be split into their respective sub-topics or elements which Reudiger calls “functional aspects in the understanding of the larger unit.”

After having obtained a division of subject matter the planning teacher then formulates an aim for the unit, and aims for the subdivisions or sub-topics. These are usually called general aims and specific aims. The general aim relates to objectives of the whole unit of instruction, and the specific aim to the single lesson plan which covers one [or more] sub-topic or element.

Thus the general aim of the unit “The Body's Muscles and how they help us move and live” may be: “To create an interest and a desire for normal muscular development and to encourage the formation of health habits that foster this”.

One subdivision, element, or sub-topic would be “The Effects of Exercise on Our Muscles”. The specific aim of this could be: “To emphasize the importance of exercise as a factor in the development of our bodies.”

It should be kept in mind that both general and specific aims must be stated or understood by both pupils and teacher. This statement of aim should come logically at the beginning of the unit of learning and at the beginning of each lesson [subdivision].

The planning teacher is next concerned with the form that the plan is to take. For most experienced and successful teach-ers an abbreviated plan is sufficient. In this will appear the

♦♦Morrison, Henry, “The Practice of Teaching in the Secondary School".
41

aim, the content [brief], and the essential habits, skills, knowledge, etc. that the lesson should develop. Not much mention need be made of method, because the experienced teacher varies his technique easily whenever the nature of the subject matter and the objectives of the lesson make this necessary.

For the beginning teacher, the student teacher, and the teacher whose technique is ineffective or nomotonous the full and complete plan is excellent medicine.

NOTE: The elements and kinds of complete lesson plans will be considered in subsequent issues.

Health Certificate For Weddings. On March 27 the Delaware House of Representatives passed a bill requiring persons applying for marriage licenses to produce a physician’s certificate.

Variety of Causes Produce Cold Feet. Low Blood Supply May Be Due to Nerves. Heart, Anemia, Sclerosis.—The

causes of cold feet and poor circulation are discussed by Dr. Julian W. Brandeis in an article on “Cold Feet” in the March Hygeia.

Since poor circulation can depend on many causes, it is important, if relief is to be effected, to determine which of the following possible causes relates to a specific case:

1.	Cold feet often result from a reduction of the blood supply through a sudden narrowing of the arteries through stimulation of the nerves controlling them; anger or fear may be the stimulants.

2.	A similar, but permanent, effect may be produced by the nerves in cases of neurasthenia and hysteria.

3.	In arteriosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, there is a deposit of lime salts on the walls of the vessels, which blocks the flow of blood. This thickening of the arteries is linked with the advance of age, and the modem high pressure life including over eating, alcoholic indulgence and perhaps excessive use of tobacco. Syphilis and the poison of gout are other prime causes.

4.	The quality of the blood is as important as the quantity, and conditions such as anemia and chlorosis in which the amount of oxygen is reduced are accompanied by cold feet.

5.	If any severe defect of the heart, whether it involves the muscle or one of the valves, results in a sluggish flow of blood, it will cause the regions most remote from the heart to suffer.

FOOD SANITATION

By M. F. Wooten, Jr., Assistant Engineer, Stae Board of Health, North

Carolina.

Food affects health in many ways, and scientific knowledge of the subject is increasing continually. The vitamins, unbalanced diets, the effects of diet deficiencies, and overeating are ail

Digitized by Google
42

very important to the physician, dietitian, and nurse; but here we will confine ourselves to another aspect—the sanitation phase.

There are, primarily, about five agencies througih which food may cause suffering or death. These are:

1.	Animal parasites such as tapeworms and the trichina worms, which gain entrance to the human body through the eating of infected meat or fish which has not been cooked sufficiently to kill the immature worms.

2.	Bacteria, such as tuberculosis or typhoid in milk or typhoid in oysters or on lettuce or celery. All pathogenic organisms capable of being transmitted by foods are included here.

/	3. Toxins given off by certain bacteria growing in the food.

Under this heading botulism, or the disease caused by the B. botulinus, is the only one of any particular importance. However, in some instances, it is said that such organisms as, for example,	BhciUus paratyphoeus B will cause illness due to pre-

formed toxin.

4.	Poisons evolved during the process of putrefaction. These would include the so-called ptomaines. There are some authorities who contend that such poisonous compounds do not exist, and that such poisonings are due to the second and third groups mentioned above.

5.	Poisons placed in the foods for preserving purposes, coloring, adulteration, or entering by accident.

The Tapeworm a Food Parasite

The beef, pork, and fish tapeworms and the trichina worms are generally considered when speaking of the food parasites. Of these, the beef tapeworm [Taenia saginata] is the most common in the United States. It is not very dangerous except as a possible cause of anemia. The adult worms live in the intestines of man and give off eggs which leave with the feces. Cattle eating or drinking infected food or water will ingest the eggs, which mature in the intestines. From the intestines they enter the muscles and there encyst themselves to wait until the animal is slaughtered and the beef eaten. These cysts are also known as “measles” and are readily visible to the naked eye. It is quite safe to eat measly beef, provided it is well cooked.

The pork tapeworm [Taenia solium] is not so common in this country. It is quite similar to the beef worm except that it is transmitted by nogs rather than cattle, and the eggs which are given off by the adult worm may also hatch in the human intestines. This means that the larval worms will encyst themselves in the muscles. Should they choose the eye or brain for this, there may be serious results. For this reason the pork tapeworm is considered more dangerous than the beef worm. Thorough cooking will kill both.

The fish tapeworm [Dibothriocepha latus] causes severe anemia. It is very likely to occur among people who eat much fresh fish, particularly if it is eaten raw. The life cycle is differ-

Digitized by CjOOQle
43

ent from those tapeworms already mentioned, in that the adult lives in the human intestines and the eggs are in the feces and infect the water of rivers or bays. In the water, the eggs hatch into small motile embryos which at the first opportunity enter the body of a small crustacean [microscopic aquatic life —cyclops]. When the crustacean is eaten by a fish, the larva makes its way into the muscle tissue, there to wait until eaten by man. Adequate cooking of fish and proper sewage disposal are the preventive measures.

Trichinosis, which is caused by the trichina worms [Trichinella spiralis], occurs in this country, but is more common abroad. It is more common in countries having the custom of eating raw pork in sausage. The larvae also imbed themselves in the muscles in a similar manner to the tapeworms. The disease trichinosis only occurs if the infection is severe, and it is sometimes fatal. The movement of the worms into the muscles is accomapnied by intense pain, fever, and other symptoms. Infection is obtained only by eating infected meat. Hogs which have been fed on garbage containing pork scraps or slaughter-house refuse are likely to be infected. Here, again, thorough cooking will kill the worm. Also, pickling, salting, and smoking will kill them if it is thoroughly done. Cooking before eating is, however, the best insurance.

Avoid Infected Food

Under our second classification of agencies, bacteria, we include foods which are often or always eaten raw and certain other foods which are ready prepared or eaten without recooking. Lettuce, celery, milk, oysters, and a host of others are included under this. The sanitary surroundings of the source of production, packing, and handling, and the health and habits of the persons doing the handling, are items to be considered here. Also, we must always consider the source of the food. In the case of food products of animal origin, the contamination may be derived from a diseased animal. The flesh of animals suffering from septicemia and diarrhea or tuberculosis or certain other diseases may serve to transmit the organism to the consumer. Milk from tuberculous cattle may contain and transmit tubercle bacilli.

Another type of contamination may be seen by using the oyster as an example. Oysters eaten raw are often responsible for outbreaks of typhoid fever, although in recent years more rigid oyster sanitation regulations have been passed and are being enforced.

Oysters become infected from the water in which they are grown or during the processes of handling, shucking, packing, or shipping. The menace of contaminated oysters is increasing with increased pollution of coastal waters, particularly of the bays and estuaries in which the oyster beds are located. Since oysters require only a moderately saline water, the oyster-producing areas are necessarily located near the mouth of rivers.
44

And since many cities are located near river mouths and discharge their sewage untreated, the danger is apparent.

Many gallons of water pass through the oyster in a day in feeding. From these gallons of water, coli and possibly B. typhosus may be accumulated either in the alimentary canal or in the shell liquor. The feeding and other life processes of the oyster slow down materially in cold weather, and the oyster tends to cleanse itself of bacteria. For this reason oysters are usually of better quality in the winter.

The sanitation of shucking and packing plants involves the use of clean water, safe toilets, general cleanliness, and health certificates for the workmen. The shucked oysters should be shipped in sterilized containers, with a separate container for ice. Both the shucked and shell oysters should be kept between freezing and 50 deg. F all during shipping.

Botulism and Putrefaction

Our third classification has to do only with the disease caused by the B. botulinus, or botulism, so far as is now known. This disease is not very common in the United States, but is some what more prevalent in Europe. The causative organism is widespread in soils, hence it may very easily get into foods. Careful cleansing and thorough cooking of the food is important. The bacillus may infect canned meats, sausage, or vegetables, and is most likely to be encountered in home-canned foods, thereby showing the effects of underheating. Only about one-tenth of all reported cases have been due to foods processed in factories. There are probably a large number of unrecognized cases, since heating the food involved appears to have some neutralizing effect upon the poison and causes the case to be very mild.

The infected foods usually, but not always, show signs of spoilage. Therefore, extreme care must be taken that no apparently spoiled foods are consumed. In the case of botulithic infection very small amounts of the food are dangerous; even tasting has resulted fatally.

Next, we have the poisons evolved during the process of putrefaction. The decomposition of food includes fermentation and putrefaction. The former is the breaking down of carbohydrates with the formation of alcohol, acids, carbon dioxide, and other products. Putrefaction is accompanied by unpleasant odors. Neither of these processes poisons food. As a matter of fact, they are utilized in the making of bread, butter, cheese, and many other food products. Ptomaines and other products are formed during decomposition, but very few of them are poisonous. Certain authorities on the subject are agreed that the so-called ptomaine poisoning does not exist, and that it is infected rather than decomposed food that is dangerous.

The term “food infection” is here applied to a rarely fatal disorder, accompanied by vomiting, cramps, diarrhea, and fever, which is caused by bacillus enteritidis or kindred organisms of tbe colon-typhoid group. These bacteria may occur in any kind of food, meat, fish, or vegetables, which has become infected,

Digitized by t^ooQle
45

although they most commonly cause trouble in food which has been preserved in some manner, thereby giving the organism an opportunity to multiply. Sickness from this source may be prevented by thorough cooking of all foods, which kills the bacteria and also their toxins; by keeping foods clean and fresh, by storing in refrigerators at temperatures at or very near to freezing; and in the case of preserved or pickled foods, being sure that the brine or other preserving agent is strong enough to inhibit bacterial growth.

Poisoning of canned foods from the container is not likely. Cans are usually made of sheet-iron coated with tin. The tin, if free from other metals, especially lead, will do no harm to the contents, even though the acids of tomatoes, various fruits, shrimps, etc., are rather active in dissolving it. Tin, however, is not very poisonous and, unlike lead, is not cumulative in the system; the small amounts ingested in canned foods are immediately eliminated. Some authorities insist that canned foods are the safest foods that come to our tables.

Proper Supervision Will Protect Heart of Athlete.—After studying the athletes from ten colleges over a period of years after their graduation, the investigators from an insurance company were disappointed because they did not find that athletes and former athletes were always the healthiest men of the nation. They found that over-indulgence in athletics, especially when not supervised by trained medical men, had a marked effect on the heart.

“The results of these investigations should be taken seriously,” Alfred E. Parker says in “Training for Athletics and Health” in the April Hygeia. “If you are not under the supervision of a good coach, if each year before competing in athletic events you have a thorough examination by a physician, you have little to fear as to your physical condition in future years. Under such supervision your body will undoubtedly benefit in strength and endurance.”

Physical Examination Should Precede Any Program of Exercise.—“In embarking on any program of body exercise the following points should invariably be considered,” Dr. Richard Kovacs says in an article on “Exercise” in the April	:

“1. A careful, complete preliminary physical examination by an experienced physician is necessary in order to ascertain the exact condition of the body and to guard against the dangers that exercise may bring if organic disease is present. The heart, lungSj kidneys and feet must receive special attention in this examination.

“2. Whenever it is possible, a trained medical adviser should select the kind of exercises that are best adapted to individual

News Notes and Comments
46

requirements. In the presence of real defects special exercises should be carried out under trained supervision.

“3. For persons without previous physical training, calisthenics, or formal gymnastic exercises, are advisable at the outset. Games and athletics should follow after the strength, en-urance and agility of the individual have been sufficiently developed.

“4. Exercises should be kept up with absolute regularity so as to become part of the daily habits of life. A few minutes systematic daily exercise is usually preferable to week-end sports of a strenuous nature that may result only in sore muscles and headaches on Monday.”

Compensation For Service In Connection With Afterschool Athletics.—Dr. Charles C. Wilson, Director of the Department of Health and Physical Education, Evansville Public Schools, Indiana, writes: “Fron the information received in response to questions presented to the supervisors of health and physical education in forty-four cities of the United States, the following conclusions may be drawn: [I] The general practice is to pay physical education teachers according to the same schedule as used for teachers of other subjects. [2] Thirty-nine [out of forty-four] cities do not make any provision for compensating teachers for developing intramural programs. [3] Twenty-three [out of forty-four] cities do not make provision for compensating teachers for developing interscholastic programs. Thirteen compensate for this work by paying additional sums and eight by adjusting the teacher’s schedule. [4] The majority of supervisors are of the opinion that there should be some compensation for after-school work in connection with intramural work, twelve believing in paying additional money and eleven suggesting either money or decreased school time schedule. [5] The majority of supervisors favor compensation for after-school work in connection with representative teams. Fourteen [out of fortyfour] suggest adjusting the teacher’s school time teaching load and eleven recommend the payment of additional money.”

RECREATION CONFERENCE AT MASSACHUSETTS STATE

COLLEGE.

Over one hundred winter sports enthusiasts attended the Outdoor Recreation Section of the three-day Recreation Conference held Saturday afternoon, March 17, 1934, at the Massachusetts State College. Following the introductory remarks by Professor Ralph Van Meter, chairman of the Recreation Conference, Miss Harriette Aull, instructor of physical education at Smith College, told of the work being done at Smith College in promoting winter sports.

Kenneth D. Cuddeback, a former Dartmouth Outing Club skier, led a very interesting discussion on Western Massachusetts ski trails. One of the outcomes of Mr. Cuddeback's talk was the

Digitized by v^ooQle
47

recommendation that a Western Massachusetts Winter Sports Committee be formed. This committee was suggested for the purpose of instituting a program for stimulating Western Massachusetts communities in developing winter sports facilities and to study the need for winter sports education, information, and publicity for Western Massachusetts.

Basil B. Wood, librarian at Massachusetts State College, gave one of his inimitable talks on recreational walking, hiking, and tramping. Mr. Wood recommended very strongly that the Massachusetts State College be asked to make an approach to the proper use of leisure time problem by establishing an outdoor laboratory for a study of recreation in and around Amherst, including Mt. Toby and its environment.

Historical walks was the subject discussed by Mrs. Clifton Johnson of Hadley, author and lecturer. Mrs. Johnson emphasized the fact that while trails were being laid over the tops of the mountains that some of our historical places of interest should be kept in the valleys, in order that when hikers looked down from the hill tops there might be worth while things to see. Mrs. Johnson suggested that whatever agencies possible should be interested in putting up signs on historical and interesting spots in Western Massachusetts.

Ernest Hermann, superintendent of playgrounds in Newton, Massachusetts, and director of the Sargent School of Physical Education of Boston University, was the last speaker of the afternoon. He gave a very instructive and worth while talk on the value of winter sports programs and the organization, care and maintenance of the winter sports. Mr. Hermann called attention to some of the other forms of winter sports, emphasizing particularly the values in figure skating, sledding, and tobogganing as family recreations.

Other meetings at the conference were held for golf green-keepers, golf professionals, foresters, and landscape foremen of C. C. C. camps, and for hunters and fishermen. At the final meeting. President Hugh P. Baker announced that the conference will be held again next year.

Supervision In Elementary Schools

Physical education has suffered its most drastic cuts in connection with elementary school supervision. This is unfortunate because in most elementary schools the program is conducted by the regular classroom teachers who are in greatest need of supervisory guidance and assistance.

FOREIGN NOTES

Facilities to Keep Fit.—Referring to physical exercise, H. R. H. the Prince of Wales remarked, “There are still many dubs which have no proper facilities for keeping their members fit or for outdoor games. Here again there must be places where

Digitized by kjOOQle
48

the difficulty can be overcome. It has been done on my Ducfan property at the Oval, where the Surrey County Cricket Clufl have placed part of the ground at the disposal of the unemployed in Lambeth for physical exercise, and one of the dressing-room! is used as a club-room in the evening. There are plenty of uglw corners about that could well be improved in this way.”	1

“And, last but not least, the question of camping. About 80l camp were held last year, and I saw in one that I visited howH much it was appreciated. Cannot every town have its camp this summer?. . . “We must not be content until we have good clubs! everywhere so equipped that those who need them can fold opportunities for friendship, occupation and recreation; where the day can be spent usefully in times of unemployment, or leisure spent with advantage after working hours.”—Phys.	Hy.,

England.

Gymnastics in the National Life of Sweden. The 1934 Year Book of the newly formed National Association for the Advancement of Gymnastics [Riksfoereningens for Gymnastikens Fraemjande] tells the story of gymnastics in Sweden, viewed from all angles. This is a book prepared for the general public. It deals with interesting features, and covers the whole field of personal and home hygiene, and compulsory and voluntary physical recreation—for the Swedes include much more under the heading of gymnastics than we usually do.

The voluntary gymnastic movement on a large scale is quite recent. But so energetic has its promotion been latterly, that the number of enrolled members of the Swedish Gymnastic Association has risen from 8,000 to 110,000 in the last 15 years. When one considers the total population of Sweden, the country’s figuration and distribution of people, the growth of organised voluntary gymnastics is remarkable—for side by side there has been an increasing interest in all forms of sports and games, and people of limited leisure and pocket are necessarily restricted as to the extent of their spare-time activities.

The Year Book can be had from the offices of the Swedish Gymnastic Association, Kungsholms Hamnplan 2, Stockholm, Price Kr. 5.—Phys. Edu. & Sch. Hy., England.

Individual Differences—A symposium on “The Analysis of the Individual,” prepared by twelve of the outstanding psychologists of the United States and Great Britain uuder the editorship of Donald G. Paterson, appears in tne April issue of “Occupations, the Vocational Guidance Magazine.”

Single copies may be purchased at fifty cents, postpaid, from National Occupational Conference, 522 Fifth Avenue, New

BOOK REVIEWS

Fred E. Foertsch

York.

Digitized by CjOOQle