MIND AND BODY

Vet. 29	SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER,	1922	No.	311

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mian.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, /p/d, at the postoffice at Netv Ulmy Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

Original articles

AND REPRINT^

OBJECTIVES OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION* *.

BY CLARK W. HETHERINGTON, NEW YORK.

Physical education is a phase of general education, and its objectives should be interpreted in terms of the objectives of education as a whole. The difficulty with this effort is that physical education adds special and new objectives to the old objectives of the school. Every new activity absorbed into the school curriculum expands the objectives of school education.

One of the striking facts about the history of education is that it presents a long series of the ideas of thinkers about education, and of analyses of school practices. Relatively little is said about the education which went on outside the school; yet the vital phases of education went on in the home and in the social life of the community. The school arose to teach the written language. This took but a few hours for a

Note:	A	section of a Program in Physical Education published by

the World Book Company, Yonkers, N. Y.

* Read at the District Convention of the American Physical Education Association.

Digitized by CjOOQie
194

few months through a few years. The education outside the school went on through the total waking hours, three hundred and sixty-five days of the year, and through the succession of the years of life. Gradually the school has taken over, one by one, these home and community activities, and has elaborated and systematized them for school ends. Each addition has changed the total aims of school education.

Now that the old physical education of the home and the community is being organized as a school function, the aims of school education require another revision: they must include the values inherent in the nature of physical-training. These inherent values are not given in the same form by any other activity in life; yet they are part of the total aims of education.

Therefore, the objectives of physical education must be stated on a background of education as a whole, from five standpoints:

A.	The immediate objectives in the organization and the leadership of child life as expressed in big-muscle activities.

B.	The remote objectives in adult social adjustment and efficiency.

C.	The objectives in development, or the changes in capacities, necessary to realize the adjustment.

D.	The objectives in social standards as applied to the activities, the development and the adjustment.

E.	The objectives in the control of health conditions.

Each of these will be considered in order.

A. The first and immediate objective of physical education is the organization of child life as expressed in big-muscle or physical-training activities. The organization of child life is the first aim of any phase of education controlling a natural activity. In this objective the adult leader and the children meet on common ground. It is the starting point in organized education.

Although children tend to enter into big-muscle activities, and all play activities, spontaneously, they need adult leadership. This need of adult leadership continues up through childhood and youth. The condition of American intercollegiate athletics indicates what follows the neglect of leadership even in the college age. Social and traditional forms of play are always led either by older and experienced children or by adults. Leadership in physical-training activities has always been a natural function of adults, except as asceticism and puritanism have eliminated it from among dignified avocations. Only recently, through the play movements, has the function gained recognition in America. It gained recognition because the influences of an adult organization of society were destroying the opportunity for, and the efficiency of, children’s spontaneous play life. The cramp of the city and the isolation of the country are symptoms of many influences which were making children’s play inefficient.

The big-muscle play life of children cannot progress normally without adult leadership. To some extent, children will educate themselves in their natural activities if they are merely supervised so they will not destroy themselves. The spontaneous or play activities are the primary

Digitized by booQle
195

source of all education; but even in these, children require and they demand adult leadership. Little children cry for help, and they ask questions. These are instinctively driven appeals for help or for leadership. Even in the most spontaneous big-muscle play activities, problems or difficulties arise which are beyond the children's imagination or resources for solution; and unless they have a co-operating adult leadership the play and the education therein break down. This discouragement in projects is the daily tragedy of child life. The leading-on of the child's interest to the solution of the problem, and to the resultant satisfaction, is the function of adult leadership.

Big-muscle activities naturally consume large amounts of time. They continue through the three hundred and sixty-five days of the year, all through childhood and youth. A large part of child life is centered in them. Yet social conditions in the homes and in the community life of most children are all set against an efficient organization of these activities. Schools are demanding increasing amounts of the time of children, and larger numbers of children are being brought together in school. Hence the big-muscle play is being centered in the school. In these crowded play centres a democratic organization of play is beyond the imagination of children. It is an adult function. Therefore, the first objective of physical education is to make this play life efficient.

B. The second point of view in considering objectives is social adjustment. Social adjustment is the remote objective of education. The race has built a complex mass of customs in performing the functions of life. These are adult adjusting activities. Thus we have several great groups of adjusting activities and customs: economic, defensive, domestic, communicative, civic, interpretive, artistic, and recreative. Every ,child born into any community must become adjusted, in some degree, during childhood and youth, to these adult ways of living. The process is slow.

Adjustments are largely gained by entering into the specific adjusting activities of adult life. Children enter into these activities gradually, and as gradually gain adjustment. But they go through years of growth, and they spend huge amounts of time in activities which have no direct specific relationship whatever to adult adjustment. Thus, although some adolescent physical-training activities contribute directly and specifically to several phases of adult adjustment, like protective and recreative skills, most of the activities make no direct contribution to any phase of adult social adjustment. These activities must be learned,^ but they are not learned because they are to be used in adult life. Children do not do stunts on the apparatus or play tag because these are to be used in adult life. These activities have no serious place in adult life, yet they consume a large amount of time in child life. Children do not engage in folk games, nor even ir^ athletic or water activities, because these activities are to be carried over into the adult functions of life; and adults do not teach these activities for that purpose.

All these activities are pure developers of latent powers. They are spontaneous play activities. They arise out of growth needs, and are determined in form by growing instinct tendencies and emotions, as expressed through the big-muscle mechanisms. In this exercise of the in-

Digitized by Google
196

stincts and the emotions children gain great satisfaction. The activities consume large amounts of time because they meet fundamental growth needs and are so satisfying. Their values for adults are not in the “carry over” of the activities, but in the development resulting from the activities. They are part of Nature’s scheme of developing abilities which make it possible for children to enter into adult adjusting activities.

Physical-training activities, then, develop a great range of powers which gradually establish the capacity for the specific activities of adjustment. They are the developmental foundation of adult efficiency in any phase of adjustment. This must be shown by a consideration of the developmental objectives.

C.	The third standpoint in considering objectives is the development of latent powers or capacities. The development of personal capacity is the immediate objective of education. Children go through a long period of growth, engage in a vast variety of activities, and thus develop latent capacities. The results of this developmental process are accumulative. Changes take place in behavior and in the functional capacities of the organism, which must be analyzed from four standpoints: (1) The development of the instinct mechanisms; (2) The development of the intellectual mechanisms; (3) The development of the neuro-muscular mechanisms; and (4) The development of the organic mechanisms. These phases of development will be considered in order.

1.	The development of the instinct mechanisms. Activities arise out of hungers and out of instinct tendencies to respond to certain situations. The tendencies to respond are developed through results in satisfactions or in annoyances. The end products are character traits. The process in development is a building of a great mass of desires, impulse habits, ideas, and ideals. The quality of the traits developed is determined by leadership and judged by social standards. These traits are the objectives of education in the field of character and morals.

All activities have character training values according to the instinct tendencies they exercise. The worth of any activity for character discipline is determined primarily by the nature of the instincts and the emotions exercised. Some activities are better for the development of certain traits; others are better for the development of different traits.

The values of physical education in character training bulk large, because natural big-muscle activities are the outcroppings of the most fundamental instincts and emotions in human nature.

To illustrate: The activities, or stunts, on the ground or on the apparatus of the playground or of the gymnasium, are all self-testing activities, and exercise the deep instinct tendencies which drive to. a mastery of the big-muscle motor mechanisms of the body. There are also, manual, vocal and sensory self-experimentations; but the character and the moral challenge in these is not so great. The hundreds of chasing-fleeing-tag games are all dramatizations of situations in the social relationships of children, which exercise the old racial instincts and emotions of hunting, attacking, fleeing, escaping, etc., in the acquisition of goods and in the protection of the self,—that is, in getting food, and in keeping from becoming food, or from being destroyed by human enemies. As such, they express in the social relationships of children the deepest
197

instincts of human nature. These instinct tendencies have no comparable exercise in any other activity of child life.

Again, athletics are big-muscle, social, fighting plays. By the word ‘"athletics” is meant all forms of big-muscle competition in which all boys and girls engage, not interschool athletics alone. They involve (a) a social relationship between two or more individuals, which expresses the social instincts and emotions. This relationship (b) is centered in a contest which exercises the fighting-instinct mechanisms and emotions. In the contest (c) egoistic feelings are at stake, which is indicated by the anticipation of the outcome of the contest and by the final elation or depression. Thus, athletics exercise deep, powerful, social, fighting and egoistic tendencies and emotions.

In a similar manner the other natural physical-training activities might be analyzed. In the activities character traits are developed. Human character is fundamentally an expression of the instincts exercised. Social life cannot go on a minute without an expression of them. In the activities they are developed inevitably. The development is ini herent in the nature oj the activities. The form of the development determines the fundamental qualities of any character. Physical, education gives this development; its most inspiring objective is to determine the quality of the development.

The essential thing to recognize in this connection, therefore, is that, in physical-training activities, the deepest, most powerful instinct, tendencies and emotions of human nature are exercised. This is important, since a great deal of uncritical popular material has been written in recent years concerning the character development and the moral training which take place in physical-training activities. The traits developed have been expressed frequently in terms of the old abstract, or formal moral education, viz., “initiative,” “honesty,” “co-operation,” “selfsubordination to the leader,” “loyalty to the group,” and so on through the whole category of virtues. Now, these qualities undoubtedly appear in the activities; and they may or may not have some relationship to similarly named qualitites in adult social life. (Educators object to the terms because they suggest a transfer of training.) But the essential points to understand are:	(a)	that there are growing human tendencies

being exercised, and (b) the exercise of them may be at either end of, or at any stage between the extremes of inspiring fineness and utter viciousness. If there is self-subordination to a leader (and there frequently is), it may be to an extremely bad leader as well as to a noble leader. If there are loyalty and co-operation (and there frequently are), they may be to a bad organization and in a bad cause, as well as the best of these. Character traits are exercised, but they are exercised for good or for ill.

The expressions of character or of morals may be good or bad, hence the development tends to be good or bad according to the leadership. The leader sets the standards. In no other activity does adult leadership have greater moral power. In this leadership we have a laboratory method in moral education. It is a foundation method on which the more refining activities may build. Character and moral training, therefore is an essential developmental objective of physical education.	It arises

Digitized by
198

out of the inherent nature of the activities. The quality of the traits developed depends on the leadership supplied by physical education.

2. The development of intellectual mechanisms. Physical-training activities must be learned; hence there must be thinking or an exercise of the intellectual function and an acquisition of information.

The primary learning process in the activities is centered in mastering the co-ordinations of the big-muscle groups of the body, and in adjusting these co-ordinations to the situations of the environment. This learning of co-ordinations begins in the early movements of locomotion, #. e.y in learning to sit up, to creep, stand, walk, run, climb; it continues in the great variety of stunts on playground and gymnastic apparatus, in handling big objects, in games, in athletics, in swimming, etc. These co-ordinations are made in relationship to the shifting situations of the environment.

There are several other forms of motor learning, such as the use of the hand in the fine manual activities, and the use of the vocal mechanism in oral communication, or in singing. All this learning of co-ordinations involves thinking. Mental connections or bonds are made; habits are formed; skills are established. In this way the capacity to think and to will the movements of the body is established. It is the source of motor skill and of motor will power in adjustment.

In the adjustments of the movements to the shifting situations of the environment, there is alertness of attention, thinking to size-up the situation, judgment and response. The lightning-like rapidity of these strategic judgments are conspicuous in such games as basketball and football; but they are just as essential in a lesser degree in every game. These activities develop straUgi■: judgment: habit in thinking. Skill in strategic judgment is the source of personal “safety first’* motor efficiency. Athletes are not run down by automobiles and street cars. It is also an essential element in the industrial adaptability and recreative resourcefulness of adults.

The information acquired in the learning of these big-muscle activities is of two kinds. The less important, though fundamentally essential for the activities themselves, is the knowledge of the physical characteristics of the environment and of the paraphernalia used in the activities. The more important knowledge is the insight gained into human nature. The natural physical-training activities are very intensive social experiences. They are expressions of human nature; they are experiments with human nature. In the actions and the re-actions of children in their play relationships, ideas and habits of judgment about human nature are acquired.

While other and higher reaches of insight into human nature are gained through the specialized linguistic and social activities, for the majority of children the more fundamental insights are gained through big-muscle play. All children engage in these activities; they bulk large in time consumed. Judgment of human nature is part of that profoundly important knowledge and skill which contributes to all phases of personal social efficiency requiring ability to deal with human nature.

It should be noted that the development of the capacities to think and to will big-muscle co-ordinations, and to make the strategic judgments

Digitized by Tooele
i99

and to judge human nature as described, are inherent in the nature of physical-training activities. Participation in the activities automatically develops the capacities, and the quality of development depends on leadership.

3.	The development of neuro-muscular mechanisms and nervous power. In learning big-muscle or physical-training activities, nervous connections are made and muscle tissues developed. In the repetition of the activities, strengths and skills are developed. This is the source of all the developed prowess, skill and grace of the athlete, gymnast, swimmer, dancer. It is viewing the learning process from the standpoint of the results on the muscular and the nervous structure and functions. This development is frequently referred to as neuro-muscular development, as the mechanisms of behavior are muscle-nerve structure. It may also be called menti-motor or psycho-motor development. All such special habits and skills as posture and carriage are phases of this general psycho-motor development.

The development of muscular tissue is in itself of importance. But the nervous development is of chief importance. The nervous system carries the burdens of modern civilization. Nervous development means building power for action out of the latent inherited resources in the nervous system. The development is gained only through muscular exercise.

Objection has been made to the development of large muscles, since our civiliaztion does not require great muscular strength. This is a sociological argument without an understanding of the relationship between muscular development and nervous development. Natural muscular development is a symbol of nervous development and power. The nervous centers controlling the muscles can be developed only through exercising them by exercising the muscles. A thorough development of the big muscles means an equal development of the nervous centers controlling these muscles.

Every group of muscles has a group of nervous centers controlling it. There are nervous centers which control the big muscles of the trunk and of the limbs; and there are nervous centers which control the small muscles of the manual mechanism or of the vocal mechanism. For the development of nervous powers, the values of big-muscle activities are of first importance. The manual and the vocal mechanisms are relatively small. In the big-muscle activities all the nervous centers of the spinal column, the medulla, the cerebellum, the basal ganglin and the motor centers of the cortex, are involved and developed-—all except those centers controlling the finer integrations of the fingers, the vocal and sensory mechanisms.

This development is the source of all the fundamental strengths and skills; but, much more important, it is the source of developed nervous vitality and staying powrer. Every normally developed nervous center means so much nerve power and capacity to endure. The learning of a series of movements gives the power to think and to will the movements. The repetition of the movements to the point of developed strength and skill integrates the body as a powerful organ of the will in these movements.

Digitized by
200

This nervous power in the big neuro-muscular mechanisms is the source of nervous efficiency for action in all phases of adult adjustment, ft gives special adaptabilities in protective, recreative and vocational •efficiencies, the nerves controlling the big muscles evolved to carry the burdens of life and to support the nervous centers making the finer coordinations. Civilization is throwing the burden of activity on the finer ♦muscles and the nervous centers controlling them—even on the higher associative centers. The big muscles and the controlling nervous centers have relatively little exercise in present-day adult life. On the development of them during childhood and youth, a large part of the physical efficiency problem of civilization depends.

The degree of the development of nervous power in any individual is determined, within the limits of heredity, by the variety, amount and intensity of the activities during the years of growth. Nature gives the impulses for the proper amount of activity in the repetition of play. A boy throws a baseball ten thousand times in order to learn to throw it effectively. So it is with each activity. Through infinite repetition, the nervous centers controlling movements are developed. Thus nervous power is developed, and it is developed in no other way.

Nervous development must be gained through continuous activity during the whole period of childhood and youth. It cannot be gained after maturity, and it cannot be gained in any one year or group of years in either childhood or youth. No process of training can give the boy of eight the development possible to a boy of eighteen. And no training will give the boy of eighteen the development that should naturally be his, if the training of previous years has been neglected. The growth order in the child must be observed, and the normal development natural to each age must be secured. Not only does development require activity at each age, it requires also huge amounts of this activity. It is mosfapt to be neglected after the onset of adolescence.

It should be noted that these aims of physical education in the development of strength and skill and related nervous development are primarily educational; yet they have an important health value in the power and the stability of the nervous functions. This building of strength and skill and power in the fundamental integrating nervous centers the body is an essential objective of physical education.

4. Organic development. In big-muscle activities the organs and the functions of nutrition and elimination are developed; in a word, nutritive power is developed. Synonyms of organic power are vitality, vigor, capacity to assimilate food and to expend great energy in work or in play, with a slow onset of fatigue or with a rapid recuperation. These powers indicate a development of the circulatory mechanism, respiratory mechanism, digestive mechanism, heat-regulating mechanism, the elimina-ing mechanism, and the nutritive processes in general. The development of these general organic powers, latent within the hereditary possibilities of the organism, depends on vigorous activities.

The functional source of organic development is the combustion in the muscles and the nervous centers during activity; and the value of big-muscle activities for this development is in the amount of the combustion. In the vocal and manual activities the combustion in the muscles

Digitized by ^ooQie
201

and the nervous centers used causes an increase in local circulation. Out of the exercise of these local nutritive changes is developed the great vocal endurance of the public singer or speaker, and the great manual endurance of the pianist or of the typist. In these cases, however, the amount of combustion is not sufficient to heighten appreciably the general circulation or respiration.

On the other hand, in big-muscle activities (running, for example), the bulk of muscles involved and the amount of combustion are so great that the call for oxygen and the elimination of waste products causes a greatly increased junctional activity of the circulatory, respiratory and heat-regulating mechanisms, and soon of the digestive mechanism. The well-recognized signs of this heightened functional activity in vigorous big-muscle activities are the heart throbbing, the panting, the heat or the sweating, and the later increased appetite, assimilation and elimination. Increased muscular activity causes increased organic activity.

This development of organic power begins in the squirming and random movements of the infant, and continues in the creeping, walking running about, and in all the vigorous stunts, plays and games of childhood and youth.

Although we have, generally speaking, no volitional control over the organic functions, by controlling the intensity and the duration of big-muscle activity we can control indirectly and to a fine degree the heightened functional activity or exercise of the organic mechanisms and nutritive processes. In this way we control the development of organic powrer. The process is well illustrated by the training of the athlete. For example, the distance of the run, or the amount of big-muscle activity, is determined from day to day, and thus the amount of activity, or exercise, of the organic mechanisms is determined. In the popular jargon we “run with our hearts” and “breathe with our legs.” More, in this process we control the amount of assimilation. The athlete, according to his temperament, loses weight each day and gains it back by the next day. This recovery of weight without left-over fatigue is the chief guide in “training,” or the conditioning process. As the food for this recovery of weight must come from the digestive mechanism the process involves a tremendous heightening of the nutritive functions. They are exercised to meet large demands and are thus developed. The results in development are inherent in the nature of the activities. If the activities are engaged in, the result in development naturally follows.

The leadership of big-muscle activities to gain indirectly the exercises of organic functions, and thus the development of organic power, is an educational procedure, i. e., an organization of activities for educational ends. It establishes organic habits. The process is organic education. It is as accurate an educational procedure as learning to read or to write. In some ways it can be more accurately determined.

Organic development (apart from the local development associated with vocal and manual skills) is purely the product of big-muscle activities, and thus the undivided function of physical education. The power is essential for efficiency in every phase of life adjustment; and it is a power which must be gained by the accumulative stimulation of nutrition all

Digitized by tjOOQle
202

through childhood and youth. Organic development or education is therefore an essential aim of physical education.

Here is where physical education makes a direct contribution to health. It develops organic power, vitality, vigor: the developmental source of health. This developmental process alone, however, does not guarantee health. There are several other factors which influence health, chief of which are sleep and rest, diet, and avoidance of infection. Yet activity is the only source of organic power this side of heredity. All the other factors are favorable or unfavorable to the proper functioning of the organism—that is, to growth or to health. Activity is the only source of the development of the latent powers planted in the organism by heredity.

It is important to note also that physical education in its direct interest in organic development must emphasize the educational rather than the health objective. This is because (a) physical-training activities, if they are effective for children and for youth, require a special educational organization of facilities and leadership; because (b) the children’s interests in the activities as educational achievements give the only school means of fostering a self-directing control of health habits through the “training” or the conditioning process; and because (c) exercise has a health value in adult life in maintaining nutritive efficiency, and adults with a refined egotism insist on applying adult hygienic standards to children.

The last point is important. According to popular standards, twenty minutes of exercises a day is sufficient for adult health. Adults apply this standard to children. Note our State laws. Experience has shown, however, that children of the elementary school age (if they are to gain the development necessary for efficient citizenship) need between four and five hours of exercise or big-muscle activities each day, and children of the high-school age need between two and three hours. The difference between the two to five hours for children and the twenty minutes for adults indicates the difference in importance between the educational junction in developing power through th£ years of childhood and youths on the one hand, and the hygienic function in maintaining efficiency after maturity, on the other hand. Organic education, as here defined, is the most fundamental of all phases of education.

In summarizing these objectives in development it should be noted that the four phases of the learning and developmental process enumerated, include all capacities in the development of human nature. To emphasize the significance of activity in growth and development, a distinc- -tion should be made between the words growth and development.

Growth (in this differentiated sense) is the prodcut of the hereditary momentum started at conception. It drives on to the completion of the structural and functional type latent in the germ plasm; i. e., the height proportions, color response tendencies. Development (in this differentiated sense) is the product of activity which arouses or stimulates latent resources in the growing cells of the organs and systems of organs to functional activity. It is the change of potential possibilities into realized abilities. Given the essentials of food, sleep, freedom from infection and sufficient exercise to keep the neuro-muscular tissues alive, and the growth processes

Digitized by i^ooQie
203

drive on towards the completion of the hereditary type; but there will be no development of the various latent capacities in the organism without a broad variety and intense quality of play and work. In these specialized senses, the growth tendencies and possibilities are primarily hereditary matters, influenced favorably or handicapped by the environment: development, on the contrary, is essentially the product of the developmental activities of play and work and an educational matter. Developmental activity is the sole means of education.

It has been shown that the big-muscle activities give the fundamental part of the development in each group of capacities. On these developed powers, all phases of adult social adjustment depend, directly or indirectly. Other activities develop the powers for the finer co-ordinations and adjustments in life. The latter are more specific in their adjusting values than the big-muscle activities. The differences are due primarily to the inherent values of the different activities for development. In a word, it may be said that physical-training activities give the broad, bulky foundation aims of education. On these, all the rest of education and life adjustment is built as a refining superstructure. Other values and corresponding objectives flow out of the opportunities which these activities give for a leadership in standards.

(d) The fourth point of view in considering objectives is social standards. Standards are the idealizing objectives of education. Society has created and is still creating criteria for judging every phase of human behavior and every trait in development or in adjustment. An individual may gain economic independence as a gambler, a quack or a shyster. He may amass information without any truth. He may gain organic development, neuro-muscular skills, and impulsive and emotional development, and be unhealthy, awkward, and a “mucker/*

Standards, as objectives in education, are criteria for guiding all activities which give development or adjustment, and for judging the results. By them the quality of the activities, the development and the adjustment is evaluated. They are not different or separate activities from the activities which give development or adjustment. They function only as they are used to guide and to evaluate these activities, or the educational results of the activities. Further, the development and the adjustment are inherent in the specific values of different activities. The quality of the development and the adjustment, on the contrary, is due to the way the activities are guided by a standardizing leadership.

To classify standards on the same level with developmental or adjusting activities, or with the results in development or adjustment, leads to confused thinking. Standards are overhead objectives. They are on a higher level and apply to all other objectives. They require the establishment of another tier of habits, ideas and attitudes in control of the habits, ideas and attitudes being developed as results of the inherent values of the activities.

This distinction is important, because children tend to enter spon. taneously into activities, and with satisfaction they drive on to some kind of development and some form of adjustment. But they are not directly interested in adult standards. They learn standards only through

Digitized by Google
204

a painstaking standardizing leadership. The leader is apt to get lost in the concrete leadership of the activities and to forget the standards.

Physical education has objectives in three great groups of standards in addition to a number of technical standards like posture and carriage. These broad objectives are in morals, manners and health.

Because of the values of physical training activities in the exercise of fundamental character traits, physical education must set up the proper moral habits, ideas and attitudes which should come out of the leadership of the activities, and formulate a teaching technique to build them. The same is true of manners or of courtesy. This is applying standards to the development of the instinct mechanisms.

Health is a condition of the organism which is conserved or promoted by building standard habits, ideas and attitudes in control of the activities which give direct satisfaction: e. g., eating, sleep, elimination, etc. Because physical education organizes and leads activities which are the chief developmental source of health, and because these activities focus the interest of children on physical condition, the leader of the activities is in a key position to establish health habits. It should be remembered, however, that there are other phases of the curriculum concerned with health such as biology, home economics, civics, etc.

In connection with standards as objectives it should be noted that citizenship is the great correlating objective of education. When analyzed however, as an objective, citizenship breaks up into the several phases of development and adjustment enumerated above, judged according to social standards. Citizenship cannot be achieved by some separate or artificial scheme of activities. It is realized through the natural activities, which give the several phases of development and the several phases of adjustment guided according to social standards. It is the correlating ideal of democracy for guiding all the activities and all development and adjustment. To realize standards in education, all the actions and the leadership of teachers must be saturated with the overhead objectives.

Physical education contributes to this citizenship objective just in proportion as the inherent values of the activities, which it controls contribute to the development of capacities or adjustments necessary for citizenship; and just in proportion as the activities and their values give the leader a strategic opportunity to establish standard habits, ideas or attitudes in any phase of behavior.

5.	The fifth point of view in considering objectives is the control of health conditions. This health control, or supervision, as an objective of the school, is quite in contrast to the educational objectives. It is the protective and preventive function of the school in order that the educational process may go on without handicapping influences.

Health control, however, is an essential function of the teacher. Every teacher must look after the safety and the health of children. The teacher is the one essential officer in the school, and the professional substitute for the parent. Where the school is departmentally organized, and the responsibilities in teaching different activities somewhat divided the bulk of the responsibility for health control rests on the departmental instructor in physical education. The educational values of the activities carry with them the necessity of health control. The overhead super-
205

vision of this control is an administrative problem, not a problem of objectives, it need not be considered here. With reference to this administration, however, it should be observed, that these analyses of objectives show how utterly administrators miss the essence of the educative process when they attempt to set up departments of morals or health or citizenship as separate or inclusive administrative units. Instead, they should set up a conscience and a technique in every phase of the teaching process.

In summary of these objectives, we may define physical education as follows:

Physical education is that phase of education which is concerned first, with the organization and the leadership of children in big-muscle activities, to gain the development and the adjustment inherent in the activities according to social standards; and, second, with the control of health or growth conditions naturally associated with the leadership of the activities, so the educational process may go on without growth handicaps. —Lincoln School of Teachers College, May /, 1922.

A STUDY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL AND INTERMEDIATE SCHOOL.

BY J. F. LANDIS, LATIMER |UNIOR HIGH SCHOOL, PITTSBURGH, PA.

Modern education no longer consists of teaching only the fundamental sciences of knowledge. Philosophy and psychology have expanded our school curriculum in a great degree from that of a few generations ago. Society today demands that the school in addition to teaching the fundamentals, shall assume responsibility for the pupil's health, his training for future citizenship and for his function in economic and social life. Because our former system of education did not accomplish these objectives we were compelled to re-organize it and, hence, today we have the Junior High School as an integral and important part of all modern educational systems. Although it is still in its infancy and in the process of experimentation, the Junior High School must necessarily have a certain flexibility in its prescribed course of study. A definite lesson course which applies to conditions in one school may be utterly impossible in another because of a wide variance of conditions and facilities. Physical education in Junior High School has not been perfected to its greatest extent—yet certain conditions and objectives must be designated as essentia] for any course of study.

The peculiar characteristics of the pupils naturally determine to a large extent, the particular aim of physical education in any school. The children of the seventh, eighth and ninth grades present a particularly interesting, yet difficult, problem to the gymnasium instructor because of the physical characteristics of this age. Entering upon the adolescent stage of their life, the students are subject to an extremely rapid growth and change in their physical natures. For this reason they require carefully planned and pre-arranged lessons which will develop healthful.

Digitized by Google
206

muscular activity, organic vigor, bodily poise and alertness, and which will give consequent control and co-ordination necessary for greater functional capacity and physical power. The importance of attaining these aims is apparent when the relationship between health and good mental development is considered. But, in addition to the securing and conservation of these physical attributes, there is another aim of physical education in Junior High Schools. This is to promote and guide the social and moral nature of the student in such manner as to be productive of initiative and determination, of leadership, of self-control and other characteristics conducive to right-living. It is undoubtedly true that the physical director is permitted a very close approach to the inner life of the child; and the children of the Junior High School are in that period of life when their characters are easily molded for constructive work in the future. The instructor in physical education, who fails to appreciate his advantage in this respect, has not succeeded in fulfilling the duties of his position. Honesty, integrity, self-control and subordination, cooperation with others, loyalty, clean-speech and fair-play are some of the characteristics which the physical director should strive to develop in his pupils.

The desired results of the aims of physical education are obtained through formal gymnasium work, recreative games, hygiene instruction and specialized activities. In order to ascertain to what extent the physical education program has been developed in our leading Junior High Schools, the following questionaire was devised and distributed:

PHYSICAL EDUCATION—JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS.

1.	Name of school ....................................................

2.	Location ..........................................................

3.	Number of students in school...............Boys.......Girls........

4.	How many Physical Education periods per week.......................

(a)	Seventh Grade. ...(b) Eighth Grade.... (c) Ninth Grade.........

5.	What is. the length of your class period...........................

6.	What is the approximate division of time (a) Formal................

Calisthenics......... (b)	Games......Hygiene	..................

7.	Is Hygiene or Physiology taught in any other school period other

than the Physical Education program?...............................

8.	How many Physical Education teachers in your school?...............

9.	How many gymnasiums in your school?.........Athletic Fields?.......

Swimming Pools........? Playgrounds.............?

10.	Do you have representative teams in (a) Football...................

(b)	Baseball........,	(c)	Basketball....., (d) Soccer-Football.......

(e) Hockey......, (f) Swimming.......,(g) Track......., Others.....

11.	Do you have a Health Club? ........................................

12.	What is the status of Physical Education in your school? i. e.

(a)	Is it considered regular school work ..........................

(b)	Is it considered an extra-curricular activity..................

Remarks and Suggestions:

Several other questions, in addition to these, might have been asked regarding the work in various schools. Only these general inquiries were made. With the rapidly-changing educational systems in our cities, it

Digitized by LjOOQ ie
207

is impossible to secure a complete list of all the Junior High Schools. Five hundred (500) questionnaires were distributed, of which three hundred (300)' were returned, Of these, only about two-hundred and fifty (250) gave complete answers. A list of the schools whose reports were received are given at the end of this paper. These schools represent the general type of the work that is being accomplished.

THE RESULTS OF THE QUESTIONNAIRE.

Question No. / The answers to these questions (name location of Question No. 2 school and number of students) are given in connection Question No. 3 with the list of schools, found at another place in this paper.

Question No. 4—“How many Physical Education periods per week?”

In reply to this question it was found that twenty-five schools have but one period per week; sixty schools, two periods; forty-five schools, three periods; twenty-eight schools, four periods; thirty-five schools, five periods (full-hour); and the remainder were unanswered or had no regular time allotment.

In a large number of schools it was found that because of a lack of gymnasium facilities, no regular physical education period was included in the curriculum. In such schools, a daily five-to-ten minute drill is given. Some few schools reported as having no physical education of any sort. In most cases, the time alloted for the teaching of physical education in the three grades (seventh, eighth, and ninth) was found to be the same.

Question No. 5—“What is the length of your class period?”

The answers to this question varied considerably, being governed perhaps, by the school schedule, the status of physical education in that school, and other conditions. Following are the answers:

15	minute period—10 schools 20 minute period—20 schools 30 minute period—20 schools 35 minute period— 8 schools 40 minute period—33 schools 45 minute period—62 schools 50 minute period—15 schools 55 minute period—18 schools 60 minute period—24 schools over 60 minute period—20 schools 5 to 10 minute drill—28 schools Unanswered—2

The Average Length of the period (other than five-minute drills) is 45 minutes.

Question No. 6—“What is the approximate division of time,—

(a) Formal Calisthenics (b) Games (c) Hygiene?

This division of time depends primarily on the course of study of the physical training syllabus used. The answers from some schools seem to indicate that the gymnasium period is thought of only as military drill, hence, a full period of marching and formal tactics. Other schools have no definite division of the class period. It is impossible, because of the great variation, to give a tabulated list of the replies to this ques-

Digitized by boogie
208

tion. The average reports seem to indicate that, approximately, one-fourth of the time is devoted to calisthenics, marching and tactics; one-half, to games and recreative gymnastics; and one-fourth, to hygiene talks, bathing, dressing, etc., This division of class period natural y differs in each school.

Question No. 7—“Is Hygiene or Physiology taught in any other school period other than in the Physical Education Work? If so, what text book is used?

Almost one-half of the schools replied that hygiene or physiology was included in the school program as a distinct separate study, apart from the gymnasium period but usually conducted by the gymnasium teacher. In practically all the other schools, the teaching of hygiene is included, in part, in the regular courses of home economics and general science. Ten schools reported no instruction of any kind in this subject. Some of the most extensively used text-books are:

“Healthy Living”—Winslow.

“The Gulick Series.”

“Primer of Sanitation and Hygiene”—Ritchie.

“Human Physiology”—Ritchie.

“Handbook of Health” and Health Series—Woods Hutchinson. “Peoples* Health** and “Hygienic Physiology**—Coleman.

“Physiology and Hygiene**—Emerson and Betz.

“Physiology**—Krohn and Krumbine.

“Personal Hygiene’*—Lippett.

“Physiology and Health”—Conn.

“Sanitation** and “Physiology and Hygiene”—Jewett.

“Making the Most of Life”—O’Shea and Kellogg.

“General Hygiene”—Overton.

“Advanced Physiology”—Davidson.

“Practical Biology”—Smallwood, Reverly and Bailey.

“Essentials of Biology”—Hunter.

“Elementary Human Biology”—Peabody.

Question No. 8—“How many Physical Education Teachers in your school?

This depends primarily on the number of students, the number of periods of work per week and the size of the school. The building conditions,—gymnasiums, pools and playgrounds—also governs the number of teachers on the physical education staff. It was found that the average number of pupils per teacher was about four hundred.

Question No. 9—“How many gymnasiums, pools, athletic fields, and playgrounds does your school have?”

Here again we find an assortment of varied replies. Of the two-hundred and fifty schools reported, only one hundred and fifty-six have gymnasiums; thirty-five of these schools are equipped with one or more swimming pools. Two hundred and five of the total number possess or have access to an equipped athletic field or playground. Numerous schools replied that the halls and auditoriums were being used as gymnasiums. In many cities, the Y. M. C. A. or Community House pool and gymnasium are used by the public schools.

Question No. 10—“Do you have representative teams in Football, Baseball, Basketball, Soccer, Hockey, Swimming, Track, and any others?**
209

The gymnasium and athletic field equipment govern the nature and extent of inter-school athletic activities. In a large number of schools, particular emphasis seems to be placed on the development of representative teams. The schools which answered this question present the following list of athletic activities:

Athletic Activity	Number	of	schools developing same

Football

Baseball

Basketball

Soccer-Football

Hockey

Swimming

Track

Tennis

60 schools 138 schools 151 schools 62 schools 11 schools 57 schools 130 schools 10 schools

Other representative teams mentioned were, Volley-Ball, Playground Ball, Indoor Baseball, Rowing, Handball, Wrestling, Boxing, Field Hockey* Skating and Cross Country.

No definite information can be gained from the reports regarding the development of intra-school or class teams. A number of the schools indicated that this work formed a part of the regular physical education program.

Question No. //—“Have you a Health Club?”

Perhaps this question seems relatively unimportant in a physical education survey. This club work is an extra-curricular activity and is part of the Activities* Committee’s work, yet it should be under the guidance of the physical education director. Only forty schools reported as having a Health or First-Aid Club.

Question No. 12—“What is the status of Physical Education in your school; is it considered regular school work or regarded as an extracurricular activity?”

Evidently this question was somewhat misleading because a number of schools did not supply the answer that was wanted. In most schools, however, physical education was reported as being a regular school course, necessary for promotion and graduation. No definite statement can be made regarding the amount of credit given towards graduation or diploma. Two schools reported that no regular credit was given for physical education—that is, in these particular schools the work is regarded as an extra-curricular activity. These schools are situated in those states which have no compulsory physical education legislation.

SUMMARY.

No study or survey is complete or productive of good results unless it provides data for comparisons and a basis for the improvement of existing conditions. To those interested in Junior High or Intermediate School work the foregoing statistics may be of some advantage in formulating their physical education program. Certain conclusions may be drawn and recommendations made from these reports.

It is rather deplorable to note the fact that, in a majority of our Junior High Schools, one or two periods of physical education per week is considered sufficient. The over-crowded curriculum seems to leave no room for a complete physical education program. Little can be ac-

Digitized by v^ooQle
210

complished in influencing the pupil when the physical director meets him only once or twice a week. Eventually the school program must provide five full-period hours of physical education per week if the best results are to be obtained. Several schools have already instituted this time allotment. In other schools there still exists the daily three to five minute drill of “setting-up’* exercises. Until physical educators and all others realize that physical education consists of more than mere formal gymnastics and athletics, we shall not achieve the real purpose or aims of our profession. It is gratifying to note that in some of our Junior High Schools the term “physical education” is interpreted to mean more than the old formal gymnasium period. The modern emphasis is now placed on “health education.” The instruction of students in the proper habits of personal and school hygiene is one of the physical director’s foremost duties. The returned questionnaires indicate that a number of schools include in their course of study a regular instruction period in hygiene. Other schools confine their health instruction to the material covered in the home economics and general sceince courses. It is not desirable to repeat any of this instruction. Each should co-ordinate and round out the other.

It is important to emphasize the necessity of proper gymnasium facilities, swimming pools, playgrounds, or athletic fields, in our modern high school. All authorities agree that these facilities are necessary parts of every school building yet this questionnaire shows that many schools are woefully lacking in such equipment. The gymnasium, pool, and athletic field are the physical education laboratories and are more necessary to the science of human life than are the laboratories devoted to the study of animal life, and natural science. The school building should be constructed for the all-round development of the child rather than compelling the child to adapt himself and his activities to the school building.

An interesting part of the information gained through the results of this study are the statistics regarding the representative athletic teams. Basketball seems to be the predominant athletic activity. Baseball, track, and football follow in the order named. From the results obtained it would seem that soccer-football has almost supplanted rugby-football in the intermediate school. From the physiologic view-point, this is no doubt a desirable change, since the pupil is in the adolescent stage and is not fully developed. Swimming seems fairly popular, depending on the equipment for it. Hockey does not appear to be generally included in the school athletic program.

It is important that we emphasize the necessity of intra-school athletics, and games in the Junior High School. Too many cases exist where only a few boys and girls participate in athletics and the general mass of the student body are neglected. Games for all rather than for a few should be the motto. If a boy or girl is to be taught how to play, they should receive this instruction and practice in the adolescent or Junior High School age. The physical director whose only thought is to coach a few teams and thus neglect the majority of his students, fails in the discharge of his duties. Only to that extent in which he considers his work more than mere coaching will he succeed in securing the desired results.
211

The Health Club idea might well be introduced into every Junior High School in addition the regular instruction in Health Education. This club is composed of health “officers” from each report or home room, who meet at stated intervals to discuss subjects relative to personal hygiene and school sanitation. The club serves to impress the students with a consciousness of school citizenship and aids in the furtherance of student government ideals. (Further information of this club will be sent on request.)

Physical education is rapidly becoming recognized as a national factor in secondary school education. One by one our states are enacting laws for compulsory physical training. National legislation for the promotion of physical education is now pending. The opportunities in this field of endeavor are greater than ever before. It behooves every teacher of physical or health education to equip himself or herself with all possible preparation in order that they may promote and secure the best results in this work.

A STUDY IN CORRELATION between

INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENTS AND ATHLETIC ABILITY

SCORES.

(Mental age)	(Athletic	ability	age)

BY REINHOLD W. GOLL, SUPERVISOR OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, PHILADELPHIA, PA., WITH THE CO-OPERATION OF ROBERT S. MILLER.

The purpose of this study was to discover the relation between the mental ability, as shown by the intelligence quotient, and the athletic ability, as shown by the athletic ability score, in boys and girls of the fifth to eighth grades at the Harrity Public School, Philadelphia.

Materials: I. The intelligence quotients of the pupils was obtained from results in the Illinois Examination given under the direction of Dr. Le Roy King of the University of Pennsylvania.

2.	The athletic ability scores, obtained by use of a system of scoring devised by the author. Table I (following) illustrates the system. The standards for Table I are accurate for ages n, 12, 13 years and were obtained from the results of the children taking the test and research made by the Division of Physical Education, Philadelphia Public Schools. Below and above these ages the figures for each age in each event were decreased or increased in regular amounts, as is done in most group intelligence tests.

This means that a pupil testing 12 years in the standing broad jump is equalling the median score of 12 year boys or girls, as the case may be, in that event in Philadelphia. But a pupil testing at 19 years does not signify that he is equalling the median for 19 year old pupils as the records of this age are merely an extension of the scale at regular intervals. The same is true below the ages mentioned above.

Digitized by
TABLE I.

SCORING STANDARDS FOR ATHLETIC ABILITY TEST.*

BOYS

Age	Jump	Throw	Dash
6	4-2	14	9 3
7	4-5	16	9.2
8	4-8	18	9-1
9	4-11	20	9.0
10	5-2	22	8.4
11	5-5	24	8.3
12	5-8	2b	8.2
U	5—11	28	8.1
14	6-2	30	8.0
15	6-5	32	7-4
16	6-8	34	7-3
17	6-11	36	7.2
18	7-2	38	7-i
19	7-5	40	7.0
20	7-8	42	6.4
A particular		score was	obtained

Age

6

7

8

9

10

11

ii

*3

15

16

18

*9

20

Jump

3-	8

3-	i 1

4-	2 4-5

4-	8

4-	11

5-	2

5-5

5-	8

5-	11

6-	2

6-	5 6-8

6-11

7-	2

GIRLS

Throw

10

12

14

16

18

20

22

H

26

28

30

32

34

36

38

Dash 9 4

9 3

9.2

9 1

9.0 8.4

8.3 8.2

8.1 8.0

• 7-4 ‘ 7-3 7-* 7-1 70

5 ft. 8 inches which gives him a standing of 12 years in the jump (see table); he throws 30 ft. which entitles him to a standing of 14 years in the throw; he runs the 50 yd. dash in 8 secs, which entitles him to a standing of 14 years in the dash. These three ages are averaged, giving in this case 13.3 years. This represents his athletic ability age. In order to simplify the system, instead of getting a strictly accurate quotient as was done in the intelligence test, an athletic ability score was obtained (which closely parallels a quotient) by getting the difference betwen the chronological and athletic ability ages and multiplying by 10. If the athletic ability age is below the chronological age the sum obtained is subtracted from 100. If the athletic ability age is above the chronological, as in this case, the sum is added to 100, giving for the example a score of 113.

The score can also be obtained as follows: if a 12 year old boy scores 12 years in the jump, record a zero; if he scores 13 in the throw record-h 10; if 14 years in the dash record+20—that is give him 10 points for every year he scores above (m) or b^low (—) his chronological age in each event. Then get the sum of these three records-for—and divide by three (the number of events). If the resultant sum is (m) add it to 100 if (—) subtract the number from 100. The final result is his‘athletic ability score.

3. Girls and boys were tested and are not shown separately on the charts or calculated separately as they have different age aims in the athletic events, consequently their athletic ability scores should vary in the same manner.

4. There were 213 cases, as follows:	a	5B	grade	of	32	pupils,	7

overage, none underage; a 6B grade of 36 pupils, 5 overage and 2 underage; three A grades of a total of 107 pupils, 12 overage and 12 underage; and an 8B grade of 38 pupils, 16 overage and 1 underage.

♦note In the jump 5-8 means five feet eight inches.

In the throw 30 means thirty feet.

In the dash 8.1 means eight and one-fifth seconds.

Digitized by

Google
213

The athletic ability test was given under the direction of the Division of Physical Education.

Conditions affecting reliability of results:

1.	There is great doubt whether the group intelligence test does measure intelligence or whether it measures school progress or ability in English. Widely variant scores will be made by pupils in different intelligence tests. Pupils make conflicting scores on the same test given at different times. These points are merely stated and not discussed here

2.	The athletic test given consisted of:	i.	the standing broad jump

(two trials); 2. basketball farthrow overhead, using both hands (two trials); 3. 50 yard dash (one trial.) Where two trials were given, the better performance was recorded.

While it is probable that scores made in throwing, running and jumping, as above, will give a reliable index of athletic ability, yet the reliability would be increased by measuring some form of climbing, such as chinning, along with another form of running and jumping.

So that a better test would consist of the following:	1. standing

broad jump; 2. running high jump; 3. a free, single arm basketball throw for distance; 4. basketball farthrow overhead; and 5. chinning.

3.	Height and weight were not considered in calculating the pupils athletic ability score. This may seriously affect the results, as we would not expect a small pupil to make as high a score as a tall pupil (comparing them to the same standard) both being of the same age. Further, underweight and overweight pupils for their height perhaps do not score as well as pupils normal in weight for their height. This important question was omitted from this study as it is a subject in itself a basis for extensive study. Further, in the compiling of this paper so many ways of improving a future study have become evident that it is probably unwise to proceed further with our present materials.

4.	The group tested was not homogenous as to either age or grade. We would be on much safer ground as to our standards in the athletic ability test if all the pupils tested were of the same age.

5.	' The intelligence test was given on November 30, 1921, whereas the athletic ability test was not given until January 1922.

6.	A large number of girls are included in the study who were of the age of 13; 14, 15 years, when many of them think it very “unladylike” to exert themselves physically. Consequently to get a true measure of their ability it is first necessary to develop in them a proper attitude toward the test, which of course the testers did not have time to do. Then again, practically all these girls were improperly clothed for athletic work—tight skirts, fancy coiffures and high heeled shoes and slippers (in winter?) being the chief hindrances.

The test: The tables and charts following with their explanations indicate clearly the method followed.

Results:	1. Using the Spearman Foot Rule [the coefficient of Corre-

lation between the intelligence quotient and athletic ability score was found to be .115, which means practically no correlation at all.

Digitized by
214

Distribution of Pupils according to Intelligence Quotients.

2. Chart i adds proof to the old claim that the under age pupils in a class are those of superior intelligence. Everyone of the underage pupils is above the median, while only 12 of the 48 overage pupils are above the median score.

Digitized by CjOoq le
NOTE—In the 100—1C5 column three B's belong to the left o- median line.

A—PUPILS UNDERAGE FOR GRADE.	B—PUPILS OVERAGE FOR GRADE.

3. Chart 2 shows that in athletic ability there are 11 of the 15 underage pupil-above the median score, whereas there are only 19 of the 48 overage pupils abov< the median score.

Digitized by (jOOQle
Intelligence Quotients

Correlation between Mental

						Chart 3		
AAS	I65 160 155 I5O I45	140	*35	!3°	125	120	n5	no 10  1
us								
140	1st Quadrant—63 cases							
	11 underage 4 overage				O			
135								
130					0	A		A
125	A			0	A		A	OO
120								A
	0		O	OA		0		0 0
”5			0		OA			O
110	O		0	00	OB	OA	00	a
i°S								A
		00	OO		OOBOO			000a
100					A			oc
	0					0	OOOOOBOC	
95								s
	0 BB		00	O		0		OB (X
90	O B		0		00	00	00000 a	
85								6
	0		B		0		000 (X	
80							B	
	B			B	B	0	0	a
75				B				B
	B		0				0	0  B
70								
								
65								
								
60	3rd Quadrant—50 cases							
55	0 underage 15 overage				B			
5o								
AAS	165 160 155 150 145	140	*35	130	125	120	”5	110 10

Athletic

Key—O—Pupils normal age for grade.	B—P

Digitized by t^ooQle
Ability and Athletic Ability

213 Cases

30	95	9°	85	80	75	70	65	60	55	50 45	40	35

0

2nd Quadrant—43 Cases 4 underage 8 overage

O	A

	O		0	OA				
00		A			O			
	0		OB					0
			O					0
0			0					
BOO		00	00	O				B
BOO	00	OA	©OB OB		OBB			
								Median Line
000	B	OOB OOO			B	00		O
			B					
BOBB			0000		OOO		O	BB
			B					
O	0	B	OB	OOB OB		B	OB	0
	O	OOO		0			OB	
0			B	O				
	B		B					
		B						
g								
®							4th Quadrant—57 Cases	
1*  B							0 u	nderage 21 overage
IOO 9$	90	85	80	75	70	65	60	55 5° 4$ 40

ilitj Scores.

U overage for grade.	A—Pupils underage for grade.

Digitized by

Google

145

140

*35

130

12$

120

”5

110

10$

100

95

90

«5

80

75

70

65

60

55

5°
218

4.	Of the fifteen underage pupils ii had scores above the median in both I. Q. and A. A. S.

5.	There are more overage pupils in the 4th quadrant (Chart 3) than in any other quadrant; there being 4 in the 1st quadrant, 8 in the 2nd and 14 in the 3rd.

This is interesting as many teachers have always taken it for granted that the overage pupils were of superior athletic ability and the underage pupils of inferior athletic ability. The above facts seem to indicate otherwise.

6.	Fifty-six per cent of the pupils tested are to be found in the 1st and 4th quadrants (chart 3) that is, had scores that were high in both

I.	Q. and A. A. S. or low in both I. Q. and A. A. S. This further indicates the very low correlation of the entire group.

7.	Using one class, the 6B, of the six tested, the coefficient of correlation was found to be .39.

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND MENTAL TRAINING.

TRANSLATION BY WILLIAM A. STECHER.

Does physical training have any effect upon mentality? Investigations by scores of scientists, as a rule, show that the larger and heavier girls and boys are for their age the higher is their mental development. The question has often been asked, “Will physical training have a good effect upon mentality if it helps to develop normal growth?”

A little book written by the noted physiologist, Dr. Ferdinand A. Schmidt of Bonn, Germany gives the answer to the question. In the following we present an abridged translation of this valuable pamphlet of 40 pages entitled: Physical Education and Mental Development, published by Vandenhoeck and Ruprecht, Goettingen, 1920.

chapter 1.

An infant must be physically active in order that the brain-may develop. The physical activities that come into consideration for this development are the movements of the arms and hands in reaching for things; the co-ordinations needed for grasping and moving things. Next come the co-ordinations that allow a child to sit, to crawl, to stand, and eventually to walk.

Then comes that other group of physical activities beginning with inarticulate sounds and ending with speech.

Each one of these muscular movements is accompanied by an expenditure of nervous energy. All movements are the result of muscular and nervous energy.

If through some unfortunate circumstances a child is hindered in its physical development, the development of its brain is retarded.

The intimate relation between physical development and mental development is shown by the following statistics relating to a group of 159 pupils in Bonn, in classes for mentally retarded children. 31 per cent of

Digitized by CjOOQle
219

these children could not walk until they were from 3 to 5 years olcL 32 per cent could not speak until they were over 2 years old. 1 per cent had no articulate speech when they first entered school. Practically all ^ mentally retarded pupils are muscularly deficient: they cannot walk steadily, they cannot throw a ball any distance, most of them cannot catch a ball, they cannot jump correctly, they are clumsy where any manual skill is demanded.

In recognizing the value of handwork (manual training work) in developing and training mental ability we should not overlook the fact that, as a rule, the muscular movements involved in this type of work are those of the fingers, the hand and the arm. Mentally these movements affect only a small area of the corticle of the brain. What is needed is that these exercises of skill be supplemented by movements demanding a good co-ordination of muscle-groups lying far apart, as exemplified by a well graded course in physical training.

Increased bodily activity and a gradually increasing complexity of ^ co-ordinations will lead to an increasing intellectual life. Another point not to be overlooked is the fact that the increased demand on will power demanded by many forms of physical training, with its resulting energizing of the will, has a beneficial ethical effect upon pupils where deficient in-~" telligence generally is paired with deficient will power.

chapter 2.

Mentally retarded children, as a rule, are muscularly weaker and ^ unhealthier than normal children. Experiments with this class of children have shown that exercises demanding much muscular work, as well as those forms of exercises developing skill and demanding attention, raise u the dormant intelligence and lead to a better development of the brain. Increased muscular strength and decreased helplessness react favorably upon mental capacity.

While granting this good effect of physical training upon orthogenic backward pupils the usual argument against increased time for physical education has been that so far as the “normal” pupil is concerned there is no evidence that physical training has any effect upon mentality.

Many investigations have shown that those boys and girls that are tall and heavy for their age, as a rule, are mentally brighter than those * that are short and light. Or stated otherwise, those normal pupils that for a given age are short and light, as a rule, are retarded mentally from 2 to 3 years.

All scientific evidence points to the fact that sound physical develops u-ment is accompanied by sound mental development. For the school^ the demand arises to see to it that besides adequate nourishment the pupil has sufficient physical work and training, especially in the open air in order that his inherent mental capacity be realized.

chapter 3.

The growth of children follows definite laws. This growth is not c always alike for all organs. The child is not an undersized adult. Different organs grow most rapidly at different times. A physiological law* however, says that the best results are obtained when organs receive the impetus for added growth at the time when they are developing most rapidly. Families that have an adequate income can give to their child-

Digitized by LaOOQle
220

ren the nourishment and also the exercise that are needed to stimulate the organs that are growing rapidly. The result of the reverse of these conditions is what one finds in schools frequented principally by the children of common laborers. Investigations show that those pupils who v go through school most rapidly are those who are most fit physically. An increasing number of years necessary to go through school always is conditioned upon an increasing number of physically unfit.

It next becomes necessary to see if there is a means to stimulate physical growth. As has already been stated, without appropriate physical development there can be no adequate development of the ^ brain. Adequate physical development is fundamental for adequate brain development. Brain development depends upon good living conditions, good sustenance, good regulated physical exercise.

European investigations show that when in certain cities obligatory school attendance begins, about io per cent of the children are refused admission to school because of physical weakness. A rather large percentage of these children, when they were again examined a year later, had improved very little, unless provision had been made for regular exercise augmented by proper food. If such provisions had been made these children were improved not only physically, but also mentally. In Charlottenburg this fact led a school director to propose an obligatory half year devoted to health training before any child could enter school, and based upon this to reduce the first year’s school attendance to 2 or 2yi hours daily.

Studies by Dr. Paul Godin, Neuchatel, Switzerland, will now be of interest to us. To study the effects of regulated physical training Dr. Godin selected 100 pupils of a boys’ boarding school, aged 14^ years. During 3^ years these were measured 8 times. Fifty boys took part in physical training and fifty did not. After 3^ years the greater increases for the gymnasts over the non-gymnasts were: length 3 cm., weight 7 kg., girth of chest 8 cm., shoulder breadth 1 cm.

In order to test the effect of physical training upon the weakest boys Dr. Godin, after 2 years, selected the weakest 14 boys from the group of non-gymnasts. Seven of these he persuaded to take the regular physical training work while the other seven followed their usual life, and were used merely as a control group. The following chart shows the result of the measurements at the end of years of training.

GROWTH INCREASE, AGE l4>^ TO l6 YEARS.

Increase in

Group E

50 gymnasts

Group B

50 non-gymnasts

Group C	Weak

Non-gymnasts

Group D

Height	Weight
cm.	
10	6
6	4
6	I
7	4

Chest girth cm.

Digitized by Google
221

After 2 added years of regulated physical training the chart appears as follows:

GROWTH INCREASE, AGE l6 TO 18 YEARS.

Increase in  Group A  Gymnasts	Height  cm.  11	Weight  kg-  16	Chest girth cm.,  8
Group B  Non-gymnasts	12	11	4
Group C  Weak gymnasts	*5	17	H
Group D  Weak non-gymnasts	13	6	3

It appears, therefore, when weak boys take up physical training at 16 years of age, that a rapid development of inherent powers takes place. This allows these boys to equal the gymnasts not only in height, but also in weight and in chest girth. The chart also shows that if boys of this age do not take physical work a long, slender, narrow chested, underweight individual is the result.

chapter 4.

Where because of insufficient regulated muscular exercise,' bodily development has been retarded, one finds undeveloped and weak vital organs. Resistance to pulmonary diseases is decreased. Statistics from the German army covering 17 years show that where soldiers were strong enough to enter the army at 20 years of age, 2.4 per thousand contracted tuberculosis. If because of physical undevelopment citizen soldiers could not enter the army until they were 22 years of age, 26.2 per thousand contracted tuberculosis. Delayed physical development meant eleven times as much tuberculosis. The average chest girth of the latter group was 2 cm. less than of the first, all going to prove the need for well organized physical training work at all ages until maturity is reached.

CHAPTER V. CONCLUSIONS.

1.	All muscular work until it becomes habitual needs much practice of the co-ordinating motor nerves.

2.	From birth on every child with much effort must learn to control its locomotor apparatus in order to be able to crawl, sit, stand, speak, etc.

3.	The great amount of nerve work on the part of the child necessary to accomplish those things that elevate mankind above animal creation: the upright position, handwork, articulate speech was the great stimulus that led to brain development.

4.	Mentally deficient persons, as a rule, are usually clumsy and awkward. For these a training in co-ordination involving large movements is the best means for developing innate mental powers.

Digitized by Google
222

5. During school age mental growth is dependant upon proper physical development. The more regular and complete the physical development the better is school progress (see note at bottom.)

6.	Good living conditions, nourishment and bodily exercise are of prime importance in the steady development of height, weight and chest girth both during childhood and during adolescence. Regulated physical training, however, is of the greatest importance.

7. Good mental development is conditioned upon full physical growth. Full physical growth is conditioned upon suitable physical exercises. Mental and physical development, therefore, proceed at the same time.

8.	Even in adults body culture through physical training awakens mental power, love of work, initiate, self confidence and self possession.

Note to 5. Experiments spoken of in the Archives for School Hygiene show that one fourth of the usual hours devoted daily to school work may be set aside for physical training and play without detriment to the other school subjects. W. A. S.

STUFFY SCHOOLS STRANGLING STUDY.

"Perfectly Ventilated School-Rooms'* are not ventilated enough, we are told by Dr. William E. Watt, in The Nation s Health (Chicago). Overheated air is destroying our nation as the hot bath prostrated the Roman Empire. (The historical assertion is Dr. Watt's, not ours.) Children who wilt physically and are mentally atrophied in the ordinary school air become healthy and quick-witted outdoors, and when air in sufficient quantity is admitted to the schoolroom the same result follows, we are assured. One may have plenty of fresh, outside air and keep warm at the same time, but any excess of heat is an enemy to comfort and to health. Coal is saved by not overworking the heating-plant, and the fresh-air school is also an economical one, we are told. Dr. Watt entitles his article, "Process of Building Up Our National Resistance."

We know what happens to a kitten in a loaded sack when dropped off a bridge. We have our opinion of a family in the slums who let the baby get a high temperature before calling the doctor and then fail to follow his advice. And yet our schoolhouses are overheated and lower resistance so that some children die quickly, some are doomed to a life of misery, and some merely blanch and weaken. Is any one responsible? He continues:

"No intelligent mother now attempts to bring up a babe indoors. She gives it fresh air. In advanced cities there is the fresh-air room in the public school. There children recover strength, health, and vivacity until they are returned to the regular schoolroom. Of course there are not accommodations for one-tenth of the children who need it. There is a long waiting list of sufferers.

"Yet with all this knowledge of what open, natural air does to benefit mind and body, the bulk of our citizens are dangerously weakened by the aridity, overheat, drafts, dead-air pockets, and other insanitary conditions of bad indoor air, even in supposedly perfect ventilation.

Digitized by LjOOQle
223

“In the fall they come back from vacation in the country or in the city streets and alleys where red blood has been miade and vigor accumulated, and enter school. In the spring all are weakened, some have succumbed to disease, some are seriously enervated and the general alertness of all has been greatly impaired. Many fail to make their grade. And nobody seems aware that natural air would in most cases have averted the catstrophe.

“In spite of the many excellent qualities of modern education, it often happens that the child who has stamina enough to run away from school and keep out of the smell of overheated air is a gainer in the long run altho the law pronounces him a malefactor. Many children never see a well day after the fans start in the big schoolhouse. Glands swell and suppurate, stomachs balk, nerves get jumpy, night terrors are frequent and many bright children are led to believe they are dull. Yet give these children air and they begin to live again.

“Children are not the only sufferers. Few teachers, very few, are sound after twenty years in school air. Life insurance companies put teaching down as a hazardous occupation, next to saloon-keeping and marble-cutting.”

Dr. Watt tells how he took a group of pre-tuberculous and anemic children to a vacant school lot one summer. A tent, sleeping-chairs and food were provided. Teachers were paid to entertain them. The children were told that their minds would gain strength with their bodies and, if they wished, the kind teachers would help them understand the school things that were hateful to them. This was the result:—

“In five weeks those children gained knowledge so they were promoted when they returned to the regular school in September. The average gain was six months of school work. Knowledge which had been too high for them became simple. Instead of trying to spur weak children on to more endeavor, why not fill them up, energize them with good air, and let Nature spur them!

“Then we opened two fresh-air rooms in a public school—fresh, cold air. Pupils were not to have footwarmers or feeding, but were to be allowed to wear caps and mittens in school and furnish their own warming by games of activity. They were frequently taken outdoors for these. They grew roses in their cheeks while pupils in ‘perfectly ventilated rooms grew sallow and listless.

“Gradually the whole school became cold-open-air, except one room in each grade. We built two canvas rooms on the roof and kept them especially cold. The lower the temperature the better they liked it and the more they throve.

“Conduct was better. After seven months our records show that no cold-air pupil had been sent by a cold-air teacher to the office for rebuke for bad conduct. But plenty of help had been given warm-air teachers in dealing with cases of discipline in warm-air rooms. Scholarship was improved.

“Several big fellows were transferred to this school because they could not make their grades in their home localities, but wished to try real air. The case of one is typical. Every fall he had entered school

Digitized by LjOOQle
224

and done well till the fans began to run and then his neck glands swelled and suppurated. His neck was a mass of scars.

“The boy could not do fourth-grade work in a modern high-class schoolhouse. I put him at once into a fifth-grade room, altho he demurred because he had been made a fool of quite enough. He began in November; in December fifth grade was too easy; we promoted him to sixth—cold. He cleaned up the major part of that grade in a few weeks, mainly by reading it over, and went to seventh grade. He did not miss a day or a minute of school time. Other years he had missed more days then he was present after the hot-air was being delivered. Many pupils made great progress. All were benefited.

“The New York State Commission on Ventilation says that temperatures between 68 and 75 degrees induce a strain which adds twenty-three pulse beats per minute, while the body averages 1.5 degrees above normal. In schools of all grades from kindergarten to college I have results of tests showing that no student can do as much accurate work in a minute or a day	when the temperature is	over 70 as	he can do when

it is under 68. The difference in efficiency	is	between	30 and 100 per

cent when the air admitted is rightly conditioned.

“Children can	be out of doors half the	day and	do in the other

half quite as much	as they formerly did in	a	full day	indoors. School

grounds are better used. Childhood is getting a better chance at life. Not only are the little folks doing their educational work with greater ease and more enjoyment, but they stand a much better chance to grow «p.”—From “The Literary Digest” March 1922.

THE VALUE OF ATHLETICS.

BY WILLIAM A. STECHER.

The growth of athletics during the last ten years has been phenomenal. Even a casual inquiry will show, however, that the growth has been principally among younger people, particularly among girls and young women. Formerly athletics were indulged in almost exclusively by the strongest young men. Now the trend is to have suitable athletics for the youth of both sexes from the time they approach adolescence and to encourage all people to continue to practice some appropriate forms of physical exercise until old age.

Schools are interested in athletics because they are an essential part •f physical, mental and social or moral education. Athletics, as now interpreted, embrace all the vigorous fighting plays of youth and of maturity. The modern school realizes that these vigorous competitive plays •re among its best and most useful tools in the education of developing boys and girls. There is, therefore, a growing tendency to have athletics well organized and well supervised in order that only good results shall accrue.

* From the Philadelphia Public Schools handbook in athletics.

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
225

The aim of modern supervision of athletics is so to organize these plays that they help to build up wholesome play habits. The school recognizes the fact that the greatest value of athletics is to be found not in their use as public spectacles but rather in their use as an instrument for developing a high type of citizenship. The school is interested in athletics because of their exceptional value in the development of group consciousness, of educational leadership, of wholesome play traditions, as well as in their value in the promotion of health and of good recreative habits.

The modern athletic field is the laboratory in which those precepts regarding fair play, honesty, unselfishness and the other social or moral virtues are put to a test. Instead of being heard, they are lived. They are lived under the stress of competition. They are practiced under the wise guidance of trained teachers until they form a firm texture of good habits that should make the athlete a better man or woman. What we now need is a public awakening to the fact that every boy and girl should daily have a chance to visit such^a play laboratory, and that no school should be considered complete without an adequate athletic field in charge of highly trained teachers.

ESSENTIALS OF GOOD POSTURE.

BY WALTER AAMOLD, INSTRUCTOR IN PHYSICAL TRAINING U. S. NAVAL ACADEMY, ANNAPOLIS, MD.

Undoubtedly many readers of MIND AND BODY are deeply interested in posture as it is applied in a practical way in many of the military academies throughout the world. Despite the vast amount of information available on the subject it is difficult for the average home-spun reader to find the homely truths so essential in understanding how to apply corrective measures. In training schools however, it is necessary to reduce the subject of posture to manual form, with the usual “dont’s” and “experiences” deleted, and only the “thou shalt do!” left in the outline.

Recently the United States Naval Academy sent a revised manual to press which contains the fundamentals of posture in composite form as made up from an extensive study of posture, both at home and abroad. From this manual the following brief outlines are taken, subject to a few changes necessary to fit the form to civilian conditions.

Correct posture is vital to all, regardless of age, sex, occupation, or physical construction. It is not a “cure-all” but its opposite “degenerate slouch” is the forerunner of many fatal disorders.

A drooping head puts pressure at the base of the brain, a cramped chest invites consumption, misplaced organs are factors in constipation, loss of vitality and parasite growths. There is no end of misery caused by relaxed muscles, fallen arches, backache, sciatica and even writer’s

Digitized by LjOOQle
226

cramp. On the other hand correct posture gives a physical comfort and mental tone—decidedly essential to success in life.

The study of posture resolves itself into the following branches:

(a)	Posture in standing position.

(b)	Posture in striding position.

(c)	Posture while sitting.

(d)	Posture in sleep.

There are certain laws applicable to all the forms above, which for the sake of continuity are stated in order.

The average person busy with the cares of life has settled into a stiff, misformed and untrained position. Within certain degrees it is possible to brace up or move slightly from the every-day position, but the movement requires considerable effort and the old position is difficult to overcome.

An examination will show that bones have settled one upon another as though cast in a solid block, connective tissues have hardened and muscles have lost their elasticity.

Therefore, before attempting to hold a correct posture at least a month’s training in suppleness is necessary. Light exercise from hanging positions should first be taken, then walking on the hands, tumbling and stretching movements, and finally movements into unusual positions which will loosen the bones of the neck and spine. When a fair degree of suppleness had been reached the process of lining up the body should commence.

Daily exercise of the major muscles of the body is essential not only to improve their tone but to provide the necessary nerve control.

Sleep eight hours at least. This permits rebuilding depleted muscles and conserves the necessary body vigor for the upright positions.

The question of food is much more closely related to good form than is generally believed. Many cases of bowed legs and curved spine may be traced to an infant’s feeding too long on a milk diet, or to conditions of climate and limited food. Nutritious food is a most important factor in maintaining full vigor and steady nerves.

Only the trained person has a correct posture. The training may have come about from various causes, such as the pride of an Indian chief, always an example to his tribe, or the practice of some natives of carrying burdens on their heads.

It is safe to assume that the average person has not been trained, and left to himself, is faulty in posture. The ideal posture is seldom to be met with in every day life.

The correct position is one of mental as well as of physical bearing, and therefore, must be free from all mental and physical constraint. Coordination of mental and physical position must be obtained. All muscles employed must be mildly contracted and rigidity at any point is an error.

A posture chart is attached as an appendix, upon which may be noted errors of posture and gait. This chart will aid in correcting faults over a period of training.

Digitized by CjOOQle
CHART OF ERRORS.

Features	1  j Faults 1	Date  observed	Date  corrected
i. Head up, neck vertical, chin in.	1  1  1  1  1	1  1  1  1  1	1  1  1
2. Eyes straight to the front.	1  1  1	1  1  1	1  1  1
3. Shoulders square, evenly bal anced, falling naturally.	1  1  1	1  1  1  1	1  1  1  1
4. Chest out.	1  1  1	1  1  1	1  1  1
5. Arms straight downward.	1  1  1	1  1  1	1  1  1
6. Abdomen in.	1  1  I	1  1  1	1  1  1
7. Hips back.	1  1	1  1  1	1  1  1
8. Knees together.	1  1  1	1  1	1  1  1
9. Heels together, feet turned outward equally, forming an angle of forty-five degrees	1  1	1  1  1  1	1  1
Posture interval of one step.			

Trunk	1  1  1	1	I  1  1
Arms	1  1	1  1	1  1  1
Legs	1  1	1  1  1	1

Digitized by LiOOQle
22%

Positions given herein are normal positions. Until the correct posture has been obtained as a natural position, one should over-brace as much as possible.

POSITION OF ATTENTION.

1. Head up, Neck Vertical, Chin in.—The head is raised until the neck is vertical; the chin is drawn inward slightly so that the head rests naturally and in perfect balance upon the neck and shoulders. In doing this several muscles and muscle groups of the neck and upper portion of the trunk come into play. The posterior Recti muscles act chiefly in bringing the head up, and the combined action of the Sterno mastoid. Trapezii, Spleni, and Complexi muscles draw the head directly backward and hold it in an erect position. The Recti muscles in the anterior group offset this action to a certain extent preventing the head from going up too high. In executing these movements, the above muscles should not be brought into action too severely, for if marked contraction is exercised, a strained attitude will be assumed, which is wrong.

2.	Eyes Straight to the Front.—The eyes look straight to the front and along a line paralled with the lower extremity of the body.

3. Shoulders Square, Evenly Balanced, Falling Naturally.—The shoulders should assume such a position that their plane is at right angles to a plane running straight through the body from front to- rear. The Trapezii, Latissimus dorsi, Levator anguli scapulae and Rhomboideus muscles act together to draw the shoulders back to their square position and brace them there. The shoulders are then allowed to fall naturally and spread out in their own plane so as to make them as broad as possible. If the above muscles are brought into action too strongly, the shoulders are drawn back beyond their proper position; and assume an unnatural and over-erect posture.

4.	Chest Out.—This means that the chest is raised and arched up in front in a natural manner, without however, disturbing the position of the shoulders just described. Here the anterior chest muscles are brought into play—chiefly the Pectoralis major, Pectoralis minor and Subclavius. The intercostal muscles act as accessories in expanding the chest and elevating the ribs.

5.	Arms Straight Downward.—The arms are allowed to fall straight downward by the sides in a natural manner, without being stretched or the muscles unnecessarily extended or contracted. The palms are turned onward against the thighs and the thumb of each hand touches the seam if the trousers.

6.	Abdomen In.—The abdominal wall is drawn inward (in much the same manner as the chin is brought forward) by the action of the muscles of the anterior abdominal wall, viz. External oblique, Internal oblique, Transversalis and Rectus abdominalis, assisted by the Diaphragm. Thus a more natural position and arch is given to the chest, and at the same time the trunk is allowed to come into proper vertical position upon the hips.

7.	Hips Back.—The hips are allowed to drop back until they assume a natural position under the trunk, and so that the weight of the Imdy is distributed equally upon the heels and ball of the feet. The *foep muscles of the back, lumbar region and the gluteal group come into

Digitized by L300Q le
229

play here, all acting together to produce this position and maintain die spinal column erect.

8.	Knees Together.—Knees should be brought together as closely a* shape of legs will permit. If the knees are allowed to sag outward or forward the whole upper part of the body is thrown backward and out of balance. When the knees are together the weight of the bc#y is more naturally distributed, more perfectly balanced, and the heels more easily brought into their proper position. The extensors and adductors of the thigh play a leading role here and act constantly to assist in balancing the body.

9. Heels together, Feet Turned Outward Equally, Forming an Angle ef Forty-Five Degrees.—The heels must be together on a line par ailed to the front, or the balance of the hips and shoulders will be distributed. The weight of the body in this position must be equally distributed between the heels and balls of the feet.

ADVANCE.

Posture, Interval of one Step.—In executing this movement from the position of attention the position of the head, neck and trunk is maintained as in standing. The arms are allowed to swing naturally, fore and aft, in a straight line—the right arm being brought forward six inches to the front of the median vertical line of the body as the left foot 19 advanced; the movement terminating as the heel strikes the ground. With muscles relaxed the arm is allowed to swing back to a position three inches to the rear of the median line as the right foot is being advanced, and the left arm is brought forward in the same manner. In stepping out the legs are extended straight forward and the feet brought in contact with the ground in such a way as to avoid jarring of the body. As soon as the heel lands the weight of the body is rolled forward to the toes from whence the body is thrust forward. This constitutes a 9tride and measures thirty inches from heel to heel; and in marching the cadence (number of steps) is 120 to the minute. The feet remain parallel while marching, toes pointed straight to the front. This point must be insisted upon and must be remembered in walking; for if one foot or the other is a lowed to flop outward it will put one shoulder out of balance; this will throw the weight of the body to that side and cause the man to wobble out of line. Never permit the body to settle as this throws the entire weight below the hips and compels the legs to do excessive work. Chest must be active and chin in. Legs should be well pivoted at the hips with a smooth knee action.

Posture When Sitting.—Sit well back of the edge of the chair with body close enough to table or desk to allow the muscles of the inner part of forearm to rest easily upon the surface of the table without throwing the shoulder out of position. Body is then inclined forward from the hips, thorax straight, chest active and shoulders even. Special attention, must be given the inclination of the body, since it is important that the full length of the thighs serve as a base, rather than the buttocks alone. Feet should rest on their outer edges, being crossed at the hollow of the ankle.

Posture When Sleeping.—Body should be placed on right side with right hand tucked under hollow of waist. Chest should be unrestricted and spine straight.

Digitized by ^ooQle
23°

Developing Correct Form.—Standing posture should be practiced before a full length mirror whenever possible. Where a mirror is not available the body should be pressed flat against the edge of a door opening, or apright pole.

The stride is best practiced in company with another person who is known to be a good walker.

The sitting position is easily learned at the dinner table, and if practiced only at one meal each day, will soon become a natural position.

Posture while reclining requires but a thought before falling asleep.

In conclusion, it is suggested that posture be not looked upon as a burdensome effort that takes “half the joy out of life*’ but as a mark of distinction that lifts the individual above the “common herd” and leads to greater success in mental and physical health.

The introduction of good posture in the drawing room, school room, and in recreation will aid in promoting a much needed influence upon all mankind.

FORMAL GYMNASTICS vs: GAMES

In the September issue of the “Teachers College Record” published by Columbia University we find a very interesting account of a study conducted at the Horace Mann, school entitled “A Comparative Study of Formal Gymnastics and Play for Fourth Grade Children.” The article in question is an account of an experiment carried on in which an attempt was made to measure the effects of two different types of physical education—formal gymnastics and games. Two types of programs were selected. One type—formal gymnastics—was given to the pupils of one room (room 201) and the other type of work—games was given to the pupils of another room (room 203) composed of pupils of the same grade and of the same intelligence. The experiment covered the time from October 1920 to May 1921; a period of eight months. The tests selected to show the effect of the two types of work were as follows: A posture test, tests of skill consisting of five different exercises demanding different kinds of skill, an alertness test, an obedience test and lastly tests covering growth, development and function. The study was under the direction of Dr. Jesse F. Williams who was assisted by Miss Ruth V. Atkinson and Mr. David K. Brace, all of Teachers College. The details of these tests should be read in the original article.

The comments on the data of the experiment were as follows:

1.	The data are too insignificant to draw sweeping conclusions from them, but are extremely suggestive in certain instances.

2.	From the results of this experiment it would appear that the goals set for the formal gymnastics program may, except in the case of the development of posture, be attained as well through play and games as through formal gymnastics.

3.	The work in formal gymnastics did not have for the formal gymnastics group (Room 201) any marked postural values. (A total of 544 minutes was devoted to posture exercises in Room 201. No time was given to posture work in Room 203.)

4.	Obedience of the military and disciplinary type was achieved much more markedly in the play group than in the formal group. The question may arise whether the reaction to the formal training for a

Digitized by <^.ooq le
231

period of months resulting in a decrease in the readiness of response to command was not the cause of the poor showing of the group trained by response commands. Does not the law of effect enter into this situation?

5.	The graphic representations of the gains in skill and alertness show larger gains for the play and game group, with one exception, the thrusting test.

6. The graphs of gains in the organic tests show a larger gain for the play and game group than for the formal group in weight, height, girth of chest, lung capacity, and strength of right arm. On the other hand the formal group gained slightly more in strength of left arm and chest expanded. The gains of the play-game group were marked; the gains of the formal gymnastics group were very small, when they did occur.

The formal group (Room 201) had corrective and breathing exercises four days a week for an entire school year; the play-game group (Room 203) had none at all. In spite of this difference the play-game group gained more in size of chest (29.9 units compared with 24.5) and more in the lung capacity test (225 to 176).

It should be remembered that the play-game group had natural respiratory gymnastics because their vigorous play by stimulation of the respiratory mechanism resulted in increased respiratory activity. This process was physiological, and suggests by its results the absurdity of breathing exercises.

7.	The evidence from this experiment seems to show that the usual claims made for formal gymnastics are not well founded, and that a game program is more likely in many instances to achieve the goals set for the formal program.

8.	The results secured in this experiment show a high degree of reliability as evidenced by statistical study of them.

9.	The chief value o the experiment is the fact that it proves conclusively that more such studies should be made.

SOME SOLID-TOP GAS STOVES A MENACE TO HEALTH.

Some solid-top gas stoves without a flue connection are a menace to health and do not even possess the advantage of increased economy in gas consumption. The Bureau of Standards of the Department of Commerce has been investigating the principles involved in the designing of gas stoves and burners and has found that some devices which are being sold to the public as “gas savers” are in reality very dangerous articles.

One scheme which it is understood is in quite general use is to place over an ordinary gas stove designed with a grid top and without a flue, a solid metal top covering the whole area of the stove. The use of such an arrangement is said to give a larger heating surface, so that articles can be heated although not directly over the burner. Practical tests have shown that the heat is insufficient to do any cooking at all except directly over the burner and even over the burner, it takes twice as long to boil a kettle of water as over an ordinary open top.

The bureau’s work shows that the main result of using any device of this kind is to cut down the heating efficiency and to produce large quantities of carbon monoxide, an extremely poisonous gas.

Digitized by Google
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

GYMNASTIC TOURNAMENT, LEAVENWORTH, KANSAS.

CALISTHENIC DRILL FOR THE ACTIVES AND LADIES.

BY OSCAR E. RUTHER.

Music:	“MA,” ,*a Victor record No. 18819, played to about 68

revolutions a minute.

Introduction 16 counts then:

Exercise / A.

a.	Bend arms inward, palms down, hands in front of shoulders, 1-2.

b.	Swing the arms sideward, palms up 3-4.

c.	Raise the arms upward on 5 and hold to count, 6-7-8.

d.	Lower the arms to sideward, palms up, 9-10.

e.	Lower trunk forward and arms downward, 11-12.

f.	Raise trunk and arms forward upward, 13.

g.	Lower arms to sideward, palms up, 14.

h.	Lower the arms to starting position - 15 - hold - 16.

B. Marching: (square left.)

a. Face left and march forward 3 steps and close on count 4, 1-4. Repeat this 3 times, 5-16;

Repeat A. and B. once, 33-64.

Exercise 2. To the 4 sides.

a.	Bend arms inward, palms down, hands in front of shoulders, 1-2.

b.	Lunge left sideward and swing the arms sideward, palms up, 3-4.

c.	Change knee-bending and raise the arms upward -5-.hold to count, 6-7-8.

d.	Change knee-bending and lower the arms to sideward, palms up 9-10.

e.	Close left foot to right and swing the arms forward, palms in,

11-12.

f.	Lower the arms to starting position - 13 - hold - 14.

g.	Face left in 2 counts (Military) 15-16.

Repeat all 3 times, 17-64.

Exercise 3 A.

a.	Bend arms sideupward, placing fists over shoulders, fingers forward, 1-2.

b.	Circle the arms outward and upward to bend overhead for striking, lingers forward, 3-4.

c.	Strike the arms sideward, fingers forward - 5 -and hold, 6-7-8.

d.	Bend the arms for striking overhead, 9-10.

e.	Circle the arms inward and sideupward, placing fists over shoulders, . 11-12.

f.	Bend knees deep and place hands on floor (arms between knees),

Digitized by v^ooQle
233

g. Straighten knees and arms to starting position, 15-16.

B. Marching: (square left.)

Repeat the Marching of Exercise 1 B. and add:

a.	On count-i-raise the arms sideward, palms up and hold to 0-3-4.

On count-5-place the fists over shoulders, fingers forward and hold to 6-7-8.

On count-9-straighten the arms upward, fingers extended, and* hold to 10-11-12.

On count-13-lower the arms forward to starting position and hold 14-15-16;

Repeat all of A. and B. once, 33-64.

4.	To the front, left, right and repeat.

a.	Bend knees deep and arms like in a Exercise 3, 1-2.

b.	Straighten knees and arms like in b Exercise 3, 3-4 and stride left sideward.

c.	Bend trunk left sideward and straighten the arms upward, fingers extended, 5 - and hold to 6-7-8.

d.	Straighten trunk and arms like in d Exercise 3, 9-10.

e.	Same as e in Exercise 3, n-12.

f.	Close left foot to right and lower the arms, 13-14.

g.	Right hand salute (Military) -15- lower the arms 16.

Repeat all of 4. but bend trunk right sideward on 5 and hold 6-7-8.

Repeat all left and right, 33-64.

5.	Repeat A. and B. of Exercise 1. 1-64 at the 64th count bring the right hand to salute and hold until asked to lower the arm.

MEDLEY CLOG.

ARRANGEMENT OF DANCE BY MATHIAS H. MACHEREY, ASST. SUPR. OF PH¥S.

ED., NEWARK, N. J.

Suitable for boys and girls. Insist on good posture, but not of the rigid type. The arms are held loosely at the sides. When no special arm movements are designated a free swing of the arms is expected in conformity to the law of opposites, right foot, left arm forward, right arm backward and so forth.

Stand on the balls of the feet; the ankle of the clogging foot is semi-relaxed.

A “Three” in a clog is executed as follows: Count “and” “one” Brush, right foot forward, then backward and step on it. (1)

“Three” 3 s and two steps or taps” consist of the brush forward, backward and step, first with the right foot, then with the left, right again, followed by a tap with the right foot and then with the left. Count “and” “one” “and” two “and” three “and” four, (a measures.)

First Step.

Music: “Dixie”.

Thr<e 3s and two taps, beginning right (2 meas.) Same left (2 meas.) continue six more times (12 meas.) — 16 measures.

Second Step.

Digitized by t^ooQle
234

"Dixie** continued .........................................Feet crossed

Brush right foot forward, brush right foot backward across left foot "and** step on right transferring weight (i) follow with left foot (and) step right (i meas.) The movement is in a sideward left direction, feet are crossed.

Swing left foot from the crossed behind position, brush forward and backward across right foot, step left, follow right, step left (i meas.)

Bring right foot forward with a brush, backward across left foot step right, follow left, step right follow left, step right follow left, step right moving sideward left (2 meas.) (As glisse chasse with feet crossed.) Same opposite (4 meas.)

Repeat all (8 meas.) — 16 measures.

Third Step.

"Coming Thru the Rye** .................................Walk	and	Gallop

yi turn right on left foot, walk forward right with brush forward, tap and step right, same left (1 meas.) gallop forward twice (1 meas.) The gallop is performed by leaping from the left onto the right foot and quickly following with the left foot.

With yi turn left, three 3*s beginning left, right, left and step right step left (2 meas.)

Same opposite (4 meas.)

Repeat all (8 meas.)—16 measures.

Fourth Step.

"Mary had a Little Lamb** ...................................Stride	heel.

Jump to stride stand on heels, knees straight, arms sideward (1). Jump to feet close with knees bent, arms crossed in front (2) (1 meas.) Repeat (1 meas.)

Three 3*s and two steps (2 meas.)

Repeat three more times (12 meas.)—16 measures.

Fifth Step.

"The Campbells are Coming** ..................................Pivot	Turn

3-8 turn right on left foot, small step forward right transfer weight, right arm diagonally forward upward left hand on hip, right knee slightly bent, left heel raised (1) Spin once around to right stepping alternately on right foot and left toes, three times 2-3-4 (2 meas.) Four 3*s (2 meas.)

Same opposite (4 meas.) right.

Repeat all 8 meas. —16 measures.

Sixth Step.

"Polly Wolly Doodle** .............................Slap	and	Prone	Fall.

Odd rows, one fourth turn left, even rows one-fourth turn right and with the turn slap right hand against right thigh; left hand against left thigh; right hand against right thigh; clap both hands against each other; Place both hands on floor, knees bent (1 meas.)

Jump to feet backward, to front leaning support and immediately return to stand. (1 meas.)

With yi turn forward, three 3*s and two steps (2 meas.)

Same opposite (4 meas.) Repeat all (8 meas.)—16 measures.

Digitized by LjOOQle
235

Interlude.

“Drum Beat” ............................................Gallop in Place*

Quickly raise the right foot forward and leap from the left onto the right foot as in the gallop and land in quick succession on the right toe right heel, left toe, left heel. This produces a rattle of four quick sounds resembling the drum beat. For the purpose of description it will be called ‘‘gallop-roll.**	(i) Pause (2) (1 meas.)

Repeat 1 meas.

Gallop roll (1 meas.) step right step left (1 meas.)

Repeat all 4 measures.

Gallop roll, step, step-twice (2 meas.)

3 Gallop rolls and step, step 2 measures.

Repeat last four measures.—16 measures.

Seventh Step.

“Yankee Doodle** .........................................Gallop	in	Place*

Left gallop roll, step, step, beginning right (1 meas.) Repeat (1 meas.)

3 Gallop rolls, step, step, (2 meas.)

Repeat all (4 meas.)	9

Three times 3 Gallop rolls, step, step (6 meas.)

1 Gallop roll, step, step, (1 meas.) repeat (1 meas.)—16 measures*

Eighth Step.

“Turkey in the Straw** ..................................... Pas	Ballone*

Hop on left foot in place, raise arms and right leg sideward (and) step sideward right bend trunk slightly forward, swing arms downward to crossing (1) bring left foot close to right (2) turn right around brushing right forward and backward (3) step right (and) step left and right (4) 2 meas. Same opposite - 2 meas.r Repeat all 3 more times.

Final.

Jump to stride heel stand (1) step backward left and right (2) step forward left (and) brush right forward (3) hop left in place swing right leg forward and return slapping right foot down about one foot in front of left circle arms inward upward to sideward (2nd position.)

N OTES AND COMMENT^

The following three editorials in the “Medical Times”, New York* April 1922 should be of more than ordinary interest to those of our readers who are advocating more saneness and moderation on the part of our hyper emotional colleagues, many of whom appear to believe that a strenuous “week** devoted to any one phase of conduct will produce the millenium, e. g. Physical Culture Week, Boys Week, Music Week* Art Week, Americanization Week, Smile Week, etc., etc. Editor.

Digitized by Google
*36

WHY PICK ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE?

?/c wonder at people seeking comfort through Christian Science for all their physical ills, real and imaginary, forgetting that it is customary with the American people to seek comfort for all their other ills through means fully as open to criticism.

Christian Science seems to the writer a logical development along so-called religious lines in a country like the United States. It is often said that it could not have developed in any other country in the world, and yet the reasons why this is so have not been very closely examined.

The typical American has always been ready to deny the reality of social, political, or economic ills. He has refused to see the meaning of lynchmgs or to deal with this social disease, just as though such things really did not happen; he just won’t believe the truth about his government; and as for economic matters, well, all’s well with the world, and that’s all there is about it. It is as though what goes on at the United States Steel plants just doesn’t go on at all; anyway, everything is all i%ht.

Now this is just what the Christian Scientist does in the matter of physical ills, and so should we all, were we logical. The Christian Scientist refuses to see the meaning of his ataxic gait or to deal with it as such, just as though it really didn’t exist. He just won’t believe the truth about his lungs. All’s well with the liver, and that’s all there is about it. It is as though what goes on in the heart just doesn’t go on at all; anyway, everything is all right.

We should like to know what quarrel any American could have with the adherents of such a cult. Big business is all right, imperialism isn’t 4oing any harm, our prisons are not a disgrace, swollen fortunes are being well used. Congress is not composed of incompetent imbeciles in the main, there is no reason for unrest—in faat, there is no unrest, we are to '“keep smiling” in the face of child labor and child malnutrition, and there is nothing the matter with American literature, or art, or civilization in general. If you persist in seeing the reality of any social, political or economic evil you are regarded as a bore, or a nut, or a grouch, or a knocker, or a high-brow.

Why, in the name of heaven, should there be any disease? If we must be super-optimists in all other respects, on pain of ostracism if nothing worse, why are we permitted no illusions with respect to physical ilk?

STRANGE TALK.

Our understanding of the moron is that he is an individual who can never pass beyond the mental age of from seven to twelve years. To judge from an editorial which appeared in the New York Times on March a, the editor of that newspaper seems to believe that morons can be lifted to higher levels of thinking and feeling. The Times also seems to implicate Professor William C. Bagley, of Columbia University, in this mode of democratic development, aiming to elevate the common man to a position of supreme collective control. But the Times is at pains to

Digitized by
237

point out that according to statistics quoted by Commissioner of Education Graves, 47.3 per cent of the white men in the draft were morons. What, then, is the common man, mentally speaking? And how can individuals be elevated above their mental limit? What is the magic in democratic development that would lift them by their mental bootstraps? The Times says that what is needed, educationally, is such a continued exploring of the possibilities of the common mind as will insure the lifting of the children of twelve to higher levels of thinking and feeling. Our own view would be that what is needed is a discovery and sifting of the uncommon minds, a view which is shared by the Times along with its optimistic hypothesis regarding the common mind. It is the Lincolns* and not the mob, who are fit for supreme control. If democracy means the supreme collective control of things by common men, if common men are what the draft studies revealed, and if we are right about our understanding of the mental limitations of morons, then democracy cannot be idealized, and if applied, cannot work well. The would-be idealists will have a hard task to convince us that political virtue can be founded upon confessed mediocrity. Such reasoning is worthy of the morons themselves.

THE ALLEGED INCREASE IN NATIONAL VITALITY.

We are quite willing to believe that the span of life has been lengthened five years in America since 1909, as stated by a committee of the American Engineering Council, appointed by Secretary Hoover, but we are not inclined to accept the glittering generality that “the national vitality is increasing/* that is, as a whole. Of course, the statistics of such college* as Vassar, Harvard and Yale would show an increase among a selected class that has had all the benefit of the modern knowledge of cooking* diet and sanitation. The nation is healthier in spots, as it were. We have groups corresponding to the fine physical types one sees in England* where the industrialized masses present such a sorry sight. There are great numbers of persons in America whose standard of living is apparently high, as judged by the quality of their housing, but whose standard i* really very low, when judged by the food they eat; that is, they pay sud» high rents that they have to economize unduly in the matter of difet-We don’t believe that the great salaried middle class is increasing iir vitality.

The number of people seriously ill at any given time has been reduced in about the same time from an average of 3,000,000 to 2,400,000., according to the same committee, but this proves nothing regarding vitality* since it is attributable to preventive medicine—improved sanitation ami better medical care.

It is the decrease in infant mortality that has made the longevity look roseate, and not any essential increase in the general vitality; that, we believe, has actually decreased.

Digitized by

Google
238

BOOK REVIEWS.

“gymnastic tactics/* By E. H. Arnold. Written in the form of three small booklets dealing with Tactics of the Individual, Tactics of the Rank, and Tactics of the Body of Ranks, respectively. Part one, 50 cents, parts two and three, 60 cents each. Published by the author, New Haven, Conn.

The author's introduction states that the material is “intended as a systematic arrangement of Tactics/* It includes many of the chief lorms of tactic exercises and is accompanied by a description of their execution, commands, etc.

What is needed in a treatise of this kind is short and explicit description accompanied by diagrams. The reader is at once struck by the total absence of such diagrams. It is surprising that a teacher with the experience of the author should have overlooked so important an adjunct to a description of tactics. The lack of diagrams has necessitated such detailed description as to create confusion in the minds of the readers.

In addition, there is an almost endless and unnecessary repetition of material which could easily have been avoided by a grouping of similar cases. Such grouping would have had the added attribute of simplicity.

Use is made of ‘pickets* as guides in the body of ranks. Most teachers will agree that their use is impracticable in school gymnastics, especially in combinations of exercises. The author himself points out this fault in his chapter on Transformation and thereafter ignores them entirely.

To the mind of the reviewer much of importance has been omitted in these books and many extreme possibilities are included. Among other things no mention is anywhere made of the possibility of combinations, 4>f the use of tactics in running and dancing steps, etc. It may be that the author is contemplating a fourth book to cover such material.

Grover W. Mueller.

“high schools and sex education**. Edited by Benjamin C. Gruenberg, Ph. D. 98 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Published by the United States Public Health Service. To be procured from the “Superintendent of Documents** Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. Price 50 cents.

This book is a manual of “Suggestions on Education related to Sex.** It was prepared under the direction of the Surgeon General, U. S. Public Health Service, in collaboration with the U. S. Bureau of Education. The book presents a variety of material relating to sex education and shows how the different courses given in high schools may help in thif type of education. The courses spoken of are Biology, General Science, Physiology, Physical Education, Home Economics, Social Studies and English. How each one of these courses ought to function is shown in a concise manner. References at the end of each chapter help to make this book one that will be welcomed not only by all teachers of physical education but by all high school teachers.

“ATHLETIC AND RECREATIVE ACTIVITIES IN PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC

schools/* edited by Carl A. Hummel, 150 pages, 5x6^ inches, illustrat-

Digitized by

Google
239

ed. Bound in paper cover. 25 cents per copy, postpaid. Division of Physical Education, Grant Building, 17th and Pine Streets, Philadelphia.

The book contains the organization, government and rules controlling athletic competition in the Philadelphia Public Schools from the elementary schools to the normal schools inclusive; articles on officiating; the results of athletic competition for the year 1921-1922 and schedules for 1922-1923 season. The 181 photographs illustrate the trophies competed for annually, the championship teams and the proper methods of performing various athletic activities.

The book was published by the Supervisory Committee In Athletics for the Philadelphia Public Schools. Only a limited number of copies will be sold to persons outside of the Philadelphia Public School System.

Extract and reprintq

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY DR. D. V. BESSER, PHILADELPHIA.

From “Gymnastics, Play and Sports,” Berlin.

The following is part of a reply from Prof. Dr. F. A. Schmidt, Bonn, to Mr. E. Harte’s letter of inquiry about the movement to require physical directors to obtain academic degrees:

At present the German school system is undergoing a general revision. This gives rise to a movement to require students of physical education to matriculate at a university to obtain academic instructions, leading to a degree.

In order to discuss the merits and demerits of the new move, Mr. Erich Harte, Chairman of the Prussian Physical Education Association, in a letter to Prof. Dr. F. A. Schmidt, Bonn, asked him to express his opinion about the practical value of such a change.

Some of his pointed remarks will be of interest:

Physical training occupies a leading place in conserving and increasing public health. Modern problems constantly change and the methods of teaching must harmonize with existing conditions. The more we advance, the higher become the requirements of the teacher. Thus the condition necessitates an alertness on the part of the teacher or student to keep abreast with the progress of modern times. For this reason I approve that the student obtain a broad view of all subjects closely related to physical education. Besides a high efficiency in apparatus work, in track and field events, in games and plays and in kindred physical activities, a thorough knowledge of the human organism, its functions, its growth and development and the influence of the various types of exercises upon the human body should form an integral part of the prerequisites for his vocation. These attainments, coupled with the students* fitness as a teacher, should, in my opinion, be the determining factors in promulgating and enacting new laws.

Under our present system all elementary teachers qualify in physical instructions during their Normal School course. A number take up the extended work at the Normal Training School and finish their special studies within a year. Many of them made splendid records for them-
240

selves. This seems to indicate that the present law has much in its favor.

We have a surprisingly small number of special trained physical instructors in our schools. In the city schools many of the class teachers direct the physical activities of their pupils, while in small towns and country districts the problem rests entirely in the hands of the grade teacher.

There now confronts us the proposed change in the methods to prepare teachers for school work. How far the revision will affect physical activities, nobody seems to know, although physical training is one of the vital points in the child's welfare. Health exercises, games and plays for the child are of greater importance than a discussion relative to the merits or demerits of academic qualifications of a comparatively small group of special teachers of physical education. With my mind clear on this point I find to my surprise that the contemplated revision of the law does not even provide an adequate substitute for the present requirements. Past experiences have demonstrated, that in enforcing the rules of school hygiene and bodily exercises, one could always depend more on the hearty co-operation of the average elementary teacher, than upon his academic colleague. With these facts in mind I look with deep concern to the ultimate amalgamation of the elementary teacher with his academic co-worker. The only remedy to counteract the indifference of the average academic teacher towards physical activities is in creating a law, that compels him to pass an examination in physical instructions, before he receives his appointment. In my opinion this is an important question that should be considered by the Physical Education Association.

Now a word about the proposed studies of the special teacher of physical education at the university. Your pamphlet states that the course should extend over a period of four years.

Besides the physical work with all its kindred branches the academic studies should include: Chemistry, Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene, Histology, Pathology, Psychology, Ethics, Pedagogy, Orthopedics, Mechanics, Electricity, Nature Study etc. Last of all dissecting of the human body.

This is indeed a very comprehensive program. Such a variety of branches would require a high academic standing at the start. I doubt the feasibility of such a course. I would consider it a hardship to inflict such unreasonable requirements upon a student of a four years university course. Let us be satisfied with the result of having gained the point of introducing physical training work at our universities. Gradually the work will progress and ultimately it will be placed on the same level with other scientific studies.

In physical training work most of the success depends on leadership. Academic attainments and units above help little. We need teachers who are perfectly at home in the gymnasium and in outdoor activities, who are men of culture and refinement, who possess a thorough knowledge of the growth and development of the human organism and of the beneficial influence of the various activities upon the body in its entirety. Above all we need teachers who by their congenial dispositions and pleas-ing personalities are true leaders and are able to instill everlasting enthusiasm in those who come under their influence. Such teachers, as a rule, are not reared in the atmosphere of a college lecture room.