Vol. io.

JULY, 1903.

No. 113

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago High Schools, Chicago. 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760— 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

AH business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

HOW TO BE A PHYSICAL MARVEL IN FOUR DAYS.

By HORRIBLE HOLL, THE BOY WONDER.

(From the Chicago American.)

THERE is a large number of boys who would like to be physical giants so that they could indulge in little pleasantries at school without being detained in the evening and walloped by the teachers. It is also hard for a young and growing boy to keep his papa in proper subjection. If the boy were able to deliver his deadly right hook with proper steam behind it or to plant his terrible upper cut with force and effect papa would not disturb his beauty sleep in the morning by hoarse bawlings up the back stairs to the effect that unless the son did not jump out of bed in something less than four and three-quarter seconds by the watch, he (papa) would be coming up there with the trunk strap and would warm him (the son) in a proper and fitting manner. These things are annoying. The only way for the boys to do is to put themselves under my direction and to go into careful and systematic training.

In four days I can make you a physical marvel.

In two days I will make you so strong and husky looking that

Digitized by LjOOQle
quickened circulation of lively exercise to be brought to the surface and expelled.

Aside from this physical benefit and reflex mental exhilaration play has particular effects upon the mind. There is something in the association with others that burnishes a child’s wits. Thrown with others of his own age in worthy and authorized sport he is stimulated and quickened. His mind takes on a glow of interest. He is mentally alive. Play is the enemy of dullness, of stolidity, of melaneholy\ It does yeoman duty in the checking and minimizing of unfortunate hereditary tendencies. The active mind is mercifully turned from vicious channels into paths of innocence.

Play awakens all the activities of a child. Froebel, the wisest, kindliest student of childhood says:	“Through play we develop a happy

disposition and a sunny temper. Our first duty to a child is to make him happy. This happiness comes through play, and happiness makes a cheerful disposition chronic and builds a disposition for lifelong cheerfulness: and a happy disposition makes a sunny character.” Happiness marks the exercise of the natural proclivities. If the child’s play instinct developes along worthy lines and on orderly principles, the evolution of happiness is certain, and the abolition of disontent, selfishnsss, unreason and surliness is planned and provided for.

There are students of aesthetics who maintain that the fine arts are the manifestations of the play instinct in its best and most mature form. This is the most promising line for investigation. Play is the unrestricted exercise of the faculties of lines of natural inclination. Art is the working out of the undirected inspiration of the craftsman, the expression of the joy of the worker. There is a closeness of relation, at all events—perhaps identity.

Play has much to do with the development of the will, the forceful attribute of mentality, but this will be taken up in the consideration of character growth.

PLAY A FACTOR IN CHARACTER GROWTH.

Each child builds his own character. Nowhere else is the process so apparent as on the playground, for there his natnral self is revealed, and what is more important, his moral possibilities. One of the greatest observers of children has written it down:	“The	child	that	plays

thoroughly with self-active determination, persevering until physical fatigue forbids, will surely be a thoroughly determined man, capable of self-sacrifice for the promotion of the welfare of himself and others.” Already in such a child has begun the growth of the will, the department of tjie mind that chooses and determines. Result follows upon effort. The characteristic of play is not ease, but the feeling of power in doing things more or less difficult without constraint or compulsion. The power and progress of the Anglo-Saxon race is due as much to play capacity and practice as to any other differentiation.

Each child builds his own character. Books cannot supply the place of contact with his fellows in active sports. The formation of character is more active on the playground under the stimulus of emulation, association and imitation than in the school-room under judicious pre-

Digitized by Google
-125-

cept and wise tuition. So far as character building can be guided, there should be arranged alternate periods of training and recreative play. When the child is playing freely, his imagination is being strengthened and the basis of morality established through consequent exercise of sensibilities and will.

Each child builds bis own character, and on the playground are many of the habits formed that determine that character. So far in the history of the world the building of character has been left to the home, school and church working together. It may be that in the future the playground will be called upon to round out the circle of continuous influence, and this ideal playground planned, equipped and provided will take up the hours when the influence of the other three is not felt, and in worthy employment make these hours do their part in ethical culture.

Sow a habit and reap a character. “Habit passes with its owner into a world where destiny is determined by character, and character is the aim and expression of all preceding habits.” Habits are largeh’ formed by the conscious imitation of examples expressed upon the mind and heart while in their most receptive condition—during play time. The best conditions for the reception of these impressions include sunshine and fresh air.

Tsanoff, the apostle of playgrounds, expresses himself strongly on this point: “In order to develop character, the chief purpose of human life, we must turn our most careful attention towards taking most ample and svstemized measures for the children’s playings, amusements and enjoyments, especially playgrounds as the central focus of play. It is there that we must centralize our thought and action in bringing about reform that will create educational conditions that will produce manly and womanly characters.

WHAT LED TO THE PLAYGROUND MOVEMENT.

If you will admit without further argument or quotation the benefits of recreation and the culture value of play, the next step is the consideration of the causes that led to the establishing of playgrounds in the cities.

You may remember that when Dr. Henson last lectured here he told of his efforts when residing in Philadelphia to provide his son, a chunk of a boy, with raw material for a good time, and how each appliance was captured and confiscated by the vigilant police for such emergencies made and provided. The boy finally came to his parent and asked: “Pa, what can a boy do?” Dr. Henson told him that they would go west together and see if there was a place in Chicago for Young America to cultivate his wind and limb. The boys of Davenport are asking that same question today, and what are we going to do about it?

Abram S. Hewitt in inaugurating the campaign for public playgrounds in New York city said: “It takes ten years to do anything.” He doubtless knew his city. If that is also true of Davenport, before the public playground arrives a large degree of lawlessness may be expected among the youth of this city. It doesn’t come in this talk, but there is an interesting chapter in another book, and it bears this heading—

Digitized by C^ooQle
-126-

“Is Davenport a Good Place to Raise Boys, and If Not, Why Not?’’ A campaign for public playgrounds in this city, if it cannot bear fruit in ten years, can be inaugurated none too soon. Davenport ranks among the smaller cities of the country, but already nearly all the land for a mile and more back from the river has been taken for dwellings and streets and stores and factories. Not a square foot has been dedicated to the children. Already the grass in the parks is too sacred for any use not contemplated by the landscape gardener. Last summer the park commissioners discouraged a field day for the public schools with gymnastic exercises in Central Park. It might be well to set on foot an inquiry as to the comparative value of grass and children. Already the vacant lots that furnished play-space for the generation of boys that are now business men in Davenport have been taken by the builder. There are a few left in the residence part of the town, and from these the boys are chased by the police, abetted by the irate neighbors who have a convenient ordinance to fall back upon for authority. There is nothing left but the street for them to play in and here they find more police and more ordinances. These are the conditions already in our home city, and Davenport has but made a beginning in abridging the privileges of the young and infringing the rights of adolescence.

Children and youth are irrepressibly dynamic. Those who live in cities have no work at home to consume this energy. If this vitality is not expended in good channels, be assured it will find its way into others. After fighting the London slum for forty years, the Earl of Meath wrote: '‘Crime in our cities is largely a matter of athletics.1'

The deprivation of city children as to play is shameful. In Chicago, our nearest large neighbor, one school of 1,200 pupils has 20 square feet of playground. In another, 800 play in a yard 18ft.x28ft. Another school of 1,100 has provision of 15ft.x30t. for the boys and none at all for the girls. Some school yards have been sodded, and the children entirely excluded therefrom. Some poet has said: “There is nothing sweeter in the city than the patient lives of the poor.” A toleration of such conditions may be patient and sweet. It also is probably a result of the helplessness that attends poverty, for those schools must be in the poorer parts of the city. Within the past few weeks the Chicago city council has passed an ordinance commanding that hereafter .each new school building put in service should be surrounded by sufficient play-space.

Elizabeth Barrett Browning years ago wrote a pathetic poem that you all remember. It begins: “Do you hear the children weeping, O, my brothers.'”’ The last verse runs:

“But the young, young children, O, my brothers,

They are weeping bitterly,

They are weeping in the playtime of the others,

In the country of the free.”

This was written to voice the protest of humane England against the employment of child labor in the factories. It doubtless pictured the forlorn condition of those unfortunate children, but the poem has also been quoted by sympathetic and misinformed people as describing the ordinary occupation of the small dweller in the congested district. The

Digitized by LjOOQle
-127-

healthy street arab is a far different article. He has a good time in his own perverted and degenerate fashion. He doesn’t lean up against anybody and cry. He is out for fun with all the natural proclivities sharpened by the repression and circumstances. He roams the alleys. He chases domestic animals. He is one in the audience of every disgraceful street incident. He hangs on wagons and steals from the peddler and market-man. He allies himself with the disturbing element and annoys and insults the respectable. He and others like him swarm through the streets in organized gangs of idleness. They smoke cigarret-tes or anything else they can get. They speak in profane and vicious language. They break windows and deface buildings. They menace the unfortunate and terrorize the weak. It is just as strange as it is true that all this is but the misdirected manifestation of the play instinct that the young reprobate’s creator implanted in him. For the past sixty centuries the plan of the respectable has been to arrest and punish the hoodlum for his«lawlessness. There is now a better scheme afoot— to catch him young enough by the attraction of a playground to which he is made welcome, and there he will get so busy that he will forget to break the laws for the lack of other means of keeping things moving. To make the scheme work, it is necessary to catch him in the gosling stage, as a Chicago chief of police is on record as declaring that the criminal is made before he is ten years old.

Jacob Riis, in an article contributed to Harpers’ Weekly some four years ago,, tells of the committee on smaller parks and playgrounds. To quote:	“It	had	secured	through	the	police	authorities reports of the

precinct captains as to what ailed the districts where there was trouble with the young, where gangs fought with the police or with one another and made things unpleasant generally. They were mighty instructive reports. While not always willing to own the gang, the police had never a doubt as to what started it or how it was to be got rid of. ‘They have no other playground than the street,’ was the verdict from the tenement neighborhood everywhere, ‘so they smash lamps and break windows. The storekeepers are annoyed.’ Many complaints are received daily of boys annoying pedestrians, storekeepers and tenants by their continually playing baseball in some part of most every street,’ reported the captain of the Twenty-seventh precinct on the up town east side, where the population is crowding more and more every year. ‘The damage is not slight and arrests are frequent—much more frequent than when they had open lots to play in. These lots are now built up, and for every new house there are more boys and less chance for them to play.’ Out of such conditions with their inevitable irritation and gnawing sense of injury in the boy—who is arrested for the wrong done him, not done by him, as he well knows—grows the ‘tough’ whose chief ambition it is, when he gets big enough, to right the policeman who stands for the perverted social order. Where the wrong had been undone, there was even less doubt about it. ‘The Hook gang is gone,’ reported the captain of the Twelfth precinct. ‘It has disappeared since the establishing of the Corlears Hook park.’ Of the Mulberry park: ‘The whole neighborhood has taken a change, and decidedly for the better,’ and so on. More significant than all from Tompkins square

Digitized by o.ooQle
-128-

came the report: ‘The neighbors are quiet and orderly people.’ There were few of the members of the commission who did not remember the day when Tompkins square was the most turbulent storm-center in the city, given over to rioting and disorder on the least provocation. That was in the days before it became a park. Since then the police have not had to take it by storm once.”

(To be concluded.)

LIFE AND THE LIVER.

W. H. KINNICUTT, M. D,

How far we are as a race from the type from which we have sprung! Having been led to believe that evolution is infallible we can but wonder what the physical future of the race is to be if the direction apparently now set is followed.

When one looks to find a sound healthy man 4n the city, he must look a long time before he will find even a sample; stomach oft, liver clog, sag-back, wind-broke, brain fag,—no limit to the derangements which almost every one you meet shows in some form. It is a pessimistic outlook.

With the beginning of this state of things the medical adviser came into being; and as he was able, little by little, to check the uncomfortable manifestations of these various cultivated ailments, we learned to trust him to patch out health leaks; but we never dare to get far away from him for fear that something new may give way—such is our confidence in ourselves.

Perhaps we are gradually being made over and will discover ways to various organs of the body of their ordinary functions; will do away with stomach, pancreas and other glands by the use of predigested foods; will become automatons physically, practically machines which have no sensation, no initiative, no troubles, no satisfaction. The necessity for individual health will pass away and with it all joy in living.

If there is any perfect joy in the world it comes first in the unconsciousness of health—we become conscious of health only by seeing others unlike ourselves: next, from the consciousness of being in right relationship to everything; one is fundamental to, the other the con-sumation of, life. This view of life makes action, volition, habit, personality and purpose the great guide post's to living; and this means that we do not intend to pervert nature’s original plan for ourselves bv ignoring her basic principles and laws. We must preserve and conserve our health; we must each do so, or admit ourselves to be defective stones in the structure of the race.

Find that means of keeping square with your duty to yourself which is the most economical of time and energy, and then stick to it.

—The eighth annual regatta of the Intercollegiate Rowing Association will be held Friday, June 26, over the Poughkeepsie Highland course, on the Hudson. The program: Four p. m., four-oared race, a distance of two miles, Columbia. Pennsylvania and Cornell; 4:45 r. m., freshman eight-oared race, a distance of two miles, Wisconsin, Syracuse, Cornell, Columbia and Pennsylvania; 6 p. m., university cight-oared race, a distance of four miles. Georgetown, Columbia, Pennsylvania, Cornell, Syracuse and Wisconsin.

Digitized by tjOOQLe
-129-

GYMNASTICS WITH SPECIAL APPARATUS*)

PLATE IX —CROSS-SEAT.

PLATE X —KNEELING, ARMS PLACED ON NEIGHBOR S SHOULDERS.

> *) From Manual of Gymnastics on the “Combination Apparatus” for Elementary Schools. By HENRY SUDER, Supervisor of Physical Culture, Public Schools, Chicago, 111., 1902. (.Plates continued from June issue.)

Digitized by C.ooQle
PLATE XI.—SQUATTING POSITION.

PLATE XII.—RIDING-SEAT.

Digitized by

Google
PLATE XIV.—HANG-STAND, LEFT KNEE KENT, RIGHT LEG, PACKWARD.

PLATE XIII.—HAND-HANG IN STRADDLE POSITION.

Digitized by t^ooQle
PLATE XV —HAND-HANG ON BEAMS.

PLATE XVI.—-HAND-HANG WITH STRADDLING OF LEGS.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
PLATE XVII.—FRONT LEANING SUPPORT. •

PLATE XVIII —RUNNING DOWN.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
PLATE XIX.—JUMPING DOWN.

PLATE XX.—FRONT SIDE-STAND SWINGING.

Digitized by

Googk
PLATE XXI — SIDE HAND-HANG AND STRADDLE SEAT SLIDING FORWARD DOWNWARD

PLATE XXII.—HANG-STAND RIGHT, LEFT LEG BACKWARD ANI) FRONT STAND WALKING DOWN

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-136-

WHY I ENJOY TENNIS.

LUTHER DANA FERNALD, Age 17 year*. (Winner of the first prize in the essay contest in “Success.”)

The ideal sport is the one which brings every muscle into vigorous, healthy exercise, without straining or bruising; which develops not only the body, but also the mind; which any one may play, aud which will always benefit the player.

Tennis fulfills all these conditions; other sports do not. What part of one’s body is not brought into play by tennis? The feet and the legs, the waist, the arms, and the hands are greatly strengthened and trained by tennis. The lungs and the heart and all the internal organs arc also greatly benefited. An active flow of blood, deep breathing, and consequent purifying of the blood and a healthy perspiration to carry off impurities arc the best possible for building up the inner man.

The eyes and the mind are constantly active in tennis, but this activity is a relief, a diversion, and a change from the strain of business or school.

Tennis is not a selfish game; it does not belong to the rich alone; it does not require an expensive outfit or broad expanse of land. I can construct, in my backyard, a court in which I can enjoy the greatest game of our days as well as can the wealthiest people in the land.

Women as well as men can play this sport of sports. A dainty tennis player is beyond comparison with the mannish golf-girl or a strenuous basketball player.

Though tennis is easily learned, one is always a student. The game never becomes uninteresting. Tennis has none of the tediousness for the spectator that many other games have. Every play is full of interest. One turn of the wrist may make or mar the game.

In tennis there are no broken bones or bruised bodies—nothing that is brutal, vicious, or dangerous.

No sanitarium or hospital holds a tennis player, for this is a game of health. It is the sport that gives one’s body the needed exercise without strain, that has no after effects save that ‘of healthy appetite and a sound night’s rest, and that makes him forget the cares and sorrows of this world in one of its greatest pleasures. It is the sport of sports for me.

Mr. B. Bonqouis, New Orleans, writes:

“I read different ph vsical culture journals, but I like “mind and body” on account of its conservatism and its constant warnings to those who would overdo physical training. Wishing you continued success, I beg to remain

yours respectfully

B. Bonquois.

-Thought is supreme. Preserve a right mental attitude—the attitude of courage, frankness and good cheer. To think rightly is to create. All things come through desire, and every sincere prayer is answered We become like that on which our hearts are fixed.

Google
YT W	■	mmr Published Monthly.

AAmp «nd body. *

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

SabwriptioB Price, f 1.00 per Year.	StOlwaukee, Wlaccmein.

Address aU business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

MEETINGS AND FESTIVALS.

THIS summer there is no lack of opportunities to improve upon our knowledge in our subject, and it will be largely a matter of choice, perhaps influenced by the question of time or financial resources, which of all these meetings and festivals are to be attended.

But recently we had the annual convention of the A. A. A. P. E. From July 6th to 10th the N. E. A. will meet in Boston. The program of the department of physical training is as follows:

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

WEDNESDAY MORNING, JULY 8.

1.	President’s Address, “Physical Education and Brain-Building’’—William O. Kohn, Chicago, 111.

2.	“Physical Sanity and Outdoor Life”—Frederick Manley, author and lecturer, Boston, Mass.

3.	“The Place of Physical Education in the Curriculum: Should It Be Fundamental ?”—E. W. Lyttle, inspector of schools. University of the State of New York, Albany. N. Y.

4.	Symposium—“How to Improve Public School Gymnastics” (five minutes allowed each speaker). Luther M. Gulick, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn N. Y.; E.

H.	Arnold, New Haven, Conn.; Miss Amy Morris Homans, Boston, Normal School of Gymnastics, Boston, Mass.; Thomas D. Wood, Columbia University, New York city; Miss A. C. Skeele, State Normal School, North Adams, Mass.; Miss Edith MacClure Love, director Woman’s Gymnasium, State Normal School, Terre Haute, Ind.; Miss Mabel L Pray, director physical training, puplic schools, Toledo, O.; James Fitzgerald, director physical training, public schools, Boston, Mass.

WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON (2 o’clock).

Illustrative Exercises in Physical Training, directed by Baroness Rose Posse, vice-presidsnt of the department.

FRIDAY MORNING, JULY 10.

1.	“Tests of Efficiency in Normal-School Gymnastics”—Baroness Rose Posse, director of Posse Gymnasium, Boston, Mass.

2.	“Physical Training for the Mass of Students”—Dr. Wm. G. Anderson, director of the gymnasium, Yale University, tafcv Haven, Conn.; F. N. Whittiei, director of the gymnasium, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me. Discussion—John R. Kirk, president of the State Normal School, Kirksville, Mo.

3.	“Recreative Physical Exercise’’—Ernst Hermann, superintendent of the Thomas G. Plant Company’s Gymnasium for the Employes, Boston, Mass.

On July 6, 7 and 8, the teachers of the North American Gymnastic Union will convene in Detroit, Mich., and following this will have an aftersession for practical work in Put-in-Bay. The program for these two occasions has not been published as yet.

Digitized by Google
-138-

The physical directors of the Y. M. C. A. have had conferences in different parts of the country.

About 15 instructors, 3 classes of actives and a number of passive members of the N. A. G. U. (Turnerbund) are on the way to the monster Turnfest at Nuremberg, Germany, which takes place from July 18 to 21. From there the party will travel sight-seeing and reassemble on August 20 in Antwerp, where the International Turnfest is to be held.

If we add to all this the dozen summer schools for physical training that will be in session in this country, we must confess that with all these opportunities there must be a steady progress of gymnastic activity throughout the land in every direction.

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By E. H ARNOLD. M. D.

XII.

TO CARRY, TO CONVEY FROM A STARTING POINT.

GYMNASTICALLY we call carrying the moving of a part through a horizontal plane. During all these movements the weight of the part is borne, and likewise does carrying mean, in our case, the conveying from a starting point, in as much as all carrying must be done from a starting position. In order to allow a part to be carried through a horizontal plane the part must be placed in a horizontal position to begin with, or at least in a position which will permit a rotary movement other than around the long axis of the part. In the case of the arms it becomes necessary to raise them forward or sideward when they may be carried sideward and forward respectively. The trunk can be placed in a position from which carrying is possible by bending forward or by lowering forward, whence it can be carried sideward left and right. The leg may be carried after being raised forward, sideward or backward, or, being placed in the same directions, the carrying being sideward, forward or backward and sideward after each one of the raisings and in the order above given. The head can assume a position which will make carrying possible.

	Carrying. Starting position		carry
Arms	raised forward		sideward
<<  Trunk	“ sideward bent forward		forward  sideward left and right  u i» it
«<	lowered forward		
Leg	raised  or  placed  or  after striding	forward ■ sideward* backward	tt t< K it  forward, backward sideward left and right

—Keep your mind on the great and splendid things you would like to do; and then, as the days go gliding by, you will find yourself unconsciously seizing upon the opportunities that are required for the fulfillment of your desire, just as the coral molusk takes from the running tide the elements it needs. Picture in vour minds the able, earnest, useful person you would like to be, and the thought you hold is hourly transforming you in that particular indivual.
-139-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

(Continued. ^

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus, and closing with the game “Captain Ball.” As a preliminary figure marching or gymnastic tactics. After receiving wands form a front line and count off b) fours (or sixes), *4 wheel r. (or 1.) and open order to the 1. (or r.) with marching forward to two steps distance and turning to the front after the required steps have been taken. Then halt!

WAND DBILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

1. a) Bend-kneestep forw. 1. and raise wand forw. to vertical pos., 1* hand above—1! Pos.—2! Same r., 3, 4! b) Bend-kneestep backw. 1. and raise wand in front of shoulders, bend 1. arm over r.—1! Pos.—2! Same r., 3, 4!

2.	a) Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand overh.—1! Bend trunk forw. and lower wand in front of ankles—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 5—8!

b) Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Bend trunk backw., raise wand overh. and lower on shoulders—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 5—8!

Wand held in 1. hand in vertical po9., 1. arm bent to thrust, r. hand on hip—grasp! (Wand in r. hand for exercise r.)

3.	a) Raise 1. leg forw. height of hip and thrust 1. arm forw.—1 * Pos.—2!

L) Raise r. leg forw. height of hip and thrust r. arm forw.—1! Pos.—2!

c) Raise 1. leg sidew. height of hip and thrust I. arm sidew.—1 I Pos.—2!

d)	Raise r. leg sidew. height of hip and thrust r. arm sidew.— 1 Pos.—2!

Wand forw. in starting pos.

4.	a) Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Bend-kneestep backw. obi. to the 1., bend trunk forw. and lower wand in front of ankles, the wand parallel with the inner side of the r. foot -2! As 1-3! Pos.—4! b) Same r., 1—4! c) Alternately, 1—8!

5.	a) Toe-touch backw. 1. and raise wand overh.—1! Lunge forw. 1. and lower wand forw. 1. (r. hand under 1. shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! b) Same r., 1—4! c) Alternately, 1—8!

6.	a) Cross-toe-touch forw. 1., raise wand in front of shoulders, r. arm bent over 1.—1 ! Lunge sidew. 1., raise wand overh. and lower obi. behind shoulders, r. arm downw., the 1. hand over 1. shoulder-2! As 1-3! Pos.—4!

Digitized by

Google
—140—

b)	Same r., 1—4!

c)	Alternately, 1—8!

T.	a) Stride pos. sidew. I. and raise wand overh.—1! Turn trunk to the 1. (arms remain in pos.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 5—8!

Jump to stride pos. outw (sidew.) and raise wand overh.

b) As a, 1. and r. alternately in two counts.

Gymnastic tactics or resting position.

8.	a) Toe-touch forw. and raise wand overh.—1! Stride pos. backw.

1. and kneel on 1. knee, lower wand behind shoulders—2! A 1—3! Pos.—4!

b)	Same r., 1—4!

c)	Alternately, 1—8!

Wand forw. in starting pos., reversed grasp.

9.	a) V2 bent-knee pos. and raise wand forw.—1! Lunge sidew. 1., wind

inw. with 1. hand and move wand sidew. 1.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

b)	Same r., 1—4!

c)	Alternately, 1—8!

10.	a) Lunge forw. 1. obi., wind inw. with 1. hand and raise wand

forw. upw. obi. to the 1. (r. hand in front of r. shoulder)—1! Cross-bend-kneestep backw. 1., reverse wind with 1. hand and immediately wind inw. with r. hand and move wand downw. and backw. obi. to the r. (1. hand in front of r. shoulder—2! As 1-3! Pos.—4!

b)	Same r., 1—4

c)	Alternately, 1—8!

Wand in starting pos., ordinary grasp.

11.	a) Stride pos. sidew. 1., raise wand forw. to vertical pos., r. hand

above—1! Bend 1. knee, bend trunk sidew. 1. and move wand upw. 1. (r. hand in front of 1. shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

b)	Same r., 1—1!

c)	Alternately, 1—8! in alternate rows toward and away from one another.

12.	Breathing exercise :	Inhale and raise wand overh.; exhale and

lower wand behind hips; return in reverse order. Repeat 4 to 6 times.

Carry wand and close ranks in reverse order to that of opening, then *4 wheel backw. to a front line; turn r. or 1. face, march forw. and deposit wands.

March to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: High parallel bars and oblique ladder.

Second “ Oblique ladder and high parallel bars.

Third	“	Low horizontal bar and high jump.

Fourth “	High jump and low horizontal bar.

Exchange places—Division 1 with 2 and 3 with 4.

First Divison.—High Parallel Bars.

A short run precedes all movements.

1. Jump to upper arm hang, flex thighs over body and kip to straight

Digitized by v^ooQle
—141-

arm rest, swing backw. to straddle seat behind hands; turn oyer forw. to upper arm balance; roll over forw. (hips extended), swing forw. again, flex thighs over body, kip to straight arm rest, swing backw. to high front vault 1. or r.

2.	Jump to straight arm rest in the center of the bars, swing backw. and turn over forw. to upper arm balance; roll over forw. and at backw. swing pull up to straight arm rest, swing forw. to rear vault r. with Y2 turn 1.

3.	Jump to upper armhang at backw. swing, move arms backw. and immediately turn over forw. to upper arm balance, then roll oyer forw. and pull up at backw. swing to straight arm rest; swing forw., lower backw. to upper arm rest with thighs flexed over body, kip to sraight arm rest, and front vault r. with V2 turn 1.

4.	Jump to straight arm rest in the center of the bars, dip-swing backw. to hand balance; lower slowly to upper arm balance; roll over forw. slowly to thighs flexed over body; kip to straight arm rest and high backw. swing; swing forw. and rear vault r. with ^4 turn r.

In cross front stand at end of bars and lower to leaning hang.

5.	Pull up slowly to straight arm rest; raise both legs forw. to right angle; turn over forw. extending hips and arms to hand balance; dip-swing forw. and front scissors mount, place hands in rear of thighs; roll over backw. and extend hips to straight arm rest, continue by raising legs forw. to r. angle; Yl turn 1. (r.), travel with r. hand to 1. bar; dismount forw.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the oblique ladder (under side).

First Division.—Oblique Ladder (under side).

Jump to front hangstand (feet on lower round and hands in outside grasp on beams).

1.	Travel upw. and downw., the 1. foot and 1. hand moving simultaneously, and vice versa.

2.	As ex. 1, with inside grasp on beams.

3.	As ex. 1, but alternate by moving both feet and both hands.

4.	As ex. 3, but move both feet and hands simultaneously.

Jump to cross handhang, arms slightly bent.

5.	Travel upw. and downw. with legs spread wide sidew.

6.	“	“	“	“	moving	hands	simultaneously.

7.	As ex. 5, with side swinging (legs held together).

In rear cross handhang.—

8.	Travel upw. and downw.

9.	As ex. 8, with side swinging.

Second Division.—Oblique Ladder (under side).

Jump to front hang stand as first division.

1. Travel downw. with hands (1. or r. alternately) and bend knees, the hands to move downw. as far as possible, and return to starting pos. Repeat. Down.

Digitized by Google
2.	Travel upw. with the feet (hands remain in pos.) as near as possible to hands and return to starting pos. Repeat. Down.

3.	As ex. 1, then extend and bend the knees forcibly three or four times and return to starting pos. Down.

4.	Travel upw. with hands and feet to upper end of ladder, moving 1. foot and r. hand simultaneously and vice versa, and return.

5.	As ex. 4, to upper end of ladder, then climb around to the upper side; jump to front leaning rest (hands on round and feet resting on the beams), then travel downw. (moving hands alternately).

6.	As ex. 5, but instead of the front leaning rest lower to rear straddle seat; then extend hip (the bodv is lowered forw.) and rest the hands on the beams, the lower legs held around (lower side) of the ladder; move hands alternately as the lowering takes place.

Jump to front cross handhang, hands in inside grasp on beams.

7.	Travel upw. and downw. by the hands.

8.	As ex. 7, but outside grasp on beam with the 1. hand and ordinary grasp on round with the r. hand.

9.	As ex. 8. but hands in opposite pos.

Change place with the first division on the high parallel bars.

Second Division.—High Parallel Bars.

A short run precedes the jump to upper arm swing in the center of the bars#

1.	Jump to upper arm hang, flex thighs over body and kip to straddle seat in front of the hands; raise both legs forw., swing backw., dip-swing forw. to straddle seat in front of the hands; raise both legs forw., swing backw. to front vault 1. or r.

2.	As ex. 1, kip to riding seat in front of 1. hand; raise both legs forw., swing backw., dip-swing forw. to riding seat in front of r. hand; raise both legs forw.; swing backw. to front vault 1. or r. with Vi turn r. or 1.

3.	As ex. 1, but kip to straight arm rest and swing backw. to straddle seat behind the hands; raise both legs backw., swing forw. and dip-swing backw. to straddle seat behind hands; raise both legs backw., swing forw. to rear vault r. with Vi turn 1.

4.	As ex. 3, after the kip to straight arm rest, intermediate swing: dip-swing backw. and back scissors mount; raise both legs forw., again dip-swing backw. and back scissors mount; raise both legs forw., intermediate swing, rear vault r. with Vi turn 1.

5.	As ex. 3, kip to straight arm rest, dip-swing forw. and front scissors mount, place hands in rear of thighs; roll over backw. to straddle seat in front of hands; raise both legs forw., swing backw. to high front vault 1. or r.

6.	Kip to straight arm rest, turn over forw. to upper arm balance; flex thighs and roll over to straddle seat in front of hands; raise both legs forw., dip-swing backw. to front vault 1. with Vi turn r.

7.	An exercise free for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third division begins on the low horizontal bar and the fourth on high-jump.
-143-

Low Horizontal Bar (height of shoulders).

1.	Jump to front rest; Y2 circle r. with 1. leg under 1. hand to crossrest; Y2 circle 1. with 1. leg to front rest and down to half bent-knee pos., immediately underswing to half bent-knee pos.

2.	As ex. 1, to cross-rest, drop backw. and 14 kneecircle backw. to former pos.; reverse grasp of 1. hand and screw dismount 1. with Y2 turn 1.

3.	As ex. 1, to cross-rest; then again Y2 circle r. with 1. leg under r. hand to front rest and down to half bent-knee pos., immediately underswing with Y2 turn 1. to half bent-knee pos.

4.	As ex. 1, to cross-rest; 14 knee circle backw.; Yt circle 1. with r. leg to rear rest; 14 double kneecircle (seat circle), and down.

5.	As ex. 1, to cross rest; change grasp to reverse; 14 kneecircle forw.; Y2 circle 1. with r. leg to rear rest, and change grasp to ordinary again; lower backw. to knee hang; squat forw. and pull over forw. to front rest (front circle backw.); underswing to half bent-knee pos.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change with fourth division for high-jump.

High-jump.

1. Spring off 1. foot and swing arms forw. to half bent-knee pos.

2	ft	K r «*	n	11	<(	11	K	it	<1	11	ii

3.	Stride jump forw. (similar to hurdling), springing off 1. foot and landing on the r.

4.	As ex. 3, spring off r. foot, etc.

5.	Spring off 1. foot and land on 1. with additional hop.

6.	As ex. 5, but spring off r. foot, etc.

7.	Try for high-jump.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Captain Ball.” After conclusion of the game command pos.—stand! Clap hands once, and dismiss.

(To be continued.)

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—The Second Annual Field Day of the Leadville, Col., public schools took place June 5th under the direction of Louis Lepper, Sup. Physical Training. The program included competitive athletics and games of various kinds and proved highly interesting.

—The State Normal School of Superior, Wis., held its annual gymnastic exhibition on May' 29th. Miss Vinton Yeakle, physical director of that institution, received numerous congratulations upon her success. Miss Yeakle is graduate of the Summer School of the N. A. G. U.

—We are pleased to learn that Miss Alta J. Wiggins, one of the graduates of the N. A. G. TJ. Summer School, for a number of years was in charge of the physical training department of the Buffalo, N. Y., public schools and is very successful in her work.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-144-

ENDOWED ATHLETICS FOR THE SCHOOLS.

THE following address on collegiate athletics was delivered by Prof* C. M. Woodward of Washington university at a recent meeting of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools held in Chicago. Prof. Woodward is well known for his devotion to the cause of high-class amateur athletics in colleges. In this paper he takes a rather advanced ground. He suggests that gate receipts be abolished and athletic contests be put entirely on a basis of free admission.

Heading his address “The New Departure in Athletic Control,’' Prof. Woodward spoke as follows:

I assume, without argument, the value, necessity and propriety of general physical training and of athletic sports among students of both secondary and higher grades. I admit without hesitation that we fail badly in our management; on the one hand doing too little, on the other hand, doing or allowing our students to do too much. The middle course in this case, as will be seen, is a “golden mean.”

The following resolutions were unanimously adopted at the recent meeting of the Missouri College Union:

1. Resolved, That it is desirable that all students should take systematic physical training during the entire period of their academic carreer. It is our understanding that all athletics come under the general head of physical training.

2. Resolved, That it is the conviction of this conference that all college athletics should be under the control and supervision of the college faculty; that the faculty authorities, responsible for the standard maintained in athletics, should instruct the general student body, as well as candidates for teams, in the principles of good sportsmanship and manly conduct in their athletic activity, and that penalties be imposed upon players who in any resort to unfair tactics in a contest or make themselves obnoxious while connected with the team.

3.	Resolved, That in every college community the public opinion should be fostered, which shall be absolutely fair and courteous to visiting teams, which shall be prompt to recognize and applaud good play and acts of chivalry on either side, and which never drops below the plane of considerate and gentlemanly conduct.

4.	Resolved, That the authorities of each college discountenance betting in connection with athletic events and endeavor to hold up public sentiment against this baneful evil.

5.	Resolved, That inasmuch as the eminent purpose of college athletics is the physical training and development of the student corps, the students we have should be our first care, and hence the practice of recruiting athletic material from other institutions of the same grade, or of a lower grade, by presenting special inducements in the way of athletic, social or financial opportunity is unfair, unsportsmanlike, and unworthy of an educational institution.

6.	Resolved, That since the employment of professional coaches has a corrupting influence on college athletics, that a sentiment be created in the educational institutions of this state that will bring about the entire abandonment of the professional coaching. In this connection we recommend the regular employment by each institution of a competent instructor of physical training.

7.	Resolved, That a long train of evils seems to be inseparably connected with the feature of gate receipts, a feature rendered necessary by the inadequate provision for the support of a physical department. This inadequacy we regret, and its evils we deplore. It is our judgement that the ideal condition toward which we should all aim is an endowed department, with a financial management in the hands of college officers; that all public entertainments in which our students take part should be free and complimentary; that expenses should be rigidly kept within incomes, and that extravagance in any direction should be carefully avoided. The number of intercollegiate contests should be limited and

Digitized by Google
-145-

their character determined by the highest interest of the student body, and visiting teams should always be entertained as guests. In short, the physical department should be provided and administered by the college authorities in the same way as is the department of science, engineering or literature.

My thesis is the seventh resolution, relating to endowed departments of physical training, and the entire abolition of the feature of “gate receipts’' from all student athletics. The substance of that resolution I incorporated into an address on “Manly Sports” in St. Louis in March, 1002, and again in a paper read before the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education at Pittsburg, Pa., in Tune last year. The train of evils connected with the feature of gate receipts is manifest to every close observer. Intercollegiate college contests, like other intercollegiate matches (debates, orations, chess, tennis, etc.), seem to be necessary to the maintenance of a lively and healthy interest in athletics as manly sports; even under good management they cost considerable money. The participants generally can not afford to meet the expense; the nonparticipating students do not feel that the burden should fall on them; there is usually no money in the college treasury for such contests; the only course open is that adopted by the managers of professional baseball, professional boxing and prize-fighting, horse racing, etc., viz., make the event as spectacular and exiting as possible and invite the public to attend and pay the bills. This solution of the problem is purely American and of recent origin, and it has brought about an air of professionalism which has decidedly lowered the tone of college athletics. Here the train of evils at once began its course. As soon as the managers found that they could get the public to pay the expenses they set out to induce them to pay roundly and come in crowds. The drawing cards for a public exhibition were individual players of rare strength and skill, and a team reputation for great prowess and strategy. To secure these attractions no labor, no money must be spared. A thousand dollars spent on the team will come back fourfold at the gate. Now enter the professional coaches, the hired trainers and the volunteer recruiting officers. Athletics ceases to be manly sports and healthy fun; it is desparate business and hard drudgery with the fun squeezed out of it. The average, growing, developing student, in whose interest athletics were originally organized and maintained, is neglected, and the county is scoured far and wide for superior athletic material to make up a team that is reasonably sure to win and so draw a paying crowd.

See how corruption creeps in at every joint. The ideal man, who excels in both brain and brawn, may be on the team, but the chances are many to one that he is not. As a rule the recruited material makes up the team, and we all know what that material generally is. It is not sought, nor does it come, for the high ends for which a college is established and fostered. This recruited material may get some benefit from the incidental work of the course, such as mathematics, science and literature, but the evident tendency on the part of college athletes to turn out professional sports is something to be deplored.

Next note the evils inevitably connected with coaching. Next year’s salary of your coach depends chiefly on the record of his team this year.

Digitized by Google
-146-

They must win or he loses. What can you expect? Are your surprised if he says privately to his men :	“Put so-and-so out of the game as soon

you can, even at the risk of being disqualified yourselves; we have no other way to win, and win we must.” You have all read Prof. Hollis’ protest against the gradual disappearance of chivalrous conduct on the football field. President Elliot, without explaining why, says that the ethics of the game of fooball “do not improve. The material axiom-attack the enemy’s weakest point—inevitably leads to the deliberate onslaught on the cripple and the convalescent in the opposing lines; and the habitual violation of rules, if penalties be escaped, is regarded by many as merely’ amusing.” Brutal acts of violence, like stabs in the dark, may miss detection, but they lower the moral nature of the players and corrupt the entire atmosphere of the game. I agree with Prof. Hollis that it were better to abandon football than to maintain it at a loss of our high ideals of fair play and gentlemanly conduct. If honor is lost, all is lost—whatever may be the score.

In my judgment the professional coach who sells his services for ten weeks at a price porportional to his ability to show a set of young giants how to win games must be eliminated. His place must be taken by volunteer upper-class men and regular instructors who are not interested in gate receipts, and who are willing to do the best they can with home material, provided only that the visiting teams with which they play do the same. High-minded, incorruptible coaches may exist; I hope they do; but I fear it would take Diogenes with his lantern to find them.

Betting is so common among sporting men that it seems to be a logical feature even in the cases which have only a semi-professional air, like interscholastic games. The betting habit, like all kinds of gambling, is to be condemned everywhere, especially among young men. I think it can be shown that this habit is fostered by the practice of recruiting, which aims to secure an unfair and an unknown advantage over a rival team. In its turn the laying of wagers corrupts and demoralizes players. Some rules forbid betting on the part of the players; but if the player does not bet, his friends do, and the strain on his sense of honor is so great that he can not resist the temptation to do mean and unlawful things for the purpose of winning. Some boys learn to bet at their father’s knees; others learn by listening to the talk of sporting men at games and races and loafing places; so that doubtless there would be some betting among college students even if there were no secretly enlisted athletes, no coaches intent upon victory at any cost; but I am morally certain that were there no gate receipts, there would be much less betting and no harmful excitement before and after the athletic meet.

I need not dwell upon the evils of mutual suspicion and distrust. This feeling springs indigenously in the breasts of dishonest and dishonoroble people, and is fatal to good fellowship and true sportsmanship. This evil can be traced in a large part to the professional tone brought in by the coaches, who are themselves indroduced to make a drawing team, which in turn is necessary to a large income in the shape of gate receipts. Prof. Hollis says that the Harvard-Yale game of football seems to arouse the worst impulses of the students. “Suspicions are rife, bets are on and studies are practically suspended during the entire week preceding the game.” This exitement is notdue to the fact that the players feel they must play, and play their best; for not more than one man in several hundred expects to play; but it is chiefly due to wagers and bets of all kinds and shapes. The punishment meted out inexorably on a man who “breaks training” is not on account of the injury and harm he does to himself, but because he imperils the chances of his team, risks taken by his friends and jeopardizes the reputation of his trainer, his coach and his physical directors. I do not object to the punishment, but I do object to a wrong interpretation of it, viz.; that it shows a remarkably high standard of physical temperance and manly purity. In plain
—147—

truth it shows no such thing. The same motley crowd who stand ready to nearly lynch a man for “breaking training,, would stand equally ready to punish him for not putting an opponent out of play should he have a safe chance for doing so.

The demoralisation caused by the gate money feature does not stop with students and coaches. It extends to athletic committees of the faculty and to advisory boards. The necessity of getting money to pay bills stares them continually in the face and forces them to do a hundred things they would rather not do and which they would not do if the department of physical training had an assured income sufficient for their reasonable demands. The temptation to deal gently with the shortcomings of players is irresistible and the responsibility for the payment of bills is heavy. I know whereof I speak, for I am serving my third year as chairman of an advisory board. I am already a confirmed beggar and I am continually scheming to increase “gate receipts.’' My position is a very painful one, considering my convictions. The people of St. Louis are beginning to think my interest in engineering and manual training was only a “passing fancy” and that my ruling passion is, after all, athletics. Some of j’ou may fare worse than I do. Beggary is not the worst that can be charged, but to be counted as a pedagogical sport is pretty bad.

President Elliot evidently regards the large amount of gate receipts as an evil. He says: “Expenditures for football are steadily increasing” and we all know the tendency of ill-gotten moneys to go extravagantly.

I have thus endeavored to connect more or less directly the serious evils of intercollegiate athletics with the feature of gate receipts. To show this connection still more clearly, consider how different things would be if, though an adequate endowment, the department of physical training were to receive a definite income which could be increased only by student membership fees. Let it be understood that all games for gate receipts would be strictly forbidden; that in the place of coaches and trainers the physical director would be given a proper corps of assistants on regular salaries. Is it not evident without further argument that the motives which have been so active in the work of demoralization would be largely wanting? No increase in the number of spectators to a game could add to the income. No refusal to do mean and ungenerous things would put the salary of a permanent teacher in jeopardy. The chief scource of temptation to break rules, to steal players and to work in “ringers” would be lacking, and teams would meet as friends with mutual respect. The existing tendencv to exaggeration would be checked, and in the hands of the discreet managers the annual allowance would be devoted to the rational, healthy development of the whole student corps.

The attitude of boards of overseers, regents and directors of colleges and uni-veristies toward athletics is anomalous and illogical in the extreme. Lest I give offense, let me refer only to my own university. I dare to claim that Washington University is fortunate above them all in its board of directors, and if I point out a failure to be entirely logical in the treatment of the subject before us, you must hasten to the conclusion that they who have done so much and so admirably on other lines will be among the first to secure the establishment of a new regime in athletics if we succeed in demonstrating its logical and educational necessity.

Here is the present status: We have erected a large and well-appointed gymnasium costing $150,000. Immediately adjoining is a superb athletic field, whose site, construction and seating cost not less than $100,000. The fact that the international fair of 1904 will use this field explains in part its magnificent appointment, but not its poor logic, which is easily shown. Football, baseball, field and track athletics are all provided for, so far as grounds, bathing and dressing rooms are concerned, thus implying full recognition of the importance and propriety of an athletic department in the university; yet thus far the board of directors has not been able to secure one dollar toward an endowment of this department. We have a magnificent laboratory, but as yet no adequate provision tor its maintenance and use. A parallel proceeding would be for a college to provide a magnificent library with books in man}- tongues, but with never a librarian nor a professor of language and literature.

My contention is that if athletics are to be allowed to exist at all as a feat-

Digitized by tjOOQle
-14S-

tnre of college life, physical training, including a fair proportion of domestic and intercollegiate athletics, should be incorporated into the curriculum. If athletics are not worthy of such recognition they are not worthy of athletic fields and athletic clubhouses. It intercollegiate contests are not worthy of financial support and effective supervision they ought not to be allowed, and it is the height of inconsistency to adopt eligibility rules which have no bearing except in the case of intercollegiate contests, and then not provide for these contests.

Under student management athletics have run riot in some institutions, and into serious exaggerations in many. In secondary schools the exaggerations are becoming intolerable. Sporting men and sporting methods are having a bad influence among boys, depreciating intellectual pursuits and degrading morals. I believe that athletics can be restrained within bounds and kept wholesome and altogether desirable, but active physical training must be required and made universal; intercollegiate games and field meets must be limited in number and improved in character, and all necessary funds must come from the college chest and be accounted for as rigidly as are the expenses ol a department of engineering or of a museum of art.

Enduring fame shall be the fortune of that institution which shall first adopt these suggestions and live up to the spirit of our resolutions. It must adequately endow its physical department, do away with the feature of gate receipts, eliminate the professional coach, and maintain pleasurable athletics among all its students. I propose to do my best in St. Louis to secure an endowment of a department of physical training in Washington University. We want a professor and director of physical training whose salary shall be paid out of the university chest, and an endowment of at least $100,000, the income of which shall pay for the services of regular assistants and meet the expenses of a few intercollegiate complimentary games lor meets each year. Who will join us in this noble enterprise and set the pace for a sweeping reform in the status and character of athletics in the colleges and universities of the United States?

WHAT AILS FOOTBALL?

(From New York Evening Post.)

OPPOSITION to the game of football as at present played has been increasingly significant. Only recently scores of our most prominent schoolmasters jointly advocated radical changes in the playing rules. Prof. Hollis’ article in the last Harvard Graduates’ Magazine appears to represent the conviction of the athletic committee of which he is chairman. This committee will meet and it is to be hoped will take measures to remedy the admitted evils that now attend what should be our finest field game. But the Harvard athletic committee will meet only half-hearted reforms unless they demand specific changes in the rules. For our football legislators have the conservatism which characterizes specialists as a class, and they will do nothing to break up the present tactics unless the wav of reform is made as plain as the noseguard on a rusher’s face. The question for the moment is, then, not the incidental evils of great concourses at the games, not primarily the risk of personal injury to the players, nor even the interruption to college work, but simply, “What ails football, considered merely as a sport ?”

Its ailment is technically known as “close play.” This means in practice that the “runner”—most inappropriate name!— plunges into the opposite line pushed and supported bv several of his own side and grappled by all who can reach him from the other side. He is immediately lost in the throng, seldom keeps his feet for more than two or

Digitized by

Google
-149-

three feet—indeed, is applauded if he manages to fall forward and gain his own length through the opposing rush line. When he has been stopped the players heaped upon him are speedily stripped of the pile, and the whole manoeuvre is repeated until a point is scored. It looks like a free fight, the game is so confused that even old players cannot tell how the gain or loss has been made, and, although it requires fine strategical art to push the runner the yard or two ahead, this skill is lost so far as the spectator is concerned. Indeed, the game becomes ever}" year more dull, restraining only the exitement of the physical contest, and though these “rushes” are for well-trained men much less dangerous than they look, they afford the demoralizing spectacle of a melee between dirty and excited mobs. This straining of the men in a huddle about the ball is what ails the game.

This style of play arises from the fundamental difference between American and English Rugby. In the English game after each “down” the ball is put in play between the two sets of “forwards,” and may come out on either side. But in our own Americau game the ball remains in the hands of the side whose runner has been downed, and it is possible for a strong team to advance the ball from one end of the field to the other without ever losing possession of it. In the English game the mere possession of the ball is worth very little, for it may charge hands at each “down.” Accordingly, Rugby in the Old Country is characterized by a dash rarely displayed on our fields. Bold running, constant kicking, shooting for goal as soon as the bar is within range, these are the spectacles afforded on every English football field Much is necessarily left to haphazard, and the rest is agility. In American Rugby, on the contrary, the all-important thing is possession of the ball. That is the reason the players crowd painfully about it. Accordingly, kicking is only a measure of despair, for that usually means the loss of the ball, and ordinarily, in striking contrast to the English habit, only one man on a team is a good kicker. The attempt to retain the ball at all costs has led to the pushing tactics upon which our football strategists write treatises, but which bore everybody else.

When American Rugby was still young, some twenty odd years ago, this practice of allowing one side to keep the ball indefinitely was a source of trouble. It was found that the side which had scored a point, or was ahead at the end of the game, would abuse the principle of beati possidentes. Having the ball, they would merely put up a show of playing, meanwhile keeping the ball away from their opponents until time, not brawn or skill, had settled the contest. To remedy this evil the famous “five-yard” rule was passed. It was decided that the team which did not advance the ball five yards or take it back in three tries (more technically, four “downs”) must forfeit it to the other side. The five yards itself were a purely arbitrary distance, chosen solely to require some advance. This distance was, in the light of the development of the game, far too short. As a matter of fact, it was found that the privilege of retaining the ball by losing ten yards still permitted dilatory play, and the distance was changed to twenty yards.

Five years ago the expert, Mr. Caspar Whitney, in a review of the football season of 189f», in Harper’s Weekly (the article was reprinted

Digitized by

Google
-150-

in Mr. Walter Camp’s ‘Official Football Guide,’ 1897), suggested the very simple remedy of increasing the distance which must be gained in four downs from five to ten yards. Thirty feet is a long distance on a football field; it could rarely be gained by the present pushing tactics. As Mr. Whitney says, when a team, as frequently happens, fails to gain ground in the first attempt, “a kick or some brilliant open play would, beyond doubt, be necessary to make the required ten yards.” To incorporate Mr. Whitney’s suggestion into the playing rules would do much to restore the beautiful open game of 15 years ago, and the need of such reform grows more pressing every year. A natural and necessary pendent to such a rule would be to require all seven “rushers” to keep their positions until the ball is in motion. In order to break up the flying wedges consisting of an entire team, it was ruled in 1897 that not more than six men should play behind the line. But this still allows two burly rushers to be brought behind the line to make, with the backs, a crushing “foundation.” Four is the normal number of men to play behind the line, and no more should be allowed.

We believe it lies within the power of the Harvard athletic committee to secure these necessary changes in the rules. The best alumni opinion would support the committee if it should make the passage of these rules the condition of Harvard’s playing intercollegiate matches next fall.

THE NEW GYMNASIUM OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY.

The new Bartlett Gymnasium of the Chicago University which has been so often and so long delayed by labor troubles, will probably be completed by October 1.

It will be one of the most perfectly arranged structures of its kind in this country. It is built of the same kind of limestone as the other University buildings, and harmonizes with them in every way, yet it has a distinct character of its own. The main features of the building are the gymnasium floor, swimming-pool room, and the special room for the use cf the faculty.

The main gymnasium floor is on the second floor, is finished in hard pressed brick, and is 195x75 feet in size. The floor itself is to be entirely clear, even the apparatus will be so arranged as to easily be removed; thus accommodations will be furnished for parties or dances. In time of athletics meets there will be removable seats in readiness. At night the room will be lighted by large arc lights suspended from the ceiling.

The running-track, approximately thirteen laps to the mile, 12 feet wide at its narrowest point, is suspended from the roof-trusses. On one side of the track is a very novel feature—a room to be called the gymnasium library.

The swimming-pool room is on the first floor and is finished in white marble tile, 8 feet high. The pool itself is G0x28, and has a slope of from 4 feet 6 inches to 8 feet 6 inches at the water-line. It is also finished in white tile. Another novel feature is the marble trough around the edges of the pool and just above the water-line. This is for the purpose of carrying away the scum of the water. The tank will hold about 100,000 gallons of water, all of which passes through a large filter before entering the pool. The remainder of the space of the swimming-pool room will be devoted to a visitors’ gallery, shower-bath room, steam-room, and het-room.

The Faculty Gymnasium is on the first floor also. This is to be very exclusive, and will contain private lockers, shower-baths, stairs to running-track, and an entrance to the swimming-pool. The main locker-room, containing about 1,500 lockers, is on the same floor. In the basement of the building will be shower-bath-rooms, special rooms for the football and baseball teams, private lockers and rubbing-rooms. There will be special rooms for visiting teams, and an entrance to Marshall Field.

Digitized by LjOOQle
— lol-

THE GRADUATION EXERCISES

AT THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE N. A. G. U. AND THE GERMAN AMERICAN TEACHERS’ SEMINARY.

THE combined examination exercises of the twrf institutions took place on Wednesday', June 24, in the gymnasium hall of the building in the presence of numerous friends of the cause. The program was very impressive. Mr. Th. Stempfel represented the executive council of the N. A. G. U., Dr. Frank of Milwaukee the directory of the G. A. T. S. There were also present Dir. G. Wittich, the teaching force of the two institutions and the committee of examination for the G. A. T. S.: Messrs. Wordmann, Schmidhofer and Eiselmever.

The different pieces of the program were all executed by the students of the two schools and gave evidence of much good and original thought. Prof. Oscar Burckhardt acted as master of ceremonies and in his address spoke in warm appreciative words of Dir. Dapprich, who was absent in Europe. The vocal choir of the two schools under the direction of Prof. M. Griebsch contributed a highly artistic part to the entertainment. We quote from the program:

Salutatory, by Else Grebner, G. A. T. S.

Essav: The Influence of Gymnastics on Mind and Bodv, by Ernst Wuesthoff,

X.	S. G.'

Recitation: Goethe’s Epilogue to Schiller’s Poem: “Das Lied von der Glocke”, by Eugenia Bcchtner, G. A. T. S.

Essay: Napoleon, by Gertrude Fuhrmann, G. A. T. S.

Paper: A Chemical Causerie, by M. Schmidhofer, N. S. G.

Recitation: “Aus dem schlesischen Gebirge” (Freiligrath), by Doris Rose, G.A.T.S.

Valedictory: John C. Andressohn, G. A. T. S.

Mr. M. Schmidhofer also showed himself in a very creditable fashion on the violin and Miss Carolyn Bornheim (N. S. G.) recited “A Violin Phantasy”.

After these productions by the members of the graduating classes Dr. Frank, President of the G. A. T. S., Mr. Geo. Wittich, the director of the Normal School of Gymnastics, and Mr. Th. Stempel addressed the graduates on the duties and ideals of the educator, bestowing well merited praise on their zeal and perseverence and expressing his gratification with the skill and good work of Dir. Wittich. Then followed the distribution of the diplomas, viz.;

Group D: M. Schmidhofer.

Group C: Ernst Wuesthoff, Meta Ricker, Carolyn Bornheim.

Group B: Wm. Utz, Carl Berndt, Wm. Taube.

Group A: The graduating class of the G. A. T. S. who received the resp. diplomas as teachers both of the common school branches and of gymnastics: John Stuckert, Tohn Andressohn, Gertrude Fuhrmann, Elsa Grebner, Paula Grebner, Dora Rose, Victoria Lueders and Alma Frahm.

At the conclusion the members of the Committee of Examination followed each with some well meant remarks, whereupon the vocal choir rounded off the exercises with a song in German : “Ich stand auf Bergeshalde.”

Two of the abiturients of the Normal School of Gymnastics have already received appointments, one in Milwaukee, Wis., the other in Menominee, Mich.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—152—

A POESY ON POSE.

It you wish a fine pose Then stand with your nose Your chest and your toes As if Against an upright wall.

Stretch up your head and lower your chin,

Keep chest expanded, abdomen in,

Toes pointed out, your weight on the ball Of your foot if you would be straight and tall.

— Mary Park.

CLIPPINGS.

—Whenever you go outdoors draw the chin in, carry the crown of the head high and fill the lungs to the utmost; drink in the sunshine; greet your friends with a smile, and put soul into every hand-clasp.

—Do not fear being misunderstood, and never waste a minute thinking about your enemies. Try to fix firmly in your inind what you would like to do, and then without violence of direction you will move straight to the goal.

ACCIDENTS IN FOOTBALL.

Prof. Edwin Dexter of the Illinois University has made an investigation in sixty American colleges of the accidents and deaths in football games, und has furnished Keene Fitzpatrick with the results of his investigations.

In ten years he finds 210,334 students have been enrolled, and 22.766. or 10.8 per cent, of these have played football. Of these 654 have been sufficiently injured to cause absence from classes, and three have been killed as the result of the game. Prof. Dexter summarizes his data as follows:

One student in ten in America plays football.

The proportion of students who play, in small colleges, is about twice that of the universities.

The propoition of men playing is slightly decreasing.

About one in thirty-five players is injured badly enough to cause loss of time in classes.

The number of eollegemcn who are permanently injured is so small as to be a practically negligible quantity.

College football is adequately supervised in nearly all institutions.

The opinions of college officers as regards the value of the game are 27.3 to 1 in favor of football.

Accident insurance statistics cause the belief that many other sports are more dangerous than football.

ATHLETICS.

—Miss Lydia Carpenter, a student in the State Normal School at Platts-burg, N. Y., broke the American girl’s record in the high jump. The height reached was 4 ft. 3-10 inch, and this feat was made at the annual exhibition. May 13.

—Should James B. Juvenil, the crack Schuylkill sculler, succeed in beating C. S. Titus at the Harlem River regatta on May 30, he will be sent to England to row in the Henley regatta—that is, providing the Henley stewards accept his entry. The Vesper Boat Club, of which Juvenal is a member, has decided to enter the sculler in the Henley regatta, and the entry will be sent at once, since the rules of the big English regatta provide that all foreign entries must be made before March 21. The entrance fee, however, is only a small part of the expense connected with a trip abroad, and before the club will agree to make good in the larger amount Juvenal must show that he is at his best.

Digitized by

Google

J
ENGLISH GYMNASTIC BOOKS

FOR SALE BY

Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

A SYSTEM OF PHYSICAL CULTURE, DESIGNED AS A MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. By CARL BETZ.—First Book: Free Gymnastics. Price, 75 Cents.—Second Book: Gymnastic Tactics (Stepping, Walking, Running, etc.). Price, 75 Cents.—Third Book: Light Gymnastics (Poles, Dumb-bells, Rings, Wands, and Clubs). Price, 75 Cents.—Fourth Book:	Popular	Gymnastics,	Athletics and

Sports of the Playground. Price, 75 Cents.—First Book abridged: Free Gymnastics arranged especially for District Schools. Price, 50 Cents.

MANUAL OF EXERCISES IN FREE GYMNASTICS AND TACTICS. Arranged by E. H. ARNOLD. 20 Cents.

GYMNASTIC GAMES. Classified by E. H. ARNOLD, compiled by Annie R. HUGHES. Paper. Price, 60 Cents.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Boards, 50 Cents.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOL-ROOM. By HANS BALL1N. The book is well illustrated and contain^ in addition a wall-chart of all the illustrations found scattered in the text of the book. Price $1.25 postpaid.

DICK'S ART OF WRESTLING. A Hand-Book of thorough instruction in wrestling, with the accepted rules to be observed in the different methods of wrestling generally adopted at the present time. Fully illustrated by well-designed engravings, exhibiting all the aggressive and defensive positions necessary for success. Paper covers. Price, 25 Cents.

NED DONNELLEY'S ART OF BOXING. A Thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-defense, Hlustrated with Forty Engravings, Showing the Yarions Blows, Stops, and Guards; by NED DONNELLY, Professor of Boxing to the London Athletic Club, etc., etc. This work explains every movement of attack and defense in the clearest language; the engravings' show each position as plainly as the instruction of a professor could convey it. Including the latest revision of the Marquis of Queensbury's- and London Prize Ring Rules. 127 pages. Price, 25 Cents.

THE ART OF ATTACK AND DEFENSE. A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing. By Major W. J. ELLIOTT. This work affords thorough instructions in the modern method of Fencing, Sword against Sword or Bayonet, Bayonet against Sword or Bayonet, and the latest developments in the Pugilistic Art. Paper

___cover. Price, 25 Cents.

THE SWEDISH SYSTEM. By Baron NILS POSSE. The Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics. 264 Hlustrations. Latest Edition. Price, $3.00.—Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish System. Cloth Price, 55 Cents.

CODE-BOOK OF GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. By L. PURITZ. Translated by O. KNOFE and J. W. MACQUEEN, members of the German Gymnastic Society of London. With 268 Woodcut Illustrations. Price, 60 Cents.

GYMNASTIC TACTICS. Part I: Tactics of the Individual. By E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director of Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics. Price, 20 Cents.

ELEMENTARY APPARATUS WORK OF THE GERMAN SYSTEM OF GYMNASTICS. By E. H. ARNOLD, M. D. Arranged by FRANCES N. BOYNTON. Price, 25 Cents.

Digitized by v^ooQle
NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

Normal School of fymnastics

568-608 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

GEO. WITTICH, Director

■ (NO TOR CATALOG

E. H. ARNOLD. M. D.. DIRECTOR.

Otters

A Two Years' Course of Preparation for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

or Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St., '

. New Haven, Conn.

50 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE

Patents

I RADE MARKS

Designs » Copyrights Ac.

Anyone sending a sketch and description may quickly ascertain our opinion free whether an invention is probably patentable. Communications strictly confidential. Handbook on Patents sent free. Oldest agency for securing patents.

Patents taken through Munn & Co. receive tpecial notice, without charge, in the

Scientific American.

A handsomely illustrated weekly. Largest circulation of any scientific journal. Terms, $3 a year; four months, fL Sold by all newsdealers.

MIINN SCo.”'—"' Hew York

Hranch Office, 635 F 8t., Washington, D. C, ,

Gymnastic Literature.

Physical Culture for Public Schools.—H. Suder.

First and Second Grades.................... $.25

Third and Fourth Grades.....................  25

Fifth Grade..........................:.....  .30

Sixth Grade...................................3*

Gymnastics in the School-Room.—Hans Ballin.

158 Photo-Engravings...................... x.oo

A System of Physical Culture.—Carl Betz.

Firs* Book : Free Gymnastics..............  .75

Second Book : Tactics........................75

Thiro Book: Light Gymnastics.................75

Fourtl Book: Pysical Ex. of the Playground... .7s

Free Gymnasticsfor District Schools..........50

Manual 01 Physical Culture for Public Schools.—

Anton Ls.bold .............................	.65

Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish

System.—Nils Posse........................  .55

Newcomb and Basquette. Games for the Gymnasium.—Clara G. Baer..........................25

Whittaker’s Anatomical ModeJs. A Pictorial Representation of the Human Frame and its Organs... .75

Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics..... 3.00

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises.—L. Puritz.... .60 Pyramids for Gymnasts.—Lion and Puritz. Seven

Paris, each ...............................  45

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Part ...............................  .70

Second Part..................................50

School Tactics.—W. A. Stecher................ 1.00

First Aid in Illness and Injury.-1. E. Pilcher, M.D. 2.00 Physical Culture in Public Schools,—Hans Rasmussen....................................    r.25

Maclaren’s Theory and Practice.................50

The Systematic Training of the Body.—Chas. H.

Schaible, M. D.......................      1.50

A Handbook cf Physical Diagnosis.—R. C. M.

Page, M.D...............................   2.00

Outline Lessons in Gymnastics for Public Schools.

—Win. G. Anderson, M. D...................  .25

Physical Education.—Fred. Treves, M. D........ 1.25

lenkin’s Gymnastics and Club Swinging......  1.00

Yeo’s Physiology...........................   3.00

Physiology of Exercise.—La Grange........... 1.50

Physical Drills of all Nations.—A. Alexander. 1.50

Twenty-five Pyramids at Ropes (Pyramides aux Cordcs)— Francois Reitz. Tie newest and most

novel in this line.......................  1.00

Fans, with Illustrations from the Works of Puritz, Schrocter, Lion, Jenny, Schu tzer, and Others, .ro Beale’s Calisthenics and Light C mnastics..... .75

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Building.

Milwaukee. Wis.

Digitized by v^.ooQle