MIND AND BODY

JANUARY, 1913.

Yol. 19.

No. 215

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah^^^^ * «	AA|

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Mfl ATTE	0^»vrvr*-1

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Puro<rs3»oolsT^FORNIA

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. I^j8MdAM08sfty®t3ambndge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa*

- ^ ----------------------------------------------------------------

editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE VENTILATION OF GYMNASIA/

A Preliminary Report, is the title of a paper read at the National Convention of the A. P. E. A., at Montreal, by G. B. Affleck, Professor of Hygiene, International Y. M. C. A. College, Springfield, Mass. The essay is divided into two parts. Part I. gives a detailed description of the composition of air under various circumstances and in different-localities. Attention is especially called to the fact elicited by Prof.-Fliigge of Breslau, and other physicists, that “the gaseous excretions of men do not have a deleterious effect upon human beings.” Even with a relative decrease in the amount of oxygen and a corresponding increase of carbon dioxide content of the air, no disagreeable symptoms such as headache, mausea, oppression, faintness, etc. were noticed in a room heated to 68° F. But, these disturbances occur within ten to thirty minutes if the temperature is raised to 79° F. with a humidity of 50%. Organic compounds, emanating from the human body, especially in superheated rooms, form the poisonous substance giving rise to depression and discomfort. Prof. Affleck cites experiments made by Superintendent Hines of Crawford, Ind. whose findings were that a class of pupils were doing the best work at a temperature of 65 to 70° F. Of course the relative amount of moisture in the air plays an important role. What the best moisture content of air is, has not as yet been determined. It is known, however, that the greater the amount of moisture in the air, the less will be the evaporation from the skin and lungs. Smith is cited on this point as follows:	“It	was	determined

by repeated experiments that a temperature of from 65 degrees to 68 degrees and a relative humidity of 60 per cent, produced the most comfortable conditions, which were in marked contrast to a temperature of 72° F., with a relative humidity of 30 per cent. The former felt warm and balmy, the latter, notwithstanding the high, temperature, chilly and dry, and the slightest motion of the air suggested a search for the source of suspected draughts.”

So long as the temperature and moisture remains low no incon-

* Digest of the paper by D. M. Ferd. Krogh, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by Google
— :{.)4 —

venience is experienced even if the percentage of carbon dioxide gas is high. Whenever the temperature is high, although the humidity be low, apd, also, whenever the humidity is high in a moderate temperature “feeling of discomfort, heaviness of the head, a sense of oppression, dizziness, a tendency to vomit, appeared.” The indications point to the necessity that “the skin must become active and must hv means of evaporation of the moist surface contribute toward the maintenance of the thermal equilibrium.”

“All those symptoms which are produced by the so-called ‘bad’ air of living-rooms, are based upon nothing further than a certain accumulation of heat. The thermal influence of environment, #he temperature of the air and the objects in space, the humidity and current of the air are the sole criteria for the producing of these symptoms.”

“These experiments prove conclusively that through the metabolic assimilation of man, no gaseous excretions of a toxic character and capable of causing the health-interfering effects observed in crowded rooms, are thrown into the atmosphere. On the other hand, all the experiments indubitably indicate that the cause of such interferences with health is to be traced to the thermal conditions of the environment and to the heat accumulation conditioned by this environment.*’

In Part II. Prof. Affleck minutely describes the plenum system of heating and ventilation as installed in the gymnasia at Springfield. Since its installation, Mr. Affleck has conducted a series of experiments concerning the influence on bodily sensations of various physical conditions of the air. The plan, used was to give to the men in the Normal Training school working in the gymnasium the same amount of work daily, maintaining “the same conditions of air movement, hut varying the temperature and humidity.” “There was less complaint concerning extremes of heat than of cold.

The results of the experiments are noted in a number of tables computed upon the votes cast by the men.

“Among the generalizations which may be drawn from the tables

are:

1.	The sensations of the men in the gymnasium were apparently independent of the temperature and humidity of the outdoor air.

2.	The response of the men under observation, to stated conditions repeated from time to time, was fairly constant as to temperature.

»	3. The dry bulb temperature ranging from 55 degrees F. to (13

degrees F. was uniformly reported comfortable, regardless of wet bulb readings.

4.	The only comfortable temperatures above 03 F. were when the wet bulb reading was 51 degrees F. or lower, i. e. relative humidity of 42 per cent, or less.

5.	Air was uniformly reported as too moist whenever the wet bulb reading was above 50 degrees F.

0.	The air was never reported as too moist when the wet bulb reading was lower than 53 degrees F.

7.	Within the range of wet bulb readings from 53 degrees F. to 50 degrees F., inclusive, there was a notable lack of uniformity of opinion as to the effect of moisture content upon comfort.

Digitized by VjOOQle
355 —

8.	The range of relative humidities within which the/ votes indicated comfortable temperature conditions was frcy cent, to 77 per cent.; on the basis of moisture content a siii_

was included; while the vote which gave conditions comfortable'^s~~i*^ both temperature and humidity showed no variation from the above Tange. This range (48 per cent.) indicates that relative humidity is impracticable as a guide in the regulation of air conditions.

9.	Computation of the saturation deficits accompanying the above relative humidities reveals a variation of from 1.0 to 4.9 grains per cubic foot. This does not evidence any close relation between saturation deficit and bodily comfort.

10.	If the ultimate test of the efficiency of ventilation is comfort, based on bodily sensations of men exercising, the above observations indicate that there is no one physical property of air which may be regarded as a suitable standard. The nearest approach discoverable to a single physical index is the condition existing when the dry bulb reading is within the range of 55 degrees F. and 63 degrees F.

MORE TIME FOR PHYSICAL TRAINING.

The physical training situation in the high schools of many cities in our country is much alike. The following two reports, recently made to the superintendent of the Philadelphia Public Schools, should, therefore, be of more than local interest.

Dr. M. G. Brumbaugh, Superintendent of Schools.

Dear Dr. Brumbaugh:—The Board of Education recently adopted a course of study in physical training for the higher schools. Upon inquiry 1 find that this subject is not compulsory in the High Schools, and that where introduced the time for it is to be taken from that set aside for electives.

I find,, further, that one High School, which devotes most time to physical training, has two periods of gymnastics per week during the first and the second year, and one period per wreek fcr the last two years. Other High Schools have one period per w^eek daring the first twTo years and none after that. Lastly, there are High Schools that have no regular physical training. The general tendency seems to be to decrease the time devoted to gymnastics as the demands for mental training increase.

This, surely, is a deplorable situation wffiich appears to substantiate the assertion so often heard that the health of high school pupils is the last thing thought of in outlining a curriculum for higher education. It also is not in harmony with that thought expressed by you in a recent report, which says, “who buys knowledge at the expense of his health pays too much for it.”

Investigating the play activities and athletics indulged in after school I find the same great variance. While in one school several hundred boys are organized for regular supervised physical activity, there are other schools that have much less, yes, no regular organized work at all. The same conditions exist in the Girls' High Schools.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 356 —

Where after-school physical activities are organized and indulged in, particularly in some of the Boys5 High Schools, I find that these are fostered primarily for the getting together of one or more representative school teams, these teams being organized mainly for competition with outer-school teams. The great mass of students who need this athletic training most is scarcely touched.

Since the introduction of manual training one often hears the argument that pupils having this training need no gymnastics. Now, while it is true that some branches of manual training give to pupils a certain degree of muscular training, it must not be forgotten that this work never was designed nor intended to replace all-round gymnastics. In fact, bodily deformities of students instead of being cor rected are in some instances intensified by many forms of manual training. It also is a fact that some forms of this training, at times, must be taught under conditions that scarcely can be classed as hygienic so tfar as their effect upon heart and lungs is concerned.

This, again, is a deplorable situation and not at all in harmony with modern educational endeavor. The conditions in large cities under which pupils live and are taught make it "imperative that boards of education should see that the health of pupils does not suffer. Much has been done during recent years to improve school conditions. We have buildings much more sanitary than formerly, we also have medical inspection, and nurses. These, are, however, all preventive measures. The present urgent demand is for a greater number of active measures— measures that help to maintain and increase health by giving the pupils an opportunity to indulge actively in gymnastics and in regulated play. No one can remain healthy without regular exercise. And without a healthy body much of the effort and the money now expended upon pupils by boards of education is lost. It is a wrong policy that expends millions of dollars for equipment and for mental training and then by neglecting to foster organized effort weakens the physique of the pupils and allows many children to leave school in a poorer physical condition than when they entered. Of what value is education if a child is too weak to use it?

Regulated and. regular exercise is more necessary to the growing child than to the adult. The fundamental aim of the school is to .teach the child good habits. A habit becoming daily more necessary under modern city life is the habit of regular exercise; the habit of hygienic living. It appears strange that in schools it is possible for a pupil to get “high credit55 for his knowledge of the laws of hygiene even if he gets sick while acquiring this knowledge. Yet this same pupil is given no school-credit if he really lives a hygienic life, and never is absent on account of illness.

So far as his worth as a future efficient citizen is concerned it is of more value that a boy (or girl) by means of gymnastics and athletics be taught to lead a clean, moral, temperate life, than that he be given the most intimate knowledge of the intricacies of his anatomic or physiologic make-up.

In order to hasten this desirable state of affairs I •would respectfully suggest that you propose to the Board of Education:

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 357 —

First, that physical training be made obligatory for three periods a week during the full four years high school course.

Second, that this work be carried on outdoors wherever possible.

Third, that this work be supplemented by organized outdoor activities on the athletic fields and on the playgrounds and recreation fields of the city.

In order to inaugurate this third and most important phase of physical training, all high school pupils whose parents give their com-sent should be obligated to spend at least two hours per week under supervision on the playfields spoken of above.

It is further recommended that to gain the time for adequate physical training the Board be requested to add an additional hour to the high school day; also that until the Board can furnish the necessary gymnasiums and playgrounds the principals of the higher schools be permitted to use other suitable gymnasiums and playfields.

Respectfullv submitted.

WM. A. STECHER,

Director, Physical Education.

Dr. M. G. Brumbaugh, Superintendent of Schools.

Dear Dr. Brumbaugh:—The agitation for new High Schools is bringing with it a discussion of what these buildings should contain. In view of the report recently made to you advocating physical training during the full four years of high school training, I respectfully suggest the following as the minimum physical training requirements for a school having 1200 pupils:

1.	Two gymnasiums, each at least 40 by 35 ft., or one gymnasium large enough to accomodate from 120—150 students. This should be approximately 60 by 100 ft. Shower baths as required.

NOTE.—In all new buildings an effort should be made to locate the gymnasiums on the top floor of the building.

2.	A swimming pool of about 36 by 75 ft.

3.	A large yard, not less than 200 by 200 ft., adjoining the building.

An intelligent use of this equipment and of the city’s playfields should make it possible to safeguard the health of high school pupils.

In the school already built I would recommend that beginning with next September the entering class be given three hours of gymnastics per week. Where there are large suitably equipped gymnasiums, several sections of pupils can work together. The opening of district high schools should give us vacant rooms in school buildings which are now crowded. If several adjoining rooms wore converted into an auxiliary gymnasium and playroom, valuable additional space would be won.

If, in some schools, the needed space could not be secured in this manner, the principals of such schools could by an arrangement of their program similar to the one now in operation in the Germantown Girls’ High School Annex, make use of the playfields, gymnasiums and swimming pools already built in the public Recreation Parks.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 358 —

By following this, plan it would within four years be possible to give to every pupil in the high schools at least five hours of supervised physical training per week.

Respectfully submitted,

WM. A. STECHER,

Director, Physical Education.

Commencement Address at the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, at Indianapolis, June 22, 1912.

Delivered by PROF. A. B. FAUST, Cornell University.

The college graduate on commencement day looks backward and forward, backward as lie bids farewell to true friends and treasured associations, forward as he feels the thrill of the new life to come. May not at this serious moment the look backward be made to serve the look forward? What was the keynote of the past, that heard again may be as the guiding bugle-call in the coming battle? What are the ideals for which alma mater has stood, so that these may become the guiding stars in the future? Let lis attempt a solution of this question.

The Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union is the oldest American institution for the training of teachers of physical education in the United States. These words contain no vain boast, they represent a fact of tremendous social significance. Every scientific article on the history of physical training in this country must concede that “the promotion of school gymnastics has ever been one of the leading aims of the North American Turnerbund, whose seminar or Normal School, is the oldest in the country.”* The necessity of training teachers for physical exercises in order to insure the best results for bodily training was recognized by the Turnerbund fully a generation before such a need was felt by the native American population.

A study of the catalogue of the Normal College will show that a large number of the graduates have become teachers of physical training in schools, partly in public schools, wherever such a system was introduced,—:or in the Y. M. C. A’s, such as instituted gymnastics; the larger number have become teachers in the schools founded by the Turnvereine themselves. 'The schools of the Turnvereine have stood f6r physical training of the whole people, and not of a select class that goes to the higher seats of learning, or of the smaller group which forms the athletic clubs. The Turnerbund and Normal College stand for popular gymnastics,—in this respect they have followed the example of Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, for he advocated pre-eminently the training of the people. It was he who believed in gymnastic training as a means of regenerating the people, developing them into that vigor.

* Cf. Report of the Commissioner of Education, Washington, 1899, Chapt. XII, pp. 488—589;	Article by Edward M. Hartwell, Ph. D., M. D.

By the same author. Chapter XVII, of the Report of the Commissioner of Education for 1903, pages 721—757.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
359

virility and manhood, which is associated with primitive peoples, untainted by the eft'eminizing influences of civilization. Volkstumerei, as a means of keeping the people in good health, fresh and vigorous in body and mind, these were the principles of Jahn,—and the Turner-bund with its Normal School, have been the great representatives of this idea in America. This most characteristic feature, gymnastic training for the people, the graduates of the Normal College at Indianapolis will find to he the ideal they must strive to uphold.

This social service is not performed by our modern athletics, in spite of its wonderful expansion. Take for example, our college athletics. The two leading games are played by nine or eleven men on a side, and many thousand students stand about them and look on, exercising not their bodies but their vocal organs, in the vain hope of adding to the probability of success. This mad pursuit of success in athletic games is in itself an evil. It is neither sportsmanlike nor hygienic. The players consist of experts, and ninety percent of the college students are excluded from the chance to play. The same is true of the athletic clubs; they develop distinguished athletes, and have no regard for the physical development of their large membership. The experts are heralded as great heroes; their records are classed with the great achievements of the day. But this is no real service to the college student on the one hand, nor to the community on the other; it does not produce stronger men and women in the next generation. The training should go to the great mass of men and women and particularly while they are young their training should not he excessive, jeopardizing their health in the later years of their lives, but it should train them to be better fitted for the business of life. Jahn was the great apostle of this idea, though we can scarcely call him the inventor.

Let us review for a moment the facts in the history of gymnastic training. All nations have contributed to the modern gymnasium. The Greeks invented something like the boxing-glove, the dumb-bell, and the vaulting-pole. The gymnastic horse, so generally found in our modern gymnasia, was a medical invention, originally a substitute for the living horse in leaping exercises. Indian clubs are said to have originated in Persia. Jahn invented the horizontal and parallel bars. The swinging ladder is of Swedish origin, chest-weights are an American contribution.

The Greeks had a distinct advantage in their mode of athletic training. It resulted in all-around development. They had their so-called pentathlon, in which the contestants had to show superiority in five departments, running, jumping, throwing the spear (for strength) and the discus (for skill), lastly the hardest test of all, wrestling. An athlete who could do all of these was certainly well rounded in his development. Compare with such the modern track athletes. They are all experts or specialists in a single department. No person competes in different contests proving at one time speed, at another strength, as running and throwing the ‘ hammer. Even the departments are sub-divided; the runner enters either the short distance or the long distance event; if he is a one-miler he will not compete in
— 360 —

any of the dashes, nor will he run for the two-mile event. He certainly will never engage in any contests of strength. These modern specialists probably surpass the ancients in their single events, but cannot compare with the Greek athletes for harmonious development.

In the Middle Ages gymnastic training had the purpose of preparing for the tournaments and knightly games; in the succeeding period the object was to aid military training. Not until the 18th century was there a thought of training mind and body together for the better development of each.

The establishment of the Dessau philanthropinum in 1774, marks an epoch in the history of gymnastic training. The founder, the German educator Johann Bernhard Basedow planned to carry out Rousseau^ idea that the training of the mind and of the body should serve to assist one another. Basedow, after the manner of the Greeks, instituted a pentathlon, consisting of contests in running, jumping, climbing, balancing, and carrying heavy weights. His influence is traceable in the later plans of physical education, by Salzmann, Guts Muths and Jahn in Germany; Pestalozzi and Fellenberg in Switzerland; Naclitegall in Denmark; Ling in Sweden; Amoros in France. The cradle of German gymnastics was Schnepfenthal near Gotha, where Salzmann founded a philanthropinum in 1784 and in the following year placed Guts Muths in charge of physical training. Guts Muths found there his life work and remained until his death in 1839. He was the author of the first treatise on physical training, „Gymnastik fuer die Jugend“, 1793. Another great work of his was „Spiele zur Uebung und Erholung des Koerpers und Geistes.“ The influence of Guts Muths spread beyond the borders of Germany. In 1799 his pupil Nachtegall established a private gymnastic institute at Copenhagen. In this gymnasium the Swede Ling, while a university student, had his first instruction, and received there his inspiration for gymnastics. Ling became the founder of the Swedish movements and system of gymnastics which later became so influential even in Germany, the original home of the gymnastic movement. In Prussia, the advocacy of physical training by Guts Muths found a favorable reception on the part of the Prussian Ministry, but the war with Napoleon in 1806 prevented the progress of the movement. Interest was renewed in 1808, but a leader of more aggressive personality was required to push the movement through to complete success.

He was found in ‘Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, the popular, magnetic Turnvater Jahn, who in 1811 established the first Turnplatz in the Hasenlieide to the south of Berlin. It was his idea to re-develop the German people, then groaning under the heel of Napoleon, and recreate that ancient Teutonic vigor which astonished, baffled, and conquered the Roman people. In this darkest day of Prussian history he strove for a national regeneration through physical training. The years 1811 to 1816 represent the period of Jahn’s greatest work,—his patriotic appeals in and out of the university, the formulating of his ideas in fundamental treatise “die deutsche Turnkunst,” his enlistment in the Luetzow corps of the army of 1814 and his part in the great war of Liberation. After the war the gymnastic movement of Jahn made im-

Digitized by

Google
— 361 —

mediate progress, Turnplaetze and schools for the training of boys were established throughout Prussia. But then came the unfortunate happenings of 1819, the murder of Kotzebue by the fanatical Carl Sand. The reaction set in, the ord$r for the establishment of gymnastic schools throughout Prussia was revoked, Jahn and many a patriot of the War of Liberation were feared as revolutionaries and thrown into prison. Some ninety Turnplaetze were closed and the gymnastic development was checked for nearly a generation. When Jahn was acquitted in 1825, he was not allowed to reside within ten miles of Ber-' lin or of any city that contained a university or college. He lived 1852, but his spirit was broken. His work, howeYer, inspired others to follow in his path.

The further development of training in German schools is due in large measure to the Hessian Adolf Spiess (1810—58), trained in the methods of Guts Muths and Jahn. Spiess was a better organizer of classes than Jahn. He was the first to teach gymnastics to girls. He introduced free movements, work in unison, sometimes accompanied by music. After the revolutionary period of 1848 he was called to his native land and until 1858 was engaged in organizing the gymnastic work of Hessian schools.

Prussia somewhat earlier, in 1844, called Massmann, from Munich to Berlin. He was a disciple of Jahn and his assistant Eiselen. Massmann opposed the system of Spiess, and his successor in 1851, Hugo Rothstein, did likewise. Rothstcin had-studied under Ling, the founder of the Swedish system, and introduced the latter system into Prussia. Then there arose a severe contention concerning the merits of the two systems, the Swedish and the German. Rothstein banished the horizontal bar and the parallel bars, and thus separated himself from the Turners and the Jahn system. A compromise was effected in 1862, the result of the favorable judgment of a board of physicians on the German system. Since then a very thorough development of gymnastic training has taken place throughout all the schools of Germany, and as soon as the Turnvereine banished all political aspirations they grew wonderfully in membership. The present German Emperor gave the movement in the schools a new impetus, when he urged the increase of the number of hours for required gymnasium work and introduced more open air sports. The latter may be called an English influence, for the English are the great inventors and players of all kinds of out-of-door games.

It should not surprise us, therefore, to read in the reports of our American exchange—teachers visiting the Prussian gymnasia, that the German students are not, as popularly supposed, physically inferior. In fact the reports state that they outclass our average American high school students in physical appearance and endurance.* This is the result of required physical training in the Prussian schools.

* Cf. Fourth Annual Report of the President and Treasurer of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, page 53; “Those who are more familiar with the evils of football and other games of questionable value for physical culture cannot help seeing many advantages in the German system. Since the days when Jahn and his followers first awakened an interest in physical education, the German nation as a

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 362 —

Physical training* in the ‘United States affords a parallel to the European development. From the Revolution to 1825 there was favorable mention of the advantages of gymnastic training with abundant allusions to the Greeks, and later the desire arose to imitate the very successful European experiments. The *period from 1825 to 1830 was ' one of active discussion and short-lived experiments. The most interesting of them was the introduction of the Jahn System into New England by German political refugees. The Round Hill School in Northampton, Massachusetts, founded by Cogswell and Bancroft in 1823 was the first in the United States to connect gymnastics with a liberal education. In 1825 a ^urnplatz or out-of-door gymnasium was established there in accordance with the Jahn system. Dr. Carl Beck, who taught Latin, was also appointed instructor in gymnastics. He and Carl Fol-len, both German refugees, had arrived in the same ship in December 1824. Follen was soon called to a chair in the German language and literature in Harvard College and in addition to this he became in 1826 an instructor and leader in gymnastics in Boston. The one in Boston was the first public gymnasium of any note in the United States. Tum-vater Jahn was called to become its director but declined, recommending Francis Lieber, who succeeded Follen as instructor. The number of patrons rose to four hundred in the first year, but dwindled down to a very few in the second. The novelty had died out, the movement would not last. Nevertheless, gymnastic rounds were established at Yale in 1825, at Amherst, Brown and Williams in 1827, and fully a dozen schools in New England and in New York followed the example of Round Hill. But Beck, Lieber and Follen, the distinguished pioneers in gymnastics, preferred college professorships and no one was found to succeed them as teachers of the Jahn system of physical training. A sufficient number of competent teachers might have produced a lasting success.

From 1830 to 1860 a period of action, followed again by quiescence. A noteworthy event was the coming of German exiles during the revolution of 1848 and the succeeding years. Wherever the new immigrants settled. Turner Societies sprang up in great numbers. The members were liberal-minded and well-educated, and of great influence upon the older Germans of the country; they were also held in high esteem by cultivated American citizens. The union of the Turner societies, the Turnerbund, was destined to exercise an important national influence. In the words of Dr. Hartwell “The North American Turner-band was for over half a century the largest, most widespread and efficient gymnastic association in the country, a.genuine and vigorous offshoot from the German stock.” Its influence upon the American population was greatest after 1880 when there was a revival of interest in gymnastics.

whole has become truly athletic in the best sense of the term, for there has been general and rational physical training for both sexes and for all ages. In the training of the teachers of gymnastics, the frequency of the periods for exercise in the hourly recesses, in the out-of-door play, in the variety of athletic games, and the completeness of the equipment of the exercise halls, Prussian boyfe have opportunities for physical education which are rarely seen in America.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 363 —

One point of contact with American life has, however, been overlooked. This is the introduction of the gymnasium into the Y. M. C. A. The Young Men's Christian Association was founded in England in 1844 as a religious, educational and social institution, benefiting the masses of young men drawn into the cities by the modern industrial development. The healthy moral effect of physical exercise was not recognized by the early association in England, but in Germany the Evangelische Jiinglingsvereine had from their beginning in 1831 introduced gymnastic exercises. The world's congress meeting in Paris 1855 brought the Jiinglingsvereine into union with the parent Y. M. C. A. of England and its many foreign branches, and here a wider application was probably given to gymnastic training, following the German model. The first Y. M. C. A. gymnasium in the United States was established in the model building erected in 1869 in New York City. The example of the Turnvereine had been before the American public for twenty years, their splendid work was not questioned and their patriotism was admired when not less than fifty percent of their membership volunteered in the Civil War. However, as an institution the Tum-vereine remained German almost entirely in their membership, language and customs, while by their side they grew up two American institutions, the athletic clubs, attracting the wealthier class, and the Y. M. C. A. gymnasiums, a more popular institution, embodying the principles of the original Turners: “Frisch, frei, froehlich, fromm, Isf des Turners Reichtum." Both American institutions have attracted large numbers from the Turnvereine, and it is a significant fact that some of the graduates of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. are teachers of gymnastics in the Y. M. C. A's.

In the decades from 1860 to 1880, modern athletics had its beginning. The American people showed greater interest in out-of-door sports and games, and envolved at least two which might be termed national. It began to be found that better results could be obtained for the American athlete in competitive sports, baseball, football and rowing, if he were given preliminary or intermediate gymnastic training. As a result, gymnasiums were built, especially in colleges and preparatory schools where the greatest interest was felt in competitive sports. The first of these was the Hemenway Gymnasium at Harvard, 1879—80. Amherst College as early as 1860 had established a department of hygiene and physical education. Dr. Edward Hitchcock introduced a system of periodical measurements to test the increase in strength or development. Amherst introduced compulsory gymnastics, consisting of musical drills, light dumb-bell exercises and marches. But this did not appeal generally before 1880. It was not considered to be in the same class with games and sports, and only when the importance of gymnastic training for the advancement of the former was discovered, did attention turn to the need of systematic gymnastic training. This brought on the last period, 1880 to the present time, a period of wonderful expansion in all departments of physical training. An unparalleled activity was shown in the erection of club, school and college gymnasia, and the establishment of athletic fields and playgrounds. A most important feature was the establishment of schools

Digitized by Google
— 364 —

for the training of teachers of gymnastics. This happened at least thirty years after the establishment of the Normal College of the Turnerbund. During this period, Dr. D. A. Sargent, director of the Hemenway gymnasium invented his system of developing gymnastics. It is generally adopted in the colleges of the country, in the form of physical examinations of every person entering college and of advice as to the proper developing exercises for him to take in the gymnasium. Formerly, defeated pugilists were made directors of gymnasiums, now the directors are physicians or trained teachers, or both.

There is one serious criticism made of the American gymnasium, namely, that is is “a semi-original creation that has been devised by the American architect to meet the expressed or fancied needs of the American athlete.” This criticism is in the same direction as the criticism upon our highly specialized athletics, which is not designed for the physical health or harmonious development of a human beingr but has for its object success in some branch of athletic activity. If we could correct this serious error, we could all be in accord with the athletic movement of the modern era in the United States.

The Nestor among American educators, Andrew D. White, so well known to German-Americans as the Ambassador to Germany, recently remarked upon the improved behavior of students at American Colleges since the period of his student days. The examples found in the old days of brutal hazing, not confined to fellow students, almost surpass belief. To subject professor or fellow student not only to indignities but to physical suffering were so common as to be taken as a matter of course. Andrew D. White attributes the reform in manners to the influence of athletics, which gives to youthful ebullient spirits the chance to effervesce without harm to others, at the same time producing an improved condition of health and to a very large extent contributing to manliness and virtue. Nowadays it is considered bad form to subject a professor to corporal indignities, it is not even thought of as a possibility. The change is undoubtedly due in large measure to the development of athletic sports and pastimes.

There is one very great improvement necessary in the development of athletics in our colleges. It is the opportunity that should be provided for all which heretofore has been enjoyed only by the few. Some universities, mindful of this point, have developed interclass athletics, intercollege or interfraternity contests. At Cornell University there is preparing a huge athletic field called the playground, where every student is expected or is at least furnished the opportunity to play at some game or indulge in some form of exercise during the part of the afternoon in which he is not engaged with his studies. . Some such development as this would eliminate the great evil in our modern system of athletics. This would be exactly in harmony with the ideal of Volks-turnerei. The latter, however, proceeds a step further and gives to the mass of the people the opportunity which the college playground gives to the student body.

The Turnerbund has aimed throughout its history to introduce gymnastic training into the public school system of the country. It has succeeded only in comparatively few places, generally where the

Digitized by Google
— 365 —

German vote is large. The only cities where school gymasiums are built are the large cities, the smaller towns seem to fear the additional expense which a gymnasium equipment necessarily involves. But the great advantage to the health and the development of the people cannot be adequately measured by an outlay be it ever so large. Our school children do not possess the advantage of training the body as rapidly or as steadily as the mind, and the result very often is poor health and poorer scholarship. The influence of physical training is that which is embodied in the Turner motto:	“frisch, froh, stark und

frei, ist die Turnerei.” Physical exercises develop independence, presence of mind, courage, buoyance of body and spirit. These benefits should be included in popular education. In fact we may say that the step forward in education in our secondary schools will be not the amplification of courses in language, literature and science, but the introduction consistently of physical training into the curriculum. This is the principal for which the Turnerbund and the Normal College have stood from the beginning. This is the ideal of the Normal School and the practical problems before its graduates. The Normal College of the N. A. G. U. has the unquestioned reputation of being the oldest school in the United States for developing teachers in physical training, but it cannot rest upon its laqrels. Most of the work is still to be done. This is not a discouraging circumstance but an inspiring fact for the graduates of this institution. They are to be congratulated upon the work before them, the popularizing of gymnastic training. The larger the opportunity the greater the possibilties of achievement.

THE HYGIENE OF SWIMMING POOLS.*

By M. P. RAVENEL, M. D.

The care of swimming pools in educational institutions and athletic clubs has of late years attracted considerable attention. Gymnasia ' which are frequented by a Targe number of persons may act as foci of infection. It seems possible that a swimming pool with a limited supply of water when used by a large number of persons may serve to convey from one to another pathogenic organisms. In this connection the danger of typhoid has been called to the attention of many people. There is no doubt that contaminated water may produce this disease in swimmers as the water is not infrequently taken into the mouth.

A study of both the men’s and women’s pools of the University of Wisconsin was undertaken mainly by Mr. E. J. Tuliy, the chemist of the laboratory, to find out what actual contamination was taking place. Both chemical and bacteriological analysis were made. A study has been made of the increasing contamination of the pools between changes of water.

The men’s pool contains 97,000 gallons. The women’s tank contains 70,000 gallons. The men’s tank was cleaned and filled with water from Lake Mendota once each week. Approximately 275 men use this

* Resume by Harry R. Allen of a paper read at the sixth congress ; of the American School Hygiene Association.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 366 —

pool every day and Saturday the number is greatly increased. All bathers are required to take a shower before entering the pool. Filtered water from Lake Mendota is used in the women’s pool. This pool is emptied on Friday and allowed ' to air until Monday. Analysis were made of the men's tank in January, March and April 1910 and in January and February 1911. Samples were collected from the women's swimming pool during the same months of 1911. In 1911 and 1912 experiments with hypochlorite of lime were carried out. Control samples were taken from the inflow pipe at the same time that the samples from the tank were taken. During the first series of examinations, two samples were collected daily, morning and afternoon. The plating and inoculations of the fermentation tubes was done within fifteen to thirty minutes after the taking of the samples.

The results show that the number of bacteria gradually increases, the maximum being reached about the middle of the week followed by a decrease until Saturday, when a considerable increase is again apparent. This is probably due to the large number of bathers who use the tank on Saturday. The colon bacillus is usually present in ten cubic centimeters of lake water.

During this series of examinations it was generally present in the tank water. In all the examinations the chlorine content showed a very slight increase.

A second series of examinations was made during the same months of the following year. The results were practically the same and showed that the hygienic condition of the men's swimming pool was generally very good. The results in the women's pool showed a very satisfactory condition of the water and indicates that the method of filtration yields a satisfactory degree of purification.

Examinations were made after one liter of urine had been added to the water in order to determine whether or not any material increase in the nitrogen or chlorine content would be manifest in the daily analysis. The addition of urine was made on Monday. The maximum count on gelatine was relatively quite high and the counts remained high during the week. The bacillus coli were constantly present in two c. c., one c. c. and occasionally in one-tentli of a c. c. Its continued appearance in one c. c. w^as significant in this series because it was absent from one c. c. of pool water in most of the experiments.

The next experiment consisted in putting hypochlorite into the swimming tank and making a series of examinations. The results showed that in-order to be satisfactory, the hypochlorite of lime must be added in sufficient quantities to give one part of available chlorine per million. They show further that when the tank is being used the effect lasts only about, three days after which there is considerable *n-crease in the number of bacteria present.

To obtain entirely satisfactory results under the conditions as they exist at Wisconsin, hypochlorite of lime in the proportion mentioned must be added to the swimming pool twice each week.

CONCLTJSIOK

It must be admitted that contagious diseases can be spread by means of artificial swimming pools and that if the water contains the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 367 —

germs of typhoid fever, they can be taken into the system. With ordinary waters and with a pool of good capacity the change once a week keeps the water in fairly good condition. The addition of hypochlorite of lime is a simple, cheap and safe procedure which insures absolute safety.

*	  p-	«	..	♦—r i

THE CRAWL VERSUS THE BREAST STROKE.

By MATHEW MANN, Instructor of Swimming in Brookline and

Sargent School.

I would like to take advantage of the offer in the October issue of Mind and Body to state why I prefer to teach the crawl rather than the breast stroke to beginners in swimming.

When I used to teach the breast stroke as an elementary stroke,

I averaged about six lessons before the pupil commenced to swim alone.

I started teaching the crawl stroke during the season of 1908, and was surprised to see the ease with which the pupils began to swim. It is a very rare occurence for the pupil to take more than three lessons before he can swim at least 26 feet, or across our pool, as well as starting to learn the back stroke (also the crawl). I will now describe the method of these two strokes, and let the reader decide which is the better.

In teaching the breast stroke, I found the most difficult part was to secure co-ordination of movement. Xo matter how long a pupil practiced a land drill, or how long he used water-wings, when he attempted to swim alone, he forgot the land drill and also the co-ordination mastered with the aid of the wings. Another great drawback is the strenuous effort a beginner makes in order tct move along at all. The pupil seems to be stationary; for when the knees are drawn up. and the arms are thrust forward they resist the water so that the pupil actually pushes himself backward. The body begins to sink down, also, so that part of the stroke has to be expended in recovering the original position. It makes no difference under what conditions the breast stroke is taught,—two movements of the arms and one of the legs are always against the pupil, and it is evident at what a disadvantage he labors when one-third of his work is to retard his own progress.

It is claimed that the breast stroke is like a frog’s movements; but if the swimming motions of a frog are carefully examined, it will , be seen that, after about three strokes, the front legs are placed side of the body, while the hind legs are drawn up and then thrust down,— the downward motion opening out the web of the foot. This kick is not at all the same as the leg action of the breast stroke, so it can hardly be said that we are following the movements of that small amphibious animal, the frog.

It is well known by swimmers that the chief requirement is to keep moving, for otherwise there is a tendency to sink, usually of the feet. Thus no matter how good a breast stroke swimmer one may be, progress is retarded and sinking occurs to a certain extent, at every stroke. How, then, can it be claimed that this is an easy method of swimming, when part of every stroke has to be used to pull the body

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 3GS —

onto the surface? Another disadvantage of the breast stroke is the difficulty of breathing. When swimming in choppy water or in the waves at the beach, the head may be held high, yet the face gets all the water. I have often seen expert breast stroke swimmers turn over on their backs to get rid of a mouthful of water.

In teaching the crawl stroke 1 encountered a great deal of opposition at first, for I had to prove to a town where the breast stroke had been popular for twelve years, the superiority of the crawl to the breast as an elementary stroke. But the crawl has met with success in the free lessons which are given in Brookline to all the residents, men,-women and children. Our method of instruction is to have a class of about twenty line up on the side of the tank and take the following land drill:	Placing one foot forward and keeping the knees straight,

bend the body forward from the waist as if leaning over to the level of the water, about waist deep. The arms are swung alternately forward and below the supposed level of the water, pressing back as far as possible and with enough violence to give them an impetus to swing out over the water and repeat the forward motion. At the same time the body turns from side to side (to the left when the right arm reaches forward and vice versa,) while the head also swings with the body and faces towards the rear arm, thus in a way protecting the mouth and giving a better chance to breathe.

The movements are somewhat like alternate scoops in which the large shoulder muscles do most of the work, for the fingers and hand are kept straight while the wrist and elbow are hooked, the elbow being kept elevated. After about five minutes of this arm drill, the pupil places a pair of water-wings aroud his waist and enters the water. An instructor usually goes with him the first time, to hold his head, until lie finds that, bv the proper use of his arms, it is really impossible for the head to sink under water. The chief thing is to have the pupil gain confidence, and, owing to the fact that anyone can move along on the arm stroke alone, especially with the aid of water-wings, the pupil soon becomes confident. After about ten minutes with the wings, the pupil tries to swim without any support, and usually succeeds for at least a short distance.

By making the pupils swing their bodies from side to side, (or as it results in the water, roll from side to side,) they will find that the leg action develops of itself, as there is no co-ordination necessary. The kick we teach is a straight leg drive from the hip, for by this method of keeping the knee straight and kicking from the hip, the body is kept on the surface of the water. If beginners were taught the kick from the knee, most of them would bend too much.

An important rule for instructors is to teach the pupils .to relax. When they learn that there is nothing to be afraid of in the water, and try the crawl stroke with all muscles relaxed, it is surprising how soon they will begin to swim, and swim well.

The method of breathing used in the crawl stroke .is also very easy, for while the body is swinging to the side the pupil exhales, and during the backward pressure of arm and shoulder, he inhales. The breathing is done through the mouth, since if water is taken in it is

Digitized by

Google
— 369 —

more easily expelled than when drawn into the nose. Even a small amount taken up the nose produces a most uncomfortable feeling, and discourages beginners especially.

I cannot see why, when criticizing the crawl stroke for beginners, its detractors say that it is hard for the pupil to put his head under water. This is no more necessary in the crawl than in the breast stroke, when the crawl is used as an elementary stroke. It is quite different when used as a racing stroke,; but it is not right to confuse the two, and condemn the stroke as unsuited to beginners. , The great advantage of the crawl over the breast stroke is that every movement is for the pupil and not against him. The hands are recovered over the water so that there is no pulling against the water; and, also, there is no stop in the stroke, for as soon as one hand is pulled from the water, the other is starting its backward pressure. ‘ The kick keeps the the body flat on the surface, so there is no sinking q,t all, and steady progress is made.

We also teach the crawl as an elementary stroke on the back, by placing water-wings across the small of the back and allowing the pupil to lie perfectly flat on top of the water. By lifting first one hand and then the other, not over the head, but from the thighs out to a straight line with the shoulders, and pressing inward to the thighs again, the body is kept moying forward. In this way there is not water thrown over the face. After two or three trials, the pupil will usually swim along very easily.

I have found that the use of the breast stroke for any length of time is a detriment to learning the crawl, for it is more difficult to break the habit of the knee kick, than to teach beginners the straight leg action..

It cannot be claimed that the breast stroke is used as a fundamental stroke for the side trudgeon stroke. . The kick in the breast stroke is very different from the scissor kick, which is used in both of the above mentioned strokes. In the scissor kick the left leg is kept straight throughout the stroke, while in the breast stroke both legs are bent and stretched.

The real reason that people take swimming lessons is to learn to swim, and not to develop muscle, so it is the duty of the instructor to teach them as quickly as possible. From my personal experience I find that it is much better to teach the crawl stroke for quick results, than to adhere to the old methods which are being questioned now all over the world.

Regarding records made, I had a pupil, who, after only five minutes’ practice in the water with wings, took them off and swam across the pool 26 ft. wide. This pupil, however, was built to be a 6wimmer, being light boned, and having quite a little fat.

We gave 1800 lessons to 600 school children during last season,— an average of three lessons each,— and 290 of them qualified for a cer-. tificate, having swum 30 ft. on the chest and on the back also.

At Dr. Sargent’s school camp this summer, we had about 30 girls who could not swim at all; but in one month every girl had swum out to the diving float, a distance of at least 75 yards, and 6 of the girls

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 370 —

had swum across the lake, a distance of 500 yards, all of them using the crawl stroke. In conclusion I might say that wherever the crawl stroke has been used, it is impossible to try starting in on the breast stroke again. I have now been teaching at Brookline for three years, and am also teaching at Dr. Sargent’s Normal School. Many of my pupils are instructors in the Y. M. C. A’s. in and around Boston, and all of them are giving satisfaction.

Why has the Breast Stroke been Taught for More then a Half Century in All European Countries ?*

^ .	By	ARTHUR	A. ENOCH, M.D., Cincinnati, Ohio.

During my last summer’s European trip I visited twenty-two cities in Germany and five in Switzerland. Wherever a river, lake or canal could be found in the vicinity, swimming was taught, but always in classes. The only stroke taught was the breast stroke. In some places I was informed by public school teachers, that all children must learn the art of swimming before they have reached the age of twelve. Swimming is cumpulsory in almost all schools of Germany and Switzerland, because it is considered one of the most important branches of physical education. Our European colleagues know 4;he physiological effects of the breast stroke too well, to experiment with some other strokes of inferior value. The eminent writer of international fame, Dr. F. A. Schmidt, of Bern, Germany, has given to them in a masterly way all desirable information of this subject and explained the physiological value of the breast stroke in a most thorough manner. In his famous book “Unser Koerper” one will find three chapters about swimming which are of great value to every teacher, who instructs in swimming.

In an article by H. T. Smith, which appeared in the November issue of Mind and Body we are made to believe that, “The dog-paddle stroke is the quickest, easiest and most natural method of teaching a beginner how to swim.” The reasons given are 1st, “It is easier for a person to learn the breast stroke after mastering the dog paddle, than it is to learn the dog paddle after learning the breast stroke.” 2nd “Not once have I seen a person who has fallen into the water try to swim out with the breast stroke.”

Instead of answering these statements directly, I beg to relate some personal experiences. During my boyhood, like many of my playmates, I learned the dog paddle stroke by simply trying it. After some weeks of practice I obtained considerable confidence in my ability as a swimmer and ventured to swim across a river, about one hundred yards wide. But before reaching the other shore I was completely exhausted; my limbs felt like paralized and trying as hard as I could, the arms would not move. The natural result was that I went down.

Some hours later I was informed that a man had saved me. This

* Read at the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Ind., November 30th, 1912.

Digitized by

Google
— 371 —

unpleasant experience later on stimulated my desire to learn some safer' and more reliable way of swimming, and I was taught the breast stroke.

About ten years later I happened to be observing some persons swimming in the lake at Chester Park, Cincinnati. I saw a young couple venturing out towards the center of the lake and as both were using the dog paddle stroke, I could not help asking myself:	“How

far are they going to swim without being in danger?”—Long before they reached the center of the lake, the woman called out for help, which was given her temporarily by her companion; but he very soon found that this task was too much for him, and therefore he started to cry: “For God's sake help—help.” My coat and hat were off in a second; I jumped into the water. It was a battle for life or death until I brought them safely to the shore. These dangerous experiences were due to the dog paddle stroke, which is claimed by its advocates to give self-reliance and self-control in the water.

.Why should we teach such an inferior stroke as the dog paddle when even its advocates acknowledge, that it can be used only for short distances and not for endurance. Why should we? The answer usually given is that it requires only a few lessons until a pupil can swim quite a number of yards. This aim seems to be just as unsatisfactory as the dog paddle stroke has proven to be unsafe. Furthermore, I doubt very much another statement made by Mr. Smith, “That the majority of those who teach swimming will ninety-nine times out of a hundred choose the dog paddle stroke or motions similar to it.”

During my twenty-three years of experience abroad and here I have found only one teacher whose aim was reached when his pupils could , swim 50 yards. This questionable result was obtained by the dog paddle stroke; all the other teachers whom I interviewed were not satisfied with such meager results. They taught a good breast stroke in about ten lessons. Then they advised their pupils to continue every day to practice and improve this stroke until the end of the summer, when they would swim one or two hours without ever being overfatigued. Our aim should be to teach a swimming stroke which is worth while. The pupil must be instructed how to acquire mastery over such an uncertain and dangerous element as the water for hours and hours. With the least muscular effort he must be able to cover miles and miles with perfect ease and safety. Of what consequence is it if the foundation of this accomplishment is laid in ten rather than in three lessons? So long as the pupil has learned something valuable, something that is worth while knowing, we surely have accomplished a great step toward giving him confidence, endurance -and perfect safety in the water, besides. By means of the arm and leg motion of the breast stroke we also have given him the very best exercises to obtain a harmonious development of all muscles of the body as well as an ideal exercise for the development of such important organs as the lungs and the heart.

And I wish to mention some physiological reasons, why the breast stroke ought to be taught in preference to any other stroke.

The arm movement is performed by means of the muscles of the fore and upper arm in connection with the large muscle groups of the shoulders, the neck, the chest and the back. As these large groups of

Digitized by kjOOQle
— 372 —

muscles act in harmony to accomplish this easy movement, their actual muscular energy is very slight; and as the tempo of the arm movement is almost in accordance with the respiratory frequency of the lungs, inhalation as well as exhalation is aided considerably. The heart action therefore is strengthened, but the heart is never overtaxed. The main object of the arm movement is to enable the swimmer to keep his head above the water, to aid him in the respiratory task of inhaling deeply and regularly. To prove of how little value the arm movement actually is as a propelling force, J wish to mention the swimming ability of a so-called “armless wonder,” who exhibited a perfect frog motion with his legs by swimming, here in Cincinnati, in Mayer’s natatorium the length of ninety feet with only five strokes. This incident shows better than all words where the real propelling power in the breast stroke is to be found. The legs do the work not the arms. Not only all muscles of the calves and thighs, but also the large groups of muscles of the hips, the abdomen and lumbor parts of the back are used to their minutest fibers in this leg stroke. Yet the muscular energy expended, as proven by experts, is less than in endurance running. This movement, therefore, is more for the development of the heart and lungs than endurance running.

After hours of swimming with the breast stroke I have never found my pulse, nor the pulse of any of my pupils to be much higher than 130 beats in a minute.

To make a brief summary of the value of the breast stroke upon the entire body I will mention the following facts which are secured by teaching this stroke:

1.	It strengthens the heart without overtaxing it.

2.	It	aids breathing, but never	hampers	it.

3.	It	permits the	head to be always out	of	the	water	and	thus	en-

■ ables the	swimmer to	look out for	danger.

4.	It	secures for	all grgups of	muscles	of	the	entire	body	a	har-

monious and sound development.

5.	It requires less muscular energy than any other stroke.

6.	It gives perfect control and confidence, even when high waves make the water unsafe.

Normal School of Physical Education.

Two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymtiasium. Wellequipped laboratories of Anatomy, Biology, Zoology, and Physiology in connection with School of Medicine. Model School for Practice teaching. Best instructors and lecturers. Send for catalog and full information.

RUSSELL H. CONWELL, President.

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by LaOOQle
Mind and body. ^

Price, 11.00 per Year. Foreign $1.2o.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO ,

’Wlacoaa.nslaQ.-

tOT Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W is Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. J5TECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Po«t Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—THE NEXT CONVENTION of the American Physical Education Association will meet in Newark, N. J., March 26—29th. An active program committee, with Dr. Crampton as chairman, is hard at work to formulate an interesting series of meetings, while the local committee under the leadership of Mr. Warden will give visitors an opportunity to visit school and municipal gymnasiums and recreation centers and see all kinds of gymnastic work.

—DURING THE THANKSGIVING WEEK the technical committee of the North American Gymnastic Union met at Indianapolis to perfect the details of the great quadrennial meet of this organizar tion. The national Tumfest will be held at Denver, Colorado, June 25th to 30th. The mass exercises of the actives will consist of wand-exercises, the seniors will have dumbbell work, while the exercises of the womens classes will consist of free exercises and dancing steps. A detailed program of this festival, as well as the exercises to be performed will be presented to our readers in the near future. In the meantime the thousands of young men and women who will participate actively in this great meet are hard at work preparing for the struggle for supermacy.

The local Fest-committee under the leadership of Mr. Godfrey Schirmer, a prominent banker of Denver, has succeeded in securing a large guarantee fund which will enable this committee to conduct the fest in a fitting manner. The surroundings of Denver have allowed the local committee to arrange a series of post festum trips which will be unique. The trips will consist of mountain foot tours ranging from one day to a week. Tours consisting partly of wandering and partly of railroad rides, or of trips on the backs of Rocky Mountain burrows are also scheduled. % The preliminaries appear to substantiate the claims of the Denverites that the next festival will be the most glorious ever celebrated by the Turnerbund._________

—THE MUNICIPAL ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION of Boston has recently inaugurated Saturday afternoon walks similar to those held in Chicago, Cincinnati, Philadelphia and other cities. As they were well planned they naturally draw large numbers. Unfortunately this success has prompted some one to introduce competition into these walks.

Besides walk, the association now also conducts “hikes” as will be seen by the following circular.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—-374 —

MUNICIPAL ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION OF THE CITY OF BOSTON.

Park Walk and Cross Country “Hike”—B.

A Park Walk and Cross Country “Hike” combined will be conducted Saturday Afternoon, November 9, 1912. Starting from Chestnut Hill Reservoir at Beacon Street, and ending in Arnold Arboretum.

To reach starting point, take Reservoir or Lake Street—Beacon Street Elevated car from Subway; oj* from Dudley Street Station, or Brookline Village; and get off at Reservoir and Beacon Streets. Starting point directly ahead on leaving car. Look for M. A. A. banner.

There will be two separate groups.—One for the Walk and one for the “Hike”—starting at different times.

GROUP 1.—Those who wish the recreation and view of the parks without undue haste, walking at moderate pace. Starting time—2.30 P. M.

GROUP 2.—“Hikers” or those who wish to walk fast. Starting time—3.15 P. M. (Second group will undoubtedly overtake first group near end of course.)

ROUTE for both parties:	From starting point, around larger reser-

voir, then across Boston & Albany Railroad to Middlesex Street, to Hammond Street, to Newton Street, to Church Street, to West Roxbury Parkway, through Arnold Arboretum. (Street cars and Elevated trains at forest Hills.)

Point of start and point of finish by M. A. A. banner. Total distance, about six miles.

At end of course names and time will be recorded. To all who walk over the course within the time limit of two hours, certificates will be awarded. Holders of five certificates acquired on different walks will be awarded trophies later.

No incentive is intended for fastest walkers. The aim is to acquaint the public with the possibilities of the park system of Boston for such forms of recreation, rather than to stimulate strong competition among individuals—a phase of walking to have special attention Thanksgiving Day.

ENTRIES should be sent to the office, No. 6 Beacon Street, not later than noon Friday, November 8, but will be received at starting point.

Open to all men, women and older children who consider themselves qualified to make the “Hike.” Others may start with the party and stop as they wish along the way; or join the party at any point. The route may be traced on a map and note made of street car lines, etc.

Further information may be secured by mail or telephone from the office of the Municipal Athletic Association, 6 Beacon Street.

The Municipal Athletic Association is a joint effort of city and citizens for the physical welfare of men, women and children of the whole community.

Acting in co-operation with existing agencies so far as possible, to encourage clean sports, games, play, aquatics, gymnastics, athletics and other forms of recreation and honorable competition that produce health, strength, courage and happiness for individuals and the city twelve months in the year.

The Municipal Athletic Association is primarily to encourage the average boy, girl, young man and woman to take personal part in suitable and congenial forms of outdoor and indoor activity, under conditions socially, morally and healthfully desirable.

Merbership in the Municipal A. A. is open to all at $1 a year. Supporting contributions, $5, $10, $25, $50.

The schedule of activities conducted by the association enuumer-

ates.

Digitized by

Google
— 375 —

Invitation Swimming Meet, Municipal Building, Jamaica . Plain, March 14.

Ten-mile Eoad Kun from Franklin Field. Perpetual City of Boston trophy cup won for 1912 by North Dorchester A. A., March 18.

Children’s Demonstration, Franklin Field 10 a. m. City Athletic Meet, North End Park, 3.30 p. m. April 19.

Co-operation with Boston Social Union in “Pageant of Patriots," Franklin Park. May 30.

Children’s Demonstration of gymnastics, dancing, games and athletics, Franklin Field, 10 a. m. City Athletic Meet, Franklin Field, 4 p. m. June 8.

City Athletic Meet, Boston Common, 9 a. m. July 4.

Baseball League of the Municipal A. A. Schedule games weekly June 29 to August 31 for boys. Eighty teams in League—960 boys.

Summer Athletics for boys in co-operation with Park Department. Two district meets each Saturday beginning July 27. Final meet at Franklin Field, August 31. Total number of entries, 1,548.

All-iound Efficiency Tests for boys and young men, conducted during the Summer. Another test this Winter.

Swimming matches and meets for men, women and children, during the Summer, with efficiency diplomas and medals. In co-operation with Bath Department. July 17 to final meet August 24. Distance Swim for Experts, August 31.

Indoor Demonstration of all forms of physical activity, to be held this winter.

Indoor Athletic meet, to be arranged.

Gymnasium Competition for prize shields, to be conducted this winter in private, institution and Municipal gymnasiums.

Walks and “Hikes” weekly or oftener, through the winter.

Century runs and like monstrosities killed the bicycle so far as its use for recreation was concerned. We hope that “hikes” leading to certificates and trophies will not overshadow the “walks” and kill a movement whose sole aim should be to get city-dwellers out of the desert of houses and streets into the green fields. With a program (shown above) embracing so many forms of competition it appears unnecessary to jeopardize a form of recreation that appeals to hundreds of men and women who have higher ideals than to see how fast they can walk. And isn’t there great danger of this when competetive walks with their sensational newspaper write-ups and spectacular pictures are introduced?

Walt Whitman says:

Afoot and light-hearted, I take to the open road,

Healthy, free, the world before me,

The long-brown path before me, leading wherever I choose.

“Wanderlust” should be the desire that leads to the open road, the blue river and the deep woods, to the mountain and the valley. It should be the spirit that makes all kin, who love the birds and the flowers and the stars and the sweet, sincere things of Nature. So to the initiated. Wanderlust should indicate not a club nor an organization, but the great mutual longing that leads to the open road and

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 376 —

the simple pleasures it affords. May our fears prove unfounded, and may this great modern movement continue to develop slowly and sanely for the physical benefit of thousands of nervous dwellers in the city who need to be led to partake of good things wisely.

—A PHYSICIAN living in Kansas City, Mo., reports a remarkable illustration of what he calls-“gills” for supplying oxygen to rooms which were poorly ventilated. Writing in the Medical Record, he states that fuel and light, that this gas has so little odor that its presence is not readily detected, and that one night the gas which had been lighted in the upper hall communicating with the sleeping apartments was extinguished during the night by reason of lowered pressure.

The pressure rose during the night, filling the bedrooms with gas, but the family slept comfortably until it was awakened by a roaring noise, which was found to proceed from the open gas jets.

The doctor praises the “bridge” that enabled his family to survive this dangerous experience by ascribing it to an arrangement for ventilation which he had adopted and called “gills,” because it supplies oxygen as do the gills of a fish.

The apparatus consists of “a yard square of 6y2 oz. drill muslin sheeting stretched and secured upon a light frame or a summer screen to fill the lower half of one window in each room.” The doctor enters into a scientific and correct explanations of the modus operandi of these gills, which is omitted here. It is sufficient to call attention to this simple and efficient device for ventilating sleeping and living rooms during the cold winter months--an important and usually unappreciated preventive for colds and pneumonia.

Not the least interesting feature of this “discovery” is the fact that these “gills” have been in practical use at our agricultural stations and in many well conducted poultry farms. The method has therefore been thoroughly tested.

RECENT MEETINGS TO PROMOTE HYGIENE.

By D. M. F; Krogh, M. D., Philadelphia.

(Conclusion.)

The following is taken from “Hygiene and tbue Child:”

“Among the subjects that engaged the especial attention of the Congress the conservation .of child life and school hygiene unquestionably came in for the most extensive discussion. Especially was the great importance of decreasing - infant mortality by every possible means emphasized as never before, for it was conclusively shown that the work of the past decade was at last bearing good fruit.

The section devoted to these topics — the Section on Hygiene of Infancy and Childhood and School Hygiene, as it was called — was presided over by Dr. Abraham Jacobi, the Nestor of American medicine. This grand old physician, although far advanced in years, was a virile presiding officer and conducted the sessions with his usual ability and courtesy.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-377-

The general subjects of discussion were Hygiene of Infancy and Childhood, School Inspection, Child Conservation, Dental and Oral Hygiene, Municipal Supervision of Infantile Hygiene and Mental Hygiene.

Many papers and addresses of notable value were read and delivered, among those of special note being the articles by Drs. Henry Larned Keith Shaw, of Albany, Y. Y.; Samuel M. Hamill, of Philadelphia; S. Josephine Baker, of Yew York; H. A. Eoyster, of Norfolk, Ya.; Woods Hutchinson, Homer Folks and Charles G. Kerley, of Yew York, and many others. An optimistic attitude was shown by practically every one taking part in the work of the Congress, It was evident that hygienic progress was manifesting itself by a substantial drop in infant mortality, and the belief seemed to be general that the immediate future was bound to see results that a few years back would have been looked upon as impossible.

School Hygiene was given much consideration, and it was very apparent that the importance of this particular phase of the great question of modern hygiene was at last receiving the recognition it deserves. This was especially gratifying, moreover, since Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Teachers’ College of Columbia University, Yew York, has estimated recently that of the 20,000,000 school children in the entire country, “not less than 15,000,000 or 75 per cent, need attention for physical defects which are partly or completely remediable.”

“Several million children have two or more handicapping defects; 400,000 have organic heart disease; at least 1,000,000 have or have had tuberculosis; about 1,000,000 have spinal curvature, flat foot or some moderate deformity; over 1,000,000 have defective hearing; about 5,000,000 have defective vision; about 5,000,000 are suffering from malnutrition; over 6,000,000 have inflamed tonsils, adenoids or enlarged cervical glands;' over 10,000,000 have defective teeth which are interfering with health: about 100 cities have organizations for the care of health in the schools.”

With these startling figures before us, no wonder that so much interest is now being shown in the problems of school hygiene.

The Exhibit. “Under the able direction of Dr. J. W. Schere-schewskv, of the U. S. Public Health Service,” says the J. A. M. A. ^the exhibition, which contained thousands of exhibits showing the public health work of various states and cities of the Union, was opened September 16 and continued until October 4. About 5,000 persons attended the opening. The exhibit was divided into thirteen sections. In the child hygiene section the visitor found a series of photographs illustrating the physical defects which lead to mental deficiency in children. Here also was shown a model child’s hospital, and experts were in charge to describe the proper care of the child in the different stages of the various diseases of children.

In the industrial section were shown maps and lantern slides illustrating the work being done by the health welfare departments of great industrial corporations. In the sex hygiene section were two Washington exhibits. The first exhibit was from the United States Army Museum, and the other by Dr. Elnora C. Folkmar of the

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 378 —

Woman’s Clinic. This exhibit consisted of 200 beautiful lantern-slides showing how to teach children the story of the origin of life in plants, fishes, insects, birds, animals and man.

In the section on mental hygiene there were photographs illustrating forms of insanity. In other sections the importance of pure water, wholesome food and the disposal of sewage were strikingly illustrated.

In connection with the school section the department of education showed a number of model schoolhouses of paste-board for rural districts.

In the section devoted to the communicable diseases the American Medical Association presented a strong exhibit against “patent medicines,” showing some of the features of its Propaganda for Reform Department.

A section devoted to the hygiene of physical exercise was illustrated by photographs.

In the naval hygiene section a hospital room in a modern American battleship was rigged up to illustrate how the sailors on United States war-ships are cared for.

In the state and municipal section every state and practically all of the large cities of the country had prepared exhibits in the fight against diseases.

A single electric light was used to illustrate the death-rate among the infants of the world. Every ten seconds the light flashed, indicating, according to the statistical board accompanying the light, that an infant under the age of 1 year had died somewhere in the civilized world. This light indicated that 8,640 infants die every twenty-four hours.

Besides the various moving pictures showing the public-health work in various sections of the country, lectures were given by prominent physicians and hygienists. This exhibit was one of the most interesting, instructive and attractive features of the congress.”

Following closely upon the heels of the International Hygiene Congress w^as the International Conservation Congress held at Indianapolis, Ind., from Oct. 1 to 4.

The enthusiasm for better public health legislation being marked, a large and interesting hygienic exhibit was arranged in the corridors and rotunda of the state-house, a large portion of the material exhibited being supplied by the Indiana State Board of Health. In addition to the exhibit, illustrated lectures on public health were given three times a day, the stereopticon and moving-picture machine being used.

Dr. W. A. Evans of Chicago spoke on “Human Life, Our Greatest Resource.”

A public meeting was held at Tomlinson Hall at which Dr. Harvey W. Wiley spoke on the “Conservation of Man.”

“Human Life as a National Asset.’’ Mr. E. E. Rittenhouse of New York City, Conservation Commissioner for the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, read a paper on this subject, which was noteworthy as summing up the entire question of conserva-

Digitized by

Google
— 379 —

tion of life on a basis of hard, uncontrovertible facts. The paper was written by a business man, and not by a physician or sanitarian, which makes it all the more noteworthy.

Mr. Rittenhouse said:	The	life-saving	movement is still in its in-

fancy. It has been directed so far almost wholly against contagious diseases common to infancy and early adult life, while the degenerated diseases of middle life and old age, to which comparatively little attention has been paid, are steadily increasing. The average length of human life has been increased by increasing the proportion of people living in the younger age periods, while the average duration of life of those who pass into middle life and old age has been constantly shortened. The principal items of life waste are due to the hazards, habits and conditions of life which civilization has introduced.

Our fire losses amount to about $250,000,000, to prevent which our cities are spending $1.65 per capita. Our annual economic loss from preventable diseases is conservatively estimated at $1,500,000,000, to prevent which our cities are spending 33 cents per capita. A million and a half people in the United States are constantly suffering from preventable diseases. During the next ten years, over 6,000,000 lives will be needlessly destroyed, if present conditions continue. The city and state health officer knows that with an appropriation of $1.50 per capita, -the health, happiness and longevity of the community can be greatly increased, but as the taxpayer will give him only 25 cents per capita, he is compelled to run a 25 cent health department. Even in Pennsylvania the appropriation is only about 48 cents per capita. Arkansas spends nothing at all for this purpose; New York State spends about 1.7 cents; Massachusetts, 4.2 cents; Florida, 10 cents; Indiana, 1.8 cents; Kansas, 2.7 cents; and Virginia, 1.9 cents. In cities the same conditions exists. Providence, R. I., spends 11 cents per capita for health and $1.99 per capita for fire protection; Portland, Ore., spends 13 cents per capita for health and $1.91 for fire protection; Minneapolis spends 14 cents per capita for health and $1.67 for fire protection.

To remedy these conditions, business institutions, civic, social and religious organizations should join in a life-conservation campaign. The individual should be educated to adopt the healthful habits of life. Communities should be urged to establish public health organizations; the organization of local health leagues and the encouragement of rigid supervision of contagious diseases should be advocated. Every effort should be made to encourage states and municipalities to appropriate sufficient funds to finance adequate health departments.

The Public Health Movement. Prof. Irving Fisher of Yale gave a history of the present movement for better health conditions, the organization of * the Committee of One Hundred, the efforts made to secure the establishment of a national Department of Health, and the present situation. He also discussed the conditions in public health in Sweden and other European countries, and emphasized the importance of a national Department of Health, of nroper vital statistics and of careful study of eugenics to provide a better race for advanced generations.

Digitized by LaOOQle
1

— 380 —

Authority iji Health Control. Dr. L. E. Gofer of the United States Public Health Service reviewed the public health loss of the 1 United States, and of the different states. He said that he was at a loss to suggest what additional health legislation is necessary or desirable. He is unable to see the necessity for any different plan of organization than that now in existence, as long as the people in whose behalf the organization is maintained are satisfied.

The remainder of the morning was devoted to a discussion of farm lands and agriculture.

Conservation and Its Relation to Hygiene. At the afternoon session Dr. Oscar Dowling of New Orleans, president of the Louisiana State Board of Health, spoke on this subject.

Duty of the Employer Toward Conservation. Mr. E. A. Rumely, | La Porte, Ind., stated that we must care for the increasing population, 1 not by increasing exploitation or natural stores, but by providing a-bundant work for skilled labor. Agriculture has been a process of mining. The farm must now furnish a field for the profitable employment of skilled labor, for the use of capital and the demonstration of the principles of scientific management, becoming thereby a workshop instead of a mine.

Duty of the Teacher Toward Conservation. Prof. E. T. Fair-child of Topeka, Ivans., president of the National Educational Associa-iton, emphasized the need of better teachers and better equipment for the public schools, especially in rural districts.

Duty of the State. Dr. J. X. Hurty of Indianapolis, secretary of the Indiana State Board of Health and ex-president of the American Public Health Association, advocated the restriction of the use of drugs, poisons and improper foods, the prevention of over-fatigue, the-reduction in venereal diseases and the use of alcohol, in order to reduce crime, pauperism and insanity.

Section meetings on foods and on accident prevention were held later in the afternoon.

Accident Prevention. Mr. Melville W. Mix of Mishawaka, Ind., president of the Dodge Manufacturing Company and vice-president of the National Association of Manufacturers, one of the founders and a director of the National Society for the Promotion of Efficiency, 6aid: Almost every establishment is to-day giving more thought to the safety of its employees, with the result that employers themselves are necessarily compelled to give more thought to the safety of themselves and others. The popular disregard for personal safety is the most important factor in the present situation. There must be an established public conviction, an active, subconscious state of mind that automatically thinks of safety first, before industrial accidents will be reduced. It may be a generation or two before this is brought about. It can be accomplished only by constant drill and discipline. We are lacking in proper statistics regarding these questions, and have to rely on Germany for much of our information. .

Dr. Harvey W. Wiley, speaking before the food section, emphasized the improved condition of cold-storage business.

In the general discussion which followed, Dr. Wiley said the attacks

Digitized by

Google
— 381 —

on the cold-storage business five years ago were justified by conditions, which have since greatly improved.

Mr. Henry Wallace, editor of Wallace’s Farmer, Des Moines, la., reviewed the history of the conservation movement, and said that man is after all the biggest thing on the planet. The only way to restore wasted fertility of the soil, and the waste of the forests and mineral resources, is by increasing to the utmost limit human efficiency, physically, mentally and morally.

Judge Ben B. Lindsey of the Juvenile Court of Denver appealed for state pensions or compensation for needy mothers, reviewing the child welfare movement and emphasizing the duty of the state to the child.

The report of the Committee on Resolutions on health conservation was adopted. Some of the resolutions are:

Recognizing the natural resources of the country as the prime bases of property and opportunity, we reaffirm the declaration of the preceding congress, that the rights of the people in these resources are natural and inalienable; and we insist that these resources shall be developed, used and conserved in ways consistent both with current welfare and with the perpetuity of our people.

We put the chief emphasis on vital resources and the health of all the people; since health and brains are the first and most important factors for efficient life, we urge the adoption of all rational and scientific methods which will lead to their building-up.

To be well born is the primal requirement, and the first step to make sure that children shall be well born is to stop the multiplication of those bearing hereditary defects of body and mind. We believe that science is capable of solving the problem satisfactorily and that improvement is possible under existing conditions. We earnestly urge its considerations by the public.

We believe that every state should have wisely ordered health-laws, with well-paid health officers with power to enforce them, and also that a national Department of Health should be created comporting with the dignity and importance of the cause. This department should work effectively for the promotion of the physical and hence the moral and intellectual health of the people.*

NOMENCLATURE OF APPARATUS EXERCISES.

Compiled by EMIL RATH, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

(Continued.)

ACTIVITIES PECULIAR TO CERTAIN APPARATUS.

PARALLEL BARS.

The roll forward and backward. It is executed as a) the straight roll in which the body is thoroughly extended, and b) the bent roll in which the hips are bent, the legs, however, being extended.

a) The straight roll (Die gestreckte Rolle). This is performed from the upper arm stand and from swinging in the upper arm hang with outer grip on the bars. When starting from the upper arm stand

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 382 —

the body continues its turn about the breadth axis, rolling over, either forward or backward, on the upper part of the arm. The grip is momentarily released and assumed again as soon as possible to control the swing which results. Head, trunk, and legs are kept in their correct positions. When starting from swinging on the arms, the backward roll demands a vigorous jerk as the body swings forward beyond the horizontal. If this is forcible enough it lifts the entire body up momentarily while passing through the upper part of the circle described by the body. The arms are moved sideward and the hands a-gain regrasp. This jerk is not needed in the forward roll, but a powerful backward swing is needed. Arching the body assists the swing. When it swings backward above the horizontal grasping backward under the bar will enable the gymnast to force the roll of the body through the vertical position, which is a difficult position to pass beyond. Having overcome this point the hands resume their former grip.

The backward roll to support (from the upper arm hang) is performed like the roll described. With the jerk the body is, however, thrown high enough above the bar to enable the gymnast to come to support, usually to a bent arm support.

The free roll backward (Luftrolle), resembling a somersault, begins from support swinging. A powerful jerk at about the horizontal of the forward swing, occurring simultaneously with a vigorous jump from both hands, tosses the body upward so that it may complete the backward turnover. The gymnast alights either upon his arms on the bars or in the support. On the end of the bar it can also be done to a stand. These exercises are extremely difficult.

b) The bent roll (die gebeugte Rolle) is generally performed from the support and either forward or backward. The body, with hips bent, sinks on the upper arms and then rolls in the direction indicated. It may also be done from the upper arm hang without or with a swing and terminate either in a hang or in a designated seat. It is also frequently performed into the support, particularly in a slow manner.

The swingturn. (Die Stuetzkehre.) As an exercise of the support it is only possible on the parallel bars and is executed at the end of either forward or backward swing. It begins from support-swinging and leads to the bent and straight arm support, and to the upper arm hang. The turn must be rapidly performed, using a forcible thrust from the hands to assist, and occurring when the body is swung to the horizontal.

The dipswing. (Knickschwung.) It consists of an arm bending and straightening performed with the pendulum motion of the body. The arm-bending begins at the moment when the body seems to have reached the end of its swing and is just , about to begin its movement in the opposite direction. If this moment is not precisely selected it mars the exercise. The arm straightening occurs gradually as the body rises toward the horizontal and is completed when the body reaches the highest point of its pendulum motion.

The dipswing-turn. This is a combination of the two previous exercises and is frequently used.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 383 —

There are many exercises that, although not distinctly peculiar to the parallel bars, contain some feature which is a characteristic of their execution on the parallel bars. They have been previously described and may be referred to. The most important are:

The leg-swing under the hand.

The various kipps.

The various stems.

The various vaults, particularly on the side parallel bar, terminating in the support, etc.

The various dismounts from seats and from the support.

THE HOESE.

On the horse a number of exercises, previously described, are performed which are peculiar to it because of the construction of the apparatus. Some of these are:

The leg-swing in a lateral plane under one hand.

Leg-circling (one or both) in a lateral plane.

The various vaults, mounts and dismounts.

The long, vaults combined with other vaults, as

The straddle, squat, etc. (Long Horse.)

THE HORIZONTAL BAR.

Swingups and swingoffs.

The swingups will be described from the derived hanging position which must of necessity precede them. Thus the knee-swingup will be described from the hand-kneeling and not from the hang. It should, however, be said that these swing-ups may begin from various positions which in turn lead to the derived hanging position essential for the particular swingup. Examples are:

1)	From the still hand-hang (with straight or bent arms, or preceded by arm bending) the body is suddenly turned backward about its breadth axis with the hips bent (and the knees if necessary.) This is followed by the leg activity essential to bring the body into the derived hanging position preceding the swingup. In this derived hanging position a pendulum swing of the body furnishes the necessary force to swing the body up forward or backward on the bar.

2)	From the shortswing. The turnover backward follows-the forward swing of the feet. From there on it resembles the previous exercise.

3)	'From swinging (long swing). Toward or at about the end of the forward swing a sudden bending of the hips brings the body into the inverted hang with hips bent, feet close to the bar. This is followed by the activity of the legs essential to attain the derived hanging position preceding the swingup.

For the forward swingups the body when it is in the inverted hang should be well in front (on far side) of a plumb line dropped from the bar, as in the position preceding the kipp. From, here it may get a good swing as it combines with this position the leg activity leading to the mixed hang. For the backward swingups it should be in back (on near side) of the bar, but already in the preceding hanging position. This may be obtained from the end of the backward swing.

From the various swingoffs the gymnast should alight on his toes'

Digitized by

Google
384

in the squat stand with arms in the side position on at the side of the body, and from here straighten to the fundamental position.

The underswing. (Der Unterschwung.) It generally begins from the support. The body falls backward, simultaneously flexing the hips, so that it passes through the inverted hang with bent hips and then swings onward alighting in the squat stand. After passing through the inverted hang with bent hips it may swing to the stand without or with an arching movement of the trunk. In this movement the body passes through an arc and is well arched at its highest point instead of swinging to the stand in a straight line from the bar to the floor. The arms are swung overhead as the hands leave the bar and immediately lowered into the side position. It is also performed from a stand, a hang, or from the backward swing and leads to either a stand or a hang.

The underswing is a part of a great many swingoffs and although not particularly mentioned should follow, as described above, in all exercises where it is possible; e. g. the knee-, crotch-* seat-, heel-swing-

The knee-swingup. It is performed forward and backward as an inner and outer knee-swingup left, right, and on both knees with various grips. When performed on one knee it is designated as inner (or outer) knee-swingup left forward (or backward). It may also be executed left beside right hand and vice versa. On both knees it may be designated as the double knee-swingup (direction) when both legs are between the arms, and as a straddle-knee-swingup when the legs are outside of the arms.

1)	The single knee-swingup. From a knee-hand-hang (see hangs and derived hangs) the pendant leg, fully extended, is vigorously swung downward and backward, thereby raising the body from beneath the bar to above it. In the knee-swingup backward the extended leg is swung forward and upward, leading the body as it rises above the bar. The arms assist by vigorous pulling.

2)	The double knee-swingup. It resembles the single knee-swing-up, but has not the assistance obtained from the pendant leg and is therefore. more difficult. To overcome this, a larger swing should be obtained in the double knee-hand-hang and the arms more actively employed.

Both exercises lead to seats on one or both thighs on the bar.

The knee-swingoff. (Knieabschwung.) ' This exercise, either as single or double, reverses the action of the previous ones. When executed backward with upper grip the leg (or legs) squat forward quickly and the body passes rapidly through the inverted hang with hips bent and then swings off forward either to a long swing or to a squat stand with arms raised sideward.

The forward swingoff is executed with under grip to a hang or a stand. In the former the body turns over forward suspended by hands and knee (or knees), generally with under grip, and after it has swung beyond the vertical leading to the bar, the leg is quickly squatted forward so that the gymnast comes to a hang. This hang may be momentary, immediately followed by dropping to a stand, or the gymnast may remain in it.

offs,
— 385 —

In the latter (to a stand), the gymnast pushes off from hands and knees with a powerful thrust, after he has turned over forward as described above, and is passing beyond the horizontal on the other side of the bar. This thrust must be strong enough to enable him to draw his leg, or legs, as the case may be, from off the bar and bring his body into a vertical position. He alights in the squat stand with arms in the side position. These exercises are rather difficult and care must be taken when learning them.

These swingoffs are also performed from the knee-hand-hangs.

The free knee-swingoff is done from hanging by the knee (without grip of hands) from the still hang or from swinging. From the • still hang it requires a forceful thrust against the bar to right the body so it will alight in a vertical position. From the swing the correct moment to snap from the bar must be selected. It occurs slightly before the end of the backward swing. The gymnast alights as in the other exercises.

The Crotch-swingups. (Muehlenaufschwung.)

These exercises are defined as those of the knee-swingups, substituting the word crotch-swingup. The various modes of execution are:

The single inner and outer crotch-swingup. i The straddle (crotch-) swingup.

It is 'not performed singly beside the opposite hand, nor as a double crotch-swingup.

The execution resembles the knee-swingup. There is, however, no bending of the knee, the leg being kept perfectly extended and gliding along the bar as the body rises above it. A vigorous straightening of the hips added to the pulling motion of the arms assists considerably in raising the body above the bar. Various grips.

The Crotch-swingoff. (Muehlenabschwung.)

The- foregoing execution is reversed. The swingoff forward and backward, the same as those of the knee-swingoffs, are here also possible. They may also be executed from an inverted hang, hips bent, with one leg between the arms, or with both; i. e. from an inverted hang sideways with hips bent. This requires as powerful a thrust as the forward knee-swingoff to a stand and is rather difficult.

Hip-swingup backward into support frontways.

The legs are quickly swung forward and upward, passing over the bar. The arms are forcefully flexed and assist in drawing the body to a support frontways. Executed from the swing the body-alights with great force on its hips if no effort is made to resist this.

The hip-swingup to the free support demands a vigorous snap from the hips which straightens these and assists in bringing the body high above the bar. From here it is lowered into the support. It is usually done from a jump, the hang, and from a large swing. From the swing the body is carried high above the bar and lowered into the • free support. In the last a preliminary movement of slightly flexing the hips during the forward swing greatly adds force to the essential hip extension. Various grips.

The free liip-swing over backward. (Freier Felgeueberschwung.) Frontways.

Digitized by VaOOQle
— 386 —

It begins from a side-stand frontways (distance from bar depending upon the individual) with a vigorous jump into a bent arm hang, or from a hang without or with a slight pendulum Swing of the body with sudden arm flexion at the end of the backward movement if swinging; upper, mixed, or under grip. The body is then raised free above the bar, being snapped into a horizontal arched position as it approaches it. This is followed by a forceful thrust which throws' the body backward into a stand or a hang (swinging). The body is always free of the bar and perfectly straight; during the movement it is swung above the bar. With the hip extension above the bar the hands regrasp to be prepared for the thrust against the bar. It can be ex-• ecuted into the hand stand.

The hip-swingup forward into support rearways might justly be termed the double crotch-swingup, for its execution is exactly similar. The term, however, would be a misnomer. Instead of one leg, both legs are squatted forward into the inverted hang rearways with hips bent, from where a forceful swing forward brings the body on the bar into support rearways. Beginners usually swing up on the small of the back (Kreuzaufschwung), an arching of the back taking place with the swing on to the bar (arch-swingup) bringing the body into an arched position lying on the bar. From this position the body rises to support rearways. Executed with various grips.

The free hip-swing.over forward. Rearways.

It begins from a swinging in the inverted hang rearways, upper, mixed, or under grip, with hips bent, the inverted hang being best obtained from the long swing, ^he body is swung above the bar as in the seat-swingup, i. e. into momentary balance support and continues to a stand or a hang rearways. The hips may be almost straight as the body passes over the bar or they may be thoroughly flexed so that the legs are raised obliquely fore-upward. The first is the regular hip-swing-over, the last the free seat-swing-over.

The hip-swingoff from, support frontways. The body turns over forward from the support, lying upon the hips, and swings into the bent arm or straight arm hang from which it drops to a stand. It may also lead to the lqng swing if a thrust from the hips takes place as it turns over forward.

From support rearways it is performed backward and terminates in the stand rearways. That is, the body must swing underneath and beyond the bar and then drop to a stand with a whole turn backward about its breadth axis. Various grips.

The hip-pullup backward into the support frontways is similar to the swingup, but requires more strength, being performed rather slowly. The legs are- slowly raised forward and upward, bringing the feet to the bar, while the arms are kept straight. The legs are then slowly drawn over the bar, the trunk following them, by bending of the arms. When the body has passed sufficiently far over the bar it is straightened into the support. Various grips.

The hip-pullup forward into the support rearways is also performed slowly, the legs being squatted under the bar into inverted hang rearways with bent hips, and then slowly drawn over the bar into the support. The body is greatly arcbed during the passing over

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 387 —

the bar. The legs must be kept extended in this as well as in the previous exercises. The head is lowered backward and not thrust forward. A powerful pull of the arms is necessary. Various grips.

The hip-pullups have been placed under this heading because of their close resemblance to the hip-swingups.

The seat-swingup. (Sitzaufschwung.) This exercise bears also a close resemblance to the hip-swingup forward into support rearways. There is this difference: instead of extending the hips, with the swing over the bar the hips are kept bent so that the gymnast rises to the balance support (legs forward). It demands a vigorous swing. It may also be done backward. Both exercises have their beginning from the inverted hang with bent hips. The legs may also be straddled, i. e. outside of the arms.

The seat-swingoff. (Sitzabschwung.) Backward it is performed exactly as the croteh-swTingoff backward, both legs squatting forward, passing through the inverted hang with hips bent and swinging to the stand. Forward it resembles the knee-sw'ingoff forward, and leads either to a hang, or with a vigorous thrust (dangerous) to a stand. See the knee-swingoffs. In both exercises the legs are kept together and straight. •

The heel and toe-swingups are less frequently used, being very difficult, but are possible. In their execution they resemble the knee-swingups, excepting that the toes w ith their upper part or the heels with, their back part are placed firmly against the bar aiding the swingup The toe-swTingup is generally performed backward with upper grip, while the heel-swringup is readily performed both backward with upper, and forward with under grip. They bring the body into a crouched position above the bar, writh toes or heels, respectively, grasping the bar. Care must be taken to have the correct grip.

As swingoffs they may also be compared to the knee-swingoffs, so new descriptions will not be necessary. Very difficult are those in which the feet and hands release their holds simultaneously (also described under knee-swTingoffs). This form of the heel-swingoff is executed forward with under grip. The thrust of feet and hands against the bar occurs as the body is again rising.

As a toe-swingoff it occurs with upper grip and backward. The correct moment to release is wrhen the body has swrung beyond the horizontal position. It is also performed on the rings from the nest hang at the end of the long forward swing. In the ordinary toe-swdngoff, wffiieh is also executed with legs straddled, the body falls backward (upper grip) to the inverted hang, hips bent, and then swings to the stand.

The foot-swingoff is an exercise that is frequently used by gymnasts of fair ability. It is performed backward, upper grip, and forward with under grip. The former exercise is most popular. From the support, the feet are placed on the bar, with knees kept straight, and the body swrung off in the direction indicated into the inverted hang with hips bent. Here the feet are drawn from the bar and the body drops or swings to a stand.

(To be concluded.)

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—3SS —

LAWN-TENNIS DRILL.

Arranged by Jos. Cermak, Gymnastic Instructor at Medill High School,

Chicago, 111.

_________________________ (Concluded.)

PART V.

Music:	“Columbia the Gem of the Ocean.”

Files for the following parts are counted off from the left end, as follows: 4, 3, 2, 1.

Repeat Exercise A only, of Parts I, II, and III, “in Rounds,” in the following order:

No. 1 begins exercise A of Part I. on the first count; No. 2 does the same, but begins on the 5th count; No. 3 does likewise, but begins on the 9th count; No. 4 begins the same movement on the 13th count. Repeat the same to the right.

As soon as No. 1 finishes exercise A of Part I. left and right, she begins exercise A of Part II, first left and then right. The other files follow in the same order and manner as above.

Repeat in the same way exercise A of Part III.

The music (as written) ends when No. Fs finish their exercise. Three measures (12 counts) of music were added to enable Nos. 2, 3, and 4, to finish their exercises.

Files 1 and 2 now change raquets to the left hands (3 and 4 keep them in the right hands.)

PART VI.

Music:	Repeat	“Yankee	Doodle.”

The outer files, (1 and 4) repeat exercise A of Part I. outward and inward, that is, the first file begins left and finishes right, the 4th file begins to the right and finishes left.

The inner files, (2 and 3) repeat exercise B of Part II. No. 2 begins to the left and finishes to the light, No. 3 begins to the right and finishes to the left.

After finishing the exercise in both directions, the files exchange exercises, that is, the outer files take the exercises of the inner files, and vice versa.

PART VII.

Music:	Repeat	“Marching through Georgia.”'

The outer files, (1 and 4) repeat exercises A of Part' III. starting outward and finishing inward. The inner files, (2 and 3) repeat exercises B of Part I. in both directions. When finished exchange exercises like in Part VII.

PART VIII.

Music: “Dixie.”

The outer files, (1 and 4) repeat exercises A of Part II. The inner files repeat exercises B of Part III.—(Inner files begin inward, that is, with the inner arm, so that the long leap with the y2 turn will be in the outward direction.) When finished, exchange exercises like in preceding parts—but when the outer files repeat the double-quick part, they begin with the outer arm, and the leap with the y2 turn is in the direction towards the centre. This must always be kept in mind, in changing raquets to a different hand.

Digitized by Google
— 389 —

NOTE.—In this part, when the outer files make the second lunge forward, thus stepping out of the way, the inner files leap swiftly through the space made by the second lunge. They must be on the outer side of the outside files, before the outer files make their % turn. When the files exchange exercises, the outer files begin with the outer arm and their leap is towards the centre.

PART IX.

Music: “Battle Cry of Freedom.”

When Part VIII. is finished, the outer files, (1 and 4) face inward (file 1 to the right, and file 4 to the left.) The inner files, (2 and 3) remain facing in the original direction. The outer files hold the raquets in the outer hands, the inner files also hold the r&quets in the outer hands (No. 2 in the left, No. 3 in the right hand.)

The outer files repeat exercise A, Part V., file 1 begins with stride position to the right, No. 4 begins to the left. When they execute the % turn, they face forward (toward the spectators) and when imitating throwng the ball, they face the inner files. When finished, change the raquet to the inner hands, face forward on the last count and repeat exercise B of Part V.

The inner files begin with a stride position with the inner foot (toward centre) and repeat exercise B, Part V. When the participants in these files execute the ^ turn, they face towards the outer files, and when they imitate the “strike out” with bending trunk sideward, they face in the original direction. The “strike out” of the inner files and “throwing the ball” by the outer files, is performed on the same count. (Fig. 37 and 38.) After the inner files finish exercise B of Part V., they change raquets to the opposite hands. On the last count-they face forward and repeat exercise A of Part V.

FINALE.

Music: “Dixie.” But in a faster tempo than in Part TIT.

When Part IX. is finished, all participants change raquets to the left hands. Files 2 and 4 face to the left, 1 and 3 to the right. In this “finale” a play “in doubles” is illustrated.

A

Digitized by Google
— 390 —

1.	a) b) c) d) four running steps diagonally to the left, beginning with

the left foot. (On the 4th count, the outer files are on the original line of inner files, and vice versa. Fig. A.

2.	a)	b)	c)	d)	repeat	exercise	1. a) b) c) d) of exercise B	Part III.

3.	a)	b)	c)	d)	repeat	exercise	2. a) b) c) d) of exercise B	Part III.

4.	a) b) repeat exercise 3. a) and b) (of B Part III.) After the turn

do not drop the raquet over the right shoulder, but hold it in front of the body like in starting position and on c) and d) perform a double hop on the left foot.	• '

1.	a) b) c) d) three	running steps backward, beginning with the right

foot.	On the	last count (d) finish with	a hop on the right foot

and a “throw” with the left.

2.	a)	b)	c)	d)	repeat	exercise	2. a) b) c) d) of Part II.,	B. (forward.)

3.	a)	b)	c)	d)	repeat	exercise	3. a) b) c) d) of B, Part	II. (backward

with two y2 turns.)

4.	a) b) c) d) repeat exercise 4. a) b) c) d) of B, Part II. and change

the raquets to the right hands.

Repeat	1, 2, 3,	and 4, to the right, but	on the last four counts

(4. a) b) c)	d) the	participants run to their	places and pose during

which the music plays the last 8 chords of “Home, Sweet Home.” When the music finishes, the participants resume their original places and march off. If performed on a stage, the participants remain in the pose until the curtain drops.

Remarks:	Figure	B shows the directions of the movements of the

individual participants. The dotted line shows the direction for members of files 4 and 2; the black line shows the direction for-files 1 and 3. The direction of the movements are numbered as follows: Exercise 1. a) b) c) d) line No. 1; exercise 3. a) b) c) d) line No. 2; exercise 4. a) b) c) d) line No. 3. Through this line the participants pass 3 times: backward, forward and backward, and then, after changing raquets, they begin the exercises to the right. If the participants master well all the exercises of Parts I, II, and III, the balance of the drill will be mastered without any difficulty. The “finale” must be executed very lively and with a spirit, for only thus can the desired effect of “doubles”* be created.

Further explanation will cheerfully be given by the author. The Music, especially arranged for this drill, may be obtained in Chicago.

Digitized by

Google
— 391 —

“KICK-BALL IN A CIRCLE.”*

The object of the game is to kick a basketball or a round foot ball through the line of the opposing players.

The game is played in a divided dodgeball circle — 45 feet in diameter having two foul fields as shown in the diagram.

back line	In a match game 16 play-

ers form a team.

The players are arranged to guard the back line (the circle).

Two chasers or rovers stationed near the center line are captains.

A goal is made when a player on the opposing side kicks the ball across the line of the opposing side below the shoulders of the opponents. The ball must be kicked. It may be stopped by the feet and body only, not with hands or arms.

The player who kicks the goal becomes captain. It is the duty of the captain to kick for goal and to move around in the field of play, while his men guard the back or goal line. The men on the line may also attempt to score when possible.

The captains make all tries for free goals. A free goal is an attempt to score without any interference from the opposing captain, who must retire to the back line with his players during the try.

A free try for goal is earned when the opposing side kicks the ball above the heads of the opponent players.

Each player is expected to guard the space to his right. Should a ball pass between the legs of a player or anywhere between two players, (below the shoulders) a point is made by the opposite side. The ball is then put in play by the captain of the side scoring the point. Fouls are made:

(1)	When the opposing side kicks the ball through the foul fields.

(2)	When the ball is handled i. e. touched by the hand or arms. ,

(3)	When an ofiFside (crossing the line) occurs.

N.B. The ball may be handled when thrown in from the outer field, or by the captain in placing the ball for a free try for goal.

The game is twenty one points.

* Note. A game developed during the last few seasons in the playgrounds of Philadelphia, and played with great interest by young and old players of both

November 15, 1912.

To the Editor of Mind and Body

Sir:—Last night an elaborate program was presented by the Amateur Athletic Federation. The meeting was for educational purposes in behalf of amateur sport and was a big success, there being present

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 392 —

447 or more people. Among those present were pastors, Sundays School superintendents, teachers, settlement workers, playground directors and physical, directors from high schools and Young Men’& Christian Associations, also athletes and managers of teams in the various organizations, members of the Federation. There were also athletes present from the University of Chicago, Northwestern University, Lake Forest and Evanston Academies.

Dr. Monilaw presented a very splendid collection of fine pictures of the Olympic Games, also the Philippine * Islands’ Athletic Carnival and a number of very clear slides showing some of our best American athletes in action. It was. a presentation of the best form in athletics such as any coach would like to show his men. For example. Dr. Mopi-law showed five pictures of the best hurdler in the West going over a hurdle as follows:

1.	Just as the hurdler leaves the ground.

2.	As he is off the ground.

3.	As he is over the hurdle.

4.	As he is descending on the far side.

5.	As his foot strikes the ground.

The pole vault, shot put, high jump and various sprints were illustrated in the same way, with Dr. Monilaw calling attention to the fine points in the technic.

So far as I can find out this is the first meeting of its kind ever held in this country in behalf of amateur sport. The Federation is already planning for a similar meeting next year.

Sincerely yours, Henry F. Kallenberg, Chairman, Educational Committee.

ENJOY A REAL VACATION

BY ATTENDING THE

DENVER TXJRXTFEST

NEXT SUMMER.

Automobiling, camping, fishing, hunting and mountain climbing are only a few of the outdoor sports to be enjoyed in Colorado during the summer months; the days are full of pleasure and the nights are cool and made for restful sleep. TRAVEL TO COLORADO IN COMFORT AND ENJOY YOUR TRIP FROM THE START BY GOING VIA

UNION PACIFIC

Standard Road of the West

PROTECTED BY AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC BLOCK SAFETY SIGNALS.

EXCELLB1TT DI1TI1TG- C.A.X&S OXT -A-XjXj TRAZ1TS

The Union Pacific is the great highway over which, for two generations, the east has gone west and the west has gone east.

For Colorado literature and information relative to fares, routes, reservations, etc*, call on or address

W. G. NEIMYER,

General Agent, CHICAGO, ILL.

Digitized by tjOOQle