Editorial Committee :

DR. B. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, lnd.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Directcr, Public Schools, Indianopolis, lnd DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, W«

THE PHYSICAL WELL-BEING OF THE CHILD.

By DR. FRITZ BURGER, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Kansas City, Mo.

LIFE is motion, motion is strength, strength is health. The physical well-being of animal life depends on good circulation, which means health. Through activity, motion, the child develops to manhood. The desire of activity is therefore within it and shows itself in playing as a natural occupation of vitality and the first pleasures of life. When hardly a few weeks old it responds to the joking of the mother, brother or sister with a smile, trying to imitate their motions.

With civilization and its need of luxuries the new born baby has lost a good deal of freedom to exercise its limbs, as the tender mother very often discriminates in putting the little one in fancy dresses, which hinder the childs movements.

The desire to play is born in every ehild, no matter to which nationality or race it belongs, and it is a significant fact that the children everywhere have the same primitive measures in executing their vital power. Plato says: “Various kinds of games are so natural for children, that they originate them, when playing.” It was astonishing to the first travelers in the South Sea Islands to see the children of the

Digitized by C.ooQle
inhabitants practice the same kind of exercises for passing time as their own children. They found expert swimmers under five years of age, and amusements like throwing small stones over the surface of the water, running, jumping or wrestling, were just as popular as at home.

The preference of amusement in the two sexes shows itself in the selection of games at an early age. The boy rides a stick as an imaginary horse, the girl finds its pleasure in making a doll to play with. For the primitive form of pastime, nature furnishes the material necessary; a sand pile and stones to build and to destroy, some water to wash and puddle in often keeps the boy or girl busy for hours. This kind of activity has an intellectual as well as physical influence upon the body, whereas the various presents in form of playthings given to them on Christmas and birthdays do not increase their own imagination and originality, in fact they decrease them. Fortunately the child gets tired of these fancy gifts, because it does not understand how to use them. To tear and to break them without any particular cause seems to be its delight. The original things made out of the ruins are. in the most cases, more satisfactory.

As a dangerous Christmas gift we must look upon the different kinds of guns. The gun is made to kill, and killing, no matter what it is, never had a wholesome educational influence upon the human race. The child with a gun, even if the ammunition is only a stick or beans, aims first at a piece of paper, then at a cat or dog. finally at its fellow playmate, not to harm it, but to scare it, which is not harmful, but the first impression of power when carrying weapons is dangerous and harmful, and not educational.

The same is true of all games where something is to be gained, as in playing for marbles. These games are to be eliminated from the playgrounds, as many a person acquired the foundation of a habit which ended in dispair at a race track or gambling den.

In the country and small cities where playgrounds are plentiful and the food unadulterated, the child enjoys itself in the sunlight and fresh air under the supervision of the parents, and its development takes a natural course.

In the large industrial cities where the playgrounds are few, and where the sun is hidden by immense buildings, the mortality among the children is great. To relieve this condition large sums of money have been spent for “breathing places” and out-door gymnasiums, and the improved sanitary service helps toward the physical well-being of the child a great deal.

The number of changes, intellectually, physically and morally, which takes place when the child enters school must be guided and regulated by a competent physician, to whom the school board pays a salary high enough to enable him to devote all his time to this cause. The various contagious diseases, the care of the teeth, the irregularities of the eyes; round shoulders and abnormal lateral curvatures of the spine (Scoliosis) ought to be under his supervision. Many defects, inherited or acquired, known or unknown to the parents, could be cured at this age; therefore many tears and much unhappiness could be avoided. I)r.

H.	Cohn during his investigations found that in the universities of

Digitized by CjOOQle
Europe 45 per cent, suffer from near-sightedness, whereas in the colleges the number was but 30 per cent, and in high schools for girls only 10 per cent. In new schools with new hygienic accommodations, myopia is less frequent than in old school buildings.

The habitual scoliosis (lateral curvature of the spine), one of the most frequent deformities, according to Hollinger and Hoffa 28 percent of all the deformities, commences about the 7th year, with the beginning of the second dentition. Unfortunately these cases are never seen, and not treated until a permanent cure is questionable. Dr. Lorenz, the eminent specialist of deformities, says that this deformity occurs in the act of writing, and as going to school is a profession, he calls it a professional sickness, whereas Dr, Kocher says it is a sitting sickness.

To the question, what kind of exercises are indicated for the physical well-being of the child during school life, we are guided by the physiological functions of the bod)’ at that period. If we examine the anatomical structures we find a small heart with a large and elastic arterial system. The blood, without resisting pressure, rushes through the body quickly, and the changes between blood and capillaries take place fast. As the heart is the most important vital organ of the body, and the physical well-being largely depends upon a good circulation, we must endeavor to strengthen it. The practical means by which we accomplish this, is the teaching of lively games.

During the long sitting hours the body looses two main forces for a good circulation, motion and abnormal breathing; to restore its losses exercises must be taken in form of games, free and heavy gymnastics and field sports, whenever possible out of doors.

We followed the child from its birth to its first visit to school, and experienced how the desire to play, born within it, has developed. This natural disposition of the child to play, together with the great value of lively, enjoyable games upon the general circulation, has led quite a number of educators to the erroneous belief that games will cover the entire physical training of the children. The aim of physical training is to develop the body systematically and harmoniously, to exercise all the muscles alike. This can never be done with games alone. In most games where a large number of players take part, the amount of exercise by each pupil depends upon his strength and vitality. The weak children soon take their places in the background and try to move as little as possible, whereas the strong children play a lively part and are the enthusiasts of the game. Even in the latter case we have no systematic-exercise, as the continuous moving around is contrary to it, and large groups of muscles are never exercised at all. As an agent of discipline and obedient attention, so important in schools, the games are valueless. They have a value, but they play only a part in physical training.

To counteract the long sitting hours, to bring on a good circulation and normal breathing, a system of free gymnastic exercises, with or without hand apparatus, is introduced in the schools of the larger cities, by the name ’‘Calisthenics.” These exercises are much criticised by people who know the least about them, presented as a system of jerks and quirks by teachers who never knew the aim of physical training; called a “torture to the children’s mind” by educators who probably
cannot distinguish the action of a motor from that of a sensory nerve. Still the experience of the last fifty years proved their importance, and in the hands of a good, conscientious teacher the rhythmical work as given in class exercises will have an educational influence upon the children. If arranged according to the development and functions to the human body, in difficulty and progression according to the age of the children, and given to them, as GutsMuths says, “As work in disguise of youth-full joy,” they like the exercise; and the satisfaction and disciplinary lesson they get with it, helps a great deal in other lessons, as far as orderly conduct is concerned. It is in tactics and free gymnastics where we can reach the large classes, observe them, make every one work as part of a bodv and therefore distribute the benefit of the Exercise to the weak and timid as well as to the strong and energetic.

And every exercise that brings on a good circulation makes the organs grow and improves the health. It is true that comparatively few exercises are necessary to keep up a good circulation. In fact, running around the school house for a period of 5 to 15 minutes is sufficient. But to educate mechanical co-ordination, and to satisfy the child for new things, we must arrange the exercises in a systematic manner, and as interesting as possible. The whole body must be taken into consideration, and above all, the vital power of the child whose intellect we want to occupy during the time we develop its bodily structures. The repitition of the same kind of activity becomes tiresome and unsatisfactory, therefore the educational as well as the physical benefit of the exercise is decreased. Short, vigorous exercises given in a lively wav must change with slow ones with precise execution, to have a wholesome influence upon the body. With the numerous material we have to select from, we can increase the exercises in difficulty from grade to grade without taking too long combinations or unbearable memory drills. From the third to the seventh or eighth grades hand appliances, like poles, rings, dumbbells, wands and Indian clubs, stimulate the desire to exercise. It is often amusing to see a class of school children, rich and poor, bright and dull, nervous and strong, work together with the utmost strength and energy to become efficient to take up some kind of hand apparatus.

Still the games and scientific arrangements of exercises do not keep step with the growing strength of the children. To occupy their superfluous vitality the bo}rs climb a fence, a pole, a tree, imitate the high school and college boys in field sports, base-ball and foot-ball. If all these opportunities are wanting they indulge in fights and other disorderly conduct. With age, strength, self-confidence and courage, the character of a child shows itself more distinct, and to lead it to become strong morally, physically and intellectually must be the aim of community and state at this early period of life. For the sake of the weak, the moral welfare of the strong, and to counteract the ignorance of the parents for the physical well-being of the children, the school must regulate the desire of physical activity in providing playgrounds and gymnasia. Equipped with the proper appliances, as climbing poles and ropes, horizontal and parallel bars, vaulting buck and horse, swinging ladders, etc., these places would soon become popular for amusements and pastime for young and old.

Digitized by CjOOQle
To be out in the fresh air, to make use of its limbs by walking in the sunlight, to admire the wonders of nature must be impressed upon every child. Especially the girls ought to have more freedom. At the beginning of rapid growth, decided changes in the body take place which require a great deal of nervous energy, a good circulation and well oxvdized blood for its functional and structural well-being. Some one said: “Upon the strength of our matrons and maids, upon their health and vigor, rests a good part of our national hopes.” If this is true something ought to done to relieve the present condition. It is at the time of rapid growth when the most sins upon the physical wellbeing of the girls are committed than in any other period of life. The heart is growing in proportion faster than any other part of the body, and nature needs the blood more for its physical growth than for its intellectual development. But, instead of increased physical activity, the intellectual exercises become more difficult; instead of cheerfulness, so necessary in their surroundings, they have to answer the epidemic of musical insanity of the 20th century by practicing their piano lesson; instead of taking exercises to improve their bodily strength, they have to suffer under the hereditary ignorance of a mother who insists to put the girl into a corset; instead of running around in the fresh air, which makes rosy cheeks, they are taught that running is not becoming a girl of her age, and are presented with a box of face powder. Under these circumstances it is no wonder that the ailments of girls and women are so numerous, that only the advertisements of patent medicines can keep step with them. Scoliosis or lateral curvature of the spine, so predominant among girls, shows itself so distinctly that the most skillful dressmaker cannot hide the deformity.

It is evident from these facts that the sexes ought to be divided into different classes at the beginning of the 12th year. The girls, under a competent lady teacher, must enjoy a good deal of their time in exercising outdoors or in well ventilated and equipped gymnasiums. Nervous and very ambitious children must be taken out of school for a certain time as the strain of intellectual training at this period is dangerous, and sometimes ends in death.

Nutritious food which produces that “peculiar juice,” blood, to guard the body from injurious germs, ought to be obtainable at low prices. Sunlight, fresh air and a nutritious diet are preventatives for that dreadful disease called consumption. A strict and honest super-vison over the manufacture of food products, an investigation of the nutritious value of all the breakfast food, above all a thorough inspection of every dairy each week, is absolutely necessary to protect the little ones against the criminal, unlawful desire to gain wealth at the expense of human life. Besides a betterment of especially the women’s clothing, the hygienic influence of water, inside and outside of the human body, must be impressed upon the pupil’s mind. The erection of public baths and, far better, school baths, which can be used by grown people after school hours, is an indication of progression in the line of cleanliness. Swimming, perhaps the best exercise as far as the symmetrical development of the body is concerned, ought to be practiced whenever an opportunity offers itself.

Digitized by Google
The 10 or 15 minutes’ exercise the schools allow for this branch of education is not sufficient to have a permanent influence upon the human body. Even this time is not used to its utmost, simply because the teachers have a very limited knowledge about the functions and structures of the human body, and. still less about its proper training.

The new sanitary schoolhouses which lack perhaps nothing but a well equipped gymnasium with a special room for physical examination and hot and'cold baths, are an indication of progression, if we take it for granted that the school desk is adapted to the pupil’s height.

To build a character and a good citizen we must follow the Spartans in strengthening the body by abundant exercise; in cultivating a strong mind in a healthy body we must imitate the Athenians by equally dividing the mental and physical education.

We endorse, then, the fact that the child’s physical well-being has an equal right to be taken care of by the public schools as its intellectual functions. Both are a unit, and to bring man to the highest standard physically, morally and intellectually is the aim of every true system of education. This can only be done when the school curriculum is equally divided so that each part gets its proper training. To solve this problem we must approve the proposition of some educators, that the intellectual education must be taken up in the morning, and the afternoon given to physical education. Then the physical well-being of the child will take the place due it, to the advantage of the community’, state and government.

WHERE THEY EXCEL US.

American Rhodes scholars at Oxford are sending home some instructive comparative comments on the ordering of athletics at English schools and universities that our own college authorities and promotors of manly sports and games would do well to ponder and profit by. Mr. Sperry, writing to a Boston paper, notes the difference between the “inclusiveness” of the Oxford athletic methods and the “exclusiveness” of the American practice. At Oxford every student who is at all physically fit is expected to get into the sports and games as a way to health and recreation, and is pressed to do so. “A constant stream of captains and secretaries pour through the freshman’s rooms during the opening days of the term” urging him to join in the games and track events and become a member of the clubs and associations.

There each popular branch of athletics is followed for its own sake and for the health and pleasure to be derived from it, and the result is, as another Rhodes man describes it, that “from 1 till 4 o’clock in the afternoon the colleges are deserted while the whole body of 5000 students may be seen in the various athletic parks and on the river.” So the root of the matter seems to be that at an English university practically everybody joins in the games and contests and profits by them in mind and body, whereas with us each branch is a specialty of a relatively small squad of team members or eligibles, the bulk of the student body” being mere spectators and “rooters.” Here is a point where initiative Anglomania at American colleges would do much good.

Digitized by CjOOQle
INTERNATIONAL ATHLETICS.

By H. P. BURCHELL.

INTERNATIONAL athletics, from the American view point, have commanded peculiar interest this year, and their success has been such as to attract the attention of hundreds of persons not, as a rule, close followers of sport. Many to whom records in track and field events are a sealed volume heralded with keen enthusiasm the victory of the Harvard and Yale team over Oxford and Cambridge in England.

The capture of the English golf championship by Walter J. Travis, ex-United States champion, is a marked illustration of the standard reached by golf in this country. The ancient and royal game of Scotland has found in America another permanent home. Its growth here in the number of its devotees has been remarkable within the last ten years, but, high as Travre stood among golfers in the United States, very few believed that he would triumph over the veterans of the old country and bring the British championship cup to American soil. To the surprise of his friends, Travis failed to retain his title to the United States championship, being beaten in the annual event last September. The new' champion is H. C. Egan of Chicago, a Harvard student.

The success of Commodore Morton F. Plant’s schooner Jngomar over Emperor William’s Meteor III, has added an international flavor to yachting, which promises to be more general next year with the possibility of another cup race and the trans-Atlantic race for the German Emperor’s cup.

Rowing, cricket, billiards, motor boating and automobile contests have all figured wdth more or less importance in the realm of international sport. The Olympic games, the modern revival of the classic sports of ancient Greece, have come to America for the first time and as the great athletic attraction of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition at St. Louis. Emblematic, as they w'cre, of the world’s championships, they have influenced, nearly, if not all, of the international competitions in which America has had part this year.

The victory of the Harvard and Yale team over the student athletes of Oxford and Cambridge will scarcely be denied the honor of the most important international meet of the year in which this country has had representatives.

The big automobile race in Germany for the Gordon-Bennett cup attracted even greater attention, but the American machines, built to buffet across the rough roads of our own country, failed to make more than a highly creditable showing against the foreigners, who build for widely different conditions.

INTERNATIONAL INTERCOLLEGIATE MEET.

The international «ntercollegiate meet held on the Queen’s Club grounds at West Kensington, near London, in July, was particularly notable because it was the third athletic competition of its kind, each of the opponents, up to the time, having one victory. Yale and Harvard athletes had met the Englishmen in 1894 and 1895, but it was not until 1899 that the dual contests between these leading universities resumed a definite official standing.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
—8-

In 1899 Yale and Harvard sent a team to England to meet Oxford and Cambridge, and the latter won five of the nine events. In 1901 the two English universities sent a team to this country, and Harvard and Yale met them at the Berkeley Oval, New York. The home team won this event by taking six firsts to three for the Englishmen. Unusual interest, therefore, was centered upon this year’s meet, and the tie was broken by an American victory, our athletes winning six of the nine events. Although beaten on their own grounds, the Englishmen took their defeat with sportsmanlike grace. Instead of making foolish excuses, due credit was given to the more strenuous training methods in American athletics. One of the most impartial criticisms, from the English side, thus summarizes the result:

AX ENGLISH VIEW.

“In straightforward running we held our own. In those special competitions which require science, practice and knack, we were fairly beaten off the field. It was in the hammer throwing, the hurdles, long jump and high jump, that the Americans gained four out of their six points. So it is, it may be noted, on all occasions when the athletes on both sides of the Atlantic meet. And unless we reform our methods, so it will always be. The fact is that the American makes a scientific study of those sports in which science can be applied, and we do not.

“Take the hammer throwing as an example. They have substituted an iron wire for the wooden shaft. At the end of the wire is a loop which can be gripped bv both hands. The mechanical advantage thus obtained is tremendous. Our throwers, compared with theirs, were as ignorant amateurs to trained professionals. Yet more, they practice with extraordinary keenness and assiduity. If a muscle should be developed, they develop it. If they can save a fifth of a second by skimming closer to the tops of the hurdles, they practice until they have obtained the necessary accuracy of eve. An American athlete takes one form of athletics and perfects himself in it. Our men are inclined to be diffuse.. They generalize rather than specialize.”

A statement on the principles of athletics in both countries could not be made much clearer or stronger by an American critic.”

THE WINNERS.

It will only be necessary to mention briefly the winners of the different events. For the American victory Yale had the honor of getting four of the six firsts. Her winning athletes were G. F. Victor, in the high jump, 6 feet, Vs of an inch; L. P. Sheffield, in the broad jump, 21 feet, 10% inches; T. L. Shevlin, in the hammer throw, 152 feet, 8 inches; and E. J. Clapp, in the hurdles (120 yards), 15% seconds. Harvard’s winners were W. A. Schick, Jr., in the 100 yard dash, 9Vs second; and E. S. Dives, in the quarter-mile run, 43% seconds. Schick’s time in the 100 yard dash is the best time ever made in that event in an international meet. He had previously run the distance in the same time and it is only Vs of a second slower than the American record of 99s seconds held by Arthur F. Duffy.

The English victories were gained in the long distance runs. H. G. Gregson of Cambridge won the mile-run in 4 minutes, 21% seconds. H.

Digitized by

Google
E. Holding of Oxford won the half-mile run in 56% seconds, and M. M. Godby of Oxford won the two-mile race in 9 minutes. 50 seconds. It is worthy of mention, in showing the superiority’ of the English athletes-in the long runs, that the best the Americans ceuld get in any of these* three events was third.

While the Olympic series of world’s championships, recently held in St. Louis, brought together many of the leading athletes of foreign countries, one of the most notable achievements of a European athlete that has been seen in America for a long time was the victory of the famous Irishman, Thomas F. Kiely, in the all-around championship competition of the Amateur Athletic Union. This was held on the Stadium in the World’s Fair grounds early in July, and Kiely won with comparative ease from a number of men who hold enviable records. He scored a total of 6086 points to 5907, made by his nearest competitor, Adam B. Gunn of Buffalo. By many followers of track and field sports Kielv is regarded as the greatest all-around athlete the world lias ever seen. Besides the all-around championship of the United States he holds similar honors in England, Scotland and Ireland. He is the holder, besides, of 80 championships. He has made, from time to time, 40 records, and has won the enormous number of 1500 prizes. He has a record of 151 feet, 11 inches for the 10-pound hammer, using the straight handle and throwing from a nine-food circle. He has put the 56-pound weight 38 feet, 11 inches, with one hand. He has run the 120-yard hurdles in 16 seconds, and in the broad jump has done 23 feet, 2 inches. Kiely is 34 years old and weighs 196 pounds. His muscles are splendidly developed and in general appearance he is the typical all-around champion. In 1899 he announced that lie had retired from competitive athletics, but his friends prevailed upon him to come to America this year as a contestant in some of the games held under the Olympic series, and his success has justified their belief in his winning abilities.

TRAVIS IN GOLF.

In international golf Walter J. Travis has been a shining figure. Although born in Australia, he has spent practically his entire life in this country, and the fact that he never learned to play the game until he was over thirty years of age and then swung his first club in this country, stamps Travis as an American-bred golfer. He won a splendid series of victories in the English championship at Sandwich in May, defeating such leaders of English golf as James Robb, Henry Hilton, Harold Hutchinson and Edward Blackwell, the latter being the runner-up. Hilton and Hutchinson have both held the championship of Great Britain. E. M. Byers also represented this country in the foreign golf tournament, but he was defeated after three rounds. In the women’s golf championship of Great Britain, America was represented by Miss Mabel Higgins of Chicago, one of the leading Western players, but not of high national rank. Unfortunately for her career in the English tournament, she met in the first round Miss Rhona Adair, the title holder at the time, and naturally was beaten.

HAVERFORD IN CRICKET.

America’s share in international cricket has been well upheld by the

Digitized by CjOOQle
—10—

Haverford College cricket team. In its recent tour in England where the leading school teams were played, the visitors achieved the enviable record of five victories and eight drawn games out of fifteen matches. For a team of cricketers from this country, where the British sport is so little played, to invade the land where it is recognized as the national sport and capture the lion’s share of the honors is something to be thoroughly proud of. The result was a surprise to the friends of the team in this country. Its most notable victory was over the Harrow school team. The game with Rugby was drawn, while Eaton defeated the Haverfordians by the narrow margin of 19 runs. The team owes much of the credit for this success to the consistently good work at the bat of the captain, C. C. Morris. He rarely failed to make a good score, twice surpassed the century mark and closed the trip with an average of 42.94 for twenty innings. The battery throughout was excellent, and it is a notable fact that the eleven men who played regularly all reached double figure averages. The members of the team were: C. C. Morris, W. P. Bonbright, H. Pleasants, Jr., A. G. Priestman, A. T. Lowry, H. H. Morris, H. W. Doughten, Jr., R. L. Pearson, A. H. Hopkins, F. B. Godlev, J. D Phillips, E. C. Pierce, R. P. Lowry and E. Retts, the last three being substitutes.

CANADA IN ROWING AND FISHING.

Canada has achieved marked success in international contests this year. Louis F. Scholes in rowing and Private Perry in shooting have made the Canadians proud of their representatives, and each of these victors has been honored by his countrymen in a manner unusual even to most famous athletes. Scholes rs the second oarsman from this side of the Atlantic to win the famous Diamond Sculls in the Henley regatta. E. H. Ten Eyck of this country won the event in 1897. The victory of Scholes is all the more notable, not only for his defeat of the two years’ title holder, F. S. Kelly of Oxford, but for the new record of 8 minutes, 23 seconds, set for the Henley course of one mile, 550 yards. Scholes comes of good athletic stock, his father having oeen a famous sculler in his day. The city of Toronto, Scholes’s home, could hardly have shown greater honor to a titled visitor than it did in welcoming home the Henley victor. He was received by the mayor and a large delegation of citizens and was presented with a thousand dollar silver service.

Private Perry won the distinction of defeating the best rifle shots of the British Empire in the annual shooting competitions at Bislev, England, where he won the King’s gold medal and a purse of $1,250. His score for the trophy was 321, being ten better than the winning score of 1903. Perry was heartily congratulated by the Princess of Wales and other members of the royal family, and upon his return to Canada he was accorded a tremenduous ovasion.

AUTOMOBILING.

In no sport of the year, perhaps, has there been so much international interest as in automobiling, and the greatest of all events in this respect was the Gorden-Bennett international cup race, run over the Homburg course in Germany on June 17. The best and fastest

Digitized by Google
-11-

machines of nearly all the leading European countries were among the competitors, but unfortunately, although our cars made a creditable showing, they had no share in that strenuous test of endurance and speed. The cars of six great nations finished the long contest of over 340 miles, France being the only country to have all of its three competing cars finish the run, and a Frenchman, M. Thery, won the prize, beating Jenatzy of Germany and the winner of the international trophy the precediny year, by eleven minutes. Besides France and Germany, the other countries whose cars showed stability sufficient to complete the long run in good condition were Austria, Great Britain, Italy and Belgium. The Vanderbilt cup race in this country added an international flavor to motor racing here by the presence of many of the best foreign machines. George Heath, an American bv birth, but a French automobilist in experience, won the race, driving a French car, while Albert Clement, a Frenchman, was second, no other awards being made.

In motor-boat racing America was represented in foreign waters by a high-power and very fast auto-boat, owing to trouble with its engines, of frequent occurence in auto-boat racing, the boat failed to do what was expected of her after making a splendid start. This craft was the Challenger, and \t'as entered by the New York manufacturers in the annual competition for the Alfred Harmsvvorth cup. The race, which is an international event for the purpose of bringing together the speediest auto-boats of various countries, was held in the Solent, near the Isle of Wight, on the last day of July. France, Great Britain and America were the onlv competitors. The American boat broke down after leading in her heat for over half the distance, and in the final heat the French boat was beaten by one of the English boats, the Napier Minor, run by F. S. Edge, the leading exponent of automobile racing in the United Kingdom.

BILLIARDS.

The visit of Wilson P. Foss, the leading amateur billiardist in the United States, to France in March to meet the French champion, Reroulle, was an event of more than ordinary importance. The contest was the first international billiard match in which an American Amateur has been a player, and the event is worthy of more than usual mention from the fact that Mr. Foss undertook the journey purely for the love of billiards, paying all of his expenses himself. The match was for 1,800 points, at 18-inch balk-line, and although Foss early in the contest was over 150 points ahead, the expert Frenchman pulled up rapidly toward the end and won by about fifty points, thus qualifying himself to be styled the world’s amateur billiard champion.

The suggestion that the Germans can be beaten at their popular game of bowling may occasion more than a mild smile, yet such was the fact this year. In the recent Gcrman-American bowling tournament at Sojiugen, a team of American bowlers defeated the German team by 37 points, scoring a total of 3498 points in the big tournament to 3461 for the native team. The American team, however, was practically as thoroughly German as was the defeated team, many of the members being of German birth. Fred Schwartje of the Cnrlton Club, Brooklyn, made the highest individual score in this tournament.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-12-

HISTORY OF ATHLETICS IN THE BROOKLYN YOUNG MEN S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION.

By DR. G. J. FISHER.

HIS period of review extends from 1887 to September 1902. In a

report of the Central Branch in 1887, we find these words: “Our aim is to develop the whole system uniformly, and is opposed to the abnormal development of particular muscles of the body.”

No report of athletic work is found until 1889, which states that the Central Branch has organized Base Ball, Cricket, and Tennis Clubs, and the first named club is credited with having won the Y. M. C. A. championship of the Y. M. C. A. League of New York and vicinity, the first mention of the In ter-Association competition. In this report, a recommendation is made asking for “athletic grounds that will be centrally located for the use of actual and possible branches of the Association.”

In 1890 we find the report that “plans are now being laid for the formation of an athletic organization for outdoor sports in the summer when it is too warm to use the gymnasium.

In 1890 a field was located in East New York at Manhattan Crossing and Atlantic Avenue. Grounds were laid out so as to contain a quarter mile track, including one hundred yards straight away, enclosing two baseball diamonds, cricket grounds, four tennis courts, and space for hammer throwing and shot putting. A house was erected containing eighty lockers, shower baths and dressing rooms. Eight hundred men were present at the opening exercises, at which representative men were present and made addresses. This was an Inter-Branch affair, and each of the three branches, namely Central, Eastern District and Bedford, reported large outing clubs and athletic organizations.

The grounds were used the next season. The Outing Committee of Central in its report is enthusiastic in its appreciation of the summer grounds, and reports tennis tournaments and two cricket elevens which made a tour through New England. The Gymnasium Committee of the same branch is not so enthusiastic in its report of the use of the grounds according to the following statement, “We regret that only a portion of our membership avail themselves of the benefits afforded and trust that the coming season may be more successful.”

While it is true that there were no men who represented Central in outside competition, yet there were scores of men who received their training in the Association and represented the organizations. The Association, at this period, turned out some of the greatest champion high jumpers, weight lifters, and gymnasts that America has known, and yet the Gymnasium Committees were reporting that they did not believe in specialization, and were opposed to the abnormal development of particular muscles of the body.

During the winter the first indoor athletic work was held and also a very successful series of indoor Pentathlon events, which led to the Annual Exhibition at the end of the season. That spring, 1892, it was proposed to have the Athletic Field again. There was very considerably difficulty involved in securing the field. It was finally decided to make

Digitized by

Google
—13—

no attempt to secure it, as none of the Departments were willing to guarantee their share of the expense.

The emphasis at that time was* against specialization and in favor of the Pentathlon. This will account in a very large measure for the lack of success.

That winter basket ball was introduced and Central had the first team to play an outside game, playing an exhange with East 86 Street, New York Branch.

In 1393 Bedford won the New York State Championship and repeated this for three years. In this year Prospect Park Branch also reports an outing club with sections for bicycling, baseball, tennis and classes in athletics. A bowling League was also in operation between the branches.

In 1894 Bedford secured their own grounds.

Inter-Branch athletics were reported and basket ball was given a great prominence. The athletic grounds were continued with success for three seasons, when the property was bought by others, who were willing to pay a good price for the equipment.

It was 1895 and 1896 when competitive athletics and basket ball reached their greatest activity. The Central Gym Committee reported in 1895 that “competitive sports have aroused considerable interest and increased the recreative element in exercise/’ Tennis tournaments were held. Inter-Branch contests, both basket ball and baseball, held forth. All the branches reported outing clubs, with sections in various sports.

Bedford’s field was used by one hundred and eighty different men in 1895, and cost $125 in excess of fees. Twenty-sixth yard Branch used a lot next door to the building, and which they have used ever since. The climax came 1896. Central reports a “higher standing of its representatives in athletic circles and an appreciation on the part of other athletic agencies of the abilities of the members of the Association in this line. Yale University and the best teams of basket ball in the country competed against Central and were defeated. Competition between the branches had grown very bitter. Each of them wanted to “do” Central, and Central in turn “had” to win. The “We must win” principle prevailed and the men on the teams did not hesitate to use methods to win which would meet to-day with suspension. One physical director was heard to say, previous to a game with one of the branches, “we must win this game by hook or crook.”

In the Eastern District, 26th Ward and Prospect Park branches, basket ball prevailed, and the members of the teams ruled the gymnasium. Class work in the legitimate work was crowded out, and superseded by basket ball. The physical director lost control, and rowdyism prevailed, aud a few men monopolized the use of the gymnasium.

In looking over the minutes of the Gymnasium Committee of the Central Branch, dated December 14, 1896, this paragraph was found: “The Committee authorizes the payment of $25 a year, out of the special gymnasium fund, to a manager for the basket ball team, and that they authorize the employment of such manager.” I find too that this manager was a player on the team, which made him a professional, and I find too, in consulting the records, that the Associa-

Digitized by ^ooQle
-14-

tion was a member of the Athletic League of North America at the time, and familiar with the principles of clean sport.

These same minutes, too, report “that the Committee refuses to sanction the paying of membership fees for trtembers of the basket ball team,” but further investigation reveals that, in spite of the resolution of the Gymnasium Committee, the members of tfie team were provided tickets without expense to themselves. Great crowds attended the games, and large sums of money were handled, but none was ever paid to the Association. The expenses were reported equal to the receipts. Some of the members of the team were not of the type of which the Association could feci proud, and used methods to win unbecoming representatives of the Young Men’s Christian Association. This team had among it followers many young men of low ideals, and brougth into the Association men who were undesirable.

So bitter did the Inter-Branch competitive spirit become that finally at a period shortly after this, about 1897, the secretary of the Branches, at a meeting held at Central Branch, decided to cease these Inter-Branch athletic competitions, and most of them als decided to stop all competition outside of the Association, because they were at the time unable to control the sports. The sum of the whole matter was that the sport themselves were not considered evil, but it was the manner in which they had been fostered and controlled, or rather not controlled, which caused the evil.

When this action was taken and the sports were not permitted in the Association many of the men interested withdrew from the Association. This was true of Central, and the 26th Ward Branch, and Eastern District. The Central team, practically a professional team, and the members of it divided the receipts among themselves.

About this same period trouble, was experienced with the Bicycle Clubs of the branches. Sunday runs were held, the men meeting at the Association Building, and wearing the club uniform.

Beginning in 1897 and continuing up to September 1902, the Association .adopted what might be termed the Conservative Athletic Policy, in whieh competition was limited to the membership of the local organizations.

The Association of Brooklyn united several seasons in maintaining summer headquarters. In 1897 the Manor House was used; this was located at Bath Beach. It was a boarding place, and members had the use of the piazza, which gave an extended water view, and facilities were given for boating and bathing. This proved a success.

In 1898 a portable house was purchased and located on leased ground at the foot of Bay 8th Street, Bath Beach, on the water’s edge. Special bath houses v^ere erected, and provision made for the storing of wheels, the house being located near the wheelmen’s thoroughfare. Light literature, soft drinks, and a piano were among the attractions of the interior. Four thousand visits were reported during the season, and it was one of the most successful summer ventures. It was established for but one season.

In 1899 a large house was secured at Bensonhurst, at the foot of 23rd Street. The advantages offered were a Club House of ten rooms

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—15—

and bath, besides kitchen and servant's quarters; provided with good literature, games, piano, etc. Extensive grounds, well shaded, fitted up for out-door games and athletic sports, private beach for bathing, row boats at reasonable rates, dining room and restaurant, sleeping accommodations for a night or longer if desired; five large bed rooms; Thursday evening entertainments. Members were charged $2.00 for the season’s privileges. This proved very popular. The expenditures for the season were $2,144.74. The receipts were $1,450.35 from members, $193.25 from donations and the balance of the expense was assumed by the Associations. This property was purchased by some athletic organization after the Association had used it for one season, and the members of the Association ever since have been demanding new summer headquarters. One objection to the place was that the water was very dirty and unfit frequently for bathing.

In 1902 the Camp Waccabuc equipment was purchased, and the grounds leased each season. It is located on Lake Waccabuc, fifty miles from New York City. Two hundred and sixteen men visited the camp in 1901* It is a very popular resort.

The 20th Ward Branch has summer headquarters at Arverne, L. I.r and is open from Decoration Day to Labor Day. They have a beautiful two mile stretch of sandy beach at the seaside and the equipment consists of tents and a camp house twenty by thirty feet. Two hundred people attended the Fourth of July celebration. Surf fishing, camp fires, clay bird shooting from trap and athletics were provided. It is very popular.

Besides the East New York field already referred to and the Bedford field and the lot used bv the 20th Word Branch, Pratt Institute Athletic field was also used by Central Branch. As the use of the latter field was limited, it did not prove satisfactory.

HOW TO KEEP YOUNG.

gj(n summer, by all means, swim. It is probably the best all-around exercise 5/ there is. It is good for legs, arms, chest, lungs and heart; and the ocean, once you get to it, is free. If you can go where you can plunge in in the “buff* just so much—say fifty per cent, at the least—the better.

By all means play golf. It is the best game there is. It has but one rival, and that is court tennis; but it beats court tennis in one essential particular, you can play it out of doors. You can play golf alone; you can play it by an easy method of handicapping, with a poor player or a good player. Your real antagonist is a gutta-percha ball, which at times is possessed of seven devils, and you not only get a long walk and exercise for your arms and shoulders, and capita! training for your eyes,Jbut you get a schooling in self-control which no other substitute, domestic or otherwise, can provide. I have been a fourth-rate golf-player now for ten years, and yet I never play a round of the game without being stimulated to hope that I may play better. It is like the mirage in the desert. No man ever played his best game, just as no man ever lived his best life; and we play on and live on, always in the hope that some day we may play or live our dream. Now, that there are so many golf courses, any man, even of a moderate income, may play golf.

“To do the right thing at the right time is the greatest reward of any man.”-Andrew Jackson.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-Hi-

Ml«P ftND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

BY

8ntocription Price, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

"Wlaico-na1r>.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

29th NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. G. U.

AS the time for the festival draws nearer the outlook for a larger attendance than at Philadelphia becomes brighter. All letters reaching the Executive Committee show that most of our societies are working hard to be represented by large and competent classes. The camp to be erected in the State Fair Grounds, to shelter the 2,000 actives, will have to be enlarged if applications for space keep pouring in as during the last weeks. Beside this army of actives, the seniors' and ladies’ classes will be numerous, and they will help to swell the number of active participants. Among the applications for a place on the program are a number of requests of very large ladies’ classes who expect to show gymnastic dances. The picked team of eight men coming from Germany have asked for time and space to show five different model exhibition numbers. Several of the large districts will have separate exhibitions, and so everything goes to show that the next festival of the Turnerbund will be an event not to be missed by any active, by any teacher of gymnastics, or by any teacher of other branches interested in gymnastics or athletics. The housing, handling and competing of this army of active participants presents problems which undoubtedly ought to appeal to all college and university men. If one thinks that in competitive work each one of these 2,000 men must be judged individually, in six exercises on stationary apparatus and two field exercises, and that, besides this, the classes must be judged as a whole in tactics and wand or dumbbell work, the magnitude of the problem, how to complete all this work in two working days will be apparent. Yet, the weather permitting, it will be done. It is the intention of the Executive Committee to interest as many school, college and university officials as is possible, and to urge them to attend the festival. The committee believes that if it can show these men that mass competitions in gymnastics can be arranged and successfully carried on in which each man is judged, and the result of his endeavors credited to his society or school, be he a beginner or expert, the way will be opened to abolish some of that one-sidedness which is content to let five, nine, or eleven men represent the physical training of an institution numbering hundreds or thousands of men. The executive committee would, therefore, consider it a favor if teachers will call the attention of the “powers that have the say so’’ to this festival, urging them to attend and see for themselves how large masses can be judged, and how the weak man can.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

INDIANAPOLIS, JUNE 21—25

Digitized by

Google
—17—

proportionately, do as much for the success of his college or school as -can the strong man.

The things to be kept in mind are, that this festival will be the largest gymnastic event of the year, that these festivals are held only once every four vears, and that it behooves every one who wants to keep abreast of the times in gymnastics for adults so to arrange his summer plans as to be at Indianapolis, June 21 to 25.

Wm. A. Stecher.

EXERCISE AND INTELLECT NOT IRRECONCILABLE.

By VV. MACDONALD SMITH.

“ AM EN are apt to forget that we are composed of mind and spirit as IVI well as of bone and flesh.” These words of Max Miller are, unfortunately, too true. Wonderful as man's physical abilities may be, we can yet always find animals that will surpass him. Man has not the strength of the gorilla, nor the sight of the hawk, nor the scent of the dog, and in these respects the savage is often superior to civilized man. Tt is a curious though deplorable phase of our civilization that when a foolish habit becomes general it is condoned by being called fashionable. As a pertinent instance, the rage of late years for all sorts of athletic development at the expense of the brain has led to the almost incredible verdict that “ignorance is positively worshiped at present.” Poor brains become general, and then fashionable, and because fashionable therefore admired.

It is undoubtedly true that there are a few people who can afford to neglect every form of exercise, but they are the exceptions of the rule. Hard exercise is another matter, and it is interesting to notice Sir Oliver Lodge’s opinion with regard to it. ”As to its effect upon work, whenever I have felt particularly well, as after ordinary hill climbing or horse exercise, I have usually felt disinclined for work and incapable of the most severe forms of mental exercise. One has to get acclimatized to, or in training for, work, just as one has to get into training for sports, and the two are inconsistent unless indulged in with great moderation.”

Apart from the fact that the kind of exercise is a great factor in determining how much can be indulged in, it stands to reason that, from the mental point of view, excessive attention for any length of time to one pursuit is fatal to that equilibrium which alone can fit a man to work clearly and well. So far I must agree with Sir Oliver Lodge, and it is impossible to emphasize too strongly his condemnation of “professionalism.” “If games were an end in themselves,” he says, “there might be justification for the professional attitude, but since they are only a means to better health and greater activity in other directions, professionalization of them is unsound and detrimental.” Equilibrium between the physical and mental sides of our lives is then what we require, and we must now inquire how far exercise can help us to reach this goal.

What does brain power depend upon ? Some say it depends upon rest and sleep, without which food and mental exercise are powerless

Digitized by CjOOQle
to produce abundance of nervous energy. But if we assume that a sufficiency of sleep is taken it is clear that a not every long and sound sleeper has a strong and clear brain. As a matter of fact, brain power depends chiefly upon the physical condition of the brain being as perfect as possible, and in the attainment of this condition sleep is the only factor. Physical perfection of the brain is much the same as physical perfection of any of the component parts of the body, and for the perfection of any such part it is necessary that it should have a regular and abundant supply of blood of good quality. As Sir Michael Foster says: “An adequate stream of blood of good quality, made pure by the cooperation of organs of low degree, washing away harmful products and renewing the working capital, is as necessary for the life of the brain as for that of the muscles.” But for those engaged in modern occupations it is difficult to effect this, and few people have any clear conception about such matters.

The business	man of today has	little idea	of what	disease	is, or

health either, for	the matter of that.	He gulps	down, or	drinks	down,

his meals, sits in a stuffy office all day, and, with the connivance of street cars, cabs, and telephones, gives his legs as little work as possible. He takes, of course, every possible precaution against drafts, and is careful not to unduly “expose himself.”	If he is	at all	lax in

these matters his	loving wife sees to	it that he	does not	go out	in the

cold morning air without his overcoat and his muffler. Some day this man finds that there is “something wrong with his liver,” or perhaps he gets a fever. He forthwith goes to a doctor and pays him a handsome fee that he may ward off the effects of those “dreadful microbes,” which may certainly be done for a while, but unless the man makes up his mind to obey the laws of nature it is just as certain that in the long run the “microbes,” of which the robust man needs not have the slightest fear, will lay him low.

Now, of course, exercise does not affect the brain directly as it does the muscles, but its powerful indirect effects are twofold, for it may increase the flow of blood throughout the body, thereby producing a more thorough change in the brain, and it may assist materially in keeping the blood vessels free from certain poisons. The question then resolves itself into this: How far will different forms of exercise bring about these effects, and how can we determine which are the useful and which are the harmful elements in exercise, so that the latter may be avoided as far as possible and the former cultivated? Look at exercise from another standpoint altogether, and the solution is quite clear and simple. To be well and fit the great requisite is the possession of pure blood, and although in this respect other things, notably fresh air and diet, are more indispensable than exercise, yet the latter should be tested by this touchstone. Does hard exercise keep the blood pure? Sir Oliver Lodge’s opinion is confirmed by any doctor who has watched the health of “strong men,” in whom the blood is constantly laden with waste of hard work. It does not.

How far moderate exercise will attain the desired end depends upon the nature of exercise adopted, and the most perfect form of exercise will be that by which the muscles receive the maximum benefit of change of blood and the minimum disadvantage of waste products of fatigue.
-19-

In order that the brain may be kept supplied with blood in sufficient quantity and of'good quality, it is necessary that the muscles of the body should have a regular muscular exercise, such as walking or running, which will by promoting an increased general blood pressure, keep the heart muscles in a healthy state, and also help the elimination of waste products. Exercise of the “free movement” order, in which muscular actions are as full or ample as possible, is the best practical method of simultaneously maintaining health of body and of mind, and of harmonizing the hitherto irreconciliable claims of exercise and intellect. Movements without exercise would be the ideal— the amplest possible movements for the largest possible number ol muscles, “working” as little as may be in making them. If we apply this test to the various forms of popular exercise we only confirm what is already well known —namely, that easy rowing is one of the best (it gives full movements to all the large muscles in the body simultaneously), weight lifting the worst, and between the two come such forms of exercise as baseball, walking, and golf.

If we should wish that our bodies should be useful tools to us, instead of hindrances, in the fulfilling of the duties we owe to our fellow beings, we should be content with nothing less than strong, vigorous health pulsating through all “natural gates and alleys” of the body. Fresh air, diet, baths, and exersise, properly understood and conscientiously adhered to, should enable us to reach this standard. We might well take a lesson from the Japanese, who attend to these things in a way that is little short of perfection, or from the Hatha Yoga, the system used by the Yogis of the east.

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF NEW YORK CITY SCHOOLS.

DARLINGTON describes the medical supervision of the schools of New York and the precautions that are taken to prevent the spread of contagious disease. The Board of Health appropriates annually a sufficient sum to appoint 150 school inspectors at the rate of $30 a month, each inspector being assigned one or two schools. The schools are visited daily, and the inspector examines all children, whom the teacher has sent to his office in the school, suspected of having any contagious disease. Any case of measles or scarlet fever is visited at once by a diagnostician of the department; if the diagnosis is confirmed the usual steps are taken to prevent the spread of the disease. In the case of diphtheria, the inspector secures the material for making a culture. A daily list of all contagious diseases is sent each day to each school in the city, thus enabling the school to send home any child from a family where contagion is reported. Each inspector has about 5,000 children under his charge, whom he is required to inspect once a week. Inspectors must visit all public schools assigned to them before 10 a. m. each school day. The first visit is called the morning inspection, and consists in calling at the schools to inspect all children isolated by the principal as possibly sick with some contagious disease; all children who have been absent from school for a few days; all children excluded from school attendance. A routine inspection consists of a class-to-class examination of each child present. The children march by the inspector, pull down their own eyelids and open their mouth wide, the inspector making a visual inspection as the child passes him. If the child is

Digitized by L^ooQLe
suspected of having any trouble which is not quite evident, it is ordered to the inspector’s office in the school for a more thorough examination. Each child excluded from school is given a properly filled out exclusion card in a sealed envelope furnished by the department. The inspectors are required to make daily reports. The inspector must ascertain from the principal the names and addresses of all children absent from school for a few days for no known reason. • The addresses are visited by the inspector to ascertain the cause of absence. Thus many unreported contagious diseases have been found. Janitors and their families are not allowed to occupy apartments in the school buildings. Children with acute eye disease and pediculosis, showing signs that they are under treatment, are allowed to attend class. The nursing system in force in New York was established for the purpose of caring for communicable diseases, such as pediculosis and conjunctivitis. Each nurse is required to keep a record of all cases treated by her and she has to visit at their homes all children excluded from school when they did not return for reinspection on the day appointed by the school inspector; also to instruct parents in the proper way of caring for children’s heads at home. Cases attended by the school nurse are pediculosis, conjunctivitis, ringworm, impetigo, favus, inolluscum contagiosum and scabies. The diagnosis is sent to the nurse by the school inspector and she treats the cases accordingly, the supplies required for such treatment being furnished by the department of education. At the present time there are nineteen school nurses in the borough of Manhattan. In order that the children excluded from school could be "followed and watched closely to see that the instructions given them bv the medical inspector were observed, a card-index system was adopted. This system provides a card for each class in each school! On this record is kept of every case of contagious disease, with complete data. Because of the many cases of trachoma existing among school children, it became necessary to give the inspectors special instruction for the purpose of becoming better qualified in the diagnosis of this disease, and to establish an eye hospital and dispensary of the department of health. During the school months there were four operators and four clinicians, also two anesthetists. The total number of children treated at this hospital during the year 1903 was 15,936. The inspectors also are required to make throat cultures of all children showing the slightest redness and hypertrophy of the tonsils. Two inspectors are assigned for the work of vaccinating school children. No child is accepted in the public schools unless it can either show a white certificate stating the age on which vaccination was performed, or a yellow certificate of successful vaccination. While the department does not directly compel a child to be vaccinated, it does enforce the law; if the inspector in charge of the school deems vaccination necessary the child must be vaccinated or it will not be allowed to attend school. Darlington mentions the following as being outside of department control; 1. Proper care of the children’s outer garments at schools; 2, proper aeration of classrooms; 3, proper lighting; 4, ample accommodation for each child; 5, sufficient playground facilities; 6, establishment of baths in public schools; 7, examination and compulsory care of the children’s teeth and aural cavities. Examination

Digitized by <^.005 le
and correction of refractive errors; 8, correction of deformity of locomotor apparatus; 9, exclusion of all cases of nervous disease; 10, segregation of children with inferior mentality.

MAN SWIMS BEST OF ALL.

GOES FARTHER AND ENDURES LONGER THAN OTHER ANIMALS.

EVERYBODY knows how much dogs differ in their ability as swimmers, retrievers and water spaniels being the water dogs par excellence, says Longman’s Magazine. A Russian retriever which I once owned was remarkable as a water dog, preferring the sea to fresh water for his bath. He often swam so far out that I lost sight of him and could not find him, even through a glass. He must have gone at least two or three miles straight out to sea, and several times I gave him up for lost. He always, however, came straight back to the spot where he started.

There is the same difference regarding liking for the water of wild animals of the dog kind as there i9 among the domestic animals. Wolves, though they can swim tolerably well, never care to enter the water except to escape pursuit. They will not enter it after their prey, as dogs do, but will gallop round a lake or pond to meet the escaping victim. If the quarry cross the river the wolves at once give up the chase.

Some heavy animals, which can swim after a fashion, will drown as they float if their fur is competely saturated. This is the case with rabbits and many of the house tribe. The common mouse and the field mouse can only swim a few yards. They drown in the act of swimming.

The same is true of the rabbit and most (perhaps all) small rats, though lions and tigers swim well and often cross large rivers, as do the large cats of America—that is, the puma and jaguar. The latter deserves the name of the water cat, for it habitually haunts large rivers and lakes, and, contrary to the habits of all other cats, seems to love the water. None of the American small cats ever voluntarily enters the water, but they can fish from the banks of streams and from partly submerged roots, etc., clawing the fish out as they swim pa9t.

Though the rabbit cannot swim and avoids damp situations, the hare, as is generally known, swims well, and so, indeed, does the great majority of mammals.

All deer are expert and most graceful swimmers and in this they are equaled by the horse, which can swim for miles without becoming exhausted. Horses have been known to cross the Niagara river from the American side to the Canadian side for the purpose of returning to their old stables.

.It may be useful to give a few hints on crossing over with horses. A mounted man should sup off behind and, holding lightly by the animals tail, permit himself to be towed across. This method puts the least strain on the horse and is the safest for the man. The horse also should be permitted to take its own way. It is remarkable with what strange instinct (or is it reason?) it will choose the best landing place on the opposite bank, avoiding dangerous currents and quicksands—at any rate, this is my experience with American horses.

With the exception of aquatic animals, the bear is probably the strongest and best swimmer among mammals. I have known the American black bear to swim across small lakes and arms of the larger bodies of water a distance of at least twenty miles without a break, and though many bears have, no doubt, reached the island of Anticosti, in the golf of St. Lawrence, on ice floes, I am sure others have swum thither from the mainland, traveling probably in some instances thirty miles through the water.

No black bear will go a yard out of its way to avoid water, but passes straight through any river or lake that lies in its way. The grizzly bear is mostly an innabitant of dry, rocky tracts, but evefi grizzlies often take to the water, for no perceptible cause except love for it.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Though the mouse cannot swim farther than a few yards, the rat is a powerful swimmer and the river that will bar its course must not only be broad but of strong current also. Lemmings and other small rodents are also good swimmers, but there are some small mammals that have as great a dread of water as they have of fire, among them the American squirrel. This little animal, like the mouse, can swimm only a few yards, when it drowns, the carcass remaining motionless and simply floated, but it is a remarkable fact that all animals except man and monkeys strike out and naturally go through the motions of swimming.

Monkeys cannot swim and have a great dread of water. If they drop accidentally in the river, which they sometimes do when squabbling among themselves or when they are pursued by an enemy, they seldom succeed in struggling out, but are speedily drowned.

One would expect that the light bodies of birds, with their bones full of air cells, would be admirably adapted to keep them afloat. Such is not the case, however.

Birds drown more rapidly than most other animals that can swim at all. When they fall into the water most species are submerged with exception of the head and a very small part of the back. They at once strike out with their legs, but never use their wings, swimming in an aimless fashion or often involuntarily making a great circuit. They die in a few minutes, which is the more remarkable as the head seems to be kept above water to the last, and I am inclined to think that they die rather from the shock than from actual drowning.	'

With regard to natatorial birds, these swim and dive well, even after being severely wounded, but there are man\ water-fowl which do not dive, which either rise from the water with great difficulty or cannot rise at all, if the whole of their feathers is wetted.

As I find that the young of animals which are good swimmers (as the dog, iaguar and even the otter) have no notion of swimming until they attain a certain age and have had some experience, my own opinion is that their powers are not merely instinctive, and I am disposed to place them on the same footing as human beings.

Human beings have greater swimming powers than most of the lower animals, but few individnals develop those powers. Indeed, it is more than probable that not one man in fifty can swim at all, smplv because he has never learned or lacks the nerve to act aright when he unexpectedly finds himself in the water. Recently a man, in endeavoring to sw'im across the English channel, is said to have swum a distance of thirty miles.

The ouly land animal I have seen swim a distance nearly as great as this was an American black deer, but American deer sometimes sw’im a distance of twelve or fourteen rqiles in a stretch. The Russian retriever alluded to above once followed a canoe for nine miles, but he was much exhausted at the end of that distance. A friend who is fond of coursing says that hares are found on islets on the Essex coast which are miles from shore, and I have known rats in America to swim across rivers which are a mile and a quarter or two ‘miles wide, but. unfortunately, I have onty such trivial records of the distances animals can swim. A systematic table of their powers in this respect would be of great value to the naturalist.

THE HISTORY OF BASKET BALL.

By GEORGE \V. EHLER, Superintendent of Physical Training in Cleveland Public Schools.

IN the history of plays and games basket ball is unique. Of all our great national games and the long list of annually recurring plays and games of bovs and girls, each appearing in its season, not one can be traced to its origin. A few are possibly played today in exactly the same manner as they have always been played. Most have undergone marked series of changes, and will probably continue a process of evolution far into the future.

Digitized by

Google
Basket ball was made to order just thirteen years ago and has not been changed from the original pattern.

HOW THE GAME STARTED.

In the fall of 1891 a class of men studying to be physical directors of the Young Men’s Christian Association at the association training school at Springfield, Mass., had been studying with their teacher, James Naismith, the subject of indoor games for young men and older boys. They had had all sorts of inventions tried upon them under the name of games, hut they had found nothing that had that necessary element that made our great outdoor games perennially interesting. Dr. Luther Gulick, the present director of physical training in the public schools of greater New York, was then the principal of the physical department of the above mentioned training school, and he finally laid down the following principles as being necessary to a successful indoor game:

THE FIRST PRINCIPLES.

“First—It should be such as could be played on any kind or size of ground.

“Second—It should be such as could be played by a large number of men at once.

“Third—It should exercise a man all around and according to his normal functions, and should cultivate the different energies of which he is capable. It should develop manly courage.

“Fourth—It should be so attractive that men would desire to play it for its own sake.

“Fifth—It should have little or none of the reputed roughness of Rugby or association football.

“Sixth—It should be easy to learn.”

Mr. Naismith, taking these principles, evoluted basket ball, introduced it to his tired and discouraged class, and it was a success from the first moment it was tried.

EXERCISE DESIRED.

Notice how the various elements are worked out. The starting point was in condition No. 3. It should exercise a man all around and according to his normal functions, hence it should evolve the use of the legs to sustain the body, and the arms to handle some external object. Naturally a ball is thought of. It must be suitable to throw in a restricted space and of a weight permitting the use of all one’s energy, hence, it must be large, light and lively. Naturally to be attractive there must be something to do with the ball, and to prevent some one else doing, hence a goal and competition. A goal must be capable of attack and defense. A bar to throw over could be too easily attacked, a lacrosse or hockey goal could be too easily defended, hence a combination—a net to throw into requiring skill and a position for it requiring equal skill to defend, hence a small basket just out of reach. —Cleveland Leader.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you far one year on reeeiot of $^.00 for 4 new subsoribers-

Digitized by
-24-

THE VALUE OF TRAINING.

Dr. Ceorge L. Meylan, of Columbia, has made a notable investigation into the value of training and competition on the human system. At a meeting of the American Physical Education Society Association a paper was read in which the writer says: “I was recently discussing this subject with a Harvard graduate who was captain and stroke of his ’varsity crew. He informed me that he was sole survivor, all the rest of the famous team having succumbed to some form of heart complaint.” This statement caused Doctor Meylan to investigate the matter for himself. He had been called to Columbia to look after her gymnasium. He found that the authority quoted had never rowed on a ’varsity crew, that of thirteen men rowing on his class crew, twelve are living fortv-five years after they did their rowing. He also studied the individual history of all oarsmen graduated from Harvard during a period of forty-one years and found that as compared with the longevity of average men these would have an expectation of five year’s longer life than others. Of the one hundred and fifty-two traced, one hundred and twenty-two are still living. Not one death was traceable to over-exertion in athletics. Of the thirty-two dead, six were killed in war, two by accident, and one of consumption.

In this long list who answered the doctor’s questions, only two replied that their health was poor. Only one confessed to dyspepsia. They say they have lived longer and felt better for the hard rowing they did. Not one of these men made a failure of his career. On the average only 2.1 per cent, of college graduates earn a place in “Who’s Who.” Of this list of oarsmen 8.3 per cent, have achieved sufficient success to be numbered in this list of representative Americans. Twenty of them are men of national and international importance. —Chicago Centra1.

HYGIENIC ALPHABET.

Air, fresh air is the life ot the blood.

Breathe it deeply till it becomes a habit.

Cleanliness is next to Godliness.

Don’t forget to practice it.

Exercise till perspiring every day.

Fight laziness as you should sin.

Give the lungs plenty of fresh air.

Hinder not the excretory organs In neglecting exercise, bathing and proper food.

♦Join a gym, and exercise in it often.

Keep it up all jrour days.

Live much in the outdoor air.

Make it a habit to dress loosely and walk erect.

Never bathe in cold water daily,

Only by expert medical advice.

Pulling a boat is healthy exercise.

Quite so is paddling a canoe.

Running in moderation strengthens lungs and heart. Swimming cleans and exercises the whole body.

Tumbling exercises every muscle in the body;

Use it only in a primary way.

Venture not beyond off-hand competition work.

Why? Hard competitive work often shortens life.

Xerxes perhaps shortened his.

You act wiser and exercise hygienically.

Zoroaster such advice would have given you.

Robert G. Roberts

Digitized by CjOOQle
CORRESPONDENCE SYSTEMS OF EXERCISE FOR

HE feature of physical exercise which has been before the public so

prominently for the last few years, and which shows signs of continuing, are the so-called Correspondence Systems of Exercises. For this reason it is well to consider the question of their value. It cannot be denied that there is value in these well advertised sets of exercises. By their persistency in advertising they have brought the question of the need of physical exerc se to the attention of the public in a way that it would not have been done otherwise. It is also true that the exercises which they advertise are for the most part good and may be safely practiced by those who have no organic diseases.

On the other Hand, there are several factors connected with these advertised systems which the pub ic should know in order that it may not be beguiled. This may be said of them:

First. That they cost the patient all the way from two to ten times what they can be obtained for from other sources.

Second. That as a rule they claim to be able to accomplish more than is possible.

Third. That they are largely conducted by those who have had little or no scientific training in physical education, and, as a consequence, they place the importance upon the development of muscle rather than the acquirement of health.

A study of these so-called systems was carefully made by Physical Director W. E. Day, of Dayton, Ohio, and the results of this investigation was given at a recent physical directors’ conference. The following facts are largely drawn from his presentation cf the subject at thac time:

The causes which led up to the mushroom growth of these schools is due to the desire of everyone to obtain, good health and a fine physique. Men who have had shrewder business sense than well developed consciences saw in this fact the possibility of establishing a paying business on a new basis, and at the same time not injuring people, even if they did not do them any good. Therefore, by carefully worded advertisements, testimonials and circulars through the methods known as the Mail Trade System, they have readily found those who would gladly part with their money for health and strength. By their business methods they are causing the public to put physical training in the same class as the patent medicine business, and are preventing those who are well trained and capable of giving to the public rational physical training, from doing so.

The claims of these people are usually that no appliances are needed in order to become strong and healthy, but that if a person will go through a certain number of exercises, which they will give, this will be readily accomplished without the use of dumbbells, clubs, or apparatus of any kind. They usually send out a blank upon which measurements shall be recorded, and very often a tape is sent along. Emphasis is laid upon the acquirement of big bunches of muscles, which will never be of the slightest use to the student or the o dinary business man. They send printed matter showing pictures of athletes who they claim have taken their system and received their present development; whereas the posers of these photographs have usually obtained their development in some gymnasium. They are very persistent in following up their clients in a business way. Very often the course is offered for $20,

HOME USE.

By A. B WEGENER, Physical Director.

Digitized by

Google
—20—

and if the victim fails to respond a rebate of $10 is then allowed. Later on this is dropped to $5 and then to $3, and in some cases is given without any expense to the scholar, if he will use his influence in the class in getting someone to take up the course.

The following are some of the absurd directions that are given by these promoters:

One of these sharks requires his patients to exercise in a small, ill-ventilated room into which a small jet of steam is projected to purify (?) the air. The patients are told to take long, deep breaths and then after forcing it into the abdomen (!) are told to hold their breath and then begin to exercise, thus forcing the oxygen of the air into the blood. After thirty minutes of this sort of work, the class is sprayed with a bucket of cold water. Dumbbells and all ‘•heavy apparatus work” are tabooed, and not even ordinary weights should be used, since “they use up too much nervous energy,9 the reason given is that “when a heavy weight is raised a deep breath is taken and held. This prevents the free circulation of blood through the lungs, which dams it back m the weak side of the heart, the right, and when the right side is distended, the blood from the head, including the brain is dammed back, throwing a strain upon delicate structures not calculated to stand prolonged pressure. This explains why the veins of the neck stand out and the face becomes congested when a heavy weight is lifted.” Absurd!

One of these so called “systems” that has received the greatest attention, and that has done the most advertising, claims that movements should not be done with apparatus, yet they demand the use of more energy and effort than would be required to lift many times the weights which they taboo.

Naturally, each of these well-advertised systems claims a hobby which is the most important factor in physical education, and that all other systems are “frauds” and should not be countenanced. Some of them concentrate their attention in promoting breathing exercises. The following are some of their claims quoied verbatim, which prove that fools and quacks are not a'l dead yet:

1.	“Inhale and exhale with every muscular movement.” Th s is the r “vital principle” of one system.

2.	“Inhale and hold the breath as long as you can, exercisingas violently as possible so as to drive the blood in o the capillaries, thus oxygenating the whole system.”

3.	“Inhale and then hold the breath; then when ready to commence violent exercise, force, the air down into the abdomen so that the oxygen may “reach the vital organs.”

4.	Flush the face by holding the breath, forcing the blood into the head and holding it there as long as possible.” This is advertised to cure strabismus, deafness, astigmatism, and to grow hair on bald heads.

5.	Another advertises to cure anything but cancer.

A Chicago firm guarantees to cure constipation which has baffled the doctors; sure cure, no matter how difficult, positively cures all serious cases of stomach, heart, liver, kidney and bladder troubles; uses no drugs, medicine, apparatus or injections.	(To	be concluded.)

— I relieve that bicycling was of greater benefit to more people than any other form of exercise or amusement that has been in vogue during the last fifty years.—E. Fletcher Ixgals, A. M., M. D.

Digitized by C-ooQle
-27-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

f Continued. 1

AX INDIAN CLUB DRILL, without, and combined with, foot, leg and trunk movements^ As a preliminary a short run and gymnastic tactics. Division work on the apparatus and closing with a “Relay Race” in three or four files.

After all have received clubs, form a front line and count off by fours from first to last member, then the first rank to execute % wheel

1.	and pass closely in front of the line, all other ranks following in successive order after four counts. The first rank upon arriving at the farther end of the gymnasium files to the r. to center and again files r. up the center to location for the drill. Open order sidew. from the center with gradually raising arms outw. to full distance. Halt and lower arms. Class 1. (r.) about face.

INDIAN CLUB DRILL.

CIuds to starting pos.—raise! (The forearms are raised upw. (natural pos.), the clubs held in line with the same in front and width of shoulders apart, knuckles turned forw.)

The arm circles begin by extending the arras upw., and returning through the same to starting pos.

Continuous circling.

1.	a) % arm circle outw. 1.—1 ! and % hand circle outw. .1. behind 1. shoulder—2! y± arm circle outw. 1., then hand circle outw.

1.	in front of 1. thigh-3,4! Repeat 4 to 6 times, b) Same as a r.—1,4!

c) Same as a, but both arms outw. (double arm and hand circle) -1,4!

2.	a)	Same	as	a,	ex.	1,	but	inw. 1.—1, 4!

b)	Same	as	b,	ex.	1,	but	inw. r.—1, 4!

c)	Same	as	c,	ex.	1,	but	inw. (double arm and hand circle)—1,	4!

3.	a)	Same	as	a,	ex.	1,	but	double arm and hand circle to the 1.—1,	4-*

b)	Same	as	a,	ex.	1,	but	double arm and hand circle to the r.—1,	41

Note.—The clubs may be lowered for a brief rest between the 1st, 2nd and 3rd exercises.

Clubs at sides.

4.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Toe-touch backw. 1., bend trunk forw. and swing arms downw. and backw. to horizontal pos.—1! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

5.	Lunge sidew. 1., raise 1. arm sidew. upw. obi., the r. arm to be swung up in the same direction simultaneously with the 1., but continues four circles outw., then with the lowering of the r. arm on the fourth count, closing step 1. and lower 1. arm to starting pos.—1, 4! Same r.—1, 4! Alternately—1, S!

6.	Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise arms outw.—1 ! Cross-toetouch backw. I., bend trunk sidew. 1., swing 1. arm downw. and bend

Digitized by
on back, the r. arm upvv. (in line with the trunk)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5,8!

Clubs to starting pos.—raise!

7. Stride pos. sidew. 1. and % double arm circle to the 1. (arms in pos. sidew. r.)—1! % turn 1. on heels, kneel on r. knee and % double horizontal hand circle to the 1. (armstin pos. forw.)—2! Extend knees, V\ turn r. on heels and % double arm circle to the r.—3! Closingstep and bend arms to starting pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Alt.—1, 8! Lower clubs.

8.	Breathing exercise and raise arms forw. overh. in four counts; hold breath four counts; exhale and lower arms outw. to starting pos. in two to four counts.

Note.—The clubs may be lowered and stand in place rest, a brief period between the 6th and 7th exercises.

Close order sidew. toward the center; fours \% wheel 1. to a front line; 1. face, march forw. and deposit clubs. March to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Low parallel bars (side jumps).

Second	“	Oblique ladder (upper side).

Third	“	Low horizontal bar in combination with	high-jump.

Fourth	4‘	High-jump.

Rearrange order of the class for climbing poles.

First Division.—Low Parallel Bars (side jumps).

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Rear vault r. over near bar to cross rest, swing backw. and front vault r. (over farther bar).

2.	Front vault 1. over near bar to cross rest; swing forw. and rear vault 1. (over farther bar).

3. As ex. 1, to cross rest and turn over forw. to upper arm balance; roll over forw. to straddle seat; rear vault dismount sidew. r. with Vi turn 1.

4.	As ex. 2, to cross rest, swing forw., lower backw. to upper arm rest and flex thighs over body; kip to straight arm rest and turn over forw. to hand balance; lower backw., swing forw. and rear vault 1. with Vi turn 1.

5.	Double rear vault r. over both bars with Vl turn 1. to front side stand, immediately front vault 1. to cross rest, swing forw., drop kip to straight arm rest and turn over forw. to shoulder balance; turn over sidew. r. to cross stand.

Note.—Repeat all movements 1. and r.

Second Division.—Oblique Ladder (upper side).

1.	Travel upw., hands and feet on rounds and moving 1. foot and r. hand simultaneously and vice versa to upper end. Descend backw.

2.	As ex. 1, but move 1. foot and 1. hand simultaneously and vice versa. Descend backw.

3.	As ex. 1, but skip one round at every step.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—29—

4.	As ex. 2, but at upper end lower to front leaning rest, the feet resting on the beams and travel downw, the hands on the rounds moving alternately.

5.	Stand on lower round and place hands on hips, then walk upw. to upper end, turn about and lower to rear leaning rest, the feet on the beams and the hands on the rounds, then travel downw., the hands moving alternately.

b. In front leaning rest, feet on the beams, hands on the rounds; travel upw. in front leaning rest to upper end and descend in same manner.

7. An exercise free for all.

Third Division.—Low Horizontal Bar (height of shoulders) in Combination with High-jump.

Note.—The jumping standards about two feet six inches or three feet in front of the horizontal bar. Start the crossbar at about three feet and raise the same two inches higher after every jump of the division.

1.	Underswing and pass over crossbar.

2.	As ex. 1 and add *4 turn 1. Same r. Same with V4 turn.

3.	Front hip circle backw. to front rest; drop backw., underswing and pass over crossbar.

4.	Jump to outside kneehang 1. and swing up forw. to rest; circle 1. leg backw. to front rest, drop backw., underswing and pass over crossbar.

5.	As ex. 1, for height.

Fourth Division.—High-jump.

A few preliminary changes as:

1.	Spring off of 1. foot. Same r.

2. Spring off of I. foot and !4 turn 1. in the flight with raising arms sidew. r. to half bent-knee pos. Same r. Repeat with V2 turn 1. (r.)

3.	Spring off of both feet and raise knees high and arms forw. overh., etc.

4.	Try for height.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and reform for team work on the climbing poles.

Climbing Poles.

Class Formation.—Form three or four (or six) files or as many as there are poles available so that each member can exercise on one pole, each standing at a fair distance from and facing the poles in flank order.

Marching Order.—Members leave head of files to approach the poles and return by twos (or more) facing 1. and r. from the center (on the farther side), passing to the outer flanks and then to the rear ot the files, the latter moving one step forw. with each succession.

1.	Jump to straight arm hang and lower legs placed around pole (climbing pos., 1. hand above and 1. lower leg in front); raise knees; lower legs; dow^n. Repeat with r. hand above and r. lover leg in front.

2.	As ex. 1, to raising knees; then extend knees and hips and bend arms; return in reverse order, and down. Repeat once.

Digitized by VjOOQle
—30—

3.	Jutnp to bent arm hang; raise lower legs backw.; down. Repeat once.

4. Grasp pole with both hands about height of head and r. knee forw., placing the lower leg against the pole (as in the case of climbing pos.); jump to bent arm hang and raise 1. leg forw. (the r. lower leg remains in pos.); return in reverse order, and down. Repeat opposite.

5.	As ex. 4, but raise the 1. (r.) leg sidew., etc.

6.	Jump to bent arm hang, legs together behind pole; spread legs wide sidew.; down. Repeat.

7.	Jump to climbing pos. and climb to upper end and descend in reverse order.

Note.—The members of the first and second division may climb up and down by the hands only.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus, form three or four files of equal number in flank order for “Relay Race.” The members stand in stride pos. sidew. A ball, Indian club or dumbbell may be passed between the legs from the first to last, the latter to carry the same to and remain at the head of the file, when the same object is to be passed as before. This order to continue until all have had their turn and race decided. Repeat several times. Clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued )

HADLEY ON ATHLETICS.

Presideht Arthur T. Hadley of Yale University has written a letter to the editor of the “Illustrated Sporting News” in which he favors the services of professional coaches in college athletics. He also says that intercollegiate contests do not create the present evils in university sports, but simply hold them up to view. Dr. Hadley writes:

“The idea that victory is the essential thing independent of the means by which it is obtained is one ol the greatest dangers which menaces the United States at the present day. The greater the prize in any contest the greater will be the temptation to sacrifice other things to victory.

“Nevertheless, I am inclined to think that the net influence of intercollegiate athletics is good. We make a great mistake if we assume that intercollegiate contests create the evils of which we complain. They simply hold them up to the public view. If the evils thus made manifest remain unrebuked and unremedied, the indirect effect of this publicity is bad. If they are condemned by that part of the public for whose opinion the average college student most cares, the effect of the publicity and the ensuing condemnation is good.

“I confess I have no great faith in most of the specific projects of rules which are proposed to remedy the evils. They are like attempts to cure a disease by repressing its symptoms. They seldom do real good; they often do positive harm. Take, for instance, the suggestion that we should prohibit professional trainers.

“If my boy wants to run a quarter-mile I want to have him as much as possible under the eye of a man who understands the operation and effect of quarter-mile running more fully than his family physician naturally can do. If you gave him the alternative of risking damage to himself or keeping out of the competition with his fellows merely because the public will take too much interest in his adviser in case he should be fortunate to engage in an intercollegiate contest, it seems to me that you are sacrificing a great deal for the sake of accomplishing very little.

“It is very well to talk of having only graduate coaches, but the only universities that can be sure of commanding the services of unpaid graduate coaches for different branches of athletics are those which are situated in large cities. This places a discrimination .against the country colleges which I, for one, should be quite unwilling to see established.

Digitized by L.OOQLC
“I believe that it is a mistake for college presidents to write articles about athletics. Such article, however well meant, seems to me to countenance the idea that athletics occupy a larger place in the American university horizon than is the case at Yale, and than I believe to be the case at Harvard. By countenancing this false view, they increase the very evils which they are trying to reduce. I honestly believe that the greatest service which college presidents and faculties can render to athletics is to encourage the students, the graduates and the public to think as much as possible about other things.”-— Record-Herald.

ATHLETIC SPORTS IN INDIA.

(C. B. Fry’s Magazine.)

* is only to be expected, considering their national diet (curri-bhat), the physique of the Tiatives of India will not compare with an Englishman's, though they possess a litheness of form and quickness of the eye that we lack, and which makes them among the finest gymnasts and jugglers in the world. Such perfect balancing powers have they that, even supposing them bereft of the tenacious grasp of foot possessed oy all barefooted races, there would still be left much to admire in their skill No contortion seems to be too difficult for them, no bar too slight or smooth to be negotiated, no height can try their nerves, and no standing ground appears too small. Even a slip is of little consequence to such clever tumblers; they seem to have all the climbing powers of a cat. As runners their staying power is most remarkable; a dak wallah deems the task of running twenty miles a mere trifle.

It is strange that in games pure and simple they do not display the same excellence, though the cricket of the Parsees is meritorious. OT other native pastimes the one which may cause the most surprise is football, as it seems essentially a game fitted for northern climates only. Yet it is not merely played, but played rather extensively, considering its somewhat recent introduction into the country. Its growing popularity is still more surprising on account of the hard nature of the ground and the heat of the admosphere, conditions which scarcely favor either the playing or players. Association, the game more adapted to the Indian climate, is the code in general use. The usual rules and regulations are in force, but the natives play barefooted. How amazing! Imagine for a moment playing against opponents wearing boots, and yet this is a common occurence with these people.

As football players they are fairly fast and have plenty of nerve, but at present they do not quite understand the passing game. However, combination, which is the root of success, is beginning to dawn upon them, though unfortunately their lack of muscular stamina would tell against them if ever they should chance to encounter an English team of professionals. Some native players are individually really good, very speedy, very keen, and, what js more important, they pass well and seem to realize the scientific side of the game. As yet these are few and far between; the kick-and-rush game, intermingled with dribbling, is more common. Still their progress has been remarkable, and with European influence the rest may come.

BOOK REVIEW.

—National Educational Association—Proceedings of the Department of Physical Education in the Annual Convention at St. Louis, Mo., June 27 to July 1, 1904. Reprinted from the St. Louis Volume of Proceedings (Ten cents. Irwin Shepard, Secretary N. E. A., Winona, Minn.). 9Vix6 in., 41 pages.

Beside the Secretary’s minutes this pamphlet contains the following papers: The Importance of Walking as a School Exercise, by Dr. E. H. Arnold. The Objects and Methods of Physical Training in Primary and Grammar Schools—I) From the Standpoint of the General Teacher, by Supt. W. W. Chalmers; II) From the Standpoint of the Physical Training Teacher, by William A. Stecber. Objects and Methods of Physical Training in Normal Schools, by J. B. Affleck. Objects and

Digitized by CaOOQle
Methods of Physical Training in Colleges and Universities, by Pres. R. H. Jesse. Objects and Methods of Physical Training in High Schools, from the Standpoint of a Specialist, by Mrs. Mary H. Ludlum. Physical Training Exhibition at St. Louis Exposition—I) In the Physical Training Department, by Miss Elsa Pohl; II) In the Education Building, by Miss Ida Mann.

—Gymnastic Games, Classified, bv E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics. Compiled by Annie R. Hughes. No place or date of publication is given, but the introduction is dated at New Haven, April 1901, and that to the second edition October 1904. 3%\5% in., 13+90 pages, with diagrams.

Following a twelve-page “Introduction to Games” one hundred and eighty-six varieties are mentioned or described under the following group headings: I) Without Purpose (Nos. 1—3); II) General Imitation (4—12); III) Sense Apparatus—1 ) Sight (13—23); 2) Hearing (24—30); 3) Touch (31—33); IV) Accuracy of Motion (34—91); V) Steadiness of Motion (92-96); VI) Accurate Imitation (97—101); VII) Simple Reaction (102—130); VIII) Discrimination (131—138); IX) Judgment (139-157); X) Organized—1) Low Organization (158—175); 2) High Organization (176—186).

—An Anthropometric Study of Students of Amherst College to Determine the Norms for Different Heights at Each Age from Seventeen to Twenty-two Years. By Paul C. Phillips. Amherst, Mass., 1904. 11x812 in., 6 pages.

The physical types for from six to eight heights cf each age are given in the six tables. Two pages are devoted to a statement of the purpose of the investigation, the material, methods of taking measurements, items selected, methods of tabulation, comparisons, and results.

—Gymnasium Director s Pocket Book, Containing Information of Daily Use to Physical Directors and All Interested in Gymnastics. 1905. Compiled by W. L. Coop, and published by the Narragansett Machine Co., Providence, R. I. 5*%x2% in., 64 pages.

This useful handbook, sent out with the compliments of the Narragansett Machine Company, contains along with other matters of interest a list of athletic and other records, hints on gymnasium construction and equipment and on the care of apparatus, sketches of the American Physical Education Association, the North American Turnerbund, the Physical Directors’ Society of the Y. M. C. A., the Y. M. and Y. W. C. A. and the W. C. T. U. in their relation to Physical Training, articles on Phvsical Training in the 1904 magazines, new and standard books and periodicals, and lists of the various Normal and Summer Schools of Physical Training.

—Fifteenth Annual Report of the City Parks Association of Philadelphia. Part II—Playgrounds, Squares and Circles, Triangular Parks under One Aese in Extent. Philadelphia, 1012 Walnut St., 1903. 9x6 in., 82 pages, with maps, plans, and numerous illustrations and photographs.

The Report contains, in addition to a discussion of topics enumerated in the title, a number of interesting plans and views of playgrounds in New York, Newark (N. J.), Boston, Chicago, and San Francisco, and maps showing the open spaces in Paris, London, Boston (1902), and Philadelphia, drawn to the same scale. The objects of the City Parks Association are stated, and there is a long list of its members, who pay two dollars a year, or thirty dollars for life membership.

— First Annual Report of the Saint Paul playground Committee to the Civic League, the Commercial Club, and to the Common Council of Saint Paul. 1904. 914x6 in., 16 pages, with plans and illustrations from photographs.

—Philadelphia School Gardens. Joint Report of The Civic Club, The Civic Betterment Association, The Public Education Association, and The City Parks Association, 1904. 91^x6 in., 24 pages, with illustrations from photographs.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends
NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics) E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., DIRECTOR,

Ofters

A	Two Years' Course of Prepa-

ration for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

or Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

556-568 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, address . GEORGE WITTICH, Director.

Complete Volumes

-OF-

“9TW! <L &o<V'

75 Cents. Bd. $1.25.

Postage paid,

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis. ▼▼▼▼▼▼▼TfTTTTTTYTmmTTf

TALE UNIVERSITY.

SUMMER SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

JULY 6th to AUG. 10th, 1905

)**-FACULTY.-SM

Arthur T. Hadley, L. L. D», Pres.

E. Hekshey Sneath, L. L. D., Ph. D., Director Central School.

Harry B. Ferris, M. D., Yale. Lafayette B. Mendel, Ph. D.. Yale. Yandell Henderson, Ph. D., Yale. Charles H. Judd, I’h. 0., Yale.

Wm. B. Bailey, Ph. D., Yale.

Cloyd N. McAllister, Ph. D., Yale. Sir P. Vollrath Tijam, G. D., Sweden. Herr M. Wegener, Berlin, Germany. Cfias. W, Hand, Yale.

Wm. L. Anderson, Yale.

Henry S. Anderson, Cleveland. Josephine Beideriiase, N. Y. Schools. Gertrude Dudley, Chicago University.

Mariex F. Carter, N. Y. School Gymnastics.

KobertNohr, M.D., Fort Wayne Schools

Hon. Wm. T. Harris, Ph. D., L. L. D., Washington, D. C.

Hon. Chas. D. Hine, Hartford, Ct.

Frank H. Beede, Supt. New Haven Schools.

Clarence F Carroll, Supt. Rochester Schools.

Wm. G. Anderson, M. A., M. D., (Director) Yale.

Ten additional Instructors. Illustrated Catalogues.

WILLIAM GILBERT ANDERSON, M. D., Director,

Yale Gymnasium,. NEW HAVEN, CT.

Digitized by

i i) !

Google
1

G-3rrQ.rLa,stic

Apparatus.

I_iOClrors-

^la.'srg'xo-u.n.d.

Apparatus. Eo*wlirLg' -A-lle3rs. -A.n.tlxroporxxetric

-A-pps-ra,tvLs.

WRITE FOR CATALOG’S.

NA0RA6ANSETT MACHINE CO.,

PROVIDENCE, R. I.. U. S. A.

Gymnasium

Outfitters.

if if

THE

New York Normal School of Gymnastics

AT THE

Dr. Savage Physical Development Institute, Ltd.,

308-310 West 59th St., New York City.

A two years’ course in physical training designed to give a thorough and practical preparation for men and women desiring to become teachers. Teaching scholarships awarded to 2nd year pupils each year.

For circulars address

W. L. SAVAGE, A. M.f M. D., President.

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS!

It is our special business to find desirable openings for Physical Directors and Athletic Coaches, and to supply those in need of such instructors. We have filled high-grade positions in all parts of the United States, and are prepared to assist you. If you want to improve your condition, write us now, as many of the best places for next year will soon be filled.

Every progressive physical director should, at leastf know what we are doing for others. May we not send you full information?

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, III.

v

Digitized by

Google f

