MIND AND BODY

Yol. 14.

SEPTEMBER, 1907.

No 161

Emtomai Committek :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boron Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, tao Pomona St , Germantown, Phil., Pa. AU business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

MASS EXHIBITIONS, SPORTS AND GAMES

BY THE PUPILS OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF ST. LOUIS, MO.

By A. E. KINDERVATER, Director of Physical Training, Pubic Schools, St. Louis.

A unmber of reports published in some eastern papers during tTie last few years in regard to the participation of large numbers of public school pupils in various kinds of outdoor activities, i. e. calisthenics, track and field sports, games, festivals, etc., as being new and never before attempted, aroused my western pride and desire for fair plav to such a pitch that I resolved, even at the peril of a heat prostration—it being at present 90 degrees in the shade—to inform the readers of “Mind and Body” that the public of St. Louis at least has seen demonstrations of this kind as far as ten years back. Many of my readers will remember the grand spectacle of 8,000 pupils of the public schools of St. Louis under the direction of Mr. Geo. Wittic-h, at that time Supervisor, and his seven assistants, in a set drill of calisthenics on the large infield of the Fair Grounds accompanied bv a band of music at the time of the National Festival of the N. A. G. (\ in 1897. Over ten thousand pupils had enthusiastically volunteered and would have participated had not a nearly continuous rain storm prevented them from getting to the grounds. In spite of all these most unfavorable conditions approximately 8,000 pupils with their teachers appeared for their drill. It was certainly an inspiring sight to see them line up in eight great columns for their grand entry under all kinds, sizes and colors of umbrellas. Jupiter Pluvius must have been deeply impressed with this enthusiasm of both teachers and pupils as he removed the rain clouds just long enough for the most successful performance. Even old Sol smiled with satisfaction upon this great spectacle. The impression made on the spectators present was so deep that favorable comments upon it can he heard even today. It was during this time that efforts were made in St. I^ouis to establish a Benevolent Annuity Association for the purpose of relieving aged and distressed teachers of the public schools. When the act for the purpose of getting the State to assist in supporting the

Digitized by

Google
-ir.4-

Association passed both houses of the State Assembly, but vetoed by the Governor, a number of principals and teachers organized the very successful voluntary “Teachers' Benevolent Annuity Association” in 1901. Various means for gathering the necessary funds were devised, among others the so-called “May Festival” or Annuity Picnic, which included all sorts of very original outdoor activities and exhibitions. The success of the above mentioned mass drill in 1897, and its value as a drawing card, especially for a teacher’s benefit, naturally called for a repetition, and so at the first May Festival held at the old Fair Grounds on June 2nd, 1900, 4,500 pupils—more could not be accommodated in the large amphitheatre—took part.

They were arranged in eight fan shaped columns, completely filling every foot of space, all facing the centre pagoda on which the accompanying music was placed, surrounded by an audience of more than twenty thousand people. Free exercises by pupils of grades 3—4—5 and wand exercises by pupils of grades 6—7—8 were performed, the columns for free and wand work alternating. The enthusiasm created by this faultless performance was so immense that the whole drill had to be repeated. That this mass drill was the main attraction at this and every succeeding festival of the Association goes without saying. In the second festival on May 24th, 1902, some new features were introduced, flags, wands and Indian clubs being combined. The centre files of each column using clubs in counter movements to the others with very striking effect. The drill being arranged to the music “Columbia,” Mr. Wittich directing. An incident, well worth telling, happened at the festival, illustrating in a marked degree the physiological value of systematic and correctly conducted physical training. While the eight columns of 4,500 pupils had just opened ranks and waited for the signal to start a fire alarm brought into the arena a salvage corps in the usual speed right among the children without causing any more confusion than the stepping aside and making room for its passage. Not one pupil forgot his duty, lost his self possession or tried to leave the place, whereas the audience in that part of the amphitheatre became frantic with fright and a great calamity would have resulted had there been any smoke or fire in sight. Fortunately it was only a small blaze in one of the booths under the seats, soon extinguished and with the passing out of the firemen every boy and girl stepped back to their places and the drill was resumed as if nothing had happened. A better demonstration of good discipline and presence of mind of so many children massed together in a closed arena could not have been made.

The other new feature at this second festival was the inauguration of a Public School Field Day. Track events for the boys and girls of the grammar schools, track and field events for the boys of the high schools. 50, 75 and 100 yard dashes, broad and high jump, pole vault, shot-put and relay races. The girls competing in a very amusing and exciting potato race. Each school furnishing one entry, resp. one team for each event. Gold, silver and bronze medals were awarded as first, second and third prizes in each event. Without organizing athletic clubs in the

Digitized by CjOOQle
—15a

different schools the participation was very large and the competition decidedly animated. Both of the above new features were highly appreciated by spectators and pupils, the arena being overcrowded during these performances. The gate receipts at this festival at 25 cents a person amounted to $5,864.00.

On May 27th, 1905, a third festival of this kind was arranged with a mass drill and field sports as the main attraction under the direction of the writer with the able support of his assistants. As the old amphitheatre had become unsafe for the usually enormous crowds our mass drill was transferred to the infield of the race track, fronting the grand stand. More space being availabe, over six thousand pupils volunteered and participated, arranged in eight columns of ten pupils in a rank. The four files on the right of each column wearing red caps and performing free exercises, the two centre files with white caps swinging clubs, the four on the left wearing blue caps and using wands. The eight columns of boys and girls arranged abreast and marching upon the field simultaneously to the strains of a lively march was a sight long to be remembered. Each column viewed from the grand stand appeared as an immense American flag. The arrangement of exercises and music differed from former years inasmuch as the various kinds of exercise^ were accompanied by selected patriotic melodies, and first performed separately white the other pupils kneeled and at last repeated by all simultaneously in a grand finale. All the read caps of each column starting with free exercises to the melody of “Columbia,” the white caps following whith club exercises to the “Wacht am Rhein,” the blue caps following these with wand exercises to “Yankee Doodle” and all repeating their respective drills to “Dixie,” the whole being executed without a pailse. The effect was inspiring to both spectators and pupils and the drill had to be repeated. Although the pupils on the sides and rear were so far distant that oral commands and signals had to he given by pistol reports, the rhythm of music and exercises harmonized remarkably well for so large a field. Fortunately the wind carried the music toward the pupils, which was a great help. At least 50,000 people witnessed this mass exhibition.

Besides* this mass drill a chorus of 8,000 pupils appeared, singing the leading national songs of the world, and a grand march bv 50.000 pupils, carrying flags, banners, etc., around the grounds, were special features of this festival. The track and field events for boy* of the grammar and high schools were carried through again as described in the formal festival. The net receipts for this festival amounted to $7,950.00.

The last festival of the Association, planned June 1st, 1907, postponed to June 4tli on account of an all day rain, again proved a great success in every wav. On account of the uncertainty of securing the old Fair Grounds, and no other place being available for such a large undertaking, matters were somewhat delayed and very little time for preparations remained. For this and other reasons the mass drill was, for the first time, omitted. Besides a mass chorus of 1,000 colored

Digitized by C^ooQle
—15<>—

pupils, singing national songs, the entire program consisted of field sports, baseball and basket ball by grammar and high school teams, track events for boys and girls of the grammar schools, track and field events for high school boys, folk dances by the seniors of the Teachers’ College under their instructor, Miss Ethel R. Weeden, class work by 96 boys on twelve bucks, showing the work done in our new schools provided with fully equipped gymnasiums for both boys and girls, and a batallion drill by the High School Cadets.

Over 500 boys and girls of the grammar grades entered for the different races, 44 schools entering teams for the relay and the high schools being represented with 65 teams. All of the above mentioned events and games, excepting the relay races, going on at the same time on that great track and field in front of a tremendous grand stand without one event interfering with the other. This spectacle, witnesssed by approximately sixty thousand people, was certainly a sight of physical activities of rare occurence.

For those of my readers intrested in comparisons of records of like events I will add those of the grammar grades:

Boys, age limit 12 years—50 yard dash; time 6 4/5 seconds.

Boys, age limit 14 years—75 yard dash; 9 1/5 seconds.

Boys, age limit 18 years—100 yard dash; time 11 seconds.

Boys’ relay 400 yards, four to a team, each running one hundred yards in a straight course, 47 seconds.

Girls, age	limit	12	years—30 yards;	time	4	3/5	seconds.

Girls, age	limit	14	years—40 yards;	time	5	1/5	seconds.

Girls, age	limit	16	years—50 yards;	time	7	1/5	seconds.

As a final	report	of this festival	is not	due	before October the

financial results are not at mv disposal.

Rumors claim a surplus of over $8,000. Tt was certainly an immense success. As long as our Teachers’ Benevolent Annuity Association is not supported by the State and is obliged to work for its increase of funds in the old wav, the Physical Training Department will always stand ready to assist the good cause in arranging and conducting displays of our pupils in physical activities, that shall not alone make a good showing, but at the same time illustrate beneficial results gained by such training in our schools.

To those interested in our Teachers' Benevolent Annuity Association it may of value to know that the association up to its last official report , October 1906, had accumulated the respectable sum of $74,104.35. Present active membership, 884; associate members, 190; honorary members, 5. The active members pay one per cent, of their salary as dues. The number of annuities for the last year was 43. The amount paid out to these was $7,740.00.

—EXERCISE increases weight when it increases muscle and decreases weight only when the gain in muscle is overbalanced by a greater loss of fat. This explains why some athletes gain and others lose in weight in the earlier part of the football season before any of the other

Digitized by CjOOQle
-157-

influences which effect them later in the season have become operative (insomnia, ^stakness/ neurasthenia).—Dr. Richard C. Cabot (Jour, of American Med. Assn.).

THE INFLUENCE OF FLESH EATING ON ENDURANCE.

By IRVING FISHER, Professor of Political Economy at Yale University.

As yet the science of physiology seems to have given very little attention to the study of endurance. The nature of endurance, its relation to strength and fatigue, and, above all, the factors on. which endurance depends, denote fields almost unexplored. Even the concept of endurance seems never to have been formulated. That strength and endurance are not identical is only partially recognized. The strength of a muscle is measured by the utmost force that it can exert at once; its endurance, by the number of times it can repeat a given exertion within its strength. The repetition of such exertion, if not stopped by the refusal of the will, is finally stopped by the reduction of the strength of the muscle until it is unable to perform further. Thus endurance may be expressed in terms of loss of. strength. It is related to fatigue, and it is only through the studies on fatigue and fatigue poisons made by Mosso and others, that light has been thrown on the nature of endurance.

The object of the experiments described below was to determine the relations of certain dietetic factors to endurance, particularly the factors of proteid and flesh foods*. Several lines of study were entered upon with this object in view, one of which has already been described. This was the mastication experiment on nine healthy Yale students. It was commented upon in the last number of this Journal. The results of this experiment have been communicated to the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences and a full report will soon be published in its Transactions.

The present experiment consisted of endurance test< made on 41) persons representing two contrasted types of dietetic habits. These fall into three groups—first, athletes accustomed to a high-proteid and full-flesh dietary; second, athletes accustomed to a low-proteid and non-flesh dietary; third, sedentary persons accustomed to a low-proteid and nonflesh dietary. The subjects consisted of Yale students and instructors, a Connecticut physician, and some of the physicians, nurses and employes of the Battle Creek Sanitarium. The personnel of the last named institution was selected as representing abstainers from flesh foods. All of the subjects except one had abstained from flesh foods for periods from 4 to 20 years, and five of them had never eaten such foods. The exception had abstained for two years only.

Among the other subjects, all of whom lived in New Haven or vicinity, inquiry showed that, with four exceptions, they were accustomed to eat meat two or three times daily, and presumably consumed proteid in ordinary amounts (excreting about 15 to 20 grams of nitrogen, or about .18 to .20 grams per kilogram of body weight). Of the remaining four, one, W. W., had abstained from flesh foods for two years; another.

Digitized by CjOOQle
- 158-

I. F., had for several }rears followed the Chittenden regime of low-pro-teid, and used flesh foods seldom oftener than once a week; a third, G. S. D., used flesh foods in small amounts about four times a week; and the fourth, W. B. B., had for six months prior to the experiment used “about as much as one chop once a day/' and the year previous had not used any flesh foods. He used beans freely, and urine analysis showed that he was moderately high in proteid, excreting an average of 14 grams of nitrogen daily.*

The term “flesh-abstainer” is employed in this article in preference to “vegetarian,” since the latter term properly means an abstainer from all animal foods (even eggs, milk, cream and butter), and since it usually suggests a person who abstains not on hygienic but on religious, ethical, or theological grounds. The term “flesh” is used in preference to “meat” in order to include in its scope all animal tissue such as foul, fish, and shellfish. The term “abstainer” is used relatively; three of the “abstainers” included were not abstainers.

The experiment furnished a severe test of the claims of the flesh-abstainers. A preliminary and superficial observation seemed, much to my surprise, to substantiate these claims. Two comparisons were planned, one between flesh-eating athletes and flesh-abstaining athletes, and the other between flesh-eating athletes and flesh-abstaining sedentary workers. The first comparison, being between classes similar as to the element of physical exercise, is fair to both sides. The second puts the flesh-abstainers at a disadvantage; for, other things being equal, sedentary men have much less endurance than men in training. This heavy handicap was placed upon the “abstainers” intentionally, in order to give them a more severe and decisive test, in case the first comparison (between picked athletes of both classes) should* turn out in their favor. It is recognized in inductive logic, as in racing, that after a preliminary trial the handicap should be placed on the stronger side, if superiority is to be put beyond peradventure.

The results of the comparisons given below would indicate that the users of low-proteid and the non-flesh dietaries have far greater endurance than those who are accustomed to the ordinary American diet.

In the absence of any exact mechanical method of measuring endurance, three simple endurance tests were employed: first, holding the arms horizontally as long as possible; second, deep knee bending; third, leg raising with the subject lying on his back. All of these tests were made before witnesses.

The following three tables give the results for these three tests respectively. It will be observed that there were fewer tests for the “leg raising" and “deep knee bending” than for “holding the arms horizontally/' The reason was that the tests proved unexpectedly painful, and in the case of deep knee-bending had distressing after-effects, such as in-

* In view of the fact that this man was moderately high in proteid and used a little flesh food daily, I was in doubt whether it would not have been better to classify him among the flesh-eaters. He was finally placed with the flesh abstainers, for the reason that he offered less contrast to them than to the flesh-eaters. Had he been classified in the other category, the comparisons and conclusions would not have been affected. This is shown below, not only with respect to him, but with respect also to the other two subjects, G. S. D. and I. F , who are classed as abstainers from flesh foods, though using them occasionally.

Digitized by Cjooole
-159-

ability to climb stairs and soreness for a number of days. These conditions, as soon as discovered by prospective subjects, made most of them very reluctant to submit to such tests.

The first comparison (for arm holding) shows a great superiority on the side of the flesh-abstainers. Even the maximum record of the flesh-eaters was barely more than half the average for the flesh-abstainers. Only 2 of the 15 flesh-eaters succeeded in holding their arms out over a quarter of an hour; whereas 22 of the 32 abstainers surpassed that limit. None of the flesh-eaters reached half an hour, but 15 of the 32 abstainers exceeded that limit Of these 9 exceeded an hour, 4 exceeded two hours and 1 exceeded three hours.

In respect to deep knee bending, if we take the number 325 for reference, we find that, of the 9 flesh-eaters only three surpassed this figure, while of the 29 abstainers, 17 surpassed it. Only 1 of the 9 flesh eaters reached 1000 as against 0 of the 21 abstainers. None of the former surpassed 2000 as against 2 of the latter.

In respect to leg raising, the records show* little difference. None of the contestants reached their absolute limits. The highest record for the abstainers is 1000 times. That this was not near the limit was evidenced

FIRST ENDURANCE TEST: HOLDING ARMS HORIZONTALLY.

FLESH-EATERS

FLESH-ABSTAINERSf

athletes;		athletes:		SEDENTARY	
Names	Time in Minutes	Names	Time in Minutes	Names	Time in Minutes
L. H. Yale	6°°	H. Hat. Cr.	6	J. T. C. Bat. Cr.	10
F. O.	7°°	N.	6	E. L. E.	10
C. H.C.	7	A. B.	10*	E. H. R. “	15
R. M. B.	7	J.	IO	A. J. R.	*7
R. Ra.	7	J. P. H.	12	S. E. H.	27
G.	8	K. S. S.	*3	tL. F. Yale	37
F. S. N.	8	S.	*3	P. R. Bat. Cr.	42
W. J. H.	9*	H. O.	*3*	1. F. M. “	5100
E.I. O.	10	tW. B. B Yale	1600	H. G. W. '•	1 80
I. H D,	10	C. H. Bat. Cr.	17	C. E. S.	80
R. Bu	10	R. M. M. “	18	1. E. G.	98*
H. A. R.	12	O. A.	21	A W. N. “	170
C. S. M.	M*	S. A. O.	32	E. J. W. “	200
R.	18	M.	35		
G. K.	22*	D.	37		
		W. W. Yale	63		
		W. Bat. Cr.	75		
		tG. S. D. Yale	160		
		C. C. R. Hat. Cr.	176*		
Average	10		39		64

*	Limit of Endurance.

00	Nearly to limit; arms trembling.

♦	As previously stated, there is some reasonable doubt as to whether W. W. Ft., who consumed a small amount of flesh foods daily, should be classified among the abstainers or the users of flesh foods. In the above tables he is classified in the former category, but if he were transferred to the other side, the average would be only slightly affected, changing from io vs. 39 to 11 vs. 40. The same doubt in less degree applies to the subject, G. S. D., who consumed flesh foods about four times a week. Hut even his heavy record (160), if transferred to the opposite side of the balance, would or.ly change the average to 20 vs. 32. The only other person classified as an abstainer who used flesh foods at all was I. F., whose use was less often than once a week. Should he likewise be transferred to the flesh-eaters, the comparisons would merely be changed to 21 vs. 32.

1	The term “athlete” is used in the tables to signify a person who is in daily training, whether preparing for an athletic contest or not. In the case of flesh-eating “athletes,” all with three exceptions were training for athletic contests. In the case of the abstainers, very few of them were training for such a purpose. They consisted, for the most part, of the nurses and employes of the Hattie Creek Sanitarium, who, by occupation or choice or both, were physical culturists.

C-.,

Digitized by
-160-

SECOND ENDURANCE TEST: DEEP KNEE BENDING.

FLESH-EATERS		FLESH-ABSTAINERS t			
ATHLETES		ATHLETES		SEDENTARY	
Names	Times	Names	Times	Names !	Times
R. (Yale)	103	N. (Bat. Cr.)	*5*	A. J. R. (Bat. Cr.)	200
F. O.	130	W.	185	P. R.	4oo
J. H. D.	*37	S.	220	J.T. C.	401
C. H. C.	200	A. B.	330	E. J. W.	447
G. K.	254*	D.	463	J. F. B.	1225
W. T. H.	3*8*	M.	538		
C. S. M.	502*	J.	600		
F. S. N.	575	J. P. H.	770		
G. A.	1229	C. H.	791		
		H.O.	800		
		B. S. S.	801		
		O. A.	I coo		
		H.	1703		
		W W. (Yale)	1800		
		R. M. M. (B.C.)	2270		
		S. A. O.	3400		
Averages	383		927		535

* Was limit of endurance; C. S. M. fainted, t In this table all the "abstainers" were total abstainers.

THE ENDURANCE TEST: LEG RAISING.

FLESH-EATERS		FLESH-ABSTAINERS t			
ATHLETES		ATHLETES		SEDENTARY	
Names	Times	Names	Times	Names	Tiroes
G. (Yale)	24	J. (Bat. Cr.) A. B.	37	B.N C. (Bat. Cr.)	74
L. B.	3*		44		
R. M. B.	98	B. S. S.	90		
R. Ba.	104	D.	350		
R. Bu.	i*5	tW. B. B. (Yale)	305		
J. M. T.	1302	H. O. (Bat. Cr.)	1000		
Averages	279		288		74

t As previously stated, there is reasonable doubt as to whether or not W. B. B. should be classified as an abstainer. If he were transferred to the other side of the comparison, the averages would merely change from

279 vs. 288 to 283 vs. 284.

by the repetition of the performance on each of several successive days. The flesh-eater who reached 1302 did so after the 1000 mark had already been set for him and with the express intention of exceeding it. It was evident from his fatigue at the end that he could not have repeated the performance on the next day as did his rival. Both these men had made a specialty of developing their abdominal muscles. Only one of the sedentary group of abstainers took the leg-raising test. His record was iar below that of the flesh-eating athletes, being 74 as against 279.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-161-

GENERAL COMPARISONS.

	ARM HOLDING		DEEP KNEE BENDING		LEG	RAISING
	No. of Persons	Average  Record	No. of Persons	Average  Record	No. of Persons	Average  Record
Flesh-earters, athletes	i5	10 Minutes	9	383 Times	6	279 Times
“ abstainers, **	*9	39 "	»6	927	6	988 “
“ “ sedentary	x3	64 "	5	535 “	1	74 “

There remain two questions: First, are the figures in the preceding tables a true index of the relative endurance of the groups of men considered? and second, if so, is the difference in endurance thus displayed due to the dietetic causes mentioned or to some other factor?

The necessity of raising the first question has been pointed out with much emphasis by Caspari, who in his Physiologiselle Studien ueber Vegetarismus* states that vegetarians are usually so determined to prove the correctness of their principles and to spread their propaganda, that they make a far greater effort in any contest than do their meat-eating . rivals. He points out that in the foot races in Germany between vegetarians and meat-eaters, some of the latter have dropped out when not really exhausted and given the victory to the former, who have heroically stayed by their guns. It is undoubtedly true that grit counts for much in most contests of endurance, and that it is possible to mistake a superiority in grit for a superiority in muscular endurance. Such an hypothesis in the present case, however, would not serve to explain the facts. It is true that a few of the flesh-abstainers, notably H. 0., A. W. N. and J. F. M., exhibited the spirit mentioned by Caspari; and it is also true, that one of them, H. 0., tried hard to infuse this spirit into others. But most of the abstainers were less influenced by the desire to vindicate their dietetic system than by the rivalry with individuals— the spirit of the sportsman. Thus, in a general way the later tests showed better records than earlier tests, for the reason that the subjects wrere constantly trying to break previous records. All the large records, with one exception, were brought about in this wayt. The advantage of those who took the later tests, in having a mark set for them to reach or surpass, is shown in the comparison between the two groups of abstainers, the sedentary and the athletic. It can scarcely be supposed that the sedentary physicians had actually greater endurance than the athletes. Yet in one of the tests (arm-holding) the sedentary men had the higher record. This is ascribable to fhe fact that the sedentary men were tested after the records of the athletes were known. The athletes had been tested on January 21st, 26th and 30th, and one on February 16th. The sedentary men were tested on February 13th to 16th. Thus, with one ex-

* Bonn, Verlag von Martin Hager, X905.

t The exception was the case of the Yale low proteid athlete, G. S. D., who, in arm holding, reached 160 minutes, or a hours and 40 minutes, although no previous contestant had attained more than 37 minutes.

Digitized by ^.oooie
-162-

ception, the athlete C. C. R., reached the highest record but one, namely, 176 minutes. The sedentary men had therefore the greatest spur of competition. The spur is especially needful in the painful arm holding test. The final holder of the record was the last man to be tested, Dr. E. J. W. His record was 200 minutes. In the other tests, deep knee bending and leg raising, the athletes maintained the higher records.

'	(To be	concluded.)

PHYSICAL TRAINING A DEPARTMENT OP EDUCATION.

By CARL J. KROH, University of Chicago School of Education.

The human body in its wonderful structure and marvelous mechanism is expressive of the highest that in art is conceivable. Its study, as an entity, as a living creation, invites the profounded inquiry; it embraces the whole realm of human wisdom. To mold the living nature, as it were, is the matchless and priceless privilege of the teacher.

ITiree great art fields are distinguishable: that of the plastic art of the human body, as implied in all its developmental possibilities—in its activities; that of the cultural arts; and that of the representative arts.

This view, I believe, includes all the virility and elemental qualities fundamental to the modem superstructure of high culture.

The first, fundamental or preparatory field concerns itself with the physical as the basis of the psychical activities. Either, as power develops and matures, or both, constitute the forces determining the harmonious adjustment necessary to success in all later endeavor.

The portrayal, indeed, of the living art-work constitutes the art of arts, and represents the highest aesthetical "worth. Arguments for its emphasis, when presented on approved pedagogical principles, cannot be denied. The quickening influences, however, so essential to the recognition of its legitimate place and bearing in education, have been slow to materialize, overshadowed as they have been in our time by the hue and cry of huge endeavor. Discrepancies in methods, consequent on an overemphasis of what constitutes the popular conception of physical training, as contrasted with the legitimate aspects of the work, are also responsible in no small measure for the hesitancy of even some of our most innovating educators in turning the tide of their solicitudes in the direction of this fundamentally important work.

The general conception of an educational rationale has always been more or less tinged with the utilitarian hues of our material progress. The ideal of a product, mentally and physically superior in every respect, is with difficulty construed in terms of its proximate equivalent. The interpretation of the phrase, “physical, mental, and moral education,” has been singularly one-sided. Broadly construed, physical training always has had a rather general significance. Specifically construed, it has not yet been satisfactorily or fully adjudged in its initial import as signifying a department of education, although its bearing on education has been demonstrated beyond cavil and doubt.

There is as yet, it is true, no royal way to perfection. The inquiries
-lea-

bestowed upon the intellectual pursuits have not been focused in a like manner upon the purely physical. The sheer endless sources of profitable inquiry concerning the human organism and its adaptability, as affecting the superior qualities of conduct and habit, have remained more or less obscure, and, it may be said, despite our progress in the related sciences, that the present-day student is not enlightened with respect to his organism and its functions in a manner possible with the means and ' resources at hand. “Were it not for the marvelous self-adjusting and self-regulating power of the human machine,” it has been pertinently said, “we should utterly fail in our faith in progress* as determined by the tardy application of the modern doctrine of the human body.”

The very gradual elimination of confusion existing between truth and probability, however, has lent tone to the general endeavor. Not “what is,” but “what should be,” is the stimulating motive of the exponent of progress.

Physical training, as an agent in our modern development, has steadily advanced trough the demands for its better organization. This advance has not been in every way satisfactory, nor in concord with with the purposes of education, whenever it resulted^in a regime designated merely hygienic or recreative. It has been satisfactory whenever it reflected the needs of the individual physical nature in nerve-stimulating and regulating work, “garbed in youthful pleasure and merriment,” based upon pedagogical principles, and governed by the laws of mind and body.

Some of the methods nurtured in the schools owe their origin to conditions quite different from those prevailing in them, and are at variance with the avowed purposes of education. But, between the tenets of an ever-ready reasoning and the unsolved problems of the opposite people, they serve their purposes in lieu of something better to displace them.

The probing of methods under the prevailing conditions is as futile as the inoperative demand in some of our school systems that the regular teacher shall adapt himself to this branch of work.

The solution of the problem of what shall be subservient to the most profitable results in physical training or education is a matter that ranst appeal to the professional schools, warranted by virtue of their determining influences in organizing well-equipped departments of phvical training for the better guidance of the prospective teacher, in order that his interest in the physical welfare of his charges may be assured and that he may become enabled to reinforce the superior mental equipment demanded in our time in all lines of pursuit.

It is gratifying, indeed, that the synthesis of opinion of a steadily growing coterie of critical educationists at present is gravitating toward the conviction that the most fruitful interpretation of the nature, scope,

i.nd spirit of this very interesting subject rests with its organization as a department of pedagogical'discipline. A desire is being urged for an evaluation of the correlated factors constituting the various aims advanced for physical training that shall conduce to a more pronounced

Digitized by Google
—164—

general and rational progress. The enhancement of the work is demanded to the end that it be made more real and vital, rather than to appear as an artificial makeshift—without content. As a legitimate agent in actual life it should find its enhancement in most subjects taught in the school curriculum, and notably in the biological sciences. Preferences for the quasi-approved procedures, whether hygienic, developmental, recreative, or remedial, are kept in abeyance pending this somewhat conservative stand.

Experiment and inquiry have proved much to augur this promising distinction. The growing conception of the value of pedagogy and personal skill, as applied to the intellectual unity presented in the child's body, for instance, must ultimately determine the course of true physical iraining, and obviate the vexatious uncertainties due to a lack of coherent procedure. The superficial notioli of utilizing gymnastic instruction as a perfunctory means of recreation, and as an incidental expedient for remedial purposes, to the exclusion of its larger function in the curriculum, is rightfully viewed somewhat narrowly by all who have thought seriously of the matter.

Thus the steadily growing significance of physical training not only in our elementary schools, but the phenomenal interest in athletics in our elementary schools as well, confront the authorities, who must determine the policy of the schools with reference to the order of their importance, with an interesting situation.

Whatever the background of the underlying charm, the actuating motive, or the intelligence directing the respective activities involved in systematic physical culture and the qualities cultivated, the most salutary effects of this large, interesting subject can accrue only through a definite and comprehensive scheme, embodying all the factors determinative in the work-adaptation of physical culture to the youth of all ages. To become effective, such a scheme must find the teacher of the future endorsed for the views he holds with reference to it. This demand, already emphasized in many normal schools, will in time insure a policy more in harmony with our interests than is the present athletic spirit

In the interim, owing to the scant ingenuity displaved in a dissemination of knowledge and information, conveying the scope of physical training, the personal element discounts the pedagogical. The athletic interest exceeds the interest for a scheme of educational merit, the discomfiture of occasional criticisms being offset by the verdict that nothing short of these practices in a like manner can conduce to the sturdier and more desirable qualities developed in aspiring youth. The last resource in innumerable schools is had in a resource to the seasonal in- and outdoor sports, admittedly the best substitutes for educative physical training. The principles or prerequisites of proficiency, as they affect the body of our school youth, are left to solve themselves. The charateristic alternatives represent the extremes of procedure, on the one hand stimulation to supreme effort, on the other, the distinction claimed for purely corrective work.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—1(55—

What is the function of organized gymnastics in the school? The function of gymnastics in the the schools is to further the attainment of the ideal of education. This ideal may be variously expressed in a robust manhood of superior mental and physical quality and fiber, representing the qualities fundamental to an ideal citizenship; or, it may concern itself with the remoter concept of an exalted nationality, when it engenders a deep-rooted and fervent patriotism—a sentiment always to be transformed into a determining principle. With such an ideal as a motive, gymnastics represents more than a mere diversion—it attains a newer significance and becomes an art. “Living, acting, conceiving form the triple chord within the child of every man, though the sound of this chord, now of that, and then again of two together, may preponderate.”

The gymnasium, as a school of self-realization, represents a social institution, where the “pleasure of being strong lies in the fact that others around us are strong, thereby furnishing us with companionship and healthy competition, the fuel of life.” Under this conception “health becomes incidental, and not the deliberate object of exercise.” The ever-increasing body of scientific knowledge concerning the formative and developmental stages of early life determines the means to be employed in its preservation.

Means, purposive in a hygienic sense alone, cannot be conducive to that interest in activity which represents the source of all volition, nor do they beget an atmosphere of cheerfulness. Gymnastics proper, on the other hand, which deal with ever new and interesting movement-con-lepts, that train not only in careful observation and estimation of distances and objects, and in the exercise of comparative judgment, and to reason in countless ways, and to appreciation of symmetry, and form-beauty, but also to reason for the great perspective, the remote and final outcome, and to avoid the dangers of unprofitable deviations—such must represent the school that would bring into play all the faculties.

The gymnasium should represent the very essence of community life. Through its work, help, play, and companionship, it influences and strengthens character toward the larger opportunities of life. It is a place where the growing boy’s heart is thrilled with the power of right and robust resolution; where he is constantly brought into new relations; where encouragement bears fruit quickest and becomes most lasting; where reproof touches to the quick; where the varied phases of life-activity preclude all dry mastery; where power is developed to think and reflect, to execute and originate, not through direction alone, but also through exercise; “where order and propriety go hand in hand; where w ilfulness is restrained, energy stored, and skill developed.” So regarded, the gymnasium represents a correlation of factors emphasizing to the fullest all conduct.

Can the aspects of this training become realized in a scheme of school gymnastics? Thought and action be so adjusted, and motive so instilled, as to enhance interest In physical education?

Can there be any question as to who should assume responsibility in the espousal of this tremendous factor in our school life?

Digitized by CjOOQle
-166-

THE DOCTOR IN RELATION TO EXERCISE AS A FACTOR IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY.

By THEODORE TOEPEL, M. D.f Atlanta, Ga.

Read before the Georgia Medical Association, Savannah, Ga., April 18, 1907.

We are living in a period of progress which has reached every sphere in life. So bewildering has been our rapid development that we have reached a stage in our existence where, while we question the possibility of future progress, we are yet always ready to accept anything, which even we, with our greatly dilated imaginations, could not have conceived of a short time ago. It seems that our generation has set itself the task of proving that there is nothing new under the sun. We can point with great satisfaction to the honored colleagues of our profession, medical and surgical, who have probably done as much for the improvement of mankind as have the representatives of all other sciences combined. Owing to new discoveries, medical science is continually and rapidly enlarging its scope.

Our mode of living has become more and more artificial and justly do we hear the erv from every far-sighted lover of mankind, medical and pedagogical, “Go back to Nature.” Where fifty years ago drugs were universally administered, they are today being less frequently given and their place is to a great extent taken by more rational means, to be classed as physical therapeutics; namely, electricity, baths of water, hot air and light, massage, medical gymnastics, exercises in apparatus, etc.; but as the title of my paper calls for the discussion of the subject of “Exercise,” I will confine my remarks to this alone.

Very few physicians who recommend “physical exercise” as a therapeutic measure have any idea of dosage and physiological limits of the work. Physical exercise, closely related to medical science, is an eligible sister to the family and deserves a place in the curriculum of our Southern medical schools, where intelligent instruction as to its aim in the medical profession will eradicate many difficulties with which the physician must contend. Many a young man and woman there is whose health has been undermined by the results of careless advice on the part of their councilor, the doctor, to take exercise, and on the strength of this authoritative statement has fallen a victim to one of the many advertised six weeks cure for all diseases, twenty-five dollars down systems. It may even have been that the physician giving this advice is himself a victim of the cartilage, deep breathing, no breathing, etc., systems. Such conditions would never exist if every graduate of an up-to-date medical school would know enough about the dosage and physiological limits of muscular work to be able to write out a series of exercises as the physical condition of his patient may require. See the phenomenal success tfith which the osteopaths have met in this community. Could this have been possible had the surgeons recognized the value of exercise in sprains, contracted ligaments and convalescent fractures, the neurologist in neuritis and nervous prostration, and locomotor ataxia, and the physician in chlorosis and constipation and selected heart affections? No, never!

Digitized by CaOOQle
—167-

Exercise is only a rational measure which is monopolized by these people, yet it rightly and justly belongs to the medical profession and should he used by every physician and surgeon in selected cases, but it is unfortunately, or fortunately, as we make take it, misused by the osteopaths.

The orthopedic surgeon needs exercise and massage in his corrective work. Lateral curvature of the spine is no longer treated by braces exclusively, but by gymnastics, sometimes in connection with other measures, it is true, but always by exercise in some form. Exercise is indeed indispensable to the successful work of the orthopedic surgeon. The conscientious and progressive physician of today cannot afford to give unintelligent advice in regard to exercise, leaving choice of exercise to his patient just as little as he would direct him to go to a drug store and ♦ select his drugs himself.

In a few words I shall explain the physiology of exercise and its therapeutic applications by the physician and surgeon.

By bodily exercise from our standpoint is meant, progressively arranged and methodically executed movements, involving mainly the muscles and joints, indirectly affecting bones, nerves and organs with the object of correcting and perfecting the human organism from the point of view of strength, skill and health. This is done, either alone in a suitable position or with the assistance of others. The system of exercise is divided into—

1.	Passive.

2.	Active.

3.	Resistive.

1.	Passive exercise arises when one or more persons perform a movement with, or on some part of the patient's body, without the patient, by means of resistance or in any other way assisting in the performance of the movement.

2.	An active exercise is one which the patient himself, by his own strength, performs independently. This is again sub-divided into gentle, moderate and violent exercises, and is governed by the patient’s physical condition.

a.	A gentle exercise is one by which a patient of average strength after performing experiences neither fatigue nor breathlessness.

b.	When the exercise has caused local fatigue without inducing breathlessness, it is termed moderate.

c.	An exercise is violent when it is accompanied and followed by breathlessness.

3.	A resistive exercise can be performed in two different ways:

a.	The patient performs the movement while the operator makes a resistance suitable to the strength of the patient and to the desired effect. This movement is termed concentric or shortening.

b.	The operator performs the movement with a part of the patient’s body, while the patient makes a resistance. This is termed exccntric or elongation movement.

From the foregone it will be seen that dosage of exercise depends upon individuals. With some patients a considerable muscular expen-

Digitized by CjOOQle
—168—

(litlire is necessary to bring about an expansion of the vital forces due to active congestion. These are the strong natures accustomed to exercise. With feeble persons accustomed to complete rest and to muscular inactivity, the least movement, the shortest walk produces a similar result. I wish to impress upon the physicians the importance of proper dosage of exercise. Irreparable harm is daily done by injudicious prescriptions of exercise given by people who have no knowledge of the physiological capacity of the organism or by those who know nothing of the progression of exercise, ignorant of the amount of effort it requires to execute certain movements, with their consequent physiological effect. The local effects of exercise may be briefly stated to be:

1.	Increase of blood and lymph circulation.

2.	Increase of both constructive and destructive tissue change.

3.	Absorption of waste or effused products.

4.	Development of the muscles, ligaments or other structures acted upon.

5.	Increased heat production and tissue respiration.

6.	Reflex or sympathetic effects upon the vasomotor and through them upon the large internal organs, the liver, spleen, stomach, intestines, kidneys and the general glandular system of the whole body

The practical uses of exercise or therapeutic application of it are numerous. Rarely ever do I pick up a medical journal where not some instance is given whereby exercise in some form has not been advauta-geously used. Following are some of the uses: It is a measure par excellence for disorders of nutrition, because the general nutritive processes of the body are influenced in a most powerful degree. Anaemia and chlorosis are more rapidly and permanently cured by exercise in the open air than by any other form of medication. In the treatment of muscular rheumatism, exercise in the form of massage not only relieves the pain accompanying the disease, but also antagonizes the muscular atrophy which is one of the most constant results. Massage is also very beneficial in articular rheumatism; it relieves the pain through its derivative action and also promotes the absorption of effused inflammatory products and restores lost mobility. Other physicians, as well as I, have found that massage, passive and active exercises, in the order mentioned, are useful in arthritis deformans, also that they have given excellent results in the arthritic neuroses which are so often the result of acute and chronic inflamation and injuries of the joints. Massage of the prostrate, as presented in a paper to the Association by Dr. Champion two years ago, has afforded valuable results in certain cases of enlargement of this organ as the result of inflammatory condition. Massage and active exercise influence the digestive functions by driving onward the intestinal contents. An exercise which brings the abdominal muscles into action is thus favorable to defecation and can cause the disappearance of digestive disorders due to constipation.

Among the most striking effects of muscular exorcise are the changes in the muscles themselves under the influence of work. The muscles increase in size, and their structure is at the same time changed.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-169-

thev lose the fat which infiltrates their fibres, and tend to be reduced to their own proper elements. The muscular fibres, the density of which being greater than that of other tissues, gives a characteristic firmness to the region which works. Contraction draws to the muscle a greater quantity of blood, and the increased flow continues even when the work is over.

In muscular atrophy, whether resulting from neuritis or from disease of the cord, passive exercise of the muscles, especially friction, is a measure of the highest value, affording, in fact, the best of all known means by which the nutrition of a muscle may be maintained while i.generation of the connecting nerve structure is taking place. Chorea, writers cramp, wry-neck and other maladies in which regular muscular action, or spasm, is a leading symptom, are more amenable to massage treatment than to .any other therapeutic means. Such disorders as facial neuralgia, lumbago, sciatica and crural neuralgia, also yield to general and local massage.

Dr. Frenkel has succeeded in combining in his system of physical exercises the re-education in walking with that of equilibrium and maintenance of movements of the trunk, and the walk that he teaches is effected in such a manner that while insuring the maximum of stability with the minimum of effort, it serves at the same time and with slight modification for walking up and down hill, on the level, or on the irregular ground,—all points which the ideal walk and the military march fail to accomplish. Frenkel has fixed on a method for the compensatory treatment of the ataxia of tabetics, taking into consideration not only the motor disturbances of the arms and legs, but also the inco-ordination of the trunk, the defects of sensibility, the insufficiency of inspiration, of micturition and defecation, the difficulties in equilibration and the sense of position, completely modifying the health and duration of the life of the tabetic, and the prognosis and the evolution of tabes.

Notwithstanding the fact that the ancient traditions of the profession require absolute rest of the affected parts after injury of the bones or joints, so many authoritative statements have been made respect-ii g the utility of massage in b*oth fracture and sprains, asserting that this i icasure has been accepted as one of the most valuable means of dealing with the traumatic effects resulting from accidents to the bones or joints. Passage, applied early, and with a suitable degree of skill and perseverance, effects a more speedy cure in both sprains and fractures than absolute immobility, the retentive apparatus being usually removed and replaced daily. It prevents both the loss of movement which usually occurs, and the muscular atrophy which is the natural result of absolute rest and immobility. The prevention of exudates or their early absorption may be mentioned as other valuable results of passive exercise in this class of cases.

In conclusion I wish to say that every physician should know something of the method of “physical therapeutics," and should avoid vague expressions, such as “out-of-door life,” “muscular exercise,” and so on, when consulted as to the propriety of exercise in an individual case. Give

Digitized by C^ooQle
-170-

vour patients the advice in regard to physical exercise that they expect to receive from you and the danger will be forever removed that they fall into the hands of some preposterous humbug.

SYLVESTER SCHAEFFER.

T’nder the above title there appeared an article in the „I)eutsche Turnzeitung“, giving a life sketch of this genius, by no less a person than l)r. phil. Ruhr of Leipsic. The article is too extensive to be brought before our readers in full, but is of such unusual significance that the main points at least should be briefly stated. Dr. Ruhr writes at the outset that he fully realizes the oddity of his attempt to glorify and pay tribute to a vaudeville performer, particularly since there will be no account of remarkable horizontal bar, parallel bar or horse exercises, nor an exhibition of huge masses of muscles which might secure such an article a place in the Turnzeitung. He further states in the beginning, that if any of the readers should become convinced of the mental side of bodily exorcises and their educational influence toward true manhood, he should feel amply repaid for his attempt. It may increase the interest of the readers to suggest that Sylvester Schaeffer is a member of the famous Schaeffer family which toured this country a number of years ago and created a great deal of comment. The fact which causes Dr. Ruhr to write <o minutely about this artist “favored by divine grace," is, that he commands the greatest number of branches of art, and each to a point of virtuosity. Some of these arts are directly opposed one to another, antagonistic as it were, in the qualifications necessary. Schaeffer alone gives an entire entertainment lasting an hour and a half. He begins his performance with magic tricks and while he is not unusually great in this, he is in line with the best magicians of the day. Next he appears as lightening artist and designs and paints oil paintings inside of five minutes, which even to the most critical eye must be a marvel. Dr. Ruhr tells of having been told by Prof. Ehrl of the Munich Art Academy that this young ai^ist possesses an unusual inborn talent for drawing and color composition.

The next two numbers are in the line of juggling. Besides the many familiar tricks performed by the every day juggler, he shows a number of seemingly impossible acts of balancing and juggling, and every act is ]>erformod with an ease and grace which leads one to accept liis work as the highest form of art ever shown to the public.

After a short interval he again appears. This time carried by a handsome Arabian steed, with which he demonstrates the various forms of horse schooling. The same number also shows him as trainer of dogs and here again the audience marvels over the finished performance of his pet dogs.

Next Schaeffer appears in huntsman costume ami gives a startling exhibition of fancy and accurate shooting. From every possible pos-sition he delivers the ball in the heart of the object. “But," writes Dr. Ruhr, “he has not yet exhausted his repertoire. We did have a glimpse

Digitized by C.ooQle
-171-

into his inner life when he appeared to us as painter, but now we are to look into the very depth of the soul of this really great genius. I may be permitted to state that I myself have some knowledge of music hut besides have added the opinion of well known experts. All agree in their verdict of pronouncing Schaeffer a violin virtuoso, which title, however, Schaeffer does not use. I have heard Kubelik, Misha Elmau, Kolffs play Haendel's Largo, a favorite selection of mine, hut I am free to say that I have not heard either one play it with more depth of feeling than did this master of the violin.*'

The two last numbers show his physical ability. “Here again we are not confronted with the usual type of clumsy strength feats performer or the spindle legged, record eating skeleton.*' “We see before us a classic beauty, one which has never been excelled, even during the best days of gymnastics in Greece. 1 was delighted to find my opinion corroborated bv the art Prof, mentioned above, who said Schaeffer possessed from head to foot all the qualifications of a perfectly shaped man,”

The various and unequalled strength performances are then explained in detail and judging from the vivid description they must he wonderful, or as Dr. Kuhr puts it, “unthinkable from a mechanic-physiological point of view."

A brief history follows the description. Schaeffer is 22 years of age and has enjoyed a most liberal education, mentally as well as physically. He is a charming young gentleman in society and of good habits.

The article is most interesting throughout and is recommended to our readers. It ap|>ears in the May number (No. 22) of the „Deutsehe Turnzeitung.“—0. L. S.

—NOW THAT GYMNASIA WILL SOON BE OPENED AGAIN, the following extracts from the “Gymnasium Directors' Gom-panion" are of special interest:

CARE OF GYMNASIUM APPARATUS.

Periodica! examinations should be made of all gymnastic apparatus. Annually, at least, all fastenings should be carefully examined and tested: not n casual look over, but a thorough search for hidden dangers. Each fastening should be reached by ladder or staging. Monthly all suspended apparatus should be tested and other apparatus thoroughly cleaned and looked over. Daily inspections should he made to see that all is in place and in good order, removing cracked and broken apparatus and making slight repairs. The proverb “A stitch in lime saves nine” is an axiom in the gymnasium.

Hopes.—Examine all the fastenings, bolts etc., and see if they are ►nug; also all splices, couplings, hooks, etc. Do not neglect this because they are high up and it is considerable trouble. Heated gases attack ropes and in a few years destroy them, hence, they should be tested annually. Make a loop of small rope, about four feet long, secure one end to the ring or other rope to be tested, put a strong wooden bar in the end ofthe loop, and seat four average men on the bar. This is an easily made test, and is safe.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-172-

Bars and Guys.—Keep guys snug, but not too tight. Never use a wrench or bar to tighten a turn buckle. If they are too tight their strain alone may pull the fastenings out. Keep bars snug in their caps. Never turn a hickory or steel core bar over; if it gets bent, let it stay so. The fibres of the bottom have become assustomed to tensile strain and those of the top to compression; if you reverse them they will be sure to break. Never allow anyone with buttons on his clothing or shoes to get on a bar; a single scratch will start a break.

Heavy Apparatus.—The bolts and fastenings should be inspected and tightened if necessary at least once a month. See that the feet arc in good condition, so they will not scratch the floor, that casters work right and their rolls are sound. Oil the hoisting mechanism of horses and bucks.

Pulley Weights.—Rods should be worked with an oilv rag or waste when they get so dry as to make a wispy sound as the weight holder slides on them.

Ropes in a gymnasium may wear out in a few years. In replacing them get the same kind of rope. Sash cord is not as good. Secure the ends to the handle bv putting a small sc*rewr in the rope and drawing it into the socket. Don't knot the rope. Keep the ropes up snug and tight, but not so tight as to raise the weights when not in use, as this prevents easy change of underlift weights.

Weight Holders.—Should a felt bearing require renewing, winch seldom occurs, rub some liquid glue on the outside of the newr felt, roll it up and push it into the new' socket; when it dries the glue forms a hard shell on the outside of the felt, and prevents the bearing from coming out. Rub a good supply of plumbago grease into the felt as soon as it is dry.

Bearings, if of wood, may run many years without oil. Don’t oil them until they squeak or call for it: then use only machine oil. Metallic bearings require oil often, once a month or more.

Calisthenic Apparatus.—Keep all racks in good condition. Don't have broken bells, clubs or wands around, they lead to further destruction. Have a fewr spare ones for juggling unless the members will furnish their own clubs.

New apparatus requires at the start more care than old. Bolts are liable to work loose, the shrinkage of wrood to loosen parts, others may be adjusted too tight for use. Careful wratching is necessary to discover these things and remedy them before they wfork permanent harm to the apparatus.

Mattresses.—Street shoes and shoes with heels should not be used on mats; neither should a hard indoor shot be "put” on them. It is more economical to get a shot that is padded, and throwr it on the floor.

When the tufting strings break, they should be promptly renewed, or the felt will get separated into wads. When the centre of the mat is wwn out, it may be renewed by sewing on a strip of newr canvas.

About the only way to clean mats is to thoroughly beat and dust them, out doors in a breeze, if possible. Mats may be painted to keep dust out. A very elastic "outdoor” paint should lie used, or it will soon dry hard, crumble and make dust.

Digitized by CjOOQle
AfllND ftND BODY. jfc

8ibieripti(ni Price, 91*00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FRE1DENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

MU-weuvLlcee, WUtconeln.

9* Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wi» Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—DURING THE COMING YEAR a number of new good useful games will be described in “Mind and Body.” The Pin Ball game by Harry Sperling, printed in this issue, has also been tried in Philadelphia and found to be a good game. The placing of the three pins behind the home plate introduces into this modified baseball game some of the good features of cricket.

—IN "THE ETHICS OF AMERICAN ROWING" Samuel Crother, Jr., in the "Outing Magazine” for July, speaks of a bit of “sharp practice” which is in line with other practices of the same sort.

College rowing, says he, would be the better for the elimination of the professional coach, who has grown to such a size that the crew’ itself appears only as a necessary but quite impersonal adjunct. But sharp methods of professionalism among the men are fortunately lacking. The conduct of college rowing can scarcely be said to be truly gentlemanly; there is quite too much secrecy and childishness both at New London and Poughkeepsie, but nothing of unfair dealing with the exception of the Syracuse freshmen at Poughkeepsie last June. Coach Ten Eyck, a few days before the race, reported that his young son, the stroke, was ill; he kept him out of the boat for several rows and then put him in to win the race. All of which* was an unpardonable ruse to obtain bets. One becomes accustomed to this sort of thing in football and track, but rowing is fairer.

Yet, this is just what may be expected when school authorities lose sight of the educational value of all sports. If the departments of physical education have nothing to say about the person who is to coach a team we Inay always expect to hear of such sharp practices. We remember that last year we overheard the instruction given by a basketball coach to a boys' basketball team “that all is fair that the umpire does not see”! (?)

While it is true that coaches do not, as a rule, speak as openly as this, nevertheless with them the team is simply a means for personal aggrandizement. To practice sport for sport’s sake is beyond their comprehension.

—AFTER HAVING WELL MEANING, blit rather superficial gentlemen tell us that for thousands of children in all large cities it wfould be a greater benefit if we gave them a breakfast when they came to school, rather than gymnastics, it is rather interesting to read

Digitized by Google
—174—

the following article by Mrs. S. J. Stevenson in the “Philadelphia Ledger.'*

It is so unusual for the social worker to give us facts calculated to cheer us on our daily rounds of duty; facts that make it possible for us to eat three square meals, and even, once in a while, top off our dinner with our favorite eoupe-jaeques, without a pang of remorse at our selfish and extravagant gluttony, that it is with an appreciation bordering on personal gratitude that we gather and pass on the good word recently spoken by I)r. Linslv R. Williams, the chief of clinic, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt Ulinic, Columbia University, New York.

Taking up the subject of the number of children who some time ago were said to go break fastless to school, Doctor Williams says:

“Two years ago it was stated by philanthropists and by the public press that anywhere from 100,000 to 300,000 school children vent breakfastless to school. And, as result of these statements, the Salvation Army undertook to give free breakfasts to school children, which very promptly resulted in a failure, due, no doubt, to two special reasons: First, transportation was a vital difficulty, and second, that there were comparatively few children who really went breakfastless to school. The New York Committee on Physical Welfare of School Children investigated 4000 families and have been able to tabulate the results of the investigations as to the home conditions of 1500 children. One of the tables shows that only one-tenth of 1 per cent, of the children went breakfastless to school. A remarkable fact was disclosed as a result ot these investigations, namely, that the income in the large majority of instances was sufficient to meet the daily needs according to the standards adopted by the United Hebrew Charities, the Charity Organization Society and the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor. It was also significant to note that nearly 25 per cent, of the mothers were working."

Dr. Williams also remarks that the percentage of school children needing treatment is remarkably high, hut that this need not alarm the people of a large city, and make them feel that two-thirds of the coming generation are lame, sick, halt and blind; and that these two-thirds arc candidates for institutions for “dependents," “delinquents" and “defectives"—to he supported hv the State's (expense. At least, he says, if we eliminate enlarged glands, defective vision, defective breathing, bad teeth, hypertrophied tonsils and post-nasal growths, and if it is supposed that the following conditions each existed in a different child: Malnutrition, defective hearing, cardiac disease, pulmonary trouble, deformities of the spine, chest and extremities, had mentality and chorea, this reduces our percentage of defects to It) per cent.

In the first group, it is fair to assume that the defects, although of vital importance to the physical and mental development of the child, ere yet not serious defects, and in the majority of instances can readily he removed. But the importance of the examination—we cannot emphasize it enough—lies in the fact that, without it, these defects would not be discovered until they had seriously interfered with the physical welfare of the child

Digitized by VjOOQle
—175—

We may well assume that the existing conditions in Philadelphia and other large cities are at least no worse than those in New York.

—THE	FOLLOWING	BREEZY EDITORIAL from the

columns of the “Boston Herald" will give solace and strength to those of us whose actions do not always seem to conform to the dictates of science*

WHEN DOCTORS DISAGREE.

Among the active causes at work to drive the most stolidly phlegmatic people into insane asylums, the lead seems to be taken today by the bewildering variety of hygienic theories launched, in the name of positive science, on a docile, but easily mentally-distracted public.

Half crazy, all of us, to be strictly scientific, though we die in the attempt, no sooner does a famous physiologist or biologist or bacteriologist appear on the K-ene with a wild hygienic warwhoop of defiance at everything our venerated ancestors ate or drank, as well as how they ate and drank it—whether raw or cooked, painfully masticated or bolted in junks—than we feel it our bounden scientific duty to tear up all our old bills of fare and start out with a fresh one, in which, perhaps, solid pudding comes first on the menu and transparent consomme soup at last.

Why, only look at what has happened within the last ten or fifteen years, and ask if it has not been enough to turn topsy-turvy the brain of as level-headed a man as Dr. Benjamin Franklin.

First came along the nation-shaking Fletcher, backed up by no less illustrious a convert than mighty Gladstone, (’hew every morsel you take into your mouth at least do times before you swallow it, was now pronounced the first law of the new* Mt. Sinai breakfast, lunch and dinner decalogue. Digestion takes place mainly in the mouth, to which the stomach is a mere subsidiary adjunct. Of course, this threatened to knock into pie all cheery, loving talk at meal times, and to reduce the whole family circle to so many Zena (Nilburns, absorbed in arithmetical computations. No one could get in a chance remark edgeways. What matter? Was it not physiologically scientific? Beside**, only watch a group of cows under the shade of an elm tree on a hot July afternoon. Do they need audible words to express their sense of inward communion? As they lie there, placidly chewing the cud and engaged in the act of conjoint social rumination, who but recalls the charmingly harmonious * expression of Wadsworth, “Forty feeding like one?"

Scarcely, however, has the general mind adjusted itself to this idyllically pastoral gospel of 35 chews to (‘very morsel—no matter whai witchwork it would play with conversation, or what a plight it would have left poor Macaulay in at a London dinner party—than uprises, with a whoop, another scientific authority to break to pieces the Mosaic tablets of the converts to the mastication decalogue.

This time it is the “chief chemist of the United States Departiurt of Agriculture," the Hon. H. W. Wiley. “Don't chew your meat. Gulp it in chunks.'’ Such is his war cry. Pay no attention to the cows! Study, on the contrary, the dogs! There you find the true carnivora

Digitized by (google
-17G-

who understand the science of eating meat. There is reason to believe .;hat chewing makes meat indigestible. So, to avoid this risk, the dog quickly bolts it, chunk on chunk. And it never disagrees with him, as it often does with us. Go thou and do likewise! And, to make matters worse, and confusion still more confounded, we are defiantly informed that the Hon. H. W. Wiley took his position especially to head off the malign effect of the recent report of Prof. Irving Fisher of Yale—perhaps the head centre of all the physiologists of America—(whose investigations of the Effects of Flesh Eating on Endurance we print in this issue.—Ed.) who recommends moderate chewing, but mainly confines himself to demonstrating that we all eat too much, and might make a far nearer approach to athletes and sages- at half the cost in meat bills.

Now, under such contradiction of dogmas—worse even than the contradiction of sinners—what is a plain, average man to do but either to swear off from so-called science or be haled to an insane asylum on a writ of “de lunatico inquirendo”?

—IN THE “OUTING MAGAZINE” for August we find the following interesting article on the Poughkeepsie Regatta which will be certain to interest our readers, and may be the means for creating a greater interest in the form of physical activity in communities or schools where the conditions ore favorable for its exercise.

“That there were only two finished crews on the Hudson does not reflect creditably upon the intelligence of those coaches who have been going to Poughkeepsie annually to view the high class rowing of Cornell —and to take their yearly beating; it appears that they have not put in their time very profitably. Year after year we witness the same faults that are responsible for poor rowing and defeat; year after year the coaches stick obstinately to what they call their school of oarsmanship: Pennsylvania persists in putting practically*all their power on the end of the stroke; Wisconsin continues to rush their slides and thus check the boat (although there is slight improvement here); Syracuse still adheres to the “get-there” stroke, so does Georgetown; the Naval Academy, where surely we might naturally look for intelligent direction, condemns eight plucky young men to a heart-breakinng stroke and a four mile futile effort that is more than likely to leave its mark on one or another of that valient crew. If this is to be taken as a sample of the Navy's capacity to diagnose situations then America's only naval need is not battleships.

Although we cannot call ourselves a rowing people in the sense in which we apply the term to the English, yet the season just closed has been none the less an eventful one; and certainly the boating spirit grows apace in America. True, and unhappily, practically all the activity is on the Atlantic Coast but better there than nowhere; moreover, there are indications of an awakening on the Pacific Coast as well as some slight symptoms in the great Middle West where our best athletes come from. And that is the trouble—they come away instead of staying there to build up the home product. Once upon a time there was quite a little rowing in the Mississippi River section straight down the river as far as

Digitized by CjOOQle
-177

New Orleans where the old St. Johns stood for good sport and excellent form; but that was kept alive entirely by club interest, and club interest is diffievilt to keep alive beyond a rowing generation unless it has one or more colleges serving as athletic feeders. Rowing failed to thrive in those parts of the West and the South because it was denied support from its source of natural supply; very few schools or colleges took it up, and the most prominent one to do so has been chasing off every year far away to the Hudson River to try conclusions with Eastern institutions which were in no need, insted of remaining at home in effort to work up some rowing interest among its neighbors. I refer of course to Wisconsin, which, like Michigan, appears to prefer the Eastern shadow for the Western substance; both of them ought to use there muscle and money in lifting the local standard. There is no reason why both Chicago and Minnesota universities should not have crews, and an annual race for these great Western colleges would mean something.”

LONGEVITY OF “Y” MEN.

CONCLUSIONS FROM THE STUDY OF THE RECORDS OF HALF A CENTURY AGO OF ATHLETICS IN MAJOR SPORTS.

By Dr. WILLIAM G. ANDERSON, Director of Yale Gymnasium.

The question has frequently been asked in these days of the prominence of college sports: “Is the college athlete a sounder man in after years and a man of longer life than his non-athletic brother?” It is a generally accepted fact that some form of exercise or athletic sport is necessary for the proper development of the growing human body. Statistics prove beyond a doubt that the man in college, or out of it, is better for consistent exercise of some sort. But it is not so certain that the man whose enthusiasm for the proficiency in some sports brings him to the highest recognition in college is correspondingly benefitted. A good many people claim that the highly developed athlete has more muscle and more lung power than he can use when he graduates and takes up his long apprenticeship in some sedentary occupation. If he is not careful the very power of lung and heart which made him a force in the long four-mile pull, if he be a crew man, becomes a danger to him, because there is no call in his every day life for the abnormal development he acquired in college. If he does not keep up some very vigorous exercise outside of office hours the lung tissue developed in his college life falls into disuse and may be the indirect cause of consumption, or the heart, forced to do over-work in the strain of the competition in the big sports and over-developed, may retaliate in after life bv refusing to do its work in some great stress like pneumonia, for instance.

So claim the opponents of high athletics. But frequently conclusions of this sort are drawn from individual cases and are not of value. The only records ever gathered at Yale which bear on the question is that of Y men from 1855 to 1905. These records were gathered oy Prof. Franklin B. Dexter and were by him turned over to Mr. John Gaines, ’90, who made a report on them formse by an insurance company, and to

Digitized by C^ooQle
-178-

the writer. By these records it seems to be proven that the highly developed athlete, in spite of the many notable exceptions which may be quoted, lives longer than his non-athletic college mate. Whether this is because he is an athlete or whether he is a specially selected man from a specially selected group of American youth, such as a college or university is supposed to represent, is not shown. The only way to get at such a result would be to take the highly specialized athletes in after life and compare their longevity with a specially selected group of their contemporaries, which would be an almost impossible thing.

But if not conclusive, the figures on the longevity for the last 55 years are highly interesting and are at least a pointer to the value of specialized athletics. The record covers the lives of 807 athletes in the four major sports, beginning with the crew in 1855 and taking up football, track and baseball as those games came to have a place in the college calendar of outdoor sports. The attention is at once arrested by the fact that among the 807 athletes who won the distinction of a Y, and who may be considered the highest type of trained athletes, only 58 death* have occurred in the last half century. Of these 18 were crew men, the largest number, as might be expected, since rowing is the oldest sport recorded; 16 were football players, 13 were track and 11 were baseball men. When the average of the years in the life of the sport is struck it is found that the mortality was greatest among football men. Crew men were second, track third and baseball men were fourth with an extremely low average. Compared with the Select Mortality Tables of the Actuarial Society, which are made up from the mortality averages of thousands of lives all over the country, the Yale athletes show remarkable longevity.

Comparison of the mortality of specialized athletes with the general graduate who has not distinguished himself in athletics to the extent of winning the Y still shows in favor of the athlete. Of 10,922 students in Academic and Sheffield classes from 1855 to 1905 inclusive 1,406 are dead and 9,516 are living. The percentage of death here is 12.9 per cent Of the 807 athletes from 1855 to 1905 only 58 are dead, a percentage of 7.2 or only a little over half of the general graduate. Of course, the comparison here, as it was in the general mortality table, is somewhat misleading, in favor of the athlete, for it must be remembered he is a triply selected man, first by his membership in college; second, by his membership in the athletic group and third as the pick oi the athletic group.

Judging from the investigations it is reasonable to say that there is no undue strain put on the athletes while they are in training and their later history seems to show they were benefitted rather than harmed. Proof is conclusive that high Yale athletes do not die young and that heart disease is not a chief cause of death. Consumption was responsible for 12 of the 58 deaths, but in the case of athletes the percentage of men dying from this cause was not greater than the expected deaths among non-athletes from a similar cause. Mr. Arthur Hunter of Yew York, a high actuarial authority, says that a comparison of the causes of

Digitized by CjOOQle
-179-

death among athlete;5 and “Mutuals” insured before 45 years of age does not develop any irregularities in the distribution of deaths. The proportion of death among athletes from tuberculosis was found to be 22 per cent, to the thousand and “Mutuals” insured below 45 years, 24 per cent.

Deaths from heart disease in the Yale list of 58 men were four at the ages of 35, 57, 68 and 70. Thp average is low. Pneumonia carried off 6, typhoid 5 and typhoid pneumonia 2. Those who wish to push their argument that high athletics are bad for the lungs and heart might find some ground for that argument in the fact that 24 of the 58 deaths were caused by lung trouble of various kinds, and heart failure. The table of deaths further shows that 9 of the 58 athletes met violent deaths, of which 2 were suicides. One died of dissipation, which was not traceable to participation in athletics.

The inevitable conclusion from the figures gathered is that the Yale man who came to high honors in the major sports in the last half century, has more than the ordinary man's share of long life. But whether this is due to his high development as an athlete or to the original strength of the man himself is still unproven and seems likely to remain so unless some more perfect means of comparison can be found.—Yale Alumni Weekly.

COACHING COLLEGE RUNNERS FROM A MOTOR CAR.

By J. B ROWLAND.

It is to Courteney, the famous coach of Cornell's racing crew, that credit is usually given for the statement, “My crews are trained to the minute.” It is worthv of note that such a statement should be considered of sufficient value to be treasured as a bit of quotable wisdom, for it is undoubtedly the goal to which all trainers strive. Considered as such, however, it is not surprising that its authorship should be accredited to a man who has had such remarkably consistent success in developing a winning brand of brawn.

The (raining of a crew or team of athletes to compete as a unit is in many respects a far simpler matter than the task of developing numerous individual talents, the joint sum of whose independent efforts must be responsible for the success or failure of the venture. Where team credit is the important point the mistakes of the individual, if not too serious, may be subordinated to the development of the team as a team. The recognition of this principle—the relative importance, or rather unimportance, of individuality as compared with team ability—has of late become so pronounced that individual ability is relentlessly sacrificed in favor of team-work. It is thus that the tendency of football coaching has been to subordinate the so-called “grand stand play,” and to direct the aggressiveness of the individual where it will redound to the credit of the team as a whole rather than to his fame as a single player.

When a coach, however, must develop, not the energy of a squad, but the capabilities of individuals for a contest in which the fault of one cannot be atoned for bv the creditable performance of another, he may truly be said to have a task worthy of his best efforts. Such a task is the

Digitized by CaOOQle
-180-

coaching of the runners of a track team. On the individual success or failure of each runner must depend the prestige of the Alma Mater for success or failure. Unfortunately, the inherent conditions for coaching of this character tend "to increase rather than diminish the difficulties of 1 lie task. Your runner, encircling a quarter-mile track, is, during the greater part of the time, too far from the watchful eye of the coach to allow of his detecting the subtle faults of form, whose individual appearance often means tho difference between success and failure when success is most to be desired and failure most regrettable. It is perhaps iargely on this account that consistency in the turning out of runners lias not been an abiding factor in the athletic history of our college world.

Xow, however, comes the athletic coach of Columbia University —Mr. J. B. Crooks, known in the familiar appreciation of the college vocabulary as “Josh Crooks”—with a scheme whereby he hopes to minimize the difficulties of these coaching conditions

He has provided himself with a 24 to 28 horse-power motor car, to the dash of which is attached a speedometer. With this combination he has been laboring quietly, but persistently, during the fall with his crosscountry runners in support of one of his fundamental theories that a strong cross-country squad offers the finest foundation for a successful irack team. If his track team is as successful during the coming spring as he has every reason to believe it will be, it is safe to predict that the automobile will thereafter play as important a part in the coaching of a track team as does the coach's launch in the coaching of a crew, for it is a somewhat similar part that has been assigned to it. From a position of vantage in the car, Crooks is able at all times to keep in the immediate proximity of the squad, so that he is prepared at anv moment to direct such corrections in form or efforts as his trained judgment’deems necessary, while bv directing the chauffeur to hold the indicating arrow of file speedometer at a designated point he is able to regulate the pace with absolute precision. He has thus, at one throw, overcome the two principal difficulties in the training of runners, the spotting of a fault at the moment of its appearance,, and the direction and constant control of the pace.

Experiments in the methods of training have served to show that while driving before the squad as a pacemaker is likely to render the men dependent upon the speed of the car for the pace, a scheme whereby this method is adopted at the start, and a change made during the course of the run so that at the finish the squad is driven before the car, serves to develop the powers of endurance to their greatest extent. There i< also great satisfaction in knowing precisely the capabilities of he various units which compose the squad, and this method supplies the desired information with a completeness that has not been equalled by any other, permitting a more intelligent direction of the light indoor work made necessary by inclement weather. Among the minor advantages which the use of the car has developed are the conveniences afforded by the carrying of sponges, restoratives, bandages, and other paraphernalia

Google
-181-

Tvhich may be needed by the nraners, to say nothing of the service it is able to render as an ambulance in case of a sprain or other injury.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

^Continued.')

A Class Drill, squad work on the apparatus and closing with a “Relay Race.” See explanation below.

A short run as a preliminary. Gymnastic tactics.

After lining up in front lormation count off to fours. Form fours

1.	obi. in four steps, then open order forw. to two steps distance. Face in the direction of the shorter members.

1.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Pos.—2! Raise 1. knee forw. and arms forw. upw.—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

2.	.Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise arras outw.—1! Pos.—2! Bend knees (full squat) and bend forearms upon the arms, the hands closed to fists and over shoulders—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

3.	Raise arms forw.—1* Bend trunk forw., move arms downw. backw., then upw. obi. on the 1. side—2! As 1—3! Pos—4! Same r.—5, 8!

4.	Lower to squat rest and place hands on the floor—1! Straighten the knees and hips backw. to front leaning rest—2! Bend arms—3! Straighten arms—4! Repeat 3, 4—5, 6 ! As 1—7! Pos.—8 !

5.	Raise arms forw.—1! Bend trunk backw. and move arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

Marching order as an intermediate exercise.—The rows march forw., countermarch 1. to farther end, again countermarch 1. to starting point. Same, but r. Class 1. about-face! Repeat the marching order, beginning now with the taller members. Face front again.

i>. Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise arms outw.—1! Vi turn 1. on the heels, kneel on r. knee, move arms forw. and clap hands—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1,8!

7.	Toe-touch backw. 1. and bend forearms upon the arras, the hands closed to fists and in line over the shoulders (elbows point outw. and drawn back)—1! Lunge sidew. 1. and stretch arms sidew. (outw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! or Alternatel—8!

8.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise arms outw.—1! Bend trunk sidew. 1.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

9.	a) Stationary run with raising the lower legs backw. 24 to 32

counts.

b) As a, but raise extended legs forw. alt. 24 to 32 counts.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. upw. in four counts; exhale slowly and lower arms forw. to starting pos. in four counts. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

NOTE.—Practice the breathing exercise under favorable conditions only.

Close ranks in reverse order to that of opening to front formation. Form squads and march to assigned places for apparatus work. First Division : Low horizontal bar in combination with high jump.

Digitized by Google
- 182-

Second Division: Side horse.

Third	41	Low parallel bars.

Fourth	44	Oblique ladder.

Change places.—Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Low Horizontal Bar in Combination with High Tump.

NOTE.—The standards to be placed about three feet on the farther side of the bar.

The members of the first division to stand between the two pieces of apparatus, i. e. in front side stand to the horizontal bar on the farther ride of the same.

The horizontal bar to be started about height of chest or shoulders and the cross bar at about four feet.

Raise the cross bar two inches after every trial of the squad.

1.	Jump to front rest, raise hip and knee,-straighten backw. quickly* and with a sharp push off clear the cross bar.

2.	As ex. 1, with M turn r. as the cross bar is being cleared. Same 1.

3.	As ex. 2, but Vs turn r. (1.).

4.	Drop kip to front rest, squat rest on the horizontal bar, then stand erect, dismount backw. over cross bar.

5.	Free front hip circle backw. and dismount over cross bar.

6.	Drop kip to free front rest, front hip circle backw. and dismount over cross bar.

7.	Repeat exercise 1, or any of the others for height.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the side horse.

First Division.—Side Horse (height of chest).

A short run precedes all' exercises.

1.	Jump to front rest, Vt circle r. with 1. leg and rear vault mount r. in saddle, then rear vault r. over neck (the 1. hand to rest on the neck for support while vaulting) and add Vi turn 1.

2.	Jump to front rest, % circle r. with r. leg and double rear vault mount r, (on croup), raise both legs backw. and straddle dismount backw. (Vi turn 1. or r.)

3.	Double rear vault r. (over neck, then croup), face toward horse (front side stand), jump to free front rest and rear Vault r.

4.	Tripple rear vault mount r. (face toward saddle), raise both legs forw. (feinting), as the legs swing backw. quickly grasp farther pommel with both hands and rear vault r. over neck with Vi turn 1.

5.	Tripple rear vault r. (over neck, croup, saddle).

6.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Try all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Second Division.—Side Horse (height of chest).

A short run precedes all exercises and jump to front rest and—

1.	Squat rest in saddle, straighten knees and hips backw. to free front rest and immediately squat vault forw. dismount.

2.	Squat vault forw. and hold both legs forw. at r. angle, squat backw. to front side stand and immediately straddle vault forw.

3.	Straddle vault forw. and hold both legs forw. at r. angle, squat backw. 1., Vi circle r. with r. leg (backw.) to front side stand and immediately flank vault forw. 1.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-183-

4.	Squat forw. r., Vfc circle r. with 1. leg, both legs closing forw. at r. angle, then squat backw. 1. and Vst circle r. with r. leg to front side stand and immediately rear vault r. over neck.

5.	Jump to front rest and turn over forw. to hand balance, hold two or three counts, then lower backw. to front side stand.

6.	As ex. 5, then add farther turn over forw. with bent arms to back side stand.

7.	As ex. 6, but with straightened arms.

8.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Try aQ exersue* 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the first division on the horizontal bar in combination with high jump.

, The position of the apparatus to remain the same as for the first division, however, the members begiu'on the near side of the horizontal bar.

In front side stand—

1.	Jump to momentary free front rest, underswing and pass over the cross bar.

2.	As ex. 1, with M and % turn 1. (r.).

3.	Jump to momentary front rest, drop kip, then underswing and pass over the cross bar.

4.	Front hip circle backw. to free front rest, underswing and pass over the cross bar.

5.	As ex. 3, but add to the kip, squat rest on the bar, stand erect and dismount forw. over cross bar.

6.	As ex. 1, and try for height.

7.	An exercise free for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the low parallel bars and the fourth on the oblique ladder.

Low Parallel Bars.

In back cross rest at the end, swing forw. and backw. to—

1.	Squat rest I. behind the 1. hand, swing r. leg forw. and backw. and front vault dismount sidew. r. Same opposite.

2.	As ex. 1, but alternate the squat rest (from 1. to r. and vice versa) several times and finish with front vault.

3.	Squat rest 1. behind the r. hand, the r. leg on the outside of the r. bar, intermediate swing and change to opposite pos., front vault dismount sidew. r. with Vi turn 1. to cross stand.

4.	Squat rest 1. and r. behind respective hands, straighten backw. to front leaning rest, turn over forw. to back cross stand.

NOTE.—One of the advanced members to offer assistance.

5.	Side riding rest on the 1. thigh behind the r. hand, the r. leg between the bars, circle the r. leg forw. and meet the 1. to outside cross seat, intermediate swing and repeat the above on the opposite side to outside cross seat, intermediate swing and straddle dismount forw. to back cross stand.

6.	Side riding rest on the 1. thigh behind the 1. hand, the r. leg on the outside of the 1. bar, intermediate swing and repeat the above

Digitized by Google
-184-

on the opposite side to side riding rest, intermediate swing and front vault sidew. r. with V4. turn r. to back side stand.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Oblique Ladder.

NOTE —The exercises alternate on the upper and under side.

1.	In front hang stand, hands in outside grasp on the beams, bend and straighten arms three or four times, down.

2.	In front leaning rest, travel to upper end on the upper side, moving 1. foot and 1. hand simultaneously, then the r., the hands to grasp the beams, descend in same manner.

3.	Jump to straight arm hang, hands in outside grasp on the beams, pull up and lower four times, down.

4.	Run to upper end, the feet and hand rest on the rounds, turn around and lower to straddle seat on the beams, slide downw.

5.	In front hang stand (under side), hands in outside grasp on the beams, travel downw. with the hands as near to the feet as possible (knees remain straight), then travel upw. with the hands to starting point. Repeat once or twice, down.

6.	In back leaning rest, feet on rounds and hands on the beams, travel backw. to upper end, descend forw.

7.	In front cross hang, hands in outside grasp on the beams, travel upw. to about the center or two thirds of the ladder, then descend in same manner.

8.	In front cross stand, travel to upper end without the aid of the the hands, descend as in ex. 4.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Relay Race."

Explanation of the race. Divide the class into squads of about eight or ten members each, or as many as there are bucks and horses available. The squads are to stand in flank order at one end of the gymnasium. Place a buck half way down the course (about height of chest) and a horse standing sidewise at the farther end. This to be the order for each squad.

As the members approach the buck straddle vault forw.; on approaching the horse, run under the same and around on the 1. side, then back to starting point and hand the object carried to the next man.

A small flag or handkerchief may be carried over the course.

This order continuing until all have had their turn.

Repeat twice.

Line up class in front formation, clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.)

EXHIBITION WORK.

Wand Exercises for the 6th Grade of Indianapolis Public Schools.

GROUP I.

ExefcLe 1. Raise wand upward and point step left forward 1—2.

Lower wand on shoulders and point step left sideward 3—4. Raise wand upward and point step left forward 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 17—32. Exercise 2. Wand on shoulders and step left sidew. to stride stand 1—2. Extend wand upward 3—4.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-18r>-

Exercise 3.

Exercise 4.

Exercise 1.

Exercise 2.

Exercise 3.

Exercise 4.

Exercise 1.

Exercise 2.

Exercise 3.

Exercise 4.

Lower wand on shoulders 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Right 9—18. Repeat 17—32.

Raise wand forw. and step left sidew. to stride stand 1—2. Swing wand sideward and bend left knee 3—4.

Wand forward and straighten left knee 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Raise wand forward 1—2.

Raise wand upward with y2 knee bend 3—4.

Lower wand forward and straighten knees 5—6.

Starting position 7-^-8. Repeat 9—32.

Sixteen counts rest.

GROUP IT.

Raise wand upward 1—2.

Ijower wand on shoulders and bend trunk forward 3—4. Raise wand upward and straighten trunk 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—32.

Wand on shoulders 1—2.

Extend wrand upward and bend trunk sideward left 3—4. Straighten trunk and wand on shoulders 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Raise wand forward 1—2.

Swing wand left sideward and twist trunk to the left 3—4. Wand forward and trunk to the front 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Wand downw., trunk bending forw. (wrand at ankles) 1—2. Raise wand upward and straighten trunk 3—4.

Wand downward and trunk bending forward 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—32.

Sixteen counts rest.

GROUP III.

Raise wand upward and charge left forward 1—2.

Lower wand on shoulders and bend trunk forward 3—4. Extend wrand upward and straighten trunk 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Wand on shoulders and charge left 1—2.

Extend w*and upwrard and bend trunk left sideward 3—1. LowTer wrand on shoulders and straighten trunk 5—6. Starting position 7—8. .Right 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Raise wand forward and charge left sideward 1—2.

Swring wand left sidewfard and twist trunk to the left 3—4. Swing wand forward and trunk to the front 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Lowrer wand downward and bend trunk forward 1—2.

Raise wand upw., straighten trunk and charge left forw*. 3—4 Lower w’and dowrnw’ard? bend trunk forward and heels together 5—6.

Starting position7—8. Right 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Host eight counts.

Grouping eight counts.

Boys: Stride stand and Wand forward.

Girls: Kneel on right knee and wand upward.

(To be continued.)

EXCESSIVE CHEERING AT COLLEGE GAMES.

President Eliot of Harvard pleased many persons when in his report lie decried the “excesses of cheering” which characterize many intercollegiate sports. While many lovers of the more vigorous forms of sport may take issue with the venerable president on his attitude on football, hockey* and basketball, quite a number of them will be found to agree with him on the “excess of noise.” Few will be found to condemn genuine enthusiasm, but the letting off of “ecstatic” sound, whether local or instrumental, whether the play deserves it or not, is disconcerting to those spectators whose mental balance is not tilted for the time being. In our national sport of baseball 90 per cent, of the spectators know a good play when they see it and do not need a cheermaster to tell them when to shout. Moreover, the majority of them are impartial and are willing to give the other side recognition when it deserves it. In many forms of intercollegiate athletics the “other side” is the enemy, perhaps more so from the standpoint of the spectators than the players. Much noise will disconcert the enemy and help the home team, therefore, much noise. When Elijah called the little massmeeting of the 450 prophets of Baal at Mount Carmel“ they cried aloud and cut themselves with knives/'* but Elijah was the man who scored. In modern days there are many who make just as much noise as did the prophets and the effect is similar. It takes something more than brain storms to triumph at football, basketball, or hockey.

PIN BALL.

By HARRY SPERLING, Special Teacher of Physical Training, Nev* York Public Schools. Principal Vacation Phyground and Evening Recreation Ce lire.

Some years ago while in charge of one of the open air Park Play Grounds, established by the municipality of Greater New York, the game described below was introduced by the writer.

The playground material had become exhausted and it was necessary to keep a number of boys, clamoring for something to play with, actively at play. A group of boys had been given a set of baby ninepins. I divided the boys into two teams, and we began playing, in a crude way, the game herein described.

The game became popular at once and with a few modifications, the result of several seasons with the game, is herein presented.

PLAYERS.

Two sides are chosen, nine or less to a side. The player.* are given positions corresponding to those played in baseball.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-187-

EQUIPMENT.

A bat, three nine-pins or Indian clubs, and the ball. For indoor games the indoor baseball gives best results. A game consists of nine innings. Three outs retire a side.

FIELD.

The playing space is the same as for baseball. On a small field one would have to mark out a correspondingly small diamond.

Directly behind the home plate a triangle is marked out, its sides fifteen inches in length, and the apex facing the pitcher. It is on the points of this triangle that the pins are placed.

v

' \PiiArr'

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

/

nrcM£#s

I-----------------1

f	«

V

V

V





V

V



THE GAME.

A pin or club is placed on each point of the triangle back of the home plate. The pitcher delivers the ball and attempts to throw down one or more of these clubs. Should the pitcher succeed in knocking over one pin the batter is out. If two pins are knocked out with one delivery, two men are out, and if the pitcher is skillful enough to knock

Digitized by CjOOQle
-188-

over all three in one delivery, he retires the side. The pitcher either rolls or bowls the ball. The ball must be delivered from below the hip: i. e., a sideward or underswing of the arm. The ball must strike a point in front of the home plate to be considered fair, that is, the ball must not be sent whizzing through the air straight at the pins, but must bounce in front of them at least once. A fair or foul ball is determined by the same conditions which govern in baseball.

A pin thrown down on a foul ball does not count as an out. It is the duty of the catcher to quickly replace a pin which has been disqlaced. After a ball has been batted, the batter runs as in baseball.

A base runner caught between the bases when a pin is knocked down by a fair ball, is out. The pitcher, it will be seen by this, can retire both batter and base runner, simultaneously, if he is fortunate enough to knock down a pin when a man is trying to steal a base.

A strike is counted against a batsman when he attempts to hit the ball. It is a strike should the ball roll between the pins or bounce directly over them whether the batter strikes at the ball or not. Three strikes retire the batter.

Girls enjoy this game better than baseball. The sides change very quickly, and the few rules are readily understood.

THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE PLAYGROUND ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA IN CHICAGO.

A Report made to the Commissioners by DR. HENRY S. CURTIS, Washington, D. C.

The first annual meeting of the Playground Association of America, which was held in Chicago on June 20th, 21st and 22nd, was undoubtedly the most notable playground assembly that has ever been hel l in this country. “Charities” says of it, “It marks a newr era for playgrounds.” The meeting was notable for the people who appeared on its program, for the hundred or more distinguished men or women who were sent as delegates from the different cities, for the opportunities which it gave to see the South Parks playground system of Chicago, and for the play festival with which the convention closed.

The meeting of the National Council, which was purely a business meeting, was called to order at 10 o'clock on the morning of the 20th at the City Club by Dr. Gulick. From the report of the Secretary and the Assistant Treasurer it appeared that the Association had then a membership of 408 persons, a number which has been increased by nearly 100 since, and that the total receipts for the past year had been $7,764.50. The following officers were elected:	Honorary	President,	Theodore

Roosevelt: Honorary Vice-President, Jacob Riis: President, Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick; First Vice-President, Commissioner Henry B. F. Mac-farland; Second Vice-President, Miss Jane Addams; Third Vice-President, Mr. Joseph Lee; Treasurer, Mr. Charles L. Hutchinson; Secretary, Dr. Henry S. Curtis: Chairman of Executive Committee, Mr. Seth Thayer Stewart; Chairman of Finance Committee, Mr. Felix Warburg.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-189-

Two important new committees were formed, one committee on Legislation, of which Joseph Lee was made Chairman, which was to draft a model state law authorizing playgrounds in the different cities, and a second, a Committee on Playground Courses to Be Introduced into the Normal Schools, of* which Clark W. Hetherington of the University of Missouri was made Chairman. It was considered that inasmuch as playgrounds are becoming a part of the school system in all of our different cities and that to a larger and larger extent teachers are being asked to take charge of the direction of play as a part of their regular duties, that training in play leadership should be a part of every normul school course, and that as a larger and larger proportion of physical training of children is being derived from the playground, a larger proportion of the time of normal schools of physical training should be given to the training of playground directors.

The prime emphasis of the whole convention was on the social and moral value of play and playgrounds, and the absolute necessity of competent supervision.

Judge Ben B. Lindsey, who was prevented from being in Chicago to give his paper by the urgency of local conditions at that time, telegraphed from Denver, “Playgrounds are greater preventives of delinquency than courts.” Dr. Gulick showed that plav is the best possible preparation for the life of the citizen in a democratic state. Joseph Lee showed how the acquiring of the power of self-government and the habit of obedience to law w'ere essential results of successful play. Jane Addams said that at present our cities are spending 100 times as much for the care of delinquent children as they were for such recreation as would prevent their delinquency; that any wise city would reverse this expenditure.

Principal Scudder dwelt on the need of playgrounds for country children. He said that country children at present knew very few games; they were not growing strong through work as they had in previous years. Organized play in the country schools about New Paltz had proved very successful during the past year.

Mr. G. E. Johnson dwelt on the fact that training given by play wa« so vital that games should be a part of every school curriculum.

Dr. Elmer Ellsworth Brown, IT. S. Commissioner of Education, said that he regarded the training of the playground as not less important than the training of the school.

Dr. Favill emphasized the importance of fresh air and exercise in the playground in preventing tuberculosis.

The report of the Secretary showed that apparently the number of playgrounds in the United States had very nearly doubled in the last two years and that the amount of money expended had nearly quadrupled.

The first of the meetings of the convention were held in the Art Institute in Chicago and all the later ones were held in the field house-* in the playgrounds. Each of these playground houses furnished an auditorium with a seating capacity of about 1,000, and the meetings

Digitized by CaOOQle
“3 90—

were held there in order that the delegates might observe the South Park playgrounds as well is hear the addresses. The playgrounds were especially delightful at night, when they were thronged with children and parents who came to look on. There was absolutely no disorder and the children seemed to have a glorious time. Dinner on Friday and lunch on Saturday were taken at the field house restaurant. It was interesting to note the unconsciousness of the children in the playground and the smoothness with which everything was going.

Each of the playground directors in the South Park system of Chicago receives $1,100.00 a year, and the supervisor of each of the fo-ir systems receives $2,400.00 a year.

The most delightful part of the conference, however, was the play festival. This was, I imagine, the most extensive exhibition of games that was ever given in Amerisa, and comprised all the best games from the kindergarten up. One of the most interesting exhibitions were a number of games of long-ball, which is a variation of indoor baseball, and was played by half a dozen teams simultaneously. This seems to me the most interesting and perhaps the best game for a small space which has thus far been brought out. The play festival was closed by an exhibition of folk games and dances by people of a dozen different nationalities in their native costumes. Probably five or six thousand children and adults took part in the various contests and games.

THE LAKE GENEVA SUMMER SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By J. SIDNEY HOLTON.

No Summer School of Physical Training has had a steadier increase in numbers and efficiency than the Summer Session of The Institute and Training School of the Young Men’s Christian Association at Lake Geneva, Wisconsin.

This school held its eighteenth session this year and was attended by eighty-seven physical directors and ninety-eight secretaries and other employes of Young Men’s Christian Associations, thus making a total of one hundred and eighty-five. The representation of territory was wide,'including Mexico, California, New Jersey, Florida, Canada and England.

The entire faculty consisted of seventeen instructors, nine of whom gave their entire time to subjects relating to physical training. The work of the department was, as formerly, under the direction of Dr. Henry F. Kallenberg. Dr. Kallenberg’s colleagues were:

William E. Day, Theory and Practice of Athletics, Association Physical Work.

Edwin H. T. Foster, M. D., Anatomy, Histology, Gymnastics, Athletics. Chas. J. Kurtz, M. D., Anatomy, Physiology, First Aid to the Injured. William J. Monilaw, M. D., Track and Field Athletics, Massage.

George J. Fisher, M, D., Philosophy of Physical Training, Social Service. Albert J. Coates, M. D., Gymnastics and Aquatics.

James S. Ford, Wrestling, Gymnastics.

C. H. Blesse, Boxing

Digitized by v^ooQle
—101—

OF the forty-two distinct courses cf instruction offered in the school, twenty-four related to the theory and practice of physical training. Besides the standard courses in anatomy, physiology, hygiene, first aid to the injured, anthropometry, etc., and in gymnasium and field practice there were courses in rowing, sailing, swimming, wrestling, fencing, and boxing. Boxing was introduced for the first time this year under the direction of Charles H. Blesse of St. Louis, and was one of the much appreciated courses. Mr. Blesse was the winner of the Amateur Championship in Boxing for Missouri in 1905.

Another new course was a course in Social Service conducted by Dr. George J. Fisher of New York City. This course dealt with lines of work which the physical director may conduct outside of his gymnasium, and forms of phvlanthrophy and sanitary work with which the physical director may cooperate. The discussions in this course included the relationship of the physical director to the National Society for the Prevention of Vice, National Playgrounds Association, Sunday Schools Athletic League, Public Health Defense League, Red Cross Society, etc.

As ever, at Lake Geneva, the students devoted themselves strictly to business. With most of the men the school occupied the vacation period, but with no man was it a vacation spent in idleness. A strong, sane, wholesome religious spirit pervaded the school. Every man stood for and practiced the principle that the fundamentals in physical training are plain living and clean conduct.

BOOK REVIEW.

—“JAHRBUCH FUER VOLKS- VXD JUGENDSPIELE B. K. Teubner. Leipzig und Berlin.

The new 1907 yearbook of the German National Organization for the Play of Adults and Young has made its appearance and may be heartily recommended to all who are in any manner interested in the play movement as related to the mental, moral and physical health of the community.

Part I has original articles on various phases of the play movement— one by the wellknown Professor Dr. F. A. Schmidt of Bonn on t! c "Playground Association of America” with illustrations of some notable playgrounds in the tTnited States.

Part II is a review of the playground literature of the year 190fi.

Part III treats of the obligatory weekly “play-afternoon”. The «;rticle by Prof. Dr. Konrad Koch of Brunswick, in which he relates of the Wednesday play-afternoon, which has been obligatory “all the year around” at the Martino-Katharineum for more than thirty years, is very interesting.

Part IV brings original articles on foot tours, the swimming of girls in Dresden, skating, different war-games, and a short sketch on dancing in the open air.

Part V brings news of the growth and development of the play-movement from all parts of Germany.

Digitized by C.ooQle
—192—

Part VI is an interesting schedule, showing how the National Play Association seeks to further the development of this great factor in the life of a nation by means of play courses for men-teachers and for women-teachers. For 1907 there are forty-six courses planned, each lasting one week, giving practical instruction in games. The instruction is given free; small cities and towns generally send competent teachers of the public schools to attend these meetings (which are held in different centrally situated cities), paying their expenses.

Last year 2695 men and 828 women participated in these courses. Since the year 1890, when, in a small way, the first play courses were held, 10,278 men and 4,095 women have attented these meetings. The hook of 375 pages closes with announcements, of the “Central Committee.”

—LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE, AND ROUND SHOULDERS” is the title of a book by Robert W. Lovett, M. D., of Boston, Mass. Price $1.75.

For the teacher of gymnastics this is one of the most valuable books among recent publications. As the author says: “In the last ten years a good deal of progress has been made along new and promising lines, by means of experimental and clinical work, the records of which lie scattered through later medical literature (of this and foreign countries). In the following pages I have attempted to bring together this literature and to add my personal views and experiences........ If I have de-

voted too large a part of the book to the question of treatment, it is because of the scant attention paid to that part of the subject in most books dealing with deformities.” With its 154 splendid illustrations and easily understood style of writing the hook is certain to be a good help to all teachers who are anxious to study the cause, the treatment and the probable cure of lateral curvatures and of round shoulders.

—SCHOOL HYGIENE, by Edward R. Shaw. This is a little book no teacher should be without, and it will be of more than ordinary interest to every reader of “Mind and Body,” be he a teacher or not. The chapter on Warming and Ventilation applies to the home as well as to the school, as also do the chapters on Sanitation, Eye-sight and Hearing. There are few books which, for the money invested ($1.00), repay the reader as much as does this little volume.

THE GEISEL EXERCISER.

Entirely new, simple construction, durable and finished in full nickel. Adopted to home or gymnasium. Used by classes of the Springfield and Springdale, Mass., Tumvereins. Send for tree illustrated booklet.

THEODOR R. OEISEL,	SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

Digitized by CjOOQle