Vol. 5.	JANUARY,	1899.	No.	59

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, Chicago normal school, Chicago, III.

Wm.Stecher, 8ec’v. of the Technical Committee of the n. A. Gymnastic Union, Cor. 3rd a Chestnut 8t'8, St.L0UI8,M0. F. PFISTER, M. D., Managing Editor, 760 Third 8t., MILWAUKEE Wl8.

PHYSICAL TRAINING.

Paper read at the Illinois State Teachers Meeting at Springfield, 111., Dec. 27, 28, and 29, by HENRY SUDER, Superintendent of Physical Culture, Chicago, 111.—Illustrated by a class of special instructors.

Ladies and Gentlemen :—At the request of the honorable Chairman of the Committee on Physical Culture of your valued association, I take the liberty of addressing you to-day on the subject of training the bodies of pupils in the public schools. The old saying that “a sound body is necessary for a sound mind,” needs no fortification by arguments before an audience composed of instructors having the experience of the one before me, and I can approach the subject without further preliminaries.

Gymnastic exercises are divided into different departments, some of these are practiced at present in the public schools in the city of Chicago, and it is my object to illustrate some of these.

With the kind assistance of the teachers of physical culture of our city schools I hope to be able to give you an illustration of the physical training branch of our school curriculum introduced some thirteen years ago. The main departments which I take into consideration, now carried out in our schools to some extent, are: Light Gymnastics (calisthenics), Heavy Gymnastics, and Recreative Gymnastics.

Light gymnastics are movements that can be practiced in any position without apparatus.

Heavy gymnastics are exercises on apparatus, such as ladders, climbing poles, swinging rings, etc.

Recreative gymnastics comprise many kinds of games.

Digitized by G,OOQle
-242-

Our Board of Education in introducing physical training, for different reasons, selected light gymnastics :

First, Owing to the lack of space in our school buildings,, the pupils were obliged to exercise in the class-room between the desks.

Second, Because it could be carried out with comparatively little expense.

Right from the beginning, however, the extension of these exercises was taken into consideration, should their first effort prove successful.

With the exception of four schools in which physical culture was introduced as a trial, and which were supplied with wands and dumbbells from the beginning, only calisthenics without hand apparatus were practiced for a number of years. Later on all schools were supplied with wooden wands and for schools with large corridors and assembly halls, dumb-bells and Indian clubs were also granted.

The exercises now consist of arm, trunk, head, and leg movements, and are carefully selected with a view of bringing all parts of the body into action during a lesson.

The space in a school-room being very limited, it was not an easy matter to arrange the exercises in a manner to keep pupils interested in our work. For a number of years calisthenics only were practiced in our public schools, but in erecting and equipping a gymnasium in connection with a new high school building the extension from light to heavy gymnastics was made, and since the erection of the first gymnasium, not only high schools have been equipped with apparatus for physical training, but a large number of elementary schools have received all kinds of gymnastic apparatus.

This improvement is heartily welcomed by both children and teachers. But I do not think it sufficient to furnish apparatus to give the pupils the opportunity for exercise. Careful training by those qualified for it is absolutely necessary to gain good results.

It pleases me to know that in the last fifteen years much has been done for the advancement of physical culture in the public schools of our country. In many of our cities it has become an essential part of the school system, and although only calisthenics are practiced, the foundation is laid and the superstructure will undoubtedly follow in time. If we compare our work with that of foreign countries, especially Germany and Switzerland, we find that we have a great deal of hard work before us before we can reach their standard of physical training. While on an average one hour weekly is given to bodily training in our schools, in Germany two, and many of her schools three hours are devoted to that work.

Rome was not built in a day, and we should not expect that this work would be appreciated throughout the length and breadth of our country in a few short years. It took many years and a great deal of missionary effort in the European countries before the training of the body was made a prominent part of the school curriculum. Many years have passed since such men as Dr. Martin Luther, Locke, Rousseau, Pestalozzi, Froebel and others raised their voices and insisted that the body and the mind must have equal training if we would again reach the physical ideal of the ancients as expressed in their statuary, and



Digitized by c^ooQle
-243-

their mental attainments as we find them handed down to us in the works of their philosophers, poets, and statesmen.

In 1793 the great educator GutsMuths published his book called “Gymnastics for the Youth.” F. L. Jahn erected the first open air gymnasium in the year 1811. His call to the youth to begin by strengthening their bodies in order to be prepared when the Fatherland called them to free it from foreign invaders, was answered by thousands and thousands all over Germany, and although the good results of Jahn’s efforts were apparent in the camps and on the battle-fields, yet physical culture was not introduced into the public schools of Prussia until the year 1842.

During my journey in Europe some years ago, I had the pleasure of meeting one of the best known instructors of gymnastics, Director Dr. J. C. Lion of Leipzig. I explained to him how physical training was carried on in our public schools ; at the end of our conversation he said, “You have begun to introduce physical culture into your schools, and when the Americans find out how beneficial it is to their children, it will gain rapidly in public estimation, as everything of real value does in your country.” I trust that the words of Dr. Lion will prove prophetic, and that the day may not be far distant when the public at large will appreciate the benefits of this branch of school work.

Recent events have shown us that in future we may stand in greater need of physical excellence than we have in the past. Systematical bodily training will develop strength, skill, and endurance. We have laid the foundation ; let us try faithfully to build up our noble work.

INFLUENCE OF THE MIND UPON THE BODY AND ITS RELATION TO EDUCATION.

Presented to the Section on Physiology and Dietetics, at the Forty-ninth Annual Meeting of the American Medical Association, held at Denver, Colo., June 7—10, 1898.

By RANDELL HUNT, M. D., Chairman of Section on Physiology and Dietetics, A. M. A., Shreveport, La.

INVOLVING, as this subject does, a comprehensive knowledge of the brain, nervous system and body, their relations and inter-relations, connections and nice dependencies, an over-estimate of it is impossible. Though its importance has been recognized for centuries in all the great philosophic treatises of the Aryan peoples, the ideas presented in them have been so entirely spiritual and ethical as in no way to suggest the psvcho-physical law underlying the whole.

The first to clearly perceive and appreciate the existence and potentiality of a psycho-physical law underlying the phenomena arising from the influence of the mind upon the body were Unzer and John Hunter. Since their time the subject has been ably studied by such men as Mueller, Elliotson, Laycock, Braid, Carpenter, Tuke, and Haidenhain, who have assiduously devoted their lives to the scientific elucidation of this problem upon purely psycho-phvsiologic principles. Such is the fruit of their inestimable labors that the medical profession gives to these workers its highest gratitude and respect, and perceives in the future development of man the raising of a monument to them more

Digitized by U.ooQle
-244-

lasting than stone, for their researches have practically established the fact that no mental modification can occur without a corresponding change in the body.

A primary purpose of this paper is to demonstrate that through intellect, emotion, and will the mind exerts an enormous influence for good or for evil upon the sensations, movements, and organic functions of the human body.

Intellect is the power of the human mind that adapts means to an end, guides the feelings, and enables its possessor to find out and act through knowledge. It acts upon the body more particularly through imagination, with which expectation, sympathy, belief, faith, imitation, and hope are closely associated. Attention also plays a remarkable part in consciousness, in its relation to physical phenomena, and though in one form, an act of the will must be included under this head, prolonged attention giving clear consciousness and good memory, while mind, through attention, concentrates and perceives itself—knowing, feeling, and willing. The persistent development of attention is one of the most important and practical factors of successful education, increasing, as it does, the natural growth of perception and conception, which are aptly termed by James the very backbone of our thinking.

The production of psycho-physical phenomena through active attention was understood by John Hunter, who says: “I am confident that I can fix my attention to any part until I have a sensation in that part” ; while the power of ideational upon sensational centers is affirmed by Mueller, who shows that “ideas do not act merely upon the motor apparatus, by which they are expressed, but as frequently aflect the organs of sense, which then present sensorial impressions or images of ideas.” Insensibility to.physical pain occurs when the attention, modified by expectation, is powerfully arrested in* a specific channel, the body failing under the circumstances to appreciate even the application of strong stimuli. “During the year 1862,” writes Dr. Braine of Charing Cross Hospital, “I was called upon to give chloroform to a very nervous and highly hysterical girl, who was about to have two sebaceous tumors of the scalp removed. On going into the operating theater, it was found that the bottle containing the chloroform had been removed to the dispensary, and on testing the Snow’s inhaler, which at that time I was in the habit of using, I found it to be quite devoid of even any smell of chloroform. Then, having sent for the bottle, in order to accustom the girl to the face-piece, I applied it to her face, and she at once began to breathe heavily through it. When she had done this for about half a minute, she said: ‘Oh, I feel it, I feel that I am going off,’ and as the chloroform bottle had not arrived, she was told to go on breathing quietly. It this time, her hand, which had been resting across her chest, slipped down by her side, and she did not replace it. I thought I would pinch her arm gently to see the amount of discomfort her histerical state would induce her to bear. She did not notice the pinch, and to my surprise, did not seem to feel it at all. Finding this was the case, I asked the operator to begin, and he incised one of the tumors, and then as the cyst was only slightly

Digitized by (^.ooQte
-245-

adherent, pulled it away. The doctor then tried the same experiment again, and without any trouble or pain removed the second tumor.”

The rejection of the contents of the stomach as the result of expectation is well exemplified by an experiment made by Dr. Durand. He gave sugar-water to a great number of patients at a hospital; then, pretending alarm, said he had made a mistake and given an emetic, the immediate result of which statement was to cause four-fitths of the patients to be really very sick.

2. Emotions are our capabilities to feel in view of ideas ; are occasioned by knowledge, and ‘‘are strung on ideas as pearls on threads of gold.” Some of the emotions look to self and are called “egoistic”; others are termed “altruistic,” because they look to others, but the emotions that look to the truth-world and duty-world are called “cosmic,” and by physiologists are located in the optic thalamus, quadrigemina, pons, and medulla. They act through the cerebrum, upon which they are dependent for ideas, and through the sensory ganglia, by means of which are produced the feelings with which they are associated. That the medulla is the seat of the emotions suggests naturally that undue excitement, in whatever way caused, produces through the vagi and other nerves that arise from it like effects upon the organs to which they are distributed. Emotion may act upon the sensory glanglia and centers of the nerves of sensation, thereby producing any of those sensations ordinarily induced by impressions upon their periphery ; and, though really central, these sensations may be referred to the periphery by the terminals, endings of the nerves. Claude Bernard asserts that the same nerve may transmit the sensory current in either direction, to or from the brain. Other emotions occur, due to the influence exerted upon the sympathetic nerves, as in creepiness from feat. Shakespeare describes the effect of shame upon the ear in the following couplet :

Mine ears that to your wanton talk attended

Do burn themselves, for having so offended.

Prof. Ball of Paris tells of an unfortunate fellow that had a quarrel with his mother-in-law and fell into a violent passion. Full of emotion, he went home intending to tell his wife, but to his infinite surprise found that he was dumb. Treatment, however, soon restored him to a normal condition. Contrast the mild expression of humility with that of pride. Fear expresses itself in cries, tremblings, and palpitations, while courage is bold, quick, and firm.

The heart, blood-vessels, and blood are materially affected by different emotions, as are also the lungs, ureters, bladder, and urethra. Dr. Beaumont found in case of the man with a fistulous opening in the stomach, that anger caused its inner coat to become red, dry, and irritable, always producing an attack of indigestion. It is well known that the menses are arrested by emotions of a violent character, and that infants suckled at the breast of an angry mother have been known to be made very ill. Jaundice has been caused by the emotions of fear and pain; a fact which can be explained by assuming that the vasomotor dilators have been stimulated, thus allowing or rather forcing

Digitized by CaOOQle
-246-

the bile into the blood, its pigment being by this channel disseminated throughout the tissues. Pleasant emotion increases functional activity, promotes metabolism, and actually renews, improves, and invigorates the mental and physical being ; though its scientific appreciation consists not only in its recognition, but in its substantial application to the improvement of mankind through educational methods and otherwise.

3. Will is the capability of self-direction, self-determination, and self-action; it makes of man a free agent, subdues the force of violent impulse, and guides the intellectual powers. It acts through the cerebral cortex, striated body, and pons. In health and disease the will can control within certain limits the reflex action of the voluntary and semi-voluntary muscles, while in the early stages of insanity there is often a violent conflict between the will and automatic cerebro-muscular action. All familiar with physiology are aware that by inflating the lungs and by an effort of will restraining respiration, the action of the heart can be almost entirely stopped, producing, however, if too long continued, complete collapse. Colonel Townsend once illustrated his power, through will, to simulate death. Drs. Cheyne and Baynard felt his pulse, and found it sink gradually until, finally, they were unable to detect the slightest evidence of life.

The power of volition over the body cultivated by the fakirs is authenticated by English officers and medical men, Dr. Carpenter giving in his physiology the case of a Yagi that by will suspended the organic functions, was buried for six weeks, disinterred and resuscitated. John Hunter says : “The state of the mind is capable of producing disease ; another state of it may effect a cure,” meaning by this to imply that one kind of emotion is capable of removing a disease produced b}’ another kind of emotion. Dr. Tuke, therefore, thinks it would be more correct to say “that as in health certain mental states induce disease, so in disease certain mental states may restore health.” Such a statement as the above illustrates the importance of this subject not only to medical men, but to teachers, who will discern at a glance the beneficial effects of certain ideas, feelings, emotions, and volitional impulses upon the minds and bodies of children, as also the detrimental effects of certain others. Practically, the true civilization of future centuries and the continued evolution of the human race seems placed in the hands of mothers and teachers.

Most important is it that we should recognize that through a scientific and judicious observance of nature’s laws, in education, in government, in social intercourse, there is attainable a physical, mental, and moral perfection that has heretofore been esteemed a mere idealization of the enthusiastic devotee of ethics or religion. That this is a fact is demonstrable through the correlative sciences of physiology and biology, which daily illustrate the dependence and interdependence of mind and body. To the student of nature is proven hereby the absolute necessity of a comprehensive knowledge of these sciences on the part of teachers ; through the careful and judicious stimulation of ideas and emotions they may arouse and develop only what is good in the nature of the child.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-217-

A realization on the part of instructors of the benefit to be derived from moderate benign emotion, and the contrary effect of malevolent emotion, is bringing about radical changes in prevailing methods of education. All true methods recognize as fundamentally necessary the cultivation of the nervous system through an assiduous observance of hygienic dietetic and physiologic laws, associated with well-regulated efforts toward self-knowledge, self-control, and self-perfection. Froebel held essentially the same views, views based on the unity of nature with man, of man with God, of God with all, and the consequent psycho-physiologic building of the inner self. Thus, through the enunciation and demonstration of universal truths, there is being rapidly evolved a new system of sociology and education based upon the grand unity of all, and showing as necessary to the evolution of man the knowledge of mental and physical laws. With such observance will come an era of true manhood and womanhood.	(To	be	concluded.)

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE YOUNG CHILD WITH REFERENCE TO EXERCISE.

By W. P. MANTON, M D., F. Z. S., F. R. M. S., Detroit, Mich.

(Concluded.)

THE older infant, which at first tumbles backward when placed in the sitting posture, soon unconsciously learns that this failure to maintain the upright position is somehow due to the inability of the weak muscles of the anterior portions of the legs to overcome the antagonizing forces of better developed back muscles, and the, again unconscious, effort is put forth to bring up the feebler parts, and to establish and maintain an equilibrium between contending forces. Creeping, as a rule, naturally follows the achievement of this muscular development, and increasing strength, inherent power, soon raises the infant to its feet and locomotion in the erect position quickly iollows. During this vegetative period of life the child is applying all its forces to the upbuilding of its bodily and mental machinery, and in laying the foundation for future intelligence and action ; and when volitional action and intelligence first begin to be manifested, we may say that the child is entering upon the primary, kindergarten, stage of existence. I beg you to note here that whatever the child learns or knows comes to it through the senses. First of all we have developed the faculty of feeling or emotion—sensibility, then comes conception or the conscious recognition of the external causes of a given sensation, then, memory or the retention in mind of impressions received follows, and this in turn leads to reasoning and the association of ideas which give rise to judgment.* •

At first the brain acts simply as a register for external impressions received.

In the consideration of this subject, however, we must not lose sight of the fact that, while the child possesses certain inherent qualities common to all human beings, it may also be hampered with inherited

* Burr, A Primer of Psychology.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-248—

characteristics or may early acquire certain tendencies as the result of environment, which may to a greater or less extent dwarf or seriously retard normal growth and development along certain lines, and prove a menace not only to inherent energy but even to life itself. The importance of the recognition of this point in its relation to individual growth cannot be too strongly emphasized, for it is only our acceptance of the fact and by working through the knowledge which it affords that we can hope to co-operate with nature in attempting to overcome deviations of mind and body in their incipiency.

Incidentally let me call your attention to a few facts in connection with early development.

1.	Normal development in the infant implies a weekly gain in weight of about one-fourth of a pound during the first four or five months of life, after which the weight increase is rather more than one-eighth of a pound per week for the remainder of the first year. Any falling off from these figures indicates either malnutrition (asthenia), or the approach of some morbid somatic affection.

2.	The rapid development of the higher nervous system in the infant and young child, renders it peculiarly susceptible to all external influences, so that variations in temperature, excess of light, and loud or unaccustomed sounds, etc., may so act upon the unstable mental and nervous organization as to interfere with bodily function and give rise to serious or fatal results. We must not, therefore, in attempting to guage the capabilities of the young take the mature as a standard of comparison. As illustrative of the extreme susceptibility of the nervous system during early life the following instance cited by Rotch may be adduced. A healthy male infant was taken on the fifth day of life to the church to be christened. The weather was very cold and bleak, but the child was reasonably well protected and the church was warm. A large number of people were present and there was an unusual amount of noise. When taken home the infant immediately began to show signs ot exhaustion, and other symptoms, not of an organic nature, developed. The child died that same afternoon.

3 The bony system being in a soft and incomplete state, unnatural bodily attitudes for this period of life, or injury from accident or design* may lead to a bending or deviation in the growth of these parts, so that bodily deformity, as curvature of spine, bow legs, knock-knee and the like, may result. The tendency of the immature bony structures to receive lasting impressions is well shown by the observations of Stendhal. This writer, noticing that the vertebral columns of Roman girls were often deformed, many of the girls being a little humpbacked, found on investigation that these deformities resulted from the putting into practice of a popular belief that parents could promote the growth of their children by punching them in the back. It is evident, then, that suitable nourishment, avoidance of exciting and unnatural influences, and protection from bodily injury, are essential to the health}^ normal growth of the infant.

Four periods mark as mile stones the various stages of human existence. These are Infancy, Childhood, Adolescence, and Senility or old age. The first of these I have touched upon very superficially, with
—249—

the last two we are not at present concerned, but the second is of the utmost importance, and demands most careful consideration. For upon the right development of childhood depends to a large degree the success or failure of subsequent life. The trite Proverb of Solomon, “Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it,” is an axiom as true as it is forgotten or disregarded. Childhood represents the plastic period ■ of life, the formative stage in human existence, the years when nature stores up her forces for future elaboration. It is during this period that abnormal and inherited tendencies are most prone to crop out, and it is then that the child first enters upon a new phase of life, mental training and the forced acquirement of knowledge, rocks around which the frail craft of life may be safely guided, or upon which it may drift to destruction.

In order to appreciate the conditions which obtain at this time we must study the child from all points of view, and then attempt to formulate from the conclusions arrived at such educational methods as will take into consideration all the requirements of the individual. There are no errors into which both parents and educators have fallen which are so worthy of honest condemnation as the attempt to dissociate mind from body, and the failure to recognize the individual as such in the masses. As no two faces which we see are exactly alike, so no two children are exactly the same in bodily qualifications and mental capacity, and to consider them as such is to twart the true meaning and purpose of life and education.

Childhood, as I have said, being the period for the storage of those potential energies which are to become available in future life, demands on the one hand suitable material from which those energies may be evolved, and on the other a careful conservation of the forces acquired. In other words, bodily conditions must not be allowed to sink to their lowest vital unit, or the child be permitted to squander its brain income so that it will be obliged to draw upon its slender investment or brain capital. Such a course, it is quite evident, would speedily lead to mental and physical bankruptcy and failure.

Now as the stability of brain capital in the young child is wholly dependent upon somatic conditions, it becomes of prime importance that the child’s body shall receive the fitst and most careful attention, in order that the brain income may be sufficient to meet all the drafts made upon it during these formative years. It is plain, therefore, that as in the ancient Greek and Roman systems, physical culture must be recognized in our methods of education as of vastly more importance to the growing child than brain culture, so-called. The brain, which is the organ of the mind, must be supplied with sufficient and healthy nourishment by the blood in order that it may only develop in its anatomical structures, but also that it may be kept in a proper sensitive state to receive and register the flood of impressions which are constantly flowing into it through the senses from the outside world. By means of exercise metabolism, the power possessed by the organism of constantly using up and renewing the matter comprising the body, is kept at its proper level, dormant functions are stirred into activity, the circulation is stimulated, the blood carries more of the tissue build-
-250-

ing oxygen to the various parts and organs, and the brain as well as the body is thus supplied with generous nourishment.

The importance from a development point of view of an abundance of fresh air is not sufficiently understood. It is said that the earth is surrounded by a respiratory atmosphere of at least eight hundred million cubic miles ; and with this generous supply of gaseous nourishment at our disposal, and notwithstanding the fact that the air should be renewed in the lungs some 14,000 times in the twenty-four hours, young children are shut up in ill-ventilated, close, and over-heated schoolrooms for from six to eight hours each day and expected to commit lessons that would often tax the mind of a maturer scholar. And withal we wonder why so many of these little ones are pale and sickly, and why others are so prone to “catch” disease.

“On the day of judgement,” says Jean Paul, “God will perhaps pardon you for starving your children when bread was so dear ; but if he should charge you with stinting them with free air, what answer shall you make” ? The city-bred child is especially handicapped in the struggle for normal physical development, for not only do the narrow environments of home life and social customs exert, in many instances, a repressing influence on the natural growth and expansion of the child’s body, but educational methods also, as I have already mentioned, excluding to a large extent all consideration of anatomical development, fail to maintain even a reasonable balance between the physical and the mental forces. Thus the school in neglecting the laws which nature has laid down for the regulating of life, becomes a potent factor in, and is responsible for the creation and fostering of many physical defects in the child, which remain permanently, and hamper and encumber during the rest of life.

Monotonous routine in the school room, exacting exercises, and competitive tests, all tend to lower the vitality of the child through their effect on the nervous system, and may be productive of serious or even grave disorder. The over-heated and poorly ventilated school room, with its minimum supply of fresh air per pupil,7 improper seats and desks, provided without reference to the requirements of the individual but for the accommodation of the masses, and the absence of personality in the system of instruction are one and all active agents in sapping the vitality of the child. The absence of oxygen in the school room atmosphere renders the awakening mental faculties sluggish, if indeed it does not entirely stifle them, and improper furniture gives rise to spinal deformities, muscular feebleness, nervous derangements and ocular impairment.

Incidentally it may be stated here that far too little attention has been paid to the eyes of school children, defects in which alone may be responsible for a very considerable number of bodily symptoms, and lead to much physical suffering.

A recent writer* calls attention to the fact that in the country schools of Germany shortsightedness exists only to the extent of one or two per cent., but that with advancement in grade, this ocular defect

* Dr. E. W. Scripture, in “The Outlook", Feb. 29, 1896.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-251-

increases with alarming rapidity. Thus, starting with two per cent, in the village school myopia is found to have risen in the primary school to seven per cent., in the grammar school to ten per cent., in the college to from twenty to twenty-six per cent., and in the universities to from forty to sixty per cent. These figures would be undoubtedly too high for our own country, but are useful in demonstrating the progressive tendency of this eye defect. Poor light and unnatural positions assumed by pupils at improperly constructed desks in order to read, thus bringing the eyes in too close contact with bad print or other matter, are to blame for this condition. The sailor or the Indian on the plains is rarely if ever effected with shortsightedness, for his range of vision is limited only by the distant horizon, and the natural shape of the eyeball is kept at the normal by constant exercise in looking at far away objects. To counteract the effects of these evils which I have but partially enumerated, physical culture has been introduced into the school curriculum, and while it has and is doing much to overcome bodily infirmity, and attempts to at least compensate for the harm derived from other sources, the remedy for this will not be found until school boards are brought to a realization of the importance of the health of the children whose education they are appointed to direct, and under the guidance of experts who are qualified to decide in such matters, undertake those radical changes in the school system which are demanded in the interests of their helpless wards.

The time at my disposal will not permit my going further into the discussion of this interesting subject, but before I close let me call your attention to the following : Physical growth is not continuous in the young but takes place in stages with periods of quiescence or rest between. It is during these resting periods that children' are most liable to contract disease. It is reasonable therefore, that at these times they should receive additional care and consideration.

The brain grows rapidly up to the seventh year but thereafter develops very slowly, so that it is said the hat of a child of this age can be worn by the same individual at thirty. From this we may conclude that up to the seventh year the bfain requires all of its energy for the building up of its tissues, and that deviation of this energy into other channels must to a greater or less degree retard or cripple cerebral development.

Finally, whatever views regarding educational methods we may hold, it seems to me, that even so partial and imperfect a presentation of the needs of the growing child as I have brought to your attention, must demonstrate to the honest mind the exceeding importance of bodily culture during the early periods of life, and that to be consistent in our efforts to promote and further nature’s plans the child, with all its growing and imperfect parts, must be permitted to go untrammelled and free, exercising its muscles in the open air, storing in its immature brain and nervous system such impressions as it can analyze and make use of, and thus fit itself for the struggles of it§ future life. And let not those who are ambitious for their children to acquire the greatest mental culture forget that every effort of the brain before that organ has attained its equilibrium, deprives some other part, or parts, of the
-252-

needful blood supply and nourishment, and that in pursuing such a course we overstimulate and excite that organ which, of all others, should have the greatest rest and quiet during all these early years. And if we persist in attempting to render these helpless little ones brain-cultured while their bodies show defects in development, their nerves perversion, and their minds the saddest blot of all, — what have they or we gained ?

Mens sana in corpore sano.

A NOVELTY IN GOLF.

By HARRY CRONINGER, Dayton, O.

A NOVEL and practical addition has lately been made to the golf line in the way of a parachute or captive golf ball, thus enabling a golf player to practice driving without the disagreeable feature of going after the driven ball, which drive ranges from one hundred to two hundred yards. A parachute golf ball is made of a regulation 27V6-grain ball, a hole being drilled through the same which holds a leader about three feet long composed of six inches of gut, the balance hand braided linen line, on the end of which is attached a small parachute seven inches in diameter. In driving, the ball is laid as though playing with the leader, the parachute extending at 45 degrees to the left as you face the ball. When the ball is struck a firm blow it travels about twenty feet before the parachute expands or inflates, when its flight is suddenly checked, thus making it impossible to drive a parachute ball more than from 30 to 50 feet. A golf player will readily appreciate the merits of such a novelty. They are so constructed as to make them practically indestructible.

CORSETS BARRED IN RUSSIAN SCHOOLS.

THE Russian Minister of Education, M. Bogoierow, has issued an order against the wearing of corsets in any of the educational institutions within the Czar’s dominion. The new law is the direct result of a long tour of inspection made by Minister Bogoierow of the schools in the Russian empire. He found that the rivalry of the girls and young ladies, especially in the female seminaries, for the possession of the smallest waists is exerting incalculable damage on the health of Russian femininity, and he has concluded that the continuation of tight corsets would mean the degeneration of the muscular Muscovite race. The new order has invoked a noisy controversy throughout the land. Many of the parents are loud in their praises of the Minister’s wisdom, and, as children in Russia are usually an obedient set, there is little trouble in the juvenile institutions. But Minister Bogoierow did not precalculate the pandemonium he would stir up, for the Russian young lady has recently been imbued with some of the woman’s rights doctrines from the Occident, and is getting to have a mind of her own—in other words, she shakes her head defiantly and puts her foot on the Ministerial edict. She threatens to boycott the young ladies’ seminaries and all schools of higher education for women.

A

Digitized by Google
/V\lN_D ftND BODY. ^

Subscription Price, $ 1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

2wdl*'xr«AaJc«eT ‘Wiaconuln.

$9" Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

f CARL HERMANN BOPPE. f

ON Sunday afternoon, January 15, we laid to his long rest in Forest Home Cemetary, Milwaukee, amid universal expression of regret, Mr. C. Hermann Boppe, the editor in chief of the “Freidenker” and of the “Amerikanische Turnzeitung” and manager of the Freidenker Publishing Company, who died from an attack of apoplexy.

There was a concourse of mourners from all parts of Wisconsin, from Chicago and St. Louis, the officers of the \iarious institutions he had helped to build up and of the Turner-bund having taken part in the obsequies, which were very impressive.

A consistent and energetic worker in the cause of progress and liberty, in the training- of both body and mind, a true friend, a model husband, a hospitable entertainer, and supporter of the persecuted and suffering fellow-workers of the press, large-hearted and generous in all his dealings with strangers, he died firm in his convictions of mental freedom, of true republicanism, and of democratic principles. Born under the model republican government of Switzerland, he was early imbued with that liberty of thought that is so rarely met with. His father, whose death preceded his own only a few years, was an esteemed and highly revered judge of his native canton of Aargau and had brought the son up in his own stanch rigid republicanism which never swayed under the most trying political complications from ultramontane aspersions. Like his father, C. Hermann Boppe was a man of catonic severity against himself; yet he extended the aid of his powerful mind and of his ready pen to any and all whose cause appealed to the sentiment of justice and humanity. He edited the “Freidenker” since 1877, and thanks to the excellent qualities of his character, political convictions, and to his enthusiastic and ever faithful services for the extension of physical education among both the German- and Anglo-Americans, he became editor of the “Amerikanische Turnzeitung” in 1878, which position be held in conjunction with

Digitized by v^ooQle
—254—

Heinrich Huhn, another turner pioneer, up to the date of his death, January 12, 1899.

His influence upon the Turnerbund (the North American Gymnastic Union) has well been called the good genius of this fraternity of patriotic men and women. Opposed to every kind of cant and hypocrisy and steadily occupied to ward off retrograde undercurrents that outsiders brought to bear against progress, he yet succeeded in placing the Turnerbund among the foremost and most influential patriotic organizations for the propaganda of true republican sentiments. Despite his liberal views in all the aspirations of cultured society, he steadily and with the most forcible arguments of his clear and logic mind fought against the phantastic and utopic but unrealizable demands of social extremists, and defended and stood to the last for the realizable aims and postulates of the platform of the American Union of Radicals. His place in the Turnerbund will no doubt be filled by others, but we doubt that his unique energy, his mental capacity, his versatilit)', his enthusiasm for Truth, Justice, and Liberty, his lovable and yet so stern manliness will be matched so soon, united in one man, as they were in him.

Besides his efforts toward liberalizing the state and federal legislation he strenuously worked for placing the education of his German-American compatriots upon the best solid footing. To his labor is due to the greater part the acquisition of the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union and of the German-American Teachers’ Seminary to the city of Milwaukee and the bringing together of a close connection of the two institutions under the same roof, as also the forming of a fund of stipends for poor students at these institutions.

Mr. Boppe died at the age of 57 years ; it is but for the faith that was in him and his love for truth, justice, and liberty that he neglected • to amass a fortune. Easily accessible to all, he was intimate with comparatively few, and was bitterly attacked by his enemies and very’ often misunderstood bv those who knew not his true honest heart.

His body was cremated on January 10. A monumental bust, it is hoped, will be placed to his memory in the Normal School of Gymnastics at Milwaukee.

OBITUARY.

Oscar Scheer, instructor of the Pittsburg Central Turnverein, died on January 5 at the age of 40 years after a prolonged illness. Born in Saxony he came to the United States when a tender boy. After having been a pupil of the Manchester (N. H.) Turnverein for years, he entered the Normal School of the N. A. G. U., where he graduated with honors ; then he became instructor of the Turnverein in Trenton, N. J. Later he moved to Pittsburg, where he instructed in the Central Turnverein and also at the West Pennsylvania University. Mr. Scheer was one of the most successful teachers in the whole Turnerbund, and his colleagues feel the loss deeply.

On the same day Mr. L. Friedrich, Sr., instructor of fencing in the New York Turnverein, passed away. Mr. Friedrich was for many years

Digitized by c.ooQLe
—255—

an authority on fencing in New York, and was very well known in fencing circles throughout the East and among the societies of the Turnerbund, who lost in him one of its oldest and best members.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—The Central Association of the Amateur Athletic Union will hold a big indoor meet at the Exposition Building in Milwaukee on January 28. Over one hundred athletes from Illinois, Wisconsin, and other states have entered. We will publish the results in our next issue.

—The festival and contest of the Third (Atlantic) District of the N. A. G. U. will take place in Hotyoke, Mass., on July 17, 18, and 19.

—The year 1899 has begun disastrously for the North American Gymnastic Union. Three of its most prominent and ardent workers, C. Hermann Boppe of Milwaukee, Oscar Scheer of Pittsburg, and L. Friedrich, Sr., of New York, have died before the new year had fairly started.

—The gymnasium of the Terre Haute High School is one of which the school can be proud. It is true it is not large, but it time we hope it will be enlarged. It is well lighted for night use, there being about six or eight incandescent lights attached to the ceiling. On all the walls are fastened wands, Indian clubs, and dumb-bells of. various sizes. Besides these there are jumping racks, boards, and other apparatus. At the farthest end is the instructor’s platform, back of which are fastened in neat order his bells and clubs. Mr. Lepper, the physical instructor, gives his lessons on Wednesday and Thursday mornings of each week. On Wednesdays the girls are taught and on Thursdays the boys. These lessons are limited to pupils of the 1st and 2d grades.

This article should not come to a close without saying that the entire advance of physical culture in the Terre Haute public schools is due to Prof. Lepper.

THE ILLINOIS STATE TEACHERS’ ASSOCIATION at its

1 last session, held at the State Capitol, without doubt ranked foremost among all the state teachers’ associations of the country in that it devoted more than the usual share of its program to a consideration of topics of .greatest interest to all concerned in the advancement of physical education. Much praise is due its Executive, especially to Messrs. David Felmlev and Joel Bowlby, who directed special attention to the importance of the resp. discussions.

Although,the subject of physical training was not formally presented in the general sessions, as last year, when Dr. Anderson and Mr. Kroh shared the honors, yet it repeatedly came to the surface and in a way highly gratifying to all who came to participate in some one of the different section meetings.

The unusual scope of the discussions can be best gleaned from the following program, not less than four sections engaging in the same.

The primary section discussed “Motor Activity and Education” and

Digitized by CaOOQle
—256—

“Games and Plays in the School.” The Child Study Section listened to a discourse by Prof. 0. L. Triggs of the Chicago University on the “Philosophy of Play.” “The Place of Physical and Manual Training in a Rational Education” was discussed by Prof. B. H. Boiler of the Illinois State Reformatory at Pontiac, as also “Work and Play” by Principal Allison of Chicago.

In the joint session of the college and high school sections President Bradley of Illinois College took a friendly attitude toward college athletic organizations, and was supported by President Nash of Lombard University and A. E. Welch of Lake Forest Academy. President Blanchard of Wheaton University was especially bitter in his denunciation of athletics as generally practiced in colleges and universities, but stood alone in his position.

The program of the physical training section was an especially attractive one in that the time of the two half-day sessions was devoted equally to illustrations and discussions of methods. The first day’s session was opened with an address by President Kroh of Chicago. Dr. Hartung’s (Chicago) topic was : “Physical Impairment (Defects and Deformities) Resulting from School Life. How Remedied.” Prof. Kroh discussed “The Problem of Physical Diagnosis (Pathological Conditions) and the Prescription of Exercise” in place of Dr. Colin Scott. The round table, conducted by Miss Julia Culver, enlarged upon the following topics :

a)	Status of the Work of Physical Training in the Public Schools.

b)	Its Extension in Grammar and High Schools.

c)	Normal School Preparation.

d)	Outdoor Recreation and Playgrounds.

The second day was devoted to an illustration of methods in physical training by Mr. Suder of Chicago and his able staff of assistants, and was followed by a lively discussion. In fact, all the speakers on the program provoked long and earnest discussions and it was noticeable that physical training was being considered as an important and basal part of an educational system demanding careful inquiry and study.

The attendance at the meetings of the physical training section, as in the other sections, was unusually large, the physical training section on the second day having an attendance of about 4—-500 superintendents, principals, and teachers.

“FOOTBALL”IN CEYLON.

A NOVEL game, very much like football, is played by the Malays of Ceylon. The ball is made of split cane woven hollow and is called a “Ragang” (pronounced raw-gong) in Malay. The game is known by the same name and consists in keeping the ball in the air by a series of kicks, aiming at throwing the ball on the ground on the adversary’s side of a marked or imaginary line. The hands are not used, except in throwing the ball for the first kick. The kick is a peculiar one, requir-ing great agility in the player, and is assisted by the whole body.



Digitized by tjOOQle
—257—

Balancing on one leg, the other is thrown violently forward and upward, semicircularly, until it touches the ground, the body being swayed at the same time, following the direction of the foot. As one foot touches the ground the other is ready for the return kick, the toes being raised almost as high as the head of the player. This kick is called “Cheen-adee,” or the Chinese kick, and is evidently borrowed from the Chinese, whose favorite mode of assault it is—often accompanied simultaneously with slaps or cuffs from both hands in quick succession, thus giving an adversary little chance of retaliation.— Baltimore Herald.

EXERCISES WITH CALISTHENIC RINGS.

Performed by Twenty-four Girls, Pupils of the Illinois Institution for the Education of the Blind, Jacksonville.

By W. A. CRIPPEN.

ARRANGEMENT OF CLASS.

Front column in ranks of six. The ring is held in left hand, right hand grasps and retains hold of neighbor’s ring during each exercise. Ranks opened until arms extend obliquely downward when rings are grasped. Ring is vertical when raised forward or backward. Flankers place outside hand on hip. Waltz time.

0-ro-u.p I-

Exercise 1.

a) Raise arms forward and lower head backward (1). Starting

position (2). Bend trunk backward and raise arms forward obliquely upward (3). Starting position (4). Repeat three

times...................................................... 16

b) Bend knees to an obtuse angle and raise arms forward (1). Starting position (2). Rise on toes and raise arms upward

(3). Starting position (4). Repeat three times............. 16—32

Exercise 2.

a) Raise arms forward and turn head to the left (1). Starting position (2). Right (3—4). Repeat three times.............. 16

b) Raise arms forward upward (1). Bend trunk forward to right angle and swing arms downward and backward (2).

First position (3). Starting position (4). Repeat three times.. 16- 32 Exercise 3.

a) Touch-step left forward and raise arms forward (1). Start-

ing position	(2).	Right	(3—4).	Repeat	three	times...... 16

b) Touch-step left forward, bend right knee and trunk backward, and raise arms forward obliquely	upward (1). Starting position	(2).	Right	(3—4).	Repeat	three	times. 16—32

Exercise 4.

a)	Touch-step left sideways and raise arms forward (1). Starting position	(2).	Right	(3—4).	Repeat	three	times... 16

b)	Touch-step left sidewrays, bend right knee, and raise arms forward upward (1). Starting position (2). Right (3—4).

Repeat three times....................................... 16—32

Digitized by G.ooQle
—258—

G-ro-o.p IX.

Exercise 1.

Touch-step left forward and raise arms forward (1). Touch-step left backward and raise arms upward (2). First position

(3)	. Starting position (4). Right (5—8). Repeat three times... 32

Exercise 2.

Touch-step left sideways and raise arms'forward upward (1). Cross-step left in rear, bend right knee, and swing arms downward and backward (2). First position (3). Starting position (4). Right (5—8). Repeat three times.............. 32

Exercise 3.

Raise left leg forward (foot height of stationary knee) and raise arms forward (1). Place left foot in front of right knee and raise arms upward (2). First position (3). Starting position

(4)	. Right (5—8). Repeat three times..................  32

Exercise 4.

Raise left leg sideways (foot height of stationary knee) and raise arms forward upward (1). Place left foot in front of right knee, bend trunk forward to right angle, and swing arms downward and backward (2). First position (3). Starting position (4). Right (5—8). Repeat three times.............. 32

0-ro-u.p XXX.

Exercise 1.

Lunge left forward, bend trunk slightly forward, and swing arms backward (1). Straighten left and bend right knee, bend trunk backward, and swing arms forward upward (2). First position (3). Starting position (4). Right (5—8). Repeat three times......................................... 32

Exercise 2.

Lunge left sideways and raise arms forward (1). Straighten left and bend right knee and raise arms upward (2). First position (3). Starting position (4). Right (5—8). Repeat three times ............................................... 32

Exercise 3.

Stride left forward and swing arms backward (1). Kneel on right knee and swing arms forward upward (2). First position (3). Starting position (4). Right (5—8). Repeat three times................................................ 32

Exercise 4.

Stride left sideways and raise arms forward upward (1). *4-turn left, kneel on right knee, and swing arms downward (2). First position (3). Starting position (4). Right (5—8). Repeat three	times...................................... 32

—It is not at all unlikely there will be a regular intercollegiate cross-country run next fall, in which representatives from Princeton, Yale, Harvard, Cornell, and Pennsylvania will compete. The matter has been agitated lately at all the leading universities, and, although no definite action has been taken, the plan has met with hearty approval.

\

Digitized by v^ooQle
-259-

THEORY OF FENCING IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

By GEO. HEINTZ, Sr.

<A11 rights reserved.)

(Continued.)

NINTH LESSON.

1.	Quarte Engage:	1,	Extend and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry

counter quarte, cut, chassey tierce, and return.

2.	Tierce Engage : 1, Extend and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, cut, chassey quarte, and return.

3.	Quarte Engage : 1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter quarte, cut, chassey quarte, and return.

4.	Tierce Engage : 1, Disengage and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, cut, chassey quarte, and return.

5.	Quarte Engage :	1,	Mark 1—2 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard,

parry counter quarte, cut, chassey tierce, and return.

6.	Tierce Engage : 1, Mark 1—2 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, cut, chassey quarte, and return.

7.	Quarte Engage : 1, Mark 1—2—3 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter quarte, cut, chassey tierce, and return.

8.	Tierce Engage :	1,	Mark 1—2—3 and lunge ; 2, Resume guard,

parry counter tierce, cut, chassey quarte, and return.

9.	Quarte Engage :	1,	Double and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry

counter quarte, cut, chassey tierce, and return.

10.	Tierce Engage: 1, Double and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, cut, chasse}' quarte, and return.

11.	Quarte Engage :	1, Double, disengage, and lunge; 2, Resume

guard, parry counter quarte, cut, chassey tierce, and return.

12.	Tierce Engage: 1, Double, disengage, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, cut, chassey quarte, and return.

13.	Quarte Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter quarte, * cut, chassey tierce, and return.

14.	Tierce Engage : 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter quarte, and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, cut, chassey quarte, and return.

15.	Quarte Engage: 1, Double, re-double, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter quarte, cut, chassey tierce, and return.

16.	Tierce Engage: 1, Double, re-double, and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry counter tierce, cut, chassey quarte, and return.

Remark.—By the 1st, 3d, 5th, 7th, 9th, 11th, 13th, and 15th attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of quarte, and by the 2d, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th, 12th, 14th, and 16th attack in line of tierce, and while the pupil resumes guard the instructor attacks by disengage.

TENTH LESSON.

1.	Quarte Engage :	1,	Extend and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry

counter quarte, cut, and return into lower line.

2.	Tierce Engage :	1,	Extend and lunge; 2, Resume guard, parry

counter quarte, cut, and return into lower line.

. Digitized by L.ooQle
-260—

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage:

Tierce Engage :

Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage :

1, Disengage and lunge; 2, Same parry and return.

1, Disengage and lunge; 2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2 and lunge ; 2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2 and lunge ; 2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2—3 and lunge ;	2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2—3 and lunge ;	2,	do.

1, Double and lunge ; 2,	do.

1. Double and lunge ; 2,	do.

1, Double, disengage, and lunge ; 2, do. 1, Double, disengage, and lunge ; 2, do. 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce,

and lunge ; 2, do. 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter quarte,

and lunge ; 2, do. 1, Double, re-double, and lunge; 2, do. 1, Double, re-double, and lunge ; 2, do.

Remark.—By each attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of quarte, and while the pupil resumes guard the instructor attacks by a disengage.

ELEVENTH LESSON.

1.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

Quarte Engage : 1, Extend and lunge ; prime (high), and return.

Tierce Engage : 1, Extend and lunge ; prime (high), and return.

Quarte Engage: 1, Disengage and lunge

Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage: Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage:

Tierce Engage :

Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage :

2, Resume guard, parry 2, Resume guard, parry 2, Same parry and return.

1, Disengage and lunge ;	do.

1, Mark	1—2 and lunge ; 2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2 and lunge ; 2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2—3 and lunge ;	2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2—3 and lunge ;	2,	do.

1, Double and lunge ; 2,	do.

1, Double and lunge; 2,	do.

1, Double, disengage, and lunge ; 2, do. 1, Double, disengage, and lunge ; 2. do. 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce,

and lunge ; 2, do. 1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter quarte,

and lunge ; 2, do. 1, Double, re-double, and lunge ; 2, do. 1, Double, re-double, and lunge; 2, do.

Remark.—By each attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of tierce, and while the pupil resumes guard the instructor attacks by a disengage.

TWELFTH LESSON.

1.	Quarte Engage :	1,	Extend	and	lunge;	2,	Resume	guard,	parry

prime (low), cut, and return.

2.	Tierce Engage : 1, Extend and lunge ; 2, Resume guard, parry prime (low), cut, and return.



Digitized by t^ooQle
—261—

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8. 9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage : Quarte Engage:

Tierce Engage :

Quarte Engage: Tierce Engage :

1, Disengage and lunge; 2, Same parry and return

1, Disengage and lunge; 2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2 and lunge ; 2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2 and lunge ; 2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2—3 and lunge ;	2,	do.

1, Mark	1—2—3 and lunge ;	2,	do.

1, Double and lunge; 2,	do.

1, Double and lunge : 2,	do.

1, Double,	disengage,	and	lunge	;	2,	do.

1, Double,	disengage,	and	lunge	;	2,	do.

1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter tierce,

•	and lunge ; 2, do.

1, Mark 1—2, deceive counter quarte,

and lunge ; 2, do. 1, Double,	re-double,	and	lunge	;	2,	do.

1, Double,	re-double,	and	lunge	;	2,	do.

Remark.—By each attack the instructor will bring the blade of the pupil in line of tierce, and while the pupil resumes guard the instructor attacks by a disengage.	(To	be	continued.)

CORRESPONDENCE.

W. E. D.—You wish to know what recent publication contained calisthenic exercises in front leaning rest.—We do not remember of having seen such a series recently.—Will perhaps one of our readers help out and tell us ?

You ask further:

“Did you notice, some time ago, in the ‘Posse Gymnasium Journal’ that they now have a football, a basket ball, and a baseball team, besides a golf club at the Posse Gymnasium ? I wonder if they always stop after a ten or 15 minutes exeicise to take slow leg movements, or if they think this necessary only after vigorous gymnasium exercise ?”

We are forced to confess that we have not read the ‘Posse Gymnasium Journal’ lor some time, in fact not for the last few years, ever since its editor, evidently mortally wounded by some of our remarks, wiped poor “Mind and Body” from the exchange list.

Instead of, as we ought to have done, getting at the contents of the Journal in some other (perhaps illegal) way we concluded to try and travel this lonesome world without knowing what the Journal contains.

Yet we are interested to learn from a friend that they have such clubs and teams at the Posse Gymnasium.—If you were a turner or a German we might think that your question in regard to slow leg movements was meant ironically. We shall have to refer your inquiry to headquarters.

More pertinent to us would seem to be the question whether or not those football, baseball, and golf players are allowed to use only the regulation right-angled arch-flexions in bending forward, lest congestions of the vessels of the back or other injurious effects should supervene (as the Swedish school claims).

W. A. C.—We congratulate you upon your work and thank you for your interesting contribution.

Otto Mauthe, Dayton.—Best success in your new position. Change of address noted.

L,. P. F., Monmouth, Oreg—Books received. We wculd earnestly solicit a short article from you on the work in your Normal School.

To All Those that have sent us programs of exhibitions— It is impossible for us to publish all programs sent us, as space is too limited.

Digitized by Google
-262-(From “The Child-Study Monthly.”)

THE NEW -BOY.

Did y’ ever stop your ears up,

’Nd listen to your teeth,

As they dance ’nd clack ’nd clatter On the crackers underneath?

Kin y’ make your ears go wobbly Like a donkey when he brays?

I’ll bet y’ can’t make both your thumbs Go roun’ two different ways!

Kin y’ yawn as if y’ liked it.

• With your mouth shet tight ?

V’ don’ know how t’ cluck your tongue—

Naw, that ain’t right!

Kin v’ whistle on two fingers.

Like a ningine callin’ “coal?”

Say—lemme see your sling-shot—

You got a fishin’-pole?

Y’ can’t stan’ on j'our head-’n’-han’s ’Thout a wall to prop—

DV ever go in swimmin’,

An’ never tell your Pop ?

The teacher’s watchin’ both of us-7-She’s on to me, I gues’—

’F she keeps me in f r talkin’ t’ you,

I’ll—lick you at recess!

Sycamore, 111.	—Harrison	Eastman	Patten.

THE KINNARD MANUFACTURING CO.

Da>ton, Ohio, Dec. 10, 1898. Prof. W. E. Day, Physical Instructor, Y. M. C. A., City !

Dear Sir:—In compliance with your request, I am pleased to furnish the following statement: In the latter half of September, last, the girls working in our factory began getting sick mvsteriouslv, until we had a number out. They would come to work, apparently feeling well in the morning, but by noon-time, or before, from one to three or more of them would be prostrated, very nervous and suffering greatly from pain in the side or stomach.

Drs. Crum and McCann examined the premises carefully and could find no reasons for such illness in the factory, which is well ventilated and lit, even on cloudy days. After consultation with other physicians, having some of the girls as their patients, it was concluded to be the result of too close application, for too many hours, at the same thing, without exercise.

Upon recommendation of our doctors, we introduced calisthenics, devoting ten to fifteen minutes at 9:00 A. M. and 4:00 P. M. to the exercise, daily.

In three day’s time the difficulty passed away and we have had no indications of any returning trouble of the kind since that time.

The girls are happier, do more work in a day, and everything moves on smoothly and pleasantly, as a result of this stated exercise.

Respectfully,

The Kinnard Manufacturing Co.:

Will. W. Kinnard, President.

I regard the calisthenic exercises oi incalculable value to the girls working on the floor of the factory, of which I have charge.

Louis E. McClary, Foreman.

Digitized by Google
-263-

The girls are greatly interest in the calisthenic exercises and have been very much benefited by them in many ways. We should not like to dispense with them.

Ella E.Guckes,^ ~	e

Emma C. Slick, ) Forelad,es'

4	  ►	--------*—

BOOK REVIEW.

—Wholesome seasonable, and, as usual, superbly illustrated, Outing for January brings to us the merry jingle of sleigh-bells, the ring of skates and the strong, healthful atmosphere of wintry sport and pastime the world over. The contents are: “Mid-Winter Madcaps” (poem), by Charles Turner; “A Christmas in Mooseland,” by Ed. W. Sandys; “New Year’s Day at a Hudson’s Bay Fur Post,” by W. Bleasdell Cameron; “A Hockejr Match,” by M. Gertrude Cundill; “In Lotus Land Awheel,” by T. Philip Terry; “A Day’s Sport in the West Indies”; “The Perils of Whaling,” by Captain R. F. Coffin; “The Passing of the Ice Carnival,” by Edwin Wildman; “A Fox Hunt on the Pedee,” by Jane Marlin; “A Snowshoe Caribou Hunt,” by Frank H. Ristceij; “Bastien,” by S.. Rhett Roman; “A Christmas Morning in Carolina,” by F. A. Olds; “A Leopard Hunt in Bengal,” by J. W. Parry; “Figure Skating,” by J. E. Mitchie; “Florida Fishing Sketches,” by Mary T. Townsend; “The Yarn of the Tampa,” by E. L. H. McGinnis; “Jack Rabbit Hunts and Drives,” by David W. Fenton; “The Orange Lake Ice Yacht Club and Its Rivals,” by H. Percy Ashley, and the usual editorials, poems and records.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—The annual regatta of the National Association of Amateur Oarsmen at which the national amateur championship races are rowed will probably be held in Boston, Mass., next summer.

—G. Forster Sanford ’95 (Yale) L. S. has been offered the position of trainer of Yale’s track team.

—Fred. R. Fortmeyer of Philadelphia is the secretary of the National Association of Amateur Oarsmen.

—Ice boat racing has been popular this winter at Orange Lake, New-burg, N. Y.

—Indoor golf is being played at Chicago. The game is played on a space no larger than an ordinary teeing ground, and the driving is done on a newly-invented machine. It consists of a standard around which a golf ball tied to a cord revolves. A lever is pushed around and around by the cord and an indicator is moved by the lever. The length of a drive consists in the number of times the ball is made to revolve around the standard.

—The University of Pennsylvania cleared $32,000 on foot-ball this season.

—An effort will be made to engage Dr. Walter Peet for rowing coach at Columbia College for the coming season.

—The following are the graduate members of the board of directors of the University of Pennsylvania Athletic: H. L. Geyelin, H. C. Thaj'er, T. C. Bell, George Stuart Patterson, Thomas S. Reath, George H. Frasier, John Neill, L. C. Maderia, Jr., J. Allison Scott, and Murdock Kendrick. The undergraduate members elected on the board of directors were H. Kennedy Hill and S. Rowland Morgan in the college; Frederick Fra.tev, Jr., and John K. Walker, in the medical and allied schools, and Charles L. McKeehan in the law department. Dr. Charles H. Schoff was elected to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Neill.

—Arrangements have been made to hold the national boxing championship competition at the Lenox Athletic Club, New York, on Jan. 26—29.

—F. Taylor won the single blade canoe paddling championship in 1898.

—C. A. Klunder, the fast end of the Chicago A. A. foot ball team, has covered the distance from goal to goal in 12 2-5s. This is said to be a record.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-264-

—Base-ball is soon to be introduced in the Phillippine Islands.

—Coach “Cam” Forbes will undoubtedly have charge of Harvard’s foot-ball squads next season.

—The Argonaut Rowing Club of Toronto, Canada, will send an eight-oared crew to Henley next season to complete for the grand challenge cup. *

—Cornell’s foot-ball team cleared $10,000 the past season.

—John S. Johnson the speedy short distance skater expected to do some fast work this season.

—A ladies’ hockey club has been organized at Owen Sound, Canada, with the following officers: Honorable president, Mrs. P. Eaton; president, Dr. Eliza Gray; vice-president*, Miss Mary Frost; secretary-treasurer, Miss Kate Allen; committee of management, Misses Pearson, Trethewey, Lepan, the president and captain. Matches will be arranged with outside clubs.

—George Woodruff will again coach the foot-ball squads at the University of Pennsylvania.

—Burden will captain Harvards foot-ball team next season.

—Coach Courtney of Cornell is opposed to four-mile rowing races.

—Harry Yardon, the open golf champion of Great Britain, will make a tour of the United States next summer.

—The Baldwin (O.) University Athletic Association has the following officers: Charlie Peebles, manager of athletics, J. P. Jackson, captain of the base-ball team, and Glen Watson captain of the foot-ball team.

—Edward Griswold Bray, of the class of 1900, was elected captain of the Lafayette (Easton, Pa.) foot ball team for the season of 1899. Bray has been playing full back on the* Lafayette team for three years.

Jlmert&antfdler

^urncrfalcn&ct

fftv batf 1899.

2ln biefern, ben turnerifdjen tereffen biejc# 2anbe§ uno ben 1) e r r * lid)en ^rincipien b e § 91 o r b * a m e r i! a n i f d) e n % u r n e r b u n * b e § getoibmeten 3af)rb*d)e Ijaben bie tjers oorraaenbften fcfyriftfteflerifrfjen Rrafte be# £urnerbunbe§ mitgehrirft, jo bafe ein reiser, 9Jtannigfaltite§ nnb GJebiegene# bietenber Snljalt geftdject toecben fonnte. 2>ie folgenbe 3nf)att$angabe betoeiSt bieS:

Ralenbarium. — 2)ie Turnerel. (®ebi<bt.) ©on ttubolf © u c& n e r. — ©falj unb ©aben tm 3afcre 1840. ©on $ e t n t t ^utin. — ©tolog jum ©tiftungSfefte eineS Tur'nbereinS. ©on 91 b o I f 2) e d e r. — „(£uba litre." (©ebicbt.) ©on & u g o 91 n b r i e fe e n. — (Sintge	nac&trfiglic&e	©e*

n etfungen jum lenten Rricge. ©on 2>r. T i t u I © • 1 111. — 9lu8 Salifornien. (©ebicbt.) ©on 3acob § e t n — 2)ie ©iebermiinner. (©ebic&t.) ©on <Eonftantin@rebner. — 2)ie beutf<ben ©amen ber ©Boefcentage. ©on ©B.	91	o	f	e	n	*

ft t n g e I. — ftxau Sflufton. (©ebicbt.) ©on Ron* r a b © i e 8. — ©euel 2eben. (©ebicbt.) ©on § u g o

9lnbriefeen. — fcofftnann ton ftallerSleben. ©or. 2)r. $. Q. $ i cf. — Raifer fceinri(fc ber 6<&toar?e. (©aflabe.) ©on l^eobor ©I a j. — 8»d ©aben. (9UtenglifcbeB ©olfStieb.) Ueberfefct oon R o r I R n o r fc. — Unfere Turnfejte. ©on ©B. ft I e d. — Stein unb ftlud). (©ebicbt.) ftxt\ nacb ttongfefloto bon Rarl R n o r 4. — S^iUer al§ ©orbtlb. (SCooft.) ©on ©tar, $ e m j> c t. — Turniebrer unb Turn* (ebreifnuinar. ©on (5.	91	r	n o I b. — ^.■btoig

©egel. (©ebicbt.) ©on R o u.r a b © i e 8. — ©tinfcbenliebe. (©ebicbt.) ©or. 91 r t b u r © f u n g H. ©teine erfte Turnlebrerftefle. ©on §tcronbmu8 ©B a b r in u n b. — Sefct. (©ebicbt.) ©on Ctto 6 o u b r o n. - 2)er 3rrtbum. (grjfibhmg au8 unfe* rcn Tagen.) ©on 3. (5 n g e It * © ti n t b e t.

Seber burner foflte e§ ftd) nid)t nut gur madjen, ben „9lmerifanifd)en burner* falenber" felbft gu faufen, fonbern er foflte fid) aud) bemiiljen, ifjm in ben bem £urn* roefen freunblid) gefmnten Rreifen Gcingang gu berfdjaffen.

SQBir bitten unfere turnerifd>en greunbe unb namentlid) bie SRitglieber ber SBereinStoorftftnbe, bie Somite# f il r g e i ft i g e 93 e ft r e b u n g e n , fo* toie bie lurnle^rer red)t etns bringfid), ftd) bie SSerbreitung be# burners fafenber# ettoa# angetegen fein gu taffen.

$ r e i § : 25 Sent#.

FREIDEWKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St, Milwaukee, Wis

-

Digitized by t.ooQle