MIND

Vol. 40

AND BODY

NOVEMBER 1933	No.	41$

Comments on Dr. Jesse F. Williams “Thoughts About Core Activities”

By Emil Rath

I am inclined to think that Mr. Grover W. Mueller, Editor of Mind and Body, by his suggestion for a friendly discussion of my article has started an endurance contest that seems without end. Were we sitting around a table, it would soon end. That is, we should soon find out whether a compromise, a definite conclusion, or a complete disagreement would ensue.

Written words do not always clearly express thoughts; interpretations vary; meanings of words may be ambiguous or connote different thoughts to different individuals. But friendly discussions of this kind add zest to one’s thinkiitg; they stimulate mental processes and, there is presented to readers the differences in the attitudes and opinions held by the participants. With these thoughts in mind, I beg to present some other points of view related to those held by Dr. .Williams.

National leaders in the field of educational theory, to whom educators in general look for guidance, do not only disagree on many principles of modem pedagogy but also interpret psychological data differently. Educational tenets are set up on which there is no general agreement. Thus theories of transfer of training, which are at variance, are set up by some psychologists, and considered overvalued by others; the laws of learning are variedly interpreted, challenged by some, and flatly denied an existence by others; the psychological versus the logical approach in teaching is applied in different ways. When theory becomes thus confusing we may well feel inclined to agree with Goethe that, "Grau ist alle Theorie.”

We cannot in this discussion examine the theories of transfer. Dr. Williams writes of one as being “no longer acceptable in modem pedagogy.” Since he does not say which one, or ones, it is, nor what is “acceptable,” we are left to guess. In his “Principles of Physical Education” he subscribes to a “theory of identical elements.” He may have this or some other theory or theories in mind. But those who are interested will find varied views and interesting opinions on the transfer theory set

Digitized by ^.ooQle
146

forth by Orata,[l] Wheeler,[2] Bagley,[3] and Judd,[4] to mention a few. They”will also "End that tne “formal discipline” theory of transfer has “come back,” and that there are other theories of transfer well worth getting acquainted with. According to the arguments and proofs offered by this group, it would appear that there is transfer by means of ‘ formal jliscipline^’’ identical elements, generalization and emotionalize? ideals. The Gestalt psychologists explain it as a ^‘matter of insight into total situations”. A fact conceded by all is" thaTThe degree of transfer "r3Spends on the teaching process and on the intelligence of the pupil, and that it is never-100%. Therefore, we"need not look hopelessly upon the transfer of attitudes, habits, and thoughts, As Dr. Williams points out, the laws of learning are being clarified all the time. Experiments have disproved Gates’ third law of learning, the Law of Effect. [5] The psychological process advanced is questioned. Nevertheless it is a fact that “experiences which satisfy are repeated and those which annoy are avoided^ in random play, or, as I have put it, “children will not of their own accord repeat activities that are distasteful to them.’i The point I made was that this modified principle cannot be applied to the selection of activities for organized instruction of all the children since there is no unanimous opinion as to what is satisfying. There are children who dislike certain games and certain stunts and other skill activities. We are not yet living in an ideal state nor dealing with ideal educational situations in which the instructor teaches such small groups that the desires of each individual may be satisfied. We a'-e still required to handle large groups. So what shall we do in this case? It is true that as children increase in age, they should have something to say in the construction of the program but, after all, the teacher must have the last word and add the activities which he knows are desirable and essential. Some of these will not be satisfying to all and therefore uninteresting to some. Of course, the teacher should make it clear to them that they must submit to the will of the group or the superior knowledge of the teacher. But cases do occur in which this fails. It is in instances like this, where children refuse to participate, that a problem of discipline arises. It becomes a question of rules and regulation, of law and order, of selfishness, of obe-

li] Orata, Pedro T., “The Theory of Identical Elements”, The Ohio State University Press, Columbus, Ohio] 1928.

[2]	Wheeler, R. H. and Perkins, P. T., “Principles of Mental Development” [pp. 318-327]. Thomas Y. Crowell Co., New York, 1932.

[3]	Bagley, W. C., “Education, Crime and Social Progress”, Chap. VIII. The MacMillin Co., New York, 1931.

[4]	Judd, Chas. H., “Psychology of High School Subjects”, Chap. XVII. Ginn and Company, New York, 1915.

[5]	a. Wheeler, R.‘ H. and Perkins, F. T. Opus cited, [pp. 358-361].' b. Wheeler, R. H., “The Science of Psychology”, [p. 317]. Thomas Y.

Crowell Co., New York. 1929.

Digitized by AjOOQle
147

dience to authority. The exercises have not been selected for the purpose of annoyance, of course not, but these problems do arise and need to be solved, and Dr. Baglay's advice is quite opportune. The implications are much more far reaching than having “the child enjoy less by providing him with annoyance”; they lay the foundation for having the child enjoy more, not less; enjoy a richer experience by providing him at present, if that is necessary, with annoyance.

As to the logical versus the psychological approach in education questions arise which need to be unravelled. When is an approach to teaching psychological? It is when purpose and meaning of the tasEis clear to the child and interest in it will lead to. overcoming difficulties? I believe this might be accepted as an explanation.

Did pedagogical procedures have been dropped in recent years because better methods have been developed; methods that produce results more rapidly, due no doubt to a clearer understanding of the child. Thought units have taken the place of isolated symbols, as Dr. Williams has explained in the teaching of spelling, and the sentence and story methods have taken the place of teaching words in reading. But here, too, there is no unanimity. Certainly phonetics [technique] cannot be discarded in either case. So here also technique lays the foundation for greater enjoyment in reading both in the present and in the future and for perfection in spelling. Generally speaking, children are averse to learning activities involving the mind predominantly. School conditions are much improved but the boy still “snail-like wends his way to school” in spite of modem pedagogy. As classes decrease in size and pupils get out of their seats and out of the school buildings more frequently for hikes and journeys the process will be still more enjoyable.

Modem physical education is not in such a plight. The normal child is interested in testing himself in all kinds of activities: rhythmic steps, stunts, skills, and strengths of various kinds in and for themselves. The approach by the teacher is generally logical; that is, there is a progressive arrangement of the material in the form of lead-up work. Each stunt, particularly in tumbling and apparatus work, must needs be a motor unit but not necessarily a link in a chain as in a combination. When a major stunt is developed by a series of lead-up exercises, each of the latter in itself arouses interest and for the moment constitutes the end in view. I do not mean to assert that instructors should not acquaint the child with or have him try a major stunt or combination, if that is possible, before taking up the lead-up work. Most stunts do not show relationship to an ultimate goal. This is also true in the relation of rhythmic steps and movements to combinations and dances.

It appears then that the logical and psychological approach are used simultaneously; for the child it is psychological for he is certainly interested, at least I have always found him to be so, in mastering all kinds of exercises and for the teacher it

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
148

is logical. The child is interested in the challenge in an activity and is urged by the mastery impulse. These are helps to teachers in maintaining interest in tasks attempted.

This may be substantiated, for instance, by observing the logical procedure of a child’s manipulation of his body. First, he learns to gallop, then to skip on one foot; then on alternate feet; during the same time he learns to jump and he will be seen jumping off small objects forward, sideward left, right, backward, and having tried all directions he will invent new ways of jumping down by alighting in certain spots and by adding turns. I have observed this motor manipulation frequently in little children. From this one may conclude that the psychology ical procedure in physical education is not violated when teaching single motor units if these are interesting to the child. Nor does my scheme imply that the instructor should ignore the psychological approach pertaining to wholes involving analysis where this is necessary. The second and third zones which I described in my article which appeared in the January issue of Mind and Body are intimately connected with the ultimate activity goals and prepare for them. “Playing and learning technique proceed simultaneously.” The outline of the instructional period which appeared in the same issue of this Journal illustrates this.

Furthermore, the technique of the activity goals gives the clue to the instructor for the selection of some of the funamental free exercises. [I have used the tetm fundamental in the sense of being basic to all bodily movements. It involves elements of movements occurring in all motor patterns of homo sapiens] But, the instructor has a broader purpose in mind than to just prepare the child for certain sports. He hopes to prepare the child for all kinds of activities. Physical education is also a training and conditioning as well as an educational process and the fundamental free exercises improve and correct motor habits and posture, produce and maintain suppleness, muscular strength, ability to relax, and develop the rhythmic sense. They are purposeful and, therefore, have a meaning to the child. Because of the significant values of these activities they should begin to appear in the program above the fourth grade, and should be practiced sufficiently to help the body to grow with good posture and motor habits, and gain certain qualities and powers.

The contents of the two outer zones are designed to develop speed, endurance, and a strong and skillful body; to equip the individual with abilities and conditions rich in possibilities for meeting various life situations. The individual’s ability for adaptation is thus enlarged. These are the outcomes of core activities and the various parts composing them go hand in hand, and I believe that the child that can be made to enjoy the core, in this case will enjoy the apple so much the more.

In physical education we have set up definite objectives, the first two of which I might briefly name as organic and neuromuscular development. If these objectives mean anything at all.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
149

it seems to me they would imply controlling physical and physiological growth and development of the child as much as this is possible. The responsibility for this must fall upon the physical educator and it cannot be accomplished by giving “tid-bits” of activities during the instructional period. Nor by leaving their achievement to chance, as happens in intramural and after-school activities, and in which all of the children are never reached. If the results in any other subject taught in school were left to chance, that subject would be removed immediately from the curriculum. To set up as a semester’s work merely eight or ten skill activities and two or three games rather than a balanced program, regulated and controlled as to quantity and quality, removes from the instructor the responsibility for growth and development.

Correctly planned instructional periods are organized to attain these results as well as social and moral values. They comprise vigorous speed, strength, skill-strength, endurance activities in the form of interesting experiences. Teachers sponsoring such a program consider themselves responsible' for the development of these physical virtues to the extent that conditions will permit. Skill-activities in squads, fundamentals of games and sports, rhythmic activities and the fundamental conditioning exercises are means that produce desirable results and develop ability to participate in activity goals. Instructors advocating such a program decry the emasculated type of lesson plan consisting of playing the same game for a number of weeks with squad work and a few corrective exercises occasionally interspersed; or, for weeks devoting entire periods to games with the whole class participating like playing volley ball; or, part of the class participating in a game, as in basket ball, while the others idly look on; or devoting entire periods to squad work wherein children get an opportunity every seventh or eighth time to try some skill, in which organic development is practically nil; or devote the entire period to postural work and marching when a posture grade is due. These are not hypothetical cases set up for the sake of argument. I have seen these in actual practice. Unfortunately many instructors are willing to leave the acquisition of ends in physical education, particularly those of organic and neuro-muscular development, to chance by way of after school work. Instead they should be the outcome of a correctly planned program in which the above activities will, of course, find their proper place. Should physical education leave to chance the purposes peculiar to their profession: the development of physical powers and skills? Other objectives that we have set up, though they may be better obtained through the practice of physical activities than by any other means, are the concern of all teachers.

Finally, as to enduring values, the thought from Quo Vadis, that teaching children “to endure, to persevere, to struggle, may be the worst possible education for our world that seems to lack a high purpose, ideal ends, spiritual goals, enduring values,”

Digitized by UjOOQle
150

raises the question, What shall we teach children if such a deplorable state exists? To live a life of self-indulgence? Of Laissez fair el I do not think that we have reached such a state. Ideals never completely vanish. They seem to be transcendental. The struggle for freedom and other ideals seems eternal. I cannot conceive a civilization that would hold such a struggle useless.

In physical education as well as in life itself, it is only through struggle and perseverance that progress is made, that ideals are attained, that life is made enjoyable. The value in the mastery of activity, the joy and appreciation that may be attained from its practice, that is, the practice of an activity for its own sake, are not to be ignored.

The judgment exhibited by a Japanese at the Olympic Games in finishing a lost race illustrates merely the application of perseverance and effort as he saw it. To have dropped out of the race might have appeared like weakness to him. The Jap probably had a definite idea about that. I have no doubt that Elbert Hubbard would have selected a man of such qualities to carry his “Message to Garcia.”

Was the doctrine of effort used to “lull the commonality to peace by promise of a future on the other side of Jordan?” Or the doctrine of submissiveness, enduring the present, with the promise of reward in the beyond? It is only through determination and tenacity coupled with clear thinking that revolutions against such doctrines succeed. Had our forefathers been lacking these qualities, they would not have carried their revolution to successful completion. May there not be danger of lulling humanity into complacency and self-indulgence by a wrong teaching process?

EDITOR’S NOTE:—Inasmuch as several months have passed since Mr. Rath’s article on “Core Acitvities In Physical Education” and Dr. William’s “Thoughts About Core Activities” appeared in Mind and Body, we suggest that a review of these articles by the reader will add much to his appreciation of Mr. Rath’s latest rejoinder on the subject. The two articles to which we refer appeared in the January and April issues respectively. The reader is also referred to comments made by Vaughan Blanchard, Carl Schrader, Mabel Lee, Randall D. Warden, William A. Stecher, and H. P. Neilson since the January issue.

Adolf Hitler Speaks on Physical Education

I Whoever longingly desires, as we do, a strong nation, must necessarily believe in a strong generation. What significance would an exterior form be without a corresponding content? Only an illusion. Who would expect more strength from a State than that possessed by its citizens?v It was to the credit of Frederick Ludwig Jahn, the Father of German Gymnastics, in a time

Digitized by CjOOQle
151

of muddled state conceptions to have recognized the significance of physical fitness.

The practical application of the idea of Frederick Ludwig Jahn led to a truly revolutionary development which, perhaps, even today is not recognized in its entirety. The so-called intellectual era, with its half knowledge and half culture, was on the best road to develop a thoroughly sick generation of people. The over-appreciation of so-called knowledge and the allied aversion to physical activity led not only to an ignoring of the bodily form and strength, but even to a disdain of bodily labor. It was not by accident that this era, propagated and defended by sick people, led to popular ill health, not only of the body, but also of the mind. For when a person disregards bodily strength and health he has already become a victim of mental perversion.)

In the long run, a truly rational mind will dwell only in a vigorous, healthy body. The exception only proves the rule. Life is not supported by weak philosophers, but by strong men. If we have today an aesthetic ideal which opens our eyes intelligently to the picture of the ancient people, it is only because a great German showed the way to reestablish the balance between mind and body. But never would Jahn’s physical education have become the mighty movement which it is, in spite of the opposition of mental weaklings and embracing in its variations the entire world, if nature had not prompted the people to intuitively embrace it.

While the practical application has taken a great variety of forms in numerous fields, it is nevertheless the cause of proud satisfaction for us that those organizations* which have adnerred closest to Jahn’s precepts are today the mightiest of the demonstrators of these facts.

Not only is this true physically, but also mentally. The significance of this development for the existence of our people can hardly be estimated. Only those who cannot understand or who deny the power of an ideal can ignore the significance of an activity that leads millions of people to partake of their own free will, of strenuous exertions without hope of any personal, material reward. If the highest ideals ever become reality in the life of the people, surely this must be a case for vs hat a million people win through work and toil without personal gain, they lay together in the balance for the preservation of all. I Physical fitness of the individual map and of the individual woman leads to the physical health and strength of the nation. J

And straight and healthy people will never succumb mentally to fallacies to which the one-sided, overburdened brain often falls an easy prey. Highly intellectual people without courage and strength are always degraded to tutorship of healthier races. Their interesting literary works are poor compensation for their lost right to live, which nature conceded only to the strong and self assertive. As the masses do not consist of over-cultured thinkers, but of healthy natured people, the strength of their self-assertion has its roots not so much in intellectual convictions

♦The reference is without doubt to the Deutsche Turnerschaft.

Digitized by Google
152

as in the feeling of natural strength and the resulting self-confidence and faith in this strength.

Because German physical education during those many decades of liberalistic misculture, unconsciously perhaps, in the school and later in voluntary societies, increased the physical strength of the nation, it is now a mighty factor in the preservation of our people. In a time when the people have again stepped into the focus of state matters, the leaders of the state and with them the nation, cannot do otherwise than very gratefully remember those institutions that helped to preserve the most precious substance entrusted to the statesman, the flesh and blood of his own contemporaries.

Take with you back to daily life and away to foreign lands, the convictions of the indestructibility of the new Empire which is dedicated, not to theories, but to the preservation of our people. And above all take with you this conviction: In the Third Empire not only intelligence counts, but strength, and our loftiest ideal is a future human type in which brilliant intellect finds itself in beautiful bodies so that humanity may find the way over money and material possessions to more idealistic treasures.—Translated by E. Thoma, Cincinnati from “Discobolus”

A Solution of the Locker Assignment Problem

Alvin Butler, Roosevelt Junior High School, Salt Lake City.

Every high school has its own particular problems to solve in reference to gymnasium locker assignments, due mainly to varying physical conditions. There is no one system that will work well in all schools, but there are some ideas which can be adapted so as to minimize the work in most high schools and thus set into operation a smoother working plan. The writer believes that the plan used in assigning lockers in his school will be helpful to other teachers, and with this in mind he describes it in the fQllowing paragraphs.

At Roosevelt Junior High School, class room A 14 is on the first floor. To get to the gymnasium locker room from the class room, it is necessary to cross the corridor, enter another corridor and then pass down a flight of twenty steps into the locker room. The locker room is equipped with steel lockers 12 inches square in tiers, six tiers in height. It had always been a big problem to make the locker assignments speedily and accurately with a minimum of trips up and down the stairs.

When lockers were assigned by the old method we had congestion in some of the locker room aisles, while other aisles had only a few students assigned to them. Many times a tall, lanky boy would find he had a bottom locker, and a very short boy had to seek a bench on which to stand in order to reach a locker to which he had been assigned. The first tier of lockers is

Digitized by v^ooQle
153

only 12 inches above the floor, the second tier is two feet, and so on; the sixth tier being six feet above the floor. It is obvious that tall boys should use the upper three tiers and the smaller boys the three lower tiers.

We developed the idea of making a plan of the locker room showing the lockers in their proper places to assist us in making better assignments. In our locker room the two center rows of lockers are double and are six tiers high. On the plan which we have drawn, the lower three tiers are marked with red ink, which appears as a light color on blue print paper. The upper three are drawn in black ink. By this means we can tell which are the upper and which are the lower lockers.

We have six periods of first year boys on Tuesdays and Thursdays and six periods of second year boys on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. There is an average of forty boys to the period and there have been as high as fifty to sixty.

In our class room we have on the desk a blue print of the locker room plan along with a numerical list of the lockers, an alphabetical list of first and second year boys, and a code marking •for the periods. An example of the code is as follows: A = first period, B * second, C = third, D = fourth, E = fifth, and F = sixth, using red pencil for the first year boys and white for the second year boys. Suppose we are assigning the first year boys to the first period. There are five aisle divisions and if there are forty boys in the group, we scatter eight boys in each aisle so they will not be in the way of each other. The first boy’s name is called. He stands up. If he is very short he is given one of the lower lockers, and if tall, one of the upper lockers [those drawn in black]. The code mark A for first period is drawn with red pencil on the blue print over the locker assigned and the boy is given his locker number. On the numerical list, the boy’s name is written opposite that locker number and on the alphabetical list the locker number is placed opposite his name. These latter two lists may be operated by two good students in order to save time. The boy is given his key, and the next boy’s name is called. After all assignments have been made, the class is sent down to the locker room in order that the boys may locate their lockers and try out the keys. As can readily be seen, this procedure eliminates all the confusion attending most other methods.'

Each year we use a new blue print of the locker room plan. The two lists are kept on file in the gymnasium office for reference and check-up during the year. If a boy’s name is known, we can quickly locate his locker; if the locker number is known we can easily locate the owner’s name.

After lockers have been assigned for all periods and everything else is settled, the first year boys are given the privilege of stamping their locker numbers on all of their gymnasium equipment with washable paint. "Whenever a part of a gymnasium uit is left out of a locker or is turned in by some student we an tell in what locker it belongs and place it there. When in-
154

specting lockers, parts of suits are sometimes discovered with stamped numbers which do not correspond with the numbers of the lockers in which they are found. These are taken to our office and the locker holders are required to make an explanation.

Our new system not only has saved us a great deal of time but has been a big factor in reducing to a minimum the number of missing suits.

When the first year students enter the sophomore class the same lockers are reassigned to them in order that the numbers on their suits need not be changed. In a few cases where short pupils have gained considerably in height it is of course necessary to assign another locker. The reassignment is easily accomplished by the aid of the alphabetical list of the preceding year.

The Theory of the Origin of Scoliosis

By Dr. Ferdinand Heuer, Darmstadt.

[Reprinted from “Gesundheit und Erziehung ,” February, 1933, No. 2, published by Leopold Foss, Leipzig.]

Hitherto most contradictory opinions have prevailed regarding the origin of scoliosis. Evry investigator has had his own theory and the numerous divergent explanations alone are sufficient to prove clearly that no generally valid explanation existed.

Relaxation of muscles and ligaments, asymmetrical muscular growth, contraction of muscles, muscular paralysis, muscular rheumatism, dissimilar action or paralysis of the inspiratory muscles, unequal growth of the ribs, etc., have been stated as causes.

Since the middle of the last century it occurred to investigators that the cause was to be sought in the bony spinal column itself. At first the origin was thought to arise from prolonged habitual posture. They became convinced more and more that a disease of the bony spinal column must be at the root of it all, and at last they agreed that this disease was rachitis [rickets]. But it remained still unintelligible how rachitis produces scoliosis. They imagined that a softening of the bone leads to a sinking down of the spinal column, but they saw that in one case the spinal column sank down in several lateral curves and that in the other case it sank down in the sagittal plane, from back to front, as in spondylitis, the tuberculous destruction of the vertebrae, where it is really a sinking down. The softening of the bone alone could not explain these different effects, and they were therefore compelled to continue to avail themselves of the old explanations.

Besides, the whole problem was confused by the investigation of the causes from purely mechanical aspects. When habitual posture led to scoliosis, that was produced—so they concluded—by natural movements of the spinal column, and then several important treatises sought to explain scoliosis by these physiological

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
IBB

movements of the spinal column. Above all, lateral curvature and physiological rotatibn were held responsible.

gat'In a series of treatises, which are noted at the end, I have given a new explanation of the origin of scoliosis, which solves the problem of scoliosis as far as it is a mechanical one. This explanation selects from the many sided picture of scoliosis a particular type, and that the most important, the scoliosis with several short curves and strong distortions, striking tendency to progression and speedy stiffening. I term this the true scoliosis.

In our explanation we proceed from the fact that the spinal column is a double column. The peculiarity of a double column consists in its transverse section possessiong two diameters of different sizes. The diameter from the back to front is greater than that from right to left. A strip of paper [Fig. I] will facilitate further consideration. The strip of paper is also a column with diameters of different sizes in the transverse section. One diameter is equal to the breadth of the strip, the other is equal to the thickness of the paper. When you bend the strip of paper sideways in the direction of the smaller diameter, it becomes evident at once that no turning of the strip occurs here. The same is the case with the spinal column. With a purely lateral bending a torsion of the spinal column will never take place.

■r

Fig. 1. Strip of paper. Left: straight. Fold along the unbroken line in one direction, and along the dotted lines in the opposite direction. Right: bent forward, kyphosis and formation of folds. I	____________________

The statements in the literature, according to which lateral bending produces rotation, are due to a mistake, because the lateral bending was never carried out purely but always combined with a forward or backward bending. We shall now see, further, from the strip of paper, that the twisting was produced by the forward and backward bending and not by the lateral bending. When you bend the column to the front in the direction of the greater diameter, traction results at the convexity, and pressure, on the contrary, at the concavity. The side that is under traction remains in a straight line; the side that is under pressure, however, yields to the pressure and turns to the side. In order to

Digitized by v^,ooQle
156

make it clearly visible on the strip of paper, it is hest to make a fold as shown in the illustration [Fig. I]. When you now bend the strip to the front you see very well how it forms a fold at the inner side of the pressure and how this fold is turned sideways and backwards. All these are phenomena which we observe in true scoliosis.

But the most important observation for our further argument is, that in thus folding the strip of paper is bent forward, that it forms a kyphosis. If we imagine the longitudinal ligament coming down over the front of the vertebrae put into a straight line like a string, and if we make a lateral curve in the middle of the string, then the two points in which the lateral curve returns to the straight line must have approached each other, the spinal column must be bent forward, i.e., kyphotically.

The consequences are as follows:—

1.	When I bend a column with diameters of different sizes in the transverse section in the direction of the greater diameter [i.e., the spinal column, forward], then the side that is under pressure [the row of vertebral bodies] must turn.

2.	Conversely, if there were a force that twists the column, the latter must be bent to the side of the direction of the twist, and were there, therefore, a muscular system that turns the row of vertebral bodies sideways, the spinal column must acquire a kyphosis.

Now kyphosis with twisting of the row of vertebral bodies is actually observed in scoliosis, especially in simple dorsal scoliosis in which a kyphosis of high degree with simultaneous twisting of the same section of the spine is established. This fact is explained without difficulty by the above arguments.

Much more important than these scolioses, which show a final phase, are, however, the incipient scolioses in which no kyphosis can be found within the limits of the twisted section, but on the contrary, a lordosis. A point which the different investigators have again and again indicated.

The great question in solving the problem of scoliosis is, how to account for the twisting of the spinal column in the lordotic sections.

Even to-day, several investigators cannot relinquish the opinion that lordosis causes twisting of the row of vertebral bodies, and yet this opinion is untenable from the mechanical view-point. For, through lordosis, through the bending of the spinal column backward, the row of vertebral bodies is drawn straight all the more. For the same reasons one could maintain that a drawn bow-string takes a winding course.

Scoliosis is not a consequence of lordosis: that is mechanically impossible. The converse ijs correct: lordosis is a consequence of scoliosis.

We have seen above that in a lateral curve those points, where the row of vertebral bodies returns to the straight line, must be brought nearer to each other, a kyphosis resulting. Now

Digitized by Google
157

in lordosis these two points are not brought nearer to each other, but rather moved further apart. The distance between the two points, therefore, has remained at least the same as in the normal spinal column. But as the straight line is the shortest connection between two points and every other connection must be longer, a curve in the row of the vertebral bodies is only possible if it has become longer within the limits of the curve. This consideration thus leads us to the assumption that in the scoliotic spinal column, the row of the vertebral bodies is longer than normally, and, in fact, the prolongation of the row of vertebral bodies is the supposition whereby a mechanical explanation is alone possible.

The row of vertebral bodies has become longer, but that in its.-If is not sufficient. Further, it must be emphasised that only the row of the vertebral bodies has become longer and not the row of the neural arches as well. For if both rows grow at the same rate everything would remain as it was. But if the row of vertebral bodies grows more quickly than the row of the neutral arches, then the spinal column must curve lordotically, which process I call primary lordosis. Also this lordotic curving only occurs if the rows of vertebral bodies and neural arches are firmly connected with each other.

The origin of scoliosis consequently is attributable to the facts that the longitudinal growth of the row of vertebral bodies is in advance of that of the row of neural arches, and that the row of vertebral bodies and the row of neural arches are firmly connected osseously the one to the other.

The anatomical reason for this is as follows: as nowhere else, I suppose, in the human body, there are in the spinal column two bone systems firmly inter-connccted, in which the longitudinal growth of the one runs at right angles to that of the other. The longitudinal growth of the row of vertebral bodies rests upon enchondral osseous growth [through the bony nucleus in the cartilage] and takes place in the longitudinal direction of the body. The longitudinal growth of the row of neural arches depends on periosteal osseous growth [in the outer periosteum], for the increase in thickness of the roots of the arches, which is to be held responsible for the longitudinal growth of the row of neural arches, takes place periosteally. Besides, the difference in the relative growth of both the rows is increased by the extraordinary accumulation of zones of enchondral growth in the row of vertebral bodies. There are 48 zones of enchondral growth in the short extent of the spinal column. As long as the relative growth remains within its physiological limits it can of course produce no scoliosis. In the healthy spinal column the enchondral growth of the row of vertebral bodies and the periosteal one of the row of neural arches are balanced in a way that both rows keep approximately the same length during the period of growth. Only if the row of vertebral bodies grows more rapidly than the row of neural arches does scoliosis result. In order to account for the quicker growth of the row of vertebral bodies we must assume a disease which I quite generally term scoliotic
158

process. There is no true scoliosis without a disease of the bone.

Hitherto the scoliotic spinal column was always compared with a vine-stock. This comparison is not quite appropriate. There is a much better comparison, and that is the flounce. The flounce is produced by frilling one edge of a ribbon-like strip, that is to say, by shortening it. Then the free edge is forced to gather up. In the flounce, too, the curves of one edge depend on this edge being longer than the other.

Let us now consider the application of this explanation to a practical case, flat back. Flat back used always to be regarded as a disposition to scoliosis and Staflel has indicated this with emphasis. According to Schulthess one will be surprised to observe in children with flat backs when bending forward, seemingly straight spinal columns which prove to be serious scolioses by the unilateral projecting of the angles of the ribs. As the reason was not clear for this effect, Schulthess later returned to the opinion that the assumption of the disposition of flat back for scoliosis was not sufficiently supported by clinical observations.

In our own consideration the relation is at once clear. The prolongation of the row of vertebral bodies would lead to a lordosis of the thoracic spine. But this is not possible for a very different reason. As lordosis is prevented, the prolonged row of vertebral bodies is forced to find room in the same space that it occupied before, and that is only possible if it folds. The incipient prolongation of the row of vertebral bodies manifests itself as a flattening of the thoracic kyphosis. This one is therefore an incipient scoliosis.

In the scope of this treatise it is not possible, unfortunately, to go into further details. Some general points of view can however be advanced, aspacially with regard to the former explanations of scoliosis.

We have seen already with the strip of paper that the purely lateral bending cannot produce a rotation of the spinal column. Scoliosis does not result from a lateral bending, but from a forward bending, for only in forward bending is pressure produced in the row of vertical bodies that causes their lateral yielding.

Of other physiological movements of the spine, by which investigators tried to explain the origin of scoliosis, it is the same as with lateral bending. Above all, they have not succeeded in explaining scoliosis from the physiological rotation of the spinal column. It is a pathological rotation and a pathological torsion.

In the former explanations the muscular system is the most important matter. According to my explanation it has no causal importance and for the following reasons:—

1.	The great number of bending and turning points cannot be explained by the musculature, because there is no musculature that could produce these.

2.	If there were a musculature capable of turning the row of vertebral bodies sideways, then the spinal column would have to become kyphotic, as I have proved above; it becomes, however, lordotic.
159

3.	The idea that in the normally healthy body the musculature works to produce asymmetry of the spinal column, has in itself something strange, and contradicts at any rate the appropriateness in nature that is otherwise again and again emphasised. All the observations argue in favour of the musculature producing a symmetrical effect. The strong healthy musculature works at the preservation of the symmetry of the spinal column and it prevents the torsions. The weak musculature works in quite the same direction, only—and this is the important thing—it is too weak to prevent the torsions.

Hitherto, a difficulty for the explanation arose from the fact that in one case the spinal column sank down in several lateral bendings, but in another case in the sagittal plane. Now we see that in an insufficiency of the bone tissue, where a real sinking down occurs, as in spondylitis, the spinal column will always sink down in the sagittal plane, and where the row of vertebral bodies extends it will form several lateral curves.

Also, investigators imagined the origin of scoliosis as if the bone became insufficient, softened, yielded, and the spinal column sank down in itself. The flattening of the thoracic kyphosis is in direct contradiction to this idea, for in the development of lordosis the longitudinal extension of the row of vertebral bodies is increased and not diminished as is the case in sinking down. In true scoliosis the spinal column does not sink down, it even extends, it only folds and thus shortens in the longitudinal direction of the body.

In order to verify these arguments by experiment I made a model of bandage rubber where the row of the vertebral bodies could be extended by blowing air into it.

It was possible to show with the model, that this shortening in the longitudinal direction not only takes place in the absence of compression, but even against a force that seeks to stretch the spinal colunn. The upper end of the model was arranged movable in the longitudinal direction and was pulled up by a weight. In the development of scoliosis in the model the upper end was pulled down, the counter-weight up. This experiment proves that in the incipient scoliosis, compression certainly is of no importance.

The speedy stiffening of the spinal column in true scoliosis, too, depends on the prolongation of the row of vertebral bodies. Already in flat back, which is a scoliosis, as we know, agility is impaired and at first forward bending, for the taller the vertebral bodies are in front, the less bending forward will be possible.

In the flattened thoracic kyphosis of flat back, forward bending is diminished because the vertebral bodies in front of the neural arches have become taller. In the lumbar kyphosis the forward bending is increased because the vertebral bodies in front have become shorter. Upon this observation I built up a new investigation of the spinal column. According as the particular sections of the spinal column can be bent forward, I distinguish a diminished, a normal, and an increased kyphosis. The examina-
160

tion is not made—as hitherto general—while the child is standing, but in an easy sitting position, as no information respecting kyphosis of the lumbar spine can be obtained in the standing position.

In the easy sitting position normal backs show an equally strong kyphosis in the thoracic and in the lumbar spine. The two kyphoses are separated from each other by a slight hollow at the lower end of the thoracic spine, so that the line of the spinous processes seen from the side, show the form of the figure “3”. Now there are numreous deviations from this picture of the normal sitting position, the kyphosis being increased or diminished. The two kyphoses are rarely changed in the same way, usually the diminishing of the one kyphosis is accompanied by an increasing of the other. The pictures which are thereby produced are very characteristic and by them we get quite new information regarding the formation of the spinal column.

Normal Back.	Flat	Back.	Hollow	Back.

The line at the base indicates the sitting level, the cross lines mark the points between the 12th dorsal vertebra and the 1st lumbar vertebra, and between the bth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum.

Fig. 2. Curves of Various Spinal Formations in the Sitting Position.

The backs in which we are especially interested are the flat and the hollow back. In flat back the thoracic kyphosis is diminished, the lumbar kyphosis, known as rickety lumbar kyphosis, however, is increased. In hollow back it is quite the contrary, for the thoracic kyphosis is increased and lumbar kyphosis diminished. The curves of the spinous processes show that very well.

In the erect position, too, the two backs present extreme contrasts. Whereas Qbservation in the erect position has hitherto

Digitized by

Google
161

failed to explain the sagittal curvatures of the spine, in our observation it is at once evident what has been going on in the two spinal columns. Both backs develop in the same way. Ihe section with the diminished kyphosis exists first. From extension of the row of vertebral bodies in it, increased longitudinal pressure results, which then leads to a sinking down of the row of vertebral bodies, to an increased kyphosis, in the adjoining section of the spinal column. Ihus lordosis is primary, and com-pensational kyphosis secondary. In flat back the opposite was formerly considered correct. The lumbar kyphosis was supposed to be primary and the flattening of the thoracic kyphosis secondary, that is to say, dependent on static conditions. Ihe fact that the forward bending is limited, that therefore, a change in the row of vertebral bodies must have taken place, is against static lordosis.

The flat and the hollow backs are, as it were, the two extreme cases between which are al 1 the different formations of the spinal column observable in the living being.

Besides, the diminished kyphosis obtains a particular importance for the diagnosis and prognosis of scoliosis. In diminished kyphosis the row of the vertebral bodies is already extended a little. If, here, a scoliotic process supervenes, the diminished kyphosis will lead mo e speedily to scoliosis than the normal or the increased kyphosis. Diminished kyphosis is thus a mechanical disposition for scoliosis. The hitherto prevailing assumption, for which one could not assign reasons, that kyphoses are a certain protection against scoliosis, therefore, was justified.

• With this we get a uniform explanation of the normal formations of the spine as well as of scoliosis.

For treatment there are two dominant considerations:—

1.	The lengthening of the row of vertebral bodies by the scoliotic process.

2.	The forward bending.

The only certain clinical sign of disease of the bone is its progress. In progressive, florid scoliosis, therefore, general treatment stands first, and so much so, that it cannot be sufficiently emphasised in a short article. I consider it a mistake merely to prescribe a corset for a scoliotic child and then to leave it to its own resources.

It is the immediate task of orthopaedics to lay down rules for influencing the forward bending. To go further into the matter would be beyond the scope of this article. —Translated	M.

L. in Phys. Edu. and School Hygiene, England.

Heuer, “Zur Theorie der Skoliose,” 1927—Derselbe, “Die Vor- und RUckw&rtsbeugung der normalen Wirbelskule”—Derselbe, “Die physiologische und skoliotische Drehung der WirbelsSule”—Derselbe, “Die menschlichen Haltungstypen und ihre Beziehungen zu den RiickgratverkrUmmungen”— Derselbe, “Eine Nachlese zum Skoliosenproblem.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
162

Leisure As A Challenge

James Edward Rogers Director, National Physical Education Service National Recreation Association.

To train for the wise and wholesome use. of leisure is one of the seven cardinal principles of modern education. This problem of training for wholesome play habits in youth for the wise use of leisure in adult life is becoming rapidly more necessary. The invention of numerous labor saving machines and devices has made work so easy that the major muscles of the body threaten to fall into disuse. In our games and sports, youth develops those big muscles necessary to his growth and development. Our schools must teach people to use their spare time so as to develop big muscle activity. Modem industrialism with its mechanical inventions changing our mode of life, has created the shorter working day with its speed and strain.

The preservation of the human body thru vigorous outdoor life is one of the major concerns of this generation. Marvelous, ingenious machines have lifted much labor from the back of the ditch digger, the farmer, and the factory hand alike. The office man sitting at the desk all day using only his minor muscles, takes the subway or train to his home, has his supper, and drops into an easy chair for his evening paper. At 8 o'clock he goes to his garage and gets his car, merely to go two blocks away to a bridge party. To walk would be an effort. Unfortunately, the same uncanny inventions that have relieved man and woman of much physical strain and fatigue have brought' decreased hours of work and increased income, a condition of human affairs never approached on a wide scale hitherto in the history of the world. Thus we have in America the new leisure. Is it a curse or a blessing? Leisure is an opportunity for self-expression. It is the thing that all men seek. Men want that free time in which they can do as they please. Hence men make or break themselves in their leisure. To some it becomes re-creation, to others it becomes rec-creation. Mischief in the child is the wrong kind of play. I believe that the American people with their marvelous adaptability will make it a blessing. This combination of leisure and prosperity has forced outdoor recreation to the front as a segment of life, comparable in importance to health, religion, and education. The municipality today is just as responsible for the recreation of its people as it is for their protection, health, and schooling.

Education today has two major tasks—to train how best to work and how best to live. Therefore, the public schools must provide indoor and outdoor facilities that will train our children in wholesome play habits for the wise use of their free time. Long ago Aristotle said that the end of education was the wise use of leisure.

The wise use of leisure is also a big problem in health edu-

Digitized by UjOOQle
163

cation. The insurance companies and the doctors rcognize this fact. Dr. Cabot of the Boston Dispensary in his splendid book entitled “What Men Live By” said that men live by four things: [1] Work [2] Worship [3] Love, and [4j Play.

In many cases physical, mental and emotional ill health comes not from a germ, but from the lack or from the wrong kind of play. Clean wholesome recreation is essential to physical well being. Most of our neuroses arise from the wrong kind of recreation. A good many of the ewes come not from the pjysician’s pill box nor by way of the surgeon’s knife, but through the prescription of more golf, a trip to the mountains, a rest at the seashore, and the outdoor life.

To train for leisure is one of the seven cardinal principles of general education. Shall the schools educate for work, or educate for leisure? M\ William J. Cooper, the new U. S. Commissioner of Education, says more ttention must be paid to the training for leisure. To the neglect of the off-time aspect of life in the schools he ascribes much of the young people’s propensity to spend their leisure hours foolishly, even criminally. They have been taught how to work “on the boss’ time,” but not how to use their own hours.

As a controversy, the issue is much like that celebrated debate over the priority of the chicken or the egg. In this country, the school and the pulpit and every other educative agency have been hammering away for years on the need of efficient work. Invention and industry have cut down, or ought to have cut down, the hours actually needed for the work of the world. Vocational training in the schools has given each pupil a certain degree of working skill, with a very pronounced vision of the importance of practical work all through life.

But, of course, efficient work creates more leisure.

And what are people going to do with that increased leisure? If it isn’t ri'ghtly used, the work itself goes to pot. The success or failure of an individual life is determined in the off-hours, as a rule.

If people waste leisure or use it destructively, reactionaries could argue that a fourteen-hour work day is better than six-hour work day because the time is spent more advantageously.

The trend toward shorter and shorter hours of toil can only justify itself, in fact, by bringing about longer and longer hours of activities that are more genuinely valuable and pleasurable than toil.

Now, the people who seem to get the most out of their leisure hours are those who work about twice as hard at ‘leisure’ as they do at ‘work’. People who have hobbies. People who study or build or make music or organize or otherwise hunt out their own genuine talents, foster them and proceed to follow them up. Loafers are never happy. Hard leisure-time workers usually are.

Perhaps the schools can start young people along the idea
164

that the off-hours are their real opportunity quite as truly as their work-hours. A crusade against time-wasting would have large results.

A Greek philosopher once wrote a note to the teacher requesting that the children be given a vacation so that they could learn something. He was not joking but was in earnest. He was indeed a wise old philosopher, for he understood the needs of growing youth.

Recently a superintendent of schools stated that he would rather have a playground without a school than a school without a playground. Here was truly a sensible educator, who must have read carefully the writings of those educational leaders who have made modern educational practice. Froebel, Festalozzi, J. Stanley Hall, Herbert Spencer, E. L. Thorndike, W. Kilpatrick and John Lewey have all stressed the values of physical activity, play and recreation in education.

What a person does in his off-duty time ofttimes determines the character of work he does in his on-duty time. Big business has recognized this salient fact and so has entered into the playground and recreation business. Most industries now maintain playgrounds and recreation centers within the plant and outside in the industrial community.

At a number of state and national meetings of various kinds, the writer heard speaker after speaker talk of the need for the training for the wise use of leisu' e. President Lewis of Lafayette College, at the Georgia State Teachers meeting, stated this as his main theme to the whole state teaching body. A president of a state university, at his inauguration, declared that the problem before this country was not education for production, but education fo~ leisure. In brief, educators and statesmen have come to realize that with the new day and the new age, a new curriculum is necessary and that the framing in play habits and the conservation of free time is essential to the integrity and salvation of our national life. We do not do wrong nor go astray during our work or sleeping hours. It is during our free time that idleness finds mischief for empty hands and minds. Mischief is perverted play and quickly drifts to delinquency.

An individual largely makes or breaks himself in his recreation. A nation rises or falls according to how the leisure of its people is used. The conservation of leisure is one of the first responsibilities of government and of the first concern to the statesman. We have had conservation movements for national resources and movements for the conservation of animal resources. Our national government, through the agricultural departments, spends more for the welfare of pig life than it does through the Children's Bureau of the Labor Department for the child life of America. It is about time we had a movement for the conservation of human resources. In such a movement, the provision for play, recreation and outdoor leisure time activities is apparent. Rapidly this situation will become a matter of national necessity.

Digitized by Google
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	NOVEMBER	1933	No.	415

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editori' 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn. Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at JSew Ulm, Minnesota. under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial Comment

In this issue we print the translation of a major portion of an address made by Chancellor Adolf Hitler to an audience of some 320,000 people who had assembled for the closing ceremony of the fifteenth National Turnfest held this year in Stuttgart, Germany. We are indebted for this translation to Ernst Thoma and to Discobolus.

What Hitler says with regard to the value of physical education for Germany applies with equal force to the United States, especially in view of our small army and navy. Although few of us believe preparation for national defence to be a major aim in physical education, there can be no doubt as to its great importance in this connection.

The address made by the German Chancellor can probably be used in various ways by physical educators with telling effect in these days when many communities are contemplating an onslaught on physical education as a part of economy measures.

We take our hats off as we congratulate Alvin Kindervater, Administrative Director of Physical Education in the St. Louis Public Schools, and George Wittich, who until his retirement held a similar position in Milwaukee, on the celebration of their fiftieth wedding anniversaries. Both men are in excellent health and serve as outstanding examples of the value of physical activity and the practice of other health habits.

While we know that heredity and other influences are factors in longevity it is a source of great encouragement to all of us to note the long list of septuagenarians, octogenarians, and even nonagenarians who were teachers and continuous participants in well balanced programs of physical education. It might be profitable for some one to make a study of the relative longevity of men and women who have participated in such well balanced programs and

Digitized by v^,ooQle
166

those who have restricted their physical activities to the more strenuous competitive sports. A study of this sort would be greatly complicated by the number of influencing factors, but in spite of this it might show very suggestive effects of two different habits of physical activity.

It is a matter of considerable comfort and satisfaction to know that the decision to eliminate much of the physical education program in the Chicago Public Schools has been rescinded in large part. Modification of the original decision was made, however, only when the Board of Education was confronted with a State law which requires that physical education be taught in the schools. Our pleasure would be much greater if the reversal on the part of the Board of Education had come about as the result of enlightened opinion with regard to the value of physical education. Until school directors and the general public become thoroughly convinced of the importance of our work, we have no assurance that we will not some day be swept away. State laws can be rescinded, and as long as we exist only on the strength of such laws we will continue to stand on very uncertain ground. It is the urgent duty of every physical edccator to sell our program by word and deed to the public.

We shall await with great interest the outcome of the new requirement in Indiana that superintendents and principals take health and physical education courses for administrative licenses. We hope that Indiana means business and that this is not merely another paper requirement which will be overlooked whenever it is found convenient to do so. In the meantime we congratulate those who were instrumental in introducing such a progressive and important step.

EXTRACTS FROM A PUBLICATION OF THE WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE “GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHILD”

FATIGUE

With respect to these we can state with considerable certainty that acute fatigue is due primarily to the accumulation of so-called fatigue products, among which carbon dioxide and sodium lactate have been identified as important items. Acute muscular fatigue presents, therefore, a fairly clean cut and not over-complex picture. Even acute muscular fatigue is not purely muscular. It involves, in part, some of the nervous system, ana possibly other organs.

Another type of fatigue, less clearly defined and about which we have very little scientific information, is acute nervous fatigue. It is the condition, well recognized in everyday experience, which results from severe emotional strain or intense mental effort. The presumption is that the central nervous system is primarily involved, but we cannot yet be certain that we are here dealing with a single definite condition, which can be clearly differentiated from acute fatigue of other parts of the body on the one hand and from chronic fatigue on the other.

Acute muscular fatigue, injurious in its effects, undoubtedly

Digitized by LjOOQle
167

can occur, and does occur when children are compelled to toil beyond their strength. We are unable to lay down at present,, however, either for individual children or for given age or strength groups, any criteria which would enable one to judge whether given tasks are physically too severe for particular children, or not. We must trust to the concern of parents, teachers, and employers for the welfare of children to draw the line on the side of safety, giving the child the benefit of the doubt rather than to run the risk of injuring him by demanding more of him than he is able to give.

Acute nervous fatigue arises in children perhaps more easily than in adults, for the reason that children have very little power of sustained attention. They soon show symptoms of fatigue when engaged in any type of mental activity of so limited scope that the nervous activity is restricted within narrow channels. Paradoxically, but equally significantly, they are also wearied by too frequent a shift of interest, when the shift is of such a character as to introduce the element of nervous tension. To avoid acute nervous fatigue in children, then, we need to guard against undue monotony, on the one hand., and undue nervous tension, on the other. To distinguish when acute nervous fatigue is actually harmful is much more difficult than to distinguish harmful muscular fatigue, and the positive proof that such nervous fatigue hinders growth and development has not yet been adduced. Yet there is the familiar observation that over-tired or over-excited children who are otherwise in good health are likely to show loss of appetite or even severe gastrointestinal or vasomotor disturbances or in some cases a rise in body temperature. One is at least following the counsels of caution in inferring that such disturbances as these, particularly if repeated frequently, are likely to affect growth and development unfavorably........

Even when such measures are in operation, school children

a.’e undoubtedly in a fatigued state at the end of the school day. To avoid chronic fatigue it is necessary that the recovery be complete by the beginning of the next school day. Measures designed to insure this are: provision of a diet adequate to meet the needs of the child; bodily exercise of a recreative character for an hour or two after school [whether team drill in preparation for organized competitive sport is recretive in this sense is a question for which at present there appears to be no authoritative answer]; limitation of home work to reasonably interesting and not unduly taxing or time-consuming matter; avoidance of excitement or nervous strain due to social activity or to unwholesome home conditions, parental discord, and so on; avoidance of too strenuous play; a full night’s sleep. Eye-strain produces fatigue very soon, both in school and out of it; hence children should be provided with suitable glasses if they suffer from errors of refraction............

Digitized by CjOOQle
163

ORGANIZED ATHLETICS DURING SCHOOL AGE

Athletic training means literally the strengthening of vital organs and skeletal muscles, but in the present discussion it is assumed to include all of the other activities connected therewith, and particularly the emotional excitement which is incidental to the participation in athletic contests. It is well known that exercise of the skeletal muscles leads to an increase in their size and strength, and it is equally true, although not quite so generally understood, that athletic training increases the efficiency of certain metabolic processes, notably those concerned in the oxidation and disposal of lactic acid. The improved wind of the trained athlete depends upon just this increased efficiency. It is probable that the great majority of those who undergo athletic training emerge with these benefits, which enable them to undertake more strenuous and more prolonged physical activity.

It is most important, particularly in these days of increasing urbanization, that- every child should have opportunity for adequate exercise of his large muscles. Our cities have relatively little opportunity for vigorous activity involving these muscles except in play and athletics. Chores, errands, and household tasks no longer occupy a large part of the child’s life, and space for free play is restricted, and yet either these or some other activities involving the large muscles are essential to his normal development. Not only the growth of the muscles, and possibly the skeleton as well, is involved, but also coordination of the nervous system. The necessity for sound physical education and opportunities for play and exercise are so well recognized that they need not be further stressed. Our present concern is rather whether the organization of athletics for the older child may not bring with it certain disadvantages which should be remedied. . . .

"Without attempting to answer the question of whether organized athletics are mo~e beneficial than they are harmful, we may note certain specific shortcomings which are common to many of our present programs of physical education and which might well be remedied. In the first place, the particular skills and sports which are most frequently learned in scholastic athletics are learned for themselves alone and are not useful in later life. Secondly, those who need physical education most tend to be the ones who are most neglected; and finally, there is all too frequently such inequality of ability among the competitors that there is little joy to the losers, little pleasure to the winners, and frequently real physical danger to the weaker players. To remedy this situation it has been suggested that emphasis be placed upon types of exercise which can be continued after the boy has left school, and furthermore that in team games the equality of the competing individual should be secured by means of' suitable tests of physical strength and fitness. Such tests of physical fitness if applied to school children as a matter of routine would indicate which individuals require particular attention from the point of view of building up their physical strength and health.
169

What Superintendents of Schools Expect of Health and Physical Education Teachers

James Edward Rogers

At the outset should be stated some of the things the

community as a whole expects.

1.	That the community be a good and safe place for children to live in; that is, free from communicable, contagious'diseas3S.

2.	That the schod be a good place to work in. That it be sanitary, clean, and healtHul. Care as to water, light, and heat, and everything that makes the school building a good plant.

3.	That the child be in fit condition to learn—a fit learner, a fit worker. This means, being free from physical defects that interfere with his learning process. This takes in the whole school correction of defects program.

4.	That the classroom itself be a wholesome workshop making for mental and emotional health and stability as well as for physical health.

5.	That the teaching methods and procedures be based upon health. Eesks that aid and do not retard; suitable teacher’s voice; aesthetic surroundings.

I.	Elementary school health and physical education. [The

first six years of schooling]

1.	Every elementary teacher should be interested in the school health and physical education program.

2.	Every elementary teacher should be trained in both health and physical education in the teacher colleges. Three semester hours in both subjects should be the minimum.

3.	A good elementary health and physical education program depends largely upon the cooperative attitude of the classroom teacher.

4.	Recognition by classroom teachers of the needs of. the whole child, and especially correlation between physical and mental health, and the learning of the three R’s. Appreciation by the elementary teachers of the importance of the health program.

II.	The special division of health and physical education—

The program.

1.	A well-organized program, without waste.

2.	Worthwhile, purposeful activities with

a.	Aims

b.	Content

c.	Outlines

3.	Graded programs based upon age levels, characteristics, and needs.

4.	Programs based on individual needs.

5.	Programs based upon educational procedures and methods in teaching.

6.	Balanced programs in all the phases—no over-emphasis, but a balanced program of

Digitized by CjOOQle
170

a.	Plays

b.	Games

c.	Sports

f.	Tumbling and stunts on apparatus

g.	Aquatics

h.	Correctives

d.	Athletics i. Health instruction

e.	Rhythmics

7.	Educational procedure in teaching.

8.	Definite results in achievements, records, and forms, showing progress and develop ent.

9.	A mass program for the many and not for the few: a large intra-mural program as against a specialized inter-school program.

10.	A program that meets educational standards.

III.	Organization of the Special Program—Organization.

1.	Seeing the health and physical education program as a part of education.

a.	As an administrative unit.

b.	As a teaching unit.

Health and physical education is education and not a special subject.

2.	Seeing relationship between the three major parts of the program:

a.	Health Service

b.	Health Education

c.	Physical Education.

3.	Cooperation with all other departments in the central office

4.	Cooperation with principals and classroom teachers

5.	Good program building and scheduling.

6.	Careful budgeting.

7.	Proper care of facilities, equipment, and supplies.

a. Careful reports, records, forms, and blanks—that will tell the story and interpret to Boards of Education and to the community the work done.

8.	Reducing wastes in time, effort, cost, etc.

9.	Use of pupil leadership and squad organization- in class

IV.	Teaching

1.	An interest by the health and physical education teacher in all forms of education.

2.	An interest by the health and physical education teacher in the entire school curriculum.

3.	An interest in children as a whole and seeing the relationship between mental and physical health.

4.	Term programs and weekly programs, with lesson plans.

5.	The teacher must set examples in character patterns.

6.	Proper dress and preparation.

7.	Care as to English used.

8.	Stimulation of interest and motivation of the program. NOTE: Of course, every teacher should be technically trained

in the content of the subject.

V.	Personality—Character

1. Every Superintendent expects loyalty and cooperation in the health and physical education teacher.

work.

Digitized by Google
171

2.	The teacher should be reliable and ready to accept responsibility.

3.	He should be punctual, efficient, and a good organizer.

4.	He should be able to render an account of work and to satisfactorily interpret it.

5.	He should be ready to give community services.

6.	He should be ready to make sacrifices.

7.	Above all things, he should be an educator of boys and girls, and not a specialist in a few activities.

In conclusion, we should state what the health and physical education teacher expects of the Superintendent

of Schools in the health and physical education program.

In order to put education into physical education, it is necessary for the Superintendent to put physical education into education. To accomplish the above, the following must be provided:

1.	Adequate indoor and outdoor facilities to carry on the program to reach the mass of the students. This means playground and athletic fields, gymnasiums, and corrective rooms, etc. That is, the teachers must have sufficient laboratories and classrooms in order to carry on the job, to carry out the program of individual needs and procedures to reach every boy and girl.

2.	Ample time allotment to do a decent job. The Six Year Book of the Department of Superintendence, 1929, correctly recommends a daily period.

3.	Adequately trained teachers who are familiar with the new health and physical education programs and procedures. This new program does not depend upon the coach type, nor the gymnastic type, but one who understands the needs of children.

4.	The Superintendent must regard health and physical education as an integral fundamental subject in the curriculum and not as a fad or frill, nor as a special subject.

TEACHING HAS MUCH TO LEARN FROM MEDICINE

Teaching has much to learn from medicine. Their functions are parallel except that the one deals with the human body and the other with the human mind. Both are interested in the development of wholesomeness, mental or physical; both assist development by treating maladjustments and practicing prophylaxis; and both in theory, at least, treat individuals rather than masses of people. But medicine does its job much better than the school performs its responsibilities. This, I believe, is not open to serious debate.

The central factor which gives medicine a basis for superiority is the difference in the depth of understanding of the human body demanded in medical schools, and the slight understanding of the human mind that is required in schools of education. A casual examination of the four-year professional currifculums of colleges of medicine will show that over 40 per cent of the time is devoted to a study of the human body as

Digitized by f^ooQle
172

such—its anatomy, its physiology, its pathology—to say nothing of much other time devoted to specialized areas and functions of the body. The medical student thus makes a detailed examination of the body to learn the similarities, differences, and diseases of organisms.

A further examination of the curriculums of medical schools reveals the fact that the skills, techniques, and information needed by the doctor to treat the human body are taught as means rather than as ends. That is to say, the doctor selects from a wide range of experience those materials and methods which are appropriate for the needs of the individuals for whom he is responsible. Thus an understanding of bodily needs and a knowledge of curative agencies are two factors of a single problem, and the cures, the pills, the formulas, and the regimens are subordinated to an understanding of the patient.

This parallel which holds in theory between teaching and medicine breaks down in practice, chiefly because the teacher is taught little about the physiology, anatomy, and pathology of the human mind. He is given three, six, or possibly nine semester-hours on psychology in a four-year course and out of a book: the medical curriculum contains approximately fifty horn? of physiology, anatomy, and pathology with a wealth of laboratory study of real human tissue. So, the student in the school of education knows only a few second-hand scientific facts about the minds of children. He cannot diagnose maladjustments, he cannot identify traits, he only vaguely understands individual differences or how to locate them in individual children. He has taken only an airplane trip over the child country.

What the teacher lacks in scientific knowledge of children’s minds he makes up in a knowledge of the cures and pills and regimens to give them, for the materia medica of the human mind are known as the subject-matters of history, literature, spelling, and mathematics, and the techniques of surgery and medicine correspond to the techniques and methods of teaching. Of these the student teacher learns much. Students take majors in literature, history, or science and equal amounts of methods of teaching. These are the pills. The students learn the function of the pills, who discovered them, how they have evolved, and varieties of pills of the same genera, the beauty of the pills — a thousand interesting facts about pills. Some students confine their time to studying a few varieties of pills — French or mathematics—and become expert in their knowledge.

In teachers’ colleges the students are also taught some general principles about how to share with children this interesting knowledge about pills and are given practice in the operation of sharing. But because the teacher knows so much about the pills and so little about children, he becomes pill conscious. His knowledge of the pills is divided into lessons, and the children are supposed to master the material from day to day; they are supposed to take a pill or so every day. If at the end of the semester the course has been covered, the pill bottle is empty.
173

The application of this more or less flippant illustration lies in this direction. Teachers are subject-matter conscious because they do not know enough about the children’s minds to make them child conscious. The crucial need in the training of teachers is a marked increase in the amount of time devoted to the physiology and pathology of the human mind.

We can learn from medicine by giving teachers an understanding of the human mind as comprehensive and concrete as the doctor’s understanding of the human body. —editorial by W. W. Charters in Educational Research Bulletin, Ohio State University.

Health Education Notes

Howard L. Conrad.

Antiseptics in First Aid Dressings. Antiseptics have been defined as agents, usually chemical, that inhibit or kill bacterial growth. This definition permits the market to be flooded with preparations that do these things to a certain degree in test-tubes but fall far short of expected effectiveness when applied to wounds. Their weakness in this respect may be due to dilution, to inherent impotency, or to the nature of the wound; i.e., hemorrhagic, unclean.

The big problem in the manufacture of antiseptics is the production of some agent strong enough to kill micro-organisms and still not disastrously affect the normal tissue. In a recent issue of the Medical Times and Long Island Medical Journal*, Dr. JosepI Manzella discusses this problem and classifies some of the more common antiseptics according to their action. In his first group he lists the Phenol preparations [lysol, cresol, etc.] and states that they are definitely damaging to tissue, toxic, and holding no place in wound surgery except as cauterants.

The second or mercurial group include bichloride of mercury [that ever-present aid to the suicidally inclined], metaphen ana mercurochrome. Dr. Manzella is full of regard for mercuro-chrome, but the alcohol-acetone preparation is preferred rather than the watery solution that the layman procures from the corner drugstore.

The Halogen group, containing chlorine, sodium hypochlorite and tincture of iodine comes next. Some of the best and most dependable antiseptics for general wounds are found in this group he believes. Then there is the silver group: silver nitrate, argyrol, etc., whose general use io wounds is not advisable; and the oxidizing groups: hydrogen peroxide, potassium permanganate, sodium perborate; which same act by liberating oxygen, and are chiefly valuable in loosening dead tissue.

*July 1933 “The Value of Antiseptics in the Treatment of Wounds” p. 197

Digitized by ^.ooQle
174

The Dye group, little known to the layman, consisting of methylene blue, gentian violet, acriflavine, and others he thinks “have some definite value as antiseptics in wounds. The value of this group consists in their apparent ability to kill certain specific bacteria; i. e., staphylococcus. It will be recalled that the chemo-therapy researches of the last twenty years in Germany and elsewhere are responsible for this group of antiseptics.

Lastly, Dr. Manzella names a miscellaneous group including tincture of green soap [a valuable addition to any first-aid kit or medicine chest], alcohol, boric acid, and saline solutions. The last named being more of an osmotic stimulant than a bactericide. One must keep in mind that Dr. Manzella is considering antiseptics as used for treatme t of wounds and not as first-aid applic tions. He states, rather pertinently, however, that "to use an antiseptic in a wound and then leave foreign bodies and debris behind, or' allow more contamination to take place, makes it all valueless.” One of his conclusions contains the following: "That of the large host of antiseptics, most are of little, if any, value not meeting with the requirement that they shall possess effective bactericidal action without harm to tissues”.

In connection with this rather discouraging summation it is astonishing to see the immense amount of advertising and spending that is being done in "Antisepti-conscious America”. Dr. "W. W. Bauer* in the July issue of "The American Mercury” pictures this situation. “A sauve voice on the radio, an impressive word hauled from scientific obscurity to blatant exploitation, a skillful appeal to the fear of social embarrassment, and another antiseptic is born”. Dr. Bauer’s article stresses the need of recognizing the body’s natural defenses against bacterial invasion; and sounds a much needed warning against indiscriminate gargling, douching, washing, and spraying of infected or potentially infected areas. He counsels a return to the old-fashioned and inexpensive soap and water, augumented perhaps by 70% alcohol solution.

One may consider in this respect the stand taken by the American Red Cross. Always cautious and conservative, they recommend cleanliness, sterile dressings, half-strength iodine, and alcohol.*

One Hundredth Anniversary of Gastric Physiology.

"Time” for Oct. 9, 1933 interestingly reports the episodes that led up to the publishing of Dr. Beaumont’s “Experiments and Observations on Gastric Juice and the Physiology of Digestion” in 1833. There are few teachers and students of health education who have not heard of the remarkable Alexis St. Martin. His stomach was truly a “bay-window” through which Dr. Beumont

♦“Antisepticonscious America,” by W. W. Bauer, M. D., Director, Bureau of Health and Public Instruction, A.M.A.

*Cf. First Aid Text-Book, American Red Cross, 1933, pp. 65 and 66.

Digitized by v^ooQle
175

made new and astonishing observations on the digestive juices and their action on foods. Before that accidental gun-shot wound occurred all knowledge of this kind was hypothetical. Incidentally, the victim later married, fathered two children, and lived to the ripe old age of eighty-three. It is difficult to refrain from noting here the efficacy of shot-gun matrimony.

TUBERCULOSIS IN CHILDREN

By J. C. Knox, M.D.

From the title one is led to think that tuberculosis as it occurs in children is different from that found in adults. Generally speaking, this is true. There are two types of tuberculosis: childhood and adult.

Childhood, type of tuberculosis represents a primary infection with the tuberculosis germ. The area of the lung involved is usually near the outer edge of the lung on one side, with a consequent involvement of the lymph nodes or glands at the root of the lung on that side. The root of the lung is that part at which the air tubes enter the lung tissue. This area or spot of first involvement usually is quite small, and often is soon encased or surrounded by scar or fibrous tissue. Moreover, a child with such an infection with tuberculosis may look and feel perfectly well. There are often no symptoms that will lead one to suspect anything wrong with the child. Not infrequently a child may-have the adult type of tuberculosis. This form of tuberculosis in children is much more serious than the former; however, if this form is found early and properly treated, recovery usually takes place.

The question now arises as to how one is to find out if tuberculosis is present in a child. Of course, the history of intimate exposure to a known case of tuberculosis is of value; however, this fact is not always known. A child may be in very close contact for a long period of time with some individual who has a chronic form of the disease and no one be aware of it. This type of exposure may exist for a number of years with the tuberculous individual performing his or her regular duties without knowing the existence of the infection, due to the absence of acute illness. Such an individual can be most dangerous to those about him when he has an ordinary chest cold', for it is then that the germ is brought up by coughing.

The tuberculin test is one of the best known ways to locate the child who has a tuberculous infection. It might be well to state at this time that there is quite a difference between tuberculous infection and tuberculous disease. One may have the infection, yet never at any time show any evidence of the disease. The tuberculin test is quite simple and can be easily made by your family doctor. The tuberculin test, when positive, indicates tuberculous infection. The test is quite simple, harmless, and leaves no unsightly scar. Any individual who has had consider-

Digitized by i^.ooQle
176

able exposure to tuberculosis, or who has a heavy infection, or who has the disease, may have a quite marked local reaction at the site of the test. One cannot be infected with tuberculosis by this test. Those showing a positive test are not necessarily suffering with tuberculous disease. The studies made by the North Carolina State Sanatorium show that a total of 16 per cent of an unselected group of school children showed positive reactions; yet only 2 per cent of these positive reactors showed any evidence of the disease.

A fter we have used the tuberc lin test to find those who are infected, we are just beginning in our efforts to locate those who have tuberculosis. The ordinary means of examination by “Thumping” and listening to the chest are of little value in helping us discover cases of tuberculosis in children. The spot on the lung is usually so small that it is impossible to locate it by the ordinary methods. The surest way to find such cases is by the X-ray picture. X-ray pictures will show the area of the lung involved and the extent to which it is involved. /II children having a positive tuberculin test should be X-rayed. By this method, also, one is able to advise as to the treatment necessary; that is, whether to spend a period of time at a sanatorium or to employ home treatment. The X-rays can be taken by the local hospital or the doctor in the community who has an X-ray machine.

A mild infection of the primary type in children has the tendency to take care of itself, if the child is separated from the source of the infection and propr hygienic surroundings and conditions are provided. A child under such conditions may, if he is of school age, continue his work at school without being a source of infection to his playmates.

If a child is found, upon X-ray examination, to be suffering from tuberculous disease, it may be necessary that he spend some time in a sanatorium. Should this be necessary, there should be no hesitancy on the part of the parent in securing this form of treatment. Other children may, under proper conditions, remain at home and follow out the instructions of the physicians and make an uneventful recovery. Children who do not have evidence of the disease, but only have the infection, should be under the supervision of a physician, and should have X-ray pictures of the chest made at intervals ranging from six months to one year. Older children, between the ages of eleven and sixteen years, with the infection, should be especially watched, for at this period the disease may show itself in a most dangerous state, and one which may terminate fatally unless proper treatment is instituted promptly. Portion of an article in Health Bulletin of No.Carolina State Board of Health.

Jobs and Health. The following editorial which appeared in the Philadelphia Ledger is important in view of misleading reports which have been made during the past two years. “The idea that public health has improved during the depression has been ex-
177

pressed several times, and each time it has left a lingering doubt. Now the situation is partially clarified by a New York survey of 4500 families living in what might be called an unemployment neighborhood. This survey has been checked against a similar study of the same families made three years ago.

During those three years unemployment by households increased sixty-eight per cent. At the same time sickness increased sixty-one per cent. Much of the sickness noted in the earlier study was disease not necessarily provoked by lowered physical resistance. Much of that noted now comes directly from malnutrition or exposure.

The conclusion is obvious. General health among those who have held their jobs is improved in proportion to their giving up of harmful excesses. That is the improvement shown in most surveys. But among the unemployed, particularly those without work one, two or three years, malnutrition has bred wasting illness, far more of it than occurred when those people were working and had enough food.”

Senile Cataract. In the Sight-Saving Review for September, Dr. Luther C. Peter states that “senile cataract does not occur in old age only, but may be present in individuals of forty or fifty. These early cases are of a complicated variety and may be caused by a focal infection in some remote part of the body, such as pyorrhea, infected teeth, bad tonsils, gastrointestinal diseases, etc....

“There is a common belief that if senile cataract makes its appearance, the individual is doomed to blindness, or to the ordeal of an operation which he fears may destroy what little

sight is left. Nothing is further from the truth.....

“If the eyes were examined every third year after the age of forty, many general conditions and many cases of cataract in the earliest stages would be recognized, and the treatment might prevent their further development.......

Non-shatterable Glass in Spectacles. Spectacles with non-shatterable glass are being advocated quite generally by eye-specialists. The advantage of such glasses will be appreciated readily for myopic children, where it is so important to get them away from books and interested in outdoor life and various types of sport. Parents of such children have been especially fearful of having them wear glasses under such conditions because of the dangers involved.

A Serial On Physiology—In the October issue of Hygeia, Dr. Oscar Reiss and Dorothy W. Baruch tell about “The Parts of You That You See All the Time.” This is the second chapter of a serial, “I Want to Know: A First Physiology”. In this Chapter the authors acquaint the child with the skin, the nails and the hair.

Digitized by v^ooQle
178

The Use of Massage in Internal Medicine*

Ralph Pemberton, M. D., Philadelphia.

The word massage is hardly more than a. synonym for “rubbing” of some sort in the minds of many practitioners. There are relatively few physicians, speaking generally, who have seen massage applied, in a critical sense of the .word; there are still fewer who have tried to use it themselves. Before considering the conditions to which massage can be appropriately applied in internal medicine, it is well to consider therefore the limitations that exist in putting into practice this form of therapy. Obviously, intelligent use of any therapeutic measure demands some knowledge of the benefits to be derived and the dangers resulting from improper or untimely conduction of it. Even an understanding of the physiologic basis of massage does not carry with it practical knowledge of clinical application. Knowledge of the duration of a treatment, the frequency of repetition and the vigor of application are relegated at present to the technician giving the massage. It is important, therefore, to emphasize at this point the extent to which practitioners in general are lacking in a perspective of the subject.

To endeavor to extend to the profession as a whole information regarding the use of massage is not alone sufficient, since it is recognized by those versed in this topic that there is a great dearth of persons trained and qualified to carry out this measure. Coincidentally with extension of knowledge among the medical profession there must therefore be an increase, through a definite policy of education, in the number of those persons trained to conduct the various basal forms of physical therapy, massage in particular. Considerable delay will occur before the situation as a whole can be expected to be rectified, but the vicious cycle must be broken somewhere and a beginning made in several directions simultaneously. This reform is in process of taking place, but it is important that existing conditions be appreciated.

Except for the results of trauma, the chief application of massage is in respect to various chronic conditions and chronic disease states. These fall chiefly under the captions of internal medicine and neurology, although as regards the measure under consideration these clinical fields somewhat overlap. The basis for this generalization, as pointed out in the section dealing with the physiologic influence of massage, lies in the fact that the therapeutic effect of massage is achieved slowly by means of repeated exhibition over a considerable period of time. The influence of any one treatment is or should be, at least at the outset, very slight. The cumulative effect of many treatments is, however, unmistakable. Medical conditions that rim an acute course in the space of ten days or two weeks offer, therefore, but little opportunity for benefit from it, although there are perhaps some exceptions to this statement.

* Journal, Am. Medical Association.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
179

The clinical condition with which massage has been longest associated, one indeed that has played a significant part in developing and preserving massage as a therapeutic instrument, is the rheumatoid syndrome. Another field of medicine, however in which massage has probably had equally recognized application is the treatment of neurasthenia by the so-called rest cure, developed and standardized by S. Weir Mitchell. This will be elsewhere discussed. Massage is also of value in many other conditions and under many circumstances encountered in internal medicine, although such use of it is more or less sporadic and out of keeping with many clear physiologic indications for its employment.

In arthritis there is a wide and important field for the application of massage. It may almost be said that few, if any, advanced cases of arthritis of either the atrophic or the hypertrophic type, to follow the nomenclature of the American Committee for the Control of Rheumatism, can be expected to recover without recourse to the principles of physical therapy, massage in particular.

It is to be appreciated that arthritis is largely a systemic disease and not a disease of joints per se, and that in many cases of the rheumatoid syndrome the joint structures may be little or not at all involved. It follows from this that other tissues, especially the muscle and tendonous structures, also demand attention.

Massage has three chief indications in the arthritic syndrome: First, to improve or maintain adequate conditions of circulation and drainage in the neighborhood of involved joints; second, to improve or correct the faulty physiologic processes in the soft structures and especially the muscles; and, third, to compensate somewhat for the lack of muscular activity that inevitably follows protracted local or systemic disability from arthritis or the rheumatoid syndrome. In this last connection it is thus possible to preserve in considerable degree the normal tone and bulk of muscle structure and even to bring about in atrophied muscles an apparent increase in muscle volume or at least in muscle tone as evidenced by the resistance and consistency of the tissues under the palpating hand. It should be a cardinal principle in the application of massage in arthritis that treatment should never add by trauma to the inflammatory or otherwise diseased process already present. It follows from this that massage should, for the most part, be practiced in the neighborhood of, but not immediately over, the site of arthritic involvement. There are some exceptions to this statement, in that effleurage of the lightest kind may sometimes be practiced with profit over a diseased joint. In general, however, the principle mentioned must be rigidly adhered to and the instances are legion in which a bad situation has been made worse by undue zeal or by frequency of application. It is to be remembered that most persons who practice massage are technicians without a basal knowledge of medicine, though activated by a commendable zeal
180

for their work. Knowing of the benefits often to be derived they are not infrequently led to believe that, if a little is good, more will be better and so are led to carry treatment beyond the proper point. They are often encouraged to do this, indeed, by the patient himself, who feels no untoward effects from light treatment and thinks he will do better with a more vigorous application. It is precisely here that the medical profession in general must be educated to the point of knowing, in all clinical conditions, when to limit the application of massage as well as when to prescribe it.

In connection with arthritis, massage can usually be preceded with profit by the application of heat to the involved part. As explained elsewhere, this opens up vascular channels and softens the tissues, permits a more vigorous application of massage, a larger range of motion of the parts concerned, and generally paves the way for massage itself. When carried out, therefore, with the preceding limitations in mind, a light form of massage in the neighborhood of the involved joint may in itself prove to be a measure of considerable “analgesic” value, as well as contributory to an eventual betterment of the local pathologic disturbance. The reader should be reminded that the processes producing the arthritic manifestations have their basis, in part at least, in marked derangement of the local physiologic equilibrium especially in the finer circulation. The latter is apparently altered in the direction of vasoconstriction, and the influence of massage, for the reasons elsewhere mentioned, is toward opening up these vascular channels and so restoring the physiologic processes more or less toward normal.

Under nearly all circumstances, massage directed to the neighborhood of joints must be unaccompanied by movement of the joint. “Churning” of the joint is to be studiously avoided. One of the commonest errors made by masseurs in general is that of inducing tw isting movements to the finger or other joints, together with passive flexion and extension of nearly all involved joints. A subsiding arthritis may easily be perpetuated or made worse by activities of this sort. Furthermore, the question of passive motion in the form of flexion or extension constitutes a small chapter by itself, and the indications should be clear before it is instituted. From the standpoint of possible trauma to the joint structures, many orthopedists believe that passive motion to joints is accompanied more often by detriment than by benefit. There are some exceptions to this, but in any event great conservatism must be adopted toward it. An advantage in directing massage to the tissues somewhat removed from the joint itself lies, thus, in avoiding undue passive movement of the actual joint structures.

One of the sharp therapeutic advantages in recognizing the two chief types of arthritis is in respect to the fact that arthritis of the atrophic type is prone to lead to fibrous and finally to bony ankylosis, depending on the particular apposition of the bones of the joint and on the duration of inactivity. In this

Digitized by UjOOQle
181

type of arthritis motion should be encouraged within the limit of further trauma, preferably in the form of voluntary motion conducted by the patient himself, and this is best achieved after application of heat and massage to the part concerned.

A frequent accompaniment of the later stages of arthritis, at the chair ridden period and especially in atrophic cases, is edema of the dependent parts. This results partly from the vascular derangement accompanying the disease; partly from the absence of muscle contraction to aid in return of the peripheral blood, and partly from gravity alone. This condition is usually accompanied also by a shiny skin and other evidences of a so-called trophic disturbance. In such instances massage is the only procedure that can rectify the condition and may often appear to work miracles. In these cases and, indeed, in many cases of arthitris, the hands and feet are cold and after a course of massage there may be a marked subjective betterment as well as improvement in the surface temperature and appearance at the periphery.

Because of the systemic nature of the rheumatoid syndrome there also tends to arise an atrophy of muscular tissue referable to a process of “fibrositis” as well as to disuse. Massage, with or without the accompaniment of heat, is one of the few measures that will affect this situation. It should be carried out with great conservatism at first and confined to the limbs. As the patient becomes accustomed to the procedure, the whole body should be included at intervals of every other day. The influence of such systemic treatment is not confined to the muscular system per se but, as is elsewhere discussed, exercises a more subtle influence on metabolism as a whole and on the red cells available to the circulation. There are several varieties of technic in the administration of massage as elsewhere discussed but, so far as arthritis is concerned., those methods which embody stroking and. gentle compression rather than pinching and squeezing, are preferable. Great force is not necessary, especially on beginning the treatment, and any one can demonstrate for himself the change in the distribution of blood in the superficial capillary, bed from even the lightest form of stroking. A definite contraindication to massage, most of all to vigorous massage, is to be seen in cases, arthritic or otherwise, accompanied by fever or by any debilitating complication. The changes in circulation induced by massage may easily be the means of carrying material from one part of the body to another, and any suspicion of malignancy should constitute a contraindication to its use. In such conditions as phlebitis, massage may induce dislodgment into the circulation of fragments of a blood clot, for example, which might find fatal lodgment in the heart, lungs or elsewhere. It is furthermore to be remembered, as already remarked, that muscles which are the site of myositis or other disturbance of physiology, may be and usually are the accumulation of a certain amount of metabolic “detritus.” This is almost wholly analogous to the obvious detritus, in the form of extravasations of blood, that
182

accompanies trauma. The unduly rapid absorption of this detritus, produced by massage, may suffice to induce some toxemia and even fever, especially in the elderly.

The Use of Massage in Disturbances of the Circulation

One of the fields in which it might be supposed that massage would have an obvious application is that of disturbances of the circulation. Curiously enough, however, .in this field massage is but little employed although at many sanatoriums in this country and Europe baths and some form of massage are given more or less as a routine to most patients. The adjuvant mechanical influence of massage in returning tissue fluids and other material from the periphery to the general circulation might suggest wide use for it in cardiac decompensation, with or without actual edema, especially as general massage may induce considerable diuresis in normal persons. Every clinician determines the presence of edema by pressing a finger on the involved part with the aim of determining whether pitting is present. When pitting is thus obtained, it is obviously evident that the fluids within the tissues concerned have been somewhat displaced. The analogy that this effect could sometimes be exerted on a larger scale throughout a whole limb should be simple, but it seems, indeed, to have escaped large recognition in this country. Thus, reference to a widely used American textbook of medicine reveals no mention of the subject in this connection, although English textbooks not infrequently include discussion of it. In almost any cardiac condition with decompensation accompanied by edema, gravity determines localization of the edema to the dependent parts. These parts are usually the feet, the legs, the buttocks and the back. In such cases, therapy is customarily confined for the most part to restriction of the fluid and food intake with or without pharmacologic efforts to increase the a tergo from the heart. The peripheral tissues of the body are often left to cope, as best they may, with the fluids in them. In health the circulatory dynamics are aided by contraction of the long muscles, a factor which is, of course, absent in conditions of inactivity and enforced rest accompanying heart disease. Under the latter circumstances, properly given massage may be useful.

Massage is no more a specific in such conditions than is rest or the exhibition of digitalis, but, together with these and with a suitable curtailment of the diet and fluid intake, it further influences the mechanics of the situation. It must not be overlooked that under these circumstances massage might conceivably induce undue or too rapid disturbance or resorption of the body fluids or other substances and so induce toxemia. The practitioner should therefore use great caution in the institution of such measures, proceeding to a more vigorous application only when the way has been opened by experience. Massage may also be of value in certain disturbances of circulation at the periphery, such as acroparesthesia, Raynaud’s disease and intern ittent claudication.

There is nothing in the aforementioned considerations, of

Digitized by U^ooQle
183

course, to justify oversight of the broad principles concerned in the management of disturbances in the dynamics of the circulation. It is a purpose of the present article to point out additionally the extent to which the proper use of massage may sometimes aid and abet the various orthodox measures which should be resorted to.

The Use of Massage in Anemia From what has been said in the pieceding section and in that treating with the physiologic influence of massagt, the implication is clear that massage should have applications of varying extent in conditions accompanied by anemia. The le-tuin of red cells to the circulation achieved by massage should be of limited but definite importance in anemic persons. The increase in the red cell ccunf following massage is demonstrable in any normal individual, but it is noteworthy that this influence is apparently more graphic in anemia than in conditions of health. In carrying out massage on the subjects of anemia, great caie must be exercised to avoid overapplication. The profession has not as yet utilized this measure in respect to cardiac dysfunction and the various anemias to an extent large enough to justify dogmatism as to the full possibilities of benefit or as to the limitations to such treatment.

Massage in Chronic Disease at Large There is a wide field for the application of massage in almost any condition, devoid of acute or serious complications, which requires that the subject be kept at rest, especially in bed, for long periods of time. The practice of allowing patients to lie or rest in bed without the institution of measures capable of compensating in part for the normal activities of life is far too common. Under extreme conditions of inactivity, as in severe and widespread arthritis, the human being may literally flatten out, somewhat as does a piece of putty left on the window sill. Gravity and pressure of the bed from below may produce grotesque lateral deformity, so that the bones of the leg, for example, may be palpated as easily from behind as from in front. This is, of course, an extreme and later result but it illustrates the factors operative. Such abuses from neglect can be avoided by the proper use of massage. The evidence of the influence of massage is not limited to the locomotor system but may show itself systematically, equally graphically, in terms of an improved color, sharpened appetite, better sleep, greater contentment with confinement to bed and a general sense of well-being.

The use of massage is important also as a contribution to the maintenance of health in the elderly. As such persons become less able to take exercise and of necessity lead more sedentary lives, they lose many of the benefits incidental to bodily activity. Massage offers a partial substitute for such activity. Elderly persons should never enter on a course of massage except at proper hands and with great conservatism: but many executives in their later years, who carry large responsibilities, have found that massage, in conjunction with suitable periods of rest

Digitized by Google
184

and mild forms of activity, enables them to maintain themselves at a higher level of efficiency.

Whatever the purposes of systemic massage, whether for a specific disease or for more general ends, it must always be followed, as elsewhere pointed out, by an adequate period of rest, generally about an hour. A point which requires great emphasis is the fact that systemic massage makes demands on the intangible reserves of the body such that depletion may result if the massage is combined with other forms of active thera-peusis. The mistake is commonly made of subjecting persons to massage in addition to such measures as sweating, the removal of focal infections, the use of vaccines and the like with the net result that the sum total of therapeutic activity taxes the individual as a whole beyond his capacity to respond in respect to any of the measures applied. The end-result of such overtreatment is therefore not only failure of. benefit but positive detriment in the way of fatigue, nervousness and even exacerbation of the original complaint. The importance of preserving a balance between the various forms of physical therapy applied, on the one hand, and the capacity of the individual to yield the response desired, on the other, must never be fprgotten.

A fundamental consideration is that tissues of all kinds require a certain minimum of rest for reparative processes. It is common knowledge that the broken leg requires rest in the form of immobility until the repair, which means union, is achieved. It is commonly overlooked, though equally true in principle, that protoplasm of whatever kind also demands opportunity for repair. In the field of physical therapy this usually means adequate care and rest not only of the parts concerned but also of the body as a whole.

Expressionistic Gymnastics (Conflict of

Emotions)

By Therese Prinz Pletz, Detroit Socialer Turnverein at the Buffalo Turnfest.

Music: “Valse Triste” by Jean Sibelius

Introduction: Nine girls enter from upper left corner in irregular grouping on the second measure—with three slow steps, body bent low, left hand across forehead, right hand low in rear. They come in backwards, facing the left rear	wing,	registering “fear”. ... 2	Meas.

Step on R foot, draw L foot up to	R, knees	locked .................. 1	Meas.

Same stepping on L foot............................................. 1	Meas.

Balance R forw., bending low, R hand leading, followed slowly by L

hand. [Low crouch] ............................................... 1	Meas.

Rise slowly, stepping back on L foot followed by R foot which is placed in back of L. Arms raised slowly, R arm first, and moving backw............................................................... 1	Meas.

Entire group moves to left, and around circle to the right in 2 meas-

Digitized by CaOOQle
ures of low uneven steps [R arm over head, gently]

185

2 Meas.

All balance right forw. and low, as before, only in 2 measures—and

rise slowly, arms as before, in 2 meas..........................4

All join hands, facing out, run to circle to right, in low and somewhat faster uneven steps—finishing in circle, facing inward. [The turn is right.] Arms are raised slowly and gradually to fifth amplified,

with a slight gentle rise onto the toes •.......................4

All balance toward center with R foot—arms as before, and body

low. [The left arm should fall very slowly] ................... 2

Step back onto L foot followed by the R foot which is placed in back of L—the L arm is raised foreupward, and back to the left—the

body is bent lqft and back. R arm is in a low first position .. 2

Lower heels and arms slowly, turn to right looking over right shoulder, and walk slowly to grouping shown in Diagrain I .................... 4

In grouping—the bodies are very much relaxed. On the first 4 meas. the bodies and arms are raised slowly and carried to the

other side .................................................... 4

They all sway b;ack to the first position slowly ................. 4

Again they begin to sway back, but continue to rise to relaxed semi-

standing position ............................................. 4

Rise fully, and walk over to center stage, grouped in a circle facing outward ................................................................. 4

Meas.

Meas.

Meas.

Meas.

Meas.

Meas.

Meas.

Meas.

Meas.

Meas.

32 Meas.

Part II.

Nine boys enter from upper left corner, with slow, slinking steps, hands grasped in rear, and bodies bent low, in 4 meas.—finishing in front of a partner, facing partner [Girls—face outward in the circle—and boys inward—toward girls.]. Boys should finish in front of partner on the first beat of the fourth measure with arms

raised obliquely foreupward, fists clenched.................. 4	Meas.

Boys—with a small stride to left, swing both arms in half of figure 8 swing, to the upward position with deep dip of knees, and bodyswing to left ................................................ 1	Meas.

Deep swing—arms ahd body low................................... 1	Meas.

arms and body high ................................ 1	Meas.

High swing—or “Wave”........................................... 1	Meas.

Girls—in first 2 meas. lower R arm over forehead, L arm back and low [still “fear”] ..........................................  2	Meas.

Turn to right slowly and slip around to own place in circle, facing outward ...................................................... 2	Meas.

Finish on R foot—arms [fists clenched about head] high, and arms slowly lowered at sides and to rear—body low, ready for deep-swings [Fighting fear] ......................................  4	Meas.

While Boys begin R ft. and move back with 8 deep swings starting f:om high to low [i. e., swinging down on coun s 1-3-5-7]—the Gi Is begio L ft. and move forward swinging up on the counts 1-3-5-7 [Chasing fear away]................................... 8	Me:s.

Digitized by Google
Boys grasp girls’ E hands, with their R, and both run in millwheel to left [about 9 steps] finishing in own place again on count 10— rest 11, 12 ................................................... 4	Meas.

[Girls’ L hand over forehead,—boys' L held back, fist clenched]—

[Fear and Chase] Girl finishing on E foot, knees locked, body low, and arms back, fists clenched—boys finish high on toes, arms up-body arched.

Both perform 8 more deep swings—Girls go up and boys down on odd number of counts........................................... 8	Meas.

Boys lower arms slowly side downward,' and clench in rear, turn and walk to next grouping [Diagram II] ............................ 4	Meas.

Girls turn slowly to right, and walk slowly to small circle [Diagram II], and kneel on both knees, facing in—arms are lowered slowly— left arm last..................................................

32 Meas.

Part III [in grouping]

Pleading for strength—girls rise partly—[using abdominal and thigh muscles—this means, weight with shoulders is held back, but no

bend in back]. Arms are raised gently ......................... 2	Meas.

[Not enough strength—and they again fall down slowly.............. 2	Meas.

Another attempt, this time a little higher........................ 2	Meas.

Again not enough ................................................  2	Meas.

A better attempt and success—this time the arms are pulled a bit sideoutward, chest sunken—until hips are straight and arms high,

head back [arched] ............................................ 4	Meas.

Turn body to left, pulling across with L hand..................... 2	Meas.

Return slowly to right facing inward ............................. 2	Meas.

16 Meas.

Boys perform same movements only with more force and strength, and on twelfth meas. finish in poses shown in Diagram III, and hold 13th, 14th and 15th and 16th meas.

Girls—slowly lower arms, rise onto R foot, then L foot, grasp neighbors’ hands, rise on toes, raise arms and arch in circle formation... 4 Meas.

Release hands, and step R back, lock knees, repeat this L. R. apd L foot—arms lowered and trunk lowered .........................  4	Meas.

Boys—during above—rise to stand, raising arms upward to the

oblique position............................................ 2	Meas.

Lower arms and trunk—arms up in back ........................  2	Meas.

And then walk slowly into center of circle and finish in front of

partners ................................................    4	Meas.

Girls-deep	swings-starting upward............................ 1	Meas.

downward..................................... 1	Meas.

upward .....................................  1	Meas.

a “wave” .................................... 1	Meas.

then—downward, upward, “wave”, downward ........... 4	Meas.

Boys-deep	swings-starting downward.......................... 1	Meas.

upward....................................... 1	Meas.

a “wave” .................................... 1	Meas.

downward..................................... 1	Meas.

Digitized by v^ooQle
187

then—upward, downward ........................... 2	Meas.

upward, and “wave”.......................   2	Meas.

32 Meas.

Part IV

Boys lunge right forward, raise L arm obliquely left sideward—grasp girls* R hand ................................................... 4	Meas.

While girls grasp boys* R hands, slowly raise L knee and L arm, head low [trunk low first] then gradually bend back, straightening L leg forward, L arm foreupward, and back, R knee bent slightly.

Both fall L forw., kneeling on R knee, side by side—bodies relaxed,

L hand knuckles down .......................................... 4	Meas.

Both rise slowly, arms and head last, face L..................... 2	Meas.

[Back to back]—rise on toes and grasp hands forming an arch. . .and hold ............................................................ 4	Meas.

Relax, and fall L forw., onto R knee ............................ 2	Meas.

Now grasp neighbors* R hands—[Whom they face] and rise onto toes—pulling back—L hand foreupward to	obliquely backw............4	Meas.

Millwheel to left—trunk bent low................................. 2	Meas.

Run to open order formation as shown in Diagram	IV .............. 1	Meas.

23 Meas.

Part V

All stride left sidew. and swing arms in figure eight to left. .1 Meas.

and to right. . .1 Meas......................................... 2	Meas.

Face left, swing arms upward ..................................... 1	Meas.

Swing downward [both arms and body]............................... 1	Meas.

Swing upward ..................................................... 1	Meas.

Step left forward and “wave**..................................... 1	Meas.

Swing downward, and then upward, facing front .................... 1	Meas.

Repeat this combination, beginning right, but girls face left again,

so that they will be facing partners from count three on ......  8	Meas.

[Girls stay down on counts 8]

All continue with four deep swings................................ 4	Meas.

[Girls starting upward, boys—downward]

Continue deep swings with jumping—for ..........................   4	Meas.

[All jump on count 2 and 4]

Repeat from last 8 Meas........................................... 8	Meas.

INTERLUDE

Girls-Swing upward ............................................... 1	Meas.

“Wave** ....................................................  1	Meas.

Swing downward............................................... 1	Meas.

Swing upward, rising on toes ...............................  1	Meas.

Boys-Reverse-Swing downward, upward, wave, and downward—

crouch low................................................. 4	Meas.

Boys-Grasp girls* R hands, all millwheel twice	[quite fast] ...... 3	Meas.

Run to position in single circle, girls in front	of boys—all low . 1	Meas.

8 Meas.

[All finish standing on L foot, R relaxed—body bent low—girls R arm forward—L batek—boys—both hands back—and grasped.]

Digitized by ^.ooQle
Part VI.

Beginning with R foot—six long and rather low running steps forward ......................................................... 2	Meas.

[Girls—gradually swing arms back]

All step [rather fall] R forward with an upward swing of the arms .. 1 Meas. and a downward swing with a small jump—trunk lowered—arms

back ........................................................ 1	Meas.

Repeat these first 4 Meas...................................... 4	Meas.

Run six more steps [tempo quite wild] ......................... 2	Meas.

Grasp partners' R hands and millwheel with six more fast and low

►	running steps ............................................... 2	Meas.

Finish in single circle—and all facing outward—All perform an up-

►	ward swing................................................... 1	Meas.

All perform a “wave" .......................................... 1	Meas.

All perform a downward swing .................................. 1	Meas.

All perform an upward swing—rising on toes..................... 1	Meas.

With a small step L forward, a 1-2 figure 8 swing to left—and right 2	Meas.

Step R forward and repeat figure 8 swing to left and right [End

1 high* on toes] .............................................. 2	Meas.

With feet together-a deep swing-downward ...................... 1	Meas.

an upward swing .............................  1	Meas.

and then two waves—high ...................... 2	Meas.

24 Meas.



OQ-





. aovs

0IA«*AM X



Ji-'' ^ fe

v-

V

A* A

Gnu-*

tlAaftfcrt X

•	x	•	X

*	X	©	O

%	0	*	6	*	°

O	v

X	o	*

Ot*%*AM IT



r «I*L



-VO



SIAMUH X

Digitized by Google
189

All slowly lower arms and trunk, and walk to last grouping as shown in Diagram V. [All deep swings-use both arms and bend trunk well oyer well-bent knees.] Cross R oyer left—kneel on left, slowly bend—-and lie down on left side—head between arms on floor— move slowly during entire 8 measures.

EDITOR’S NOTE: This beautiful number, which the editor was fortunate enough to witness, requires about six and one-half minutes to perform.

News Notes and Comments

Achievement Standards for Girls. The National Physical Achievement Standards Committ32 is now working on a national set of standards for girls. There has bean a demand from over the country for standards for girls. This National Committae was created by the National Society of State Directors of Physical and Health Education and in 1930 this Society requested the National Committee to arrange to set up a set of standards for girls as they did for boys. The National Advisory Committee of women from all over the country have had meetings during the past two years. To direct the field studies, the Committee has been fortunate in securing the leadership of Miss Amy Howland of Mount Vernon, New York, a well known leader in physical education. She will receive the cooperative help not only of the State Directors but for the National Recreation Association and Dr. Frank S. Lloyd of New York University. Miss Howland is chairman of the Track and Feld Committee of the Women’s Editorial Board of the American Physical Education Association. She is receiving whole-hearted support from over the country.

The study will be limited to:

a.	Ages eight to eighteen inclusive.

b.	Those big muscle activities which, by the present best known criteria, are suitable to those ages.

c.	Those events which are possible to record in an average school or recreational situation.

d.	Those activities in the regular program.

e.	Those activities of national interest.

If you are interested get in touch with Miss Amy Howland, 10 North Fulton Avenue, Mount Vernon, New York.—Nat’l. Phys. Ed. Service Bulletin.

Olympic Congress Rejects Four Sports. The International Olympic Congress has rejected proposals to include model yacht racing, ice yacht racing, lacrosse, and bowling as events of future games.—National Phys. Ed. Service Bulletin.

Another Step Forward. Illinois University has decided to accept two credits in physical education as a part of its matriculation requirements. However, the University has decided wisely that credits will be accepted only if earned in connection

Digitized by VjOOQle
190

with courses in physical education which meet certain standards which they have set up. Which University will be the next to prove in this way that it gives more than lip service to qualities and qualifications other than intellectual attainment?

Bright Children Are Healthy Children. Dr. Elise A. Martens, Federal Office of Education specialist in the education of exceptional children, reports that contrary to the popular belief that gifted children are puny and weak, it was found in an extensive study that gifted children, on the whole, are physically superior to the average children of their own age. Under proper guidance, the gifted child may become outstanding not only in the classroom, but also on the playground. He is not only a thinker; he is also a doer.

"Creative ability is his,” says the author “and it is creative ability which the world needs in its onward march of progress.” The fact that a child is intellectually more mature mentally than physically sometimes causes maladjustment. For this reason teachers find it advisable to encourage social contacts with children of approximately the same physical and mental maturity. Among such companions the gifted child has an opportunity to enjoy normal play experiences, the study shows.

Progress In Indiana. Mr. James E. Rogers reports that great progress has been made in Indiana in the growth and development of state-wide standards for health and physical education. One of the most interesting of the forward steps enumerated is the following: "Of great significance is the fact that superintendents and principals will be required to take health and physical education courses for administrative licenses. This will mean a great deal. Health and physical education will make great progress when the educational administrators understand its administration and procedure”. We hope that the courses taken by the administrators are such as will lead them to demand a sane and well-balanced program in the schools under their jurisdiction.

Pupil Interest In Physical Education. A vote taken in the intermediate and high schools of Wichita, Kansas, on the question as to whether or not pupils would take physical education if it were elective resulted in 88.41 percent voting “Yes” and 11.59 percent voting “No.” This is probably a more favorable vote than could be shown by any other subject.

A Major Problem. The Federal Office of Education reveals that there has bren a decrease in 1932 of nearly $34,000,000 in -eceipts for current expenses in the face of an increase of nearly 1,000,000 children in enrollment over the school year 1930 in small school systems.

Revision of High School Courses. The National Survey of Secondary Education reports that in the matter of revision of

Digitized by UjOOQle
191

courses of instruction English appears to receive attention from the greatest number of schools, while Mathematics, Physical Education, Social Study, and Science rank next in the order named. This would seem to indicate that physical educators are among the most progressive teachers. Or does it indicate that administrators are dissatisfied with many of the existing programs in physical education and are ordering revision?

Bone Grafting. The Philadelphia Ledger reports the successful grafting of a piece of thigh bone to a broken arm which had failed to knit and had remained crippled for nine months.

A Study of Landing Shock in Jumping for Women.

The author finds, on the basis of a study of literature and of photography, that high and broad jamping for girls does not influence the position of the uterus, especially if the correct technique is used. Opponents must therefore submit proof that jumping is harmful to women.—C. H. McCloy.

Injuries To Pupils. A school district is not liable under Deering Act 5619 [page 377, 1931 School Code] for injuries received by a pupil through an accidental collision with another pupil, when, as members of a class in physical education composed of pupils in the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth grades of an elementary school, the pupils were taking part, under the supervision of a teacher, in the running game known as “Black Man” or “King King Calico”, the game not being inherently dangerous.—California State Dep’t. of Education—Vol. IV., No. 3.

1933 A. A. U. Records. The number of claims for new marks submitted to the National A. A. U. at its annual meeting in Pittsburgh was much lower than in 1932 when the Olympic Games furnished the impetus for record-breaking on a bigger scale.

Hiking. Hikes extending over a day or more by school pupils and teachers in Germany continue to be a regular practice. This delightful and healthful practice might well be inaugurated in most communities of the United States.

A survey by Miss Turner of 8,000 pupils in the schools and in a teachers’ college of Washington, D. C., indicates that [leaving out the effects of diseases and injury] the habitual carriage of the individual is chiefly the result of heredity and congenital conditions and that it is not essentially modified by any ordinary means.—School Life.

Participation In Intramural Program. L. W. Olds reports that 82% of the 900 men students in the Michigan State Normal College participate in intramural activities. He stated further that activities requiring only one or two participants are

Digitized by
192

more popular than team games. Is the relatively greater popularity of such activities to be accounted for on the basis that considerable satisfaction may be derived from them even though the participant has little skill?

Swimming. An educational program to foster interest in swimming and to aid in the development of school boys as swimmers will be undertaken by the College Swimming Coaches’ Association of America.

Health of Athletes. The question of whether or not sportsmen are more prone to illness than non-sportsmen has often been raised. Doctor Herxheimer, in writing on this question in a German medical journal, states: “Our present knowledge does not warrant a definite answer. The claim many times made that highly trained sports followers become easy prey to infection has never been substantiated. That an over-trained—that is, a damaged body—is easier infected is a clearly proven biological consequence, but that has no bearing whatsoever on the body of a healthy and well-trained sportsman.”—Nat’l. Phys. Ed. News Service.

BOOK REVIEWS

Fred E. Foertsch

Track And Field by Charles W. Paddock published by A.

S.	Barnes and Co., New York, 1933; clothbound 6 by 9 inches, 226 pages, illustrated; price $2.50.

The author in his first chapter gives a brief discussion of the Olympic Games, their origin, purpose, and popularization in both ancient and modem times. He divides the main body of the book into four parts. Part I includes events in which “Speed” predominates; short runs from the 100 yards to the half-mile. Part II includes distance running in which “Stamina” predominates. Part III consists of a discussion of events of “Strength,” embracing the field events of throwing and “putting”. Part IV takes up the events in which the springing element dominates.

Each event is described in detail, giving the best techniques and practices of the day. Suggestions for conditioning the body and habits of diet accompany the running events. Training schedules are also worked out for the running events. In the field events many valuable training suggestions are given.

The latter pages of the book contain a Summary of Track and Field Records, a bibliography, and an index.

The book also has a considerable number of excellent illustrations.

Teachers of physical education and coaches will find here an up-to-date treatment of the subject and many valuable suggestions.

Digitized by

Google