Vol. 8.

SEPTEMBER, 1901.

No. 91

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.,

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. V.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

(From the “American Physical Education Review.”)

AN OUTLINE OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF PHYSICAL TRAINING IN GERMANY IN MODERN TIMES.

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin, Ohio.

II. THE DEVELOPMENT OF POPULAR GYMNASTICS (VEREINSTURNEN).

A. THE LIFE AND WORK OF FRIEDRICH LUDWIG JAHN.

1.	Preparation. 1778—1809. Close to the north bank of the Elbe, on a line drawn from Hamburg to Berlin and half-way between the two cities, lies the small country village of Lanz. It is in the northwest corner of the Prussian province of Brandenburg, hardly ten miles from the southern boundary of Mecklenburg, and across the river from the line that separates Hanover from the Altmark—the former an independent kingdom at the end of the last century and the latter a part of Brandenburg. Since the neighboring marshes were drained by Frederick the Great the ancient village has been the centre of a rich hop-growing region, where fertile farms and wide meadows alternate with forests of pine and stretches with sandy soil. Its population consisted of a few dozen families of comparatively well-to-do peasants, who for the most part owned the farms they cultivated and enjoyed a large measure of old German freedom; for there was no manor house, and the relation of lord and vassal was almost unknown.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-146-

Among them lived Alexander Friedrich Jahn as pastor, from 1768 till his death 1811, at the age of 68 years. One of his ancestors, fleeing from the religious persecutions in Bohemia before the Thirty Years’ War, had settled in the neighborhood, and there the descendants, most of them Protestant clergymen, had remained. He was above the medium height and powerfully built, an excellent preacher, scrupulously faithful in performing the duties of his office, interested in the school, and leader of a small theological club which usually met at his house. Although a large part of the considerable parochial estate was leased, he cultivated his own hops, raised his sheep, and took pleasure in tending his garden. He married Dorothea Sophie Schulze, from Neustadt in Mecklenburg, a strong courageous woman of Puritan type who made him a devoted wife. Simple, neat, and active in her habits, and almost harsh in the treatment of herself, very economical and yet giving liberally upon occasion, she spun and wove much of her clothing and did not differ greatly from the peasant women in outward appearance. She was devoutly religious and never guilty of a coarse expression, but could be excited sometimes to violent outbursts of anger against the enemies of God and h^r son’s persecutors. Unlike her husband, she had no ear or voice for music. The pastor was a good manager and his house was the abode of simple comfort. Adjoining the carefully-kept garden rose a straw-roofed farm building, and the plain one-story dwelling with its gable-room facing the village street. Not far away stood the low, thick-walled church in its green yard.

Into this home came two children—Maria Elisabeth Anna, born May 20, 1776, who in 1864 married Pastor Tittmann, afterward her father’s successor at Lanz, and died childless in 1833; and Johann Friedrich Ludwig Christoph,* the subject of this sketch, born August 11, 1778. The first thirteen years of the boy’s life were spent at home, undfer the instruction of his parents. When he was four years old his mother began to give him lessons in reading, out of Luther’s translation of the Bible—a book, which, in time, he came to know thoroughly, sharing her special fondness for the Old Testament and the Psalms. He could repeat many portions from memory, and give references to chapter and verse for passages quoted in his hearing. As a punishment for his naughtiness she used to make him read the proper names in the books of Kings and Chronicles. History, geography, and the German language, the chief subjects taught him by his father, soon became his favorite studies and continued to interest him profoundly throughout his school and university days. After the Bible, his first reading was done in Pufendorfs account of the Great Elector’s deeds, and in the historical works of Frederick the Great. Of that monarch, who died when he was eight years old, the boy had early become a devout admirer and an ardent champion; for among his first companions were veterans of the Seven Years’ War who had settled in the neighborhood— Ziethen’s hussars, Seydlitz’s troopers and Schwerin’s grenadiers; and other troopers who visited the region from time to time, attracted by

* After the appearance of his second work, in 1806, he dropped the first andl last of these names.
-147-

the rich grazing it afforded, brought fresh stories of the famous king. At the age of nine he was a diligent reader of the newspapers and interested in current events. His father also admitted him to the meetings of the theological club, and even allowed him an occasional share in its discussions. He possessed marked natural ability, quick perceptions and an unusually retentive memory; but this home training was, on the whole, neither systematic nor methodical, and interruptions were frequent. His knowledge, therefore, outside the branches already mentioned, seems to have remained imperfect, for in later years he was unable or unwilling to fill the gaps due to the absence of orderly and well-balanced education during childhood.

In other directions, however, his training was less deficient. From the visiting troopers he learned to ride; a man who had been a whaler taught him to swim; running and jumping were as natural to him as to the animals on the farms or in the neighboring forest where he roamed; the monkeys in the Duke of Mecklenburg’s park at Ludwigs-lust gave him lessons in climbing whenever some interesting event led him thither; he learned the use of firearms from Mecklenburg poachers, accompanied the smugglers of his native village on their trips across the border, and soon came to equal or surpass them in knowledge of roads and foot-paths. With his father he went to market the hops at Dannenberg, beyond the Elbe in Hanover, and other hop-growers took him to Liibeck, Rostock, and Wismar. At the last of these places, then a Swedish town, he saw the sea and ocean-going vessels for the first time. He also helped his father in the garden and at planting trees and hedges, sharing the pastor’s fondness for such pursuits. Not allowed to mingle much with the peasant children, he made no intimate friends among those of his own age; yet he tells of defending a hilltop wrth other playmates against storming parties, and of winter campaigns against the Schnakenburg schoolboys, across the river.

Some elements of a real childhood were missing; his intellectual intercourse was almost wholly with adults, fairy tales were a thing unknown to him, and although gifted with a well-developed sense of rhythm he had inherited his mother’s lack of a musical ear. He grew up fearless and self-reliant, for the active outdoor life had strengthened an originally frail body and given him great powers of endurance. The conditions in his native village and his own considerable freedom from restraint developed a strong spirit of independence, and at the same time he had received from his father a keen sense of right and justice. Living as he did, near the frontiers of three German states, making frequent visits to relatives in Mecklenburg and Hanover, and at least one to Swedish Pommerania, it is not strange that to him all Germans wrere alike and citizens of one common country. The frequent quarrels to which provincial jealousies gave rise at the annual fairs excited in him only surprise and displeasure.

On the 8th of October, 1791, the boy Jahn was received into the second rlass in the Gymnasium (secondary school) at Salzwedel, once a Hanseatic town and one of the oldest places in the Altmark. It lies southwest of Lanz, on a navigable branch of the Elbe. Not much is known of the three years which were spent there. Some of the teachers

Digitized by CjOOQle
-148-

were able to understand him and appreciate his efforts, and these he afterwards held in grateful rememberance. By others, however, his embarrassing questions and keen, unexpected remarks were regarded as signs of insubordination and a menace to the good order of the school. This led to a state of almost continual warfare, and made endless trouble for the rector. He had not been accustomed to the constant writing required, and managed to get excused from it because it gave him cramps in the fingers. The outdoor life was continued. He got hold of a gun, with which he is said to have made the gardens and neighborhood of Salzwedel unsafe. The game of hill-storming was resumed with fellow-pupils, and there were the usual conflicts with boys of the town. When locked out after dark he used to climb a linden tree in front of the linen-weaver’s with whom he lived, and swing himself into his upstairs room from the branches. One night a joiner in the same house was firmly convinced that the place was haunted when the boy, concealing himself in one of the coffins in the shop, suddenly discharged a succession of blows, kicks, and noises of all sorts.

The disagreements with teachers led at last to his leaving Salzwedel, and on the 27th of September, 1794, he entered the Gymnasium zum Grauen Kloster in Berlin. His stay there was short. Apparently the same spirit of independence and his rough, uncultivated manners soon brought him into difficulty with his teachers. He was proud, sensitive, and poor, and this together with the traits already mentioned, no doubt prevented his living on good terms with the other pupils. However that may be, he departed suddenly and without taking leave, on April 17th, 1795, was taken sick at the house of a friend in Altmark, and later returned to his home at Lanz, where he remained till the next year.

His university career was no less disturbed and stormy. For five years he was a student at Halle, entering the university there on the 27th of April, 1796, as the age of 17. His father wished him to study theology, but his own strong predilections for the German language and for German customs and history diverted the most of his time and thought to these subjects. His habits remained desultory. Although he attended lectures, and in the philological seminary of F. A. Wolf won that scholar’s commendation for his “language instinct,” his work was interrupted by frequent journeys on foot to all parts of Germany. Few of the courses begun were completed in orderly fashion. After two years at the University, his hatred to their narrow provincialism, dissolute manner of life, and frequent dueling led him to declare war on the so-called Landsmannschaften, student clubs which were the predecessors of the present Corps, and whose sectional character appears in their names—Westphalians, \Pommeranians, Silesians, Magdeburgers, Auhalters, etc. Hatred increased to almost fanatical opposition, and this led to incessant brawls with other students.

It was partly to find refuge from his persecutors, no doubt, that he often withdrew to a hole in the rocks, still spoken of as “Jahn’s Cave,” across the Saale from Halle and a mile or two down the stream. We are told that he even spent an entire summer there, day and night, living in part of potatoes which he raised himself. Iri its seclusion he read

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-149-

W.	Fr. von Meyern’s “Dya-Na-Sore ” * which made a profound impression upon him. One result of the reading was his first manuscript, sold in 1799 for ten Thaler to 0. C. C. Hopffner and appearing under the latter’s name the following year with the title “The Promotion of Patriotism in Prussia.” ** Here he put in concrete and practical form some of the ideas expressed in the Austrian officer’s romance. Beginning with a glorification of the Prussian state and rulers, he complains that the people are ignorant of their history, charges the schools and universities with being largely to blame for this condition of affairs, urges that in the present stormy times the study of history needs especially to be fostered, argues that it is more important than the erection of monuments and indeed necessary to give them value, and suggests that historical days should be celebrated and great heroes canonized as the Catholics do their saints.

Jahn’s increasing difficulties with the student clubs and his efforts to unite against them all students outside their ranks sufficiently explain his coming into conflict with the academic authorities at last, and the departure from Halle which followed. Under an assumed name he lived for a time at Jena, keeping up there the same passionate struggle against the Landsmannschaften, and winning a considerable following of students by his eloquence.

May 31st, 1802, he was received into the University of Greifswald, in what was then Swedish Pommerania. Here, too, he lived under a false n5me, enrolling himself as Andreas Christlieb Moritz Fritz from Lubben in the Lausitz. Apparently it was a desire to study the northern languages that drew him to the place. He attended the lectures of E. M. Arndt and enjoyed intercourse with him and with others who had travelled in foreign countries. Although destitute, his clothing threadbare and by no means free from holes, and living largely at the expense of fellow students, he soon became a recognized leader among them. It was rumored that he belonged to the Unitists, one of the secret orders which were then making their appearance in the universities, and whose members, when detected, were treated as political offenders and expelled without mercy. Before many months had passed, some wild student pranks and a factional feud which led to blows brought him again into •conflict with the academic authorities, and on February 7th, 1803, together with a fellow student he received the consilium abeundi.

After making, as it seems, a vain attempt to continue his studies at the University of Frankfurt a. 0., and still retaining the name of Fritz, he lived for two years as a private tutor in Mecklenburg, first in the family of Baron Lefort, at Neubrandenburg, and then with glass-maker Strecker at the Torgelow glass-works, twenty-five miles to the west. These were years of calm after the stormy and extravagant university life. They brought him the esteem and lasting friendship not only of bis pupils, but of parents and neighbors as well in Torgelow at least.

* Dya-Na-Sore oder:	Die	Wanderer. Eine Geschichte aus dem Sanskritt

iibersetzt.” Vienna and Leipsic, 1787-90.

** Ueber die Beforderung des Patriotismus im Preussischen Reiche. Allen Preussen gewidmet von 0. C. C. Hopffner. Halle, 1800. Pp. 48.

Digitized by CjOOQle
'I

—150—

His leisure moments were devoted to literary labors, the fruits of which appeared later on.

The year at Neubrandenburg also witnessed a foreshadowing of what was afterwards to make famous the Hasenheide near Berlin. Every evening at 6 o’clock Jahn went with his pupils to a brook near the town, and there gave instruction in swimming not only to them, but to other boys who happened to be present. His unusual talent for leadership soon asserted itself. The number increased to 20 or 30, most of them strangers to him and with no claim upon his services. After the bath he led them to a height nearby which commanded a beautiful view over the surrounding region. Here, he taught them running, climbing, jumping, and especially wrestling. He divided them into two parties nearly equal in strength and skill, one of which defended the height while the other attempted to storm it; or one part were “thieves,” who scattered themselves about the neighborhood and were sought out and seized by the others, the “watchmen.” These games often lasted till 9 o’clock or later. There was frequent occasion for break-neck leaps, and torn clothes and bloody heads were daily occurrences. When the late fall put an end to such sport they cut down brush and stakes, and with the bundles, which he taught them to make, built on the steep slope paths, steps, and seats of turf. Even in winter he led them out to plunge down through the masses of snow which hung over the edges of deep cuts into the drifts below. He had already come to realize that if the foreign foe was to be successfully met the German people must become vigorous, manly, and united, and he made no secret of his political views. Some of those early companions, among them Baron Lefort’s oldest son, afterward served with him in Lutzow’s Volunteer Corps, in the War of Liberation.

Towards the end of September, 1804, Jahn left Neubrandenburg for Torgelow. A year later, on October 1st, 1805, he took public leave of his friends in Mecklenburg through the columns of the “Strelitz’scher Anzeiger,” signing himself “J. L. Ch. Fritz Jahn, formerly known as Fritz only.” His next move was to Gottingen, whither he went intend-ing to fit himself for a position as Privatdocent, and with several literary works in mind or already under way. Some months were spent in linguistic studies at the University, and in the summer of 1806 he removed to Jena, where he completed a volume of “Contributions to-High German Synonymy.”* All through his university years he had made frequent and sometimes extensive journeys on foot over Germany. He speaks of dwelling under five kings and three dukes, seeing the life of ten universities, and becoming thoroughly familiar with capitals and manufacturing towns, besides villages without number, and the common people of all classes. On his travels he had been a keen observer of the county and its inhabitants. Taking especial interest in the popular dialects, he had, in fact, “looked the peasant in the mouth,” and collected a mass of old sayings, proverbs and tales; so that the book of 1806 was a fresh contribution from the common life.

* Bereicherung des Hochdeutschen Sprachschatzes, versucht im Gebiete der Sinnverwandtschaft, ein Nachtrag zu Adelung’s und eine Nachlese zu Eberhard’s Worterbuch von J. F. L. Ch. Jahn. Leipsic, 1806. Pp. XLVIII, 99.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-151-

It seems that he hoped to get a footing in the University at Gottingen, but in the fall of the same year, while he was on a sojourn in the Harz Mountains, events occurred which suddenly changed his plans and turned his thoughts, as he says, from the lecture-room to the camp. From his schoolboy days he had been profoundly influenced by the changes in progress throughout Europe, and especially concerned with whatever affected the German people. A knowledge of the conditions in Germany at that time and the events which led up to the War of Liberation form therefore a necessary introduction to the study of Jahn’s later movements, explaining as they do the motives that prompted him to undertake the work upon which his fame chiefly rests.

The Peace of Westphalia at the close of the Thirty Years’ War, by freeing the princes of the separate German states from Imperial control, had made them independent rulers in their own domains, and little by little the Holy Roman Empire had ceased to .exist except in name. “The traveller in Central Germany used, up to 1866, to be amused to find, every hour or two, by the changes in the soldiers’ uniforms, and in the color of the stripes on the railway fences, that he had passed out of one and into another of its miniature kingdoms. Much more surprised and embarrassed would he have been a century ago, when instead of the present 29 there were 300 petty principalities between the Alps and the Baltic, each with its own laws, its own courts (in which the ceremonious pomp of Versailles was faintly reproduced), its little army, its separate coinage, its tolls and custom-houses on the frontier, its crowd of meddlesome and pedantic officials, presided over by a prime minister who was generally the unworthy favorite of his prince and the pensioner of some foreign court .... National feeling seemed gone from princes and people alike. Even Lessing, who did more than anyone else to create the German literary spirit, says, ‘Of the love of country I have no conception ; it appears to me at best a heroic weakness which I am right glad to be without.’”*

“In Louis the Fourteenth’s time French influence became dominant in Germany, no less in poetry and criticism than in matters of dress, furniture, and etiquette; and the ambition of German men of letters was to put off what they were hardly ashamed to call their native barbarism, and imitate the sparkling elegance of their Western neighbors and enemies. French was the fashionable language; French ideas and modes of thought were no less supreme than Greek ideas had been at Rome in the last century of the Republic; French men of letters and science were imported, as apostles of enlightenment, by the best of the German princes, just as Germans have in later times been drawn into Russia by the czars.”** It is well known that this was true not only in the case of the petty states, but even at the court of Frederick the Great.

Under such circumstances the widening encroachments of Napoleon encountered little serious opposition. Step by step “all the German sovereigns west of the Rhine had been dispossessed, and their territories incorporated with France, whjle the rest of the country had been

* Bryce, the Holy Roman Empire, 8th Edition, Chapter XIX.

** Bryce, 1. c., Supplementary Chapter.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-152-

revolutionized by the arrangement of the peace of Luneville and the ‘Indemnities/ dictated by the French to the Diet in February, 1803. New kingdoms were erected, electorates created and extinguished, the lesser princes mediatized, the free cities occupied by troops and bestowed on some neighboring potentate. ... By the act of the Confederation of the Rhine, signed at Paris, July 17, 1806, Bavaria, Wiirtemberg, Baden, and several other states, sixteen in all, withdrew from the body and repudiated the laws of the Empire, while on August 1st the French envoy at Regensburg announced to the Diet that his master, who had consented to become Protector of the Confederate princes, no longer recognized the existence of the (Holy Roman) Empire."*

Finally, when Napoleon’s incursions and his insolent treatment of Prussia threatened the very existence of that kingdom, Frederick William

III.	was forced to take up arms; but his ill-prepared and poorly officered troops were an easy prey for the French at Jena (October 14, 1806). The great fortresses were surrendered one by one and garrisoned by the enemy’s soldiery, the royal family was compelled to flee from Berlin, and at Friedland (June 14, 1807), the Russian allies met a decisive defeat. The Treaty of Tilsit (July, 1807) deprived Prussia of half her territory and imposed other harsh conditions which reduced her to a mere province of France, overrun by the soldiers of the conqueror and entirely at his mercy. Jahn’s most notable work was done during this period, in the years immediately preceding and following the' great popular uprising of 1813, known as the German War of Liberation, which culminated in Napoleon’s final overthrow at Waterloo two years later.

While he was in the Harz Mountains in the fall of 1806, Jahn first learned that war was inevitable He immediately gave up his visit and hastened toward the army which was gathering in Thuringia, intending to volunteer his services. Delayed by swollen streams, he reached Jena on the day of the battle, saw the last struggle and the crushing defeat, and joined the fleeing soldiery as a “volunteer fugitive.’’ So great was the impression made upon him that on the night which followed, his hair, it is said, turned graj\ The flight led him by wide detours to Halle and Magdeburg, down the left bank of the Elbe almost to the point where the river bends sharply to the west, across it and northeast by roundabout ways to Swinemunde on the Baltic, where he sought in vain to secure passage by boat for some seaport to the east. Thence he turned westward along the coast and made his way through the sea-towns of Swedish Pommerania and Mecklenburg to Liibeck, reaching that city on the 5th of November, in time to see it entered by the Germans, but on the next day taken by the French and looted. He seems to have wandered next into Silesia; but here the French were everywhere, and so he returned to Jena, remaining there until the Treaty of Tilsit* Afterwards he took up his residence with a friend, district magistrate von Laffert, at Dammeretz on the right bank of the Elbe, some*.distance below Lanz, and there he lived for the most part till the fall of 1809, spending a portion of his time at home, however. He also

* Bryce, /. c., Chapter XX.

Digitized by ^.ooQte
-153-

went on various journeys meanwhile, undertaken in the interest of the German patriots.

Before the outbreak of the war Jahn had been engaged on two works, a “Handbook for Germans,”* and “German Nationality.”** Both seem to have been already in manuscript, but lost during tht days of flight and wandering that followed the battle of Jena. The former was not rewritten, but the latter was again completed in 1808 (the introduction is dated October 14, at Lanz) and appeared at Liibeck in the spring of 1810.t In this, his chief literary work, the great central thought is the unity of Germany; here his controlling passion for the German language, customs and history, his intense love for the father-land, and his desire to see it bound together into one strong nation, able to throw off the foreign yoke, found full and forcible expression. Almost forty vear9 later he closed his so-called Schwanenrede (last address) with these words:	“Germany united was the dream of my

childhood, the dayspring of my youth, the sunshine of middle life, and it is now the evening star which beckons me to everlasting rest.”

Late in December of 1809 Jahn arrived at Berlin, where, as he says, love to the fatherland and his own inclination led him again to teaching. Disappointed in his original idea of finding a position in the new Berlin University, and failing to receive a promised head-mastership at Konigsberg when the results of his faulty school and university training became apparent, he at first received some private pupils, but entered a training school for teacberstt (Easter, 1810). He also began to give instruction in history, German and mathematics in an associated school, the excellent Gymnasium zum Grauen Kloster, the same institution from which he had run away fifteen years before. This position he retained for a year and a half, till Christmas 1811, and in the meantime he had been given some classes in Dr. Plamann’s flourishing Pestalozzian School for Boys. The long years of apprenticeship had at last come to an end, and the Meistetjahre were begun.	(To be concluded.)

GOLF.

This now so popular game had its origin in Holland under the name of “Kolf” (Club) game, named after the striker used for the game. In the medieval age golf was played within the churches and as late as the last century in the cemetery, when finally a decree to stop it was issued.

There exists an etching of Rembrandt’s dating back as far as 1654 entitled “Le feu du Kolf.” In the background of this picture you see the figure of a young man who by means of a club held with both hands is trying to knock a ball. In Gersaint’s “Catalogue Raisonne de Toutes les Pieces Formant l’Avenir de Rembrandt” (75), mention is made of the rules governing this game, which resemble the rules of the modern game so extensively that this its origin may be accepted as a certainty.

* Denkbuch fur Deutsche.

** Das deutsche Volksthum.

t Deutsches Volksthum von Friedrich Ludwig Jahn. Liibeck, 1810. Pp. XXIV., 459.

ft Das Konigliche Seminar fur gelehrte Schulen.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-154-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

THE ART OF PHYSICAL TRAINING IS THE POETRY OF THE BODY.

Just as the mind delights in the pursuit of the poetic art, so does the bodv never feel better and more buoyant than when it displays its skill and beauty in free play. This, indeed, is an experience which is difficult for those to comprehend who have never passed through it; but we may as well try to impart the conception of poetic feeling and the elating sense of poetry to a person in whose breast does not already exist at least a spark of the divine spirit. As poetry helps poetic minds to look with scorn upon all needs and trivialities of earthly existence, just so does physical activity, (at least this seems to be the case with myself and I believe the same to be with others) transport one from an atmosphere of dreary sorrow into a state of bright, cheerful happiness. I have in dull hours, when grief, fear, and anger filled my heart and it seemed as though head and breast would burst, exercised away my cares and gained oblivion, if only for a few hours, which could not be outweighed in gold. In like manner as poetry is the best possible means of strengthening and elevating the mind, so does physical training strengthen the weakened bodies and elevate them to the highest degree of joyous health. In summa, it engenders in us a love of life, a feeling of enjoyment of existence beyond comparison. Even as poetry alone can give us consciousness of our own true spiritual worth, in as much as it brings to light the very best there is in human nature, even so does physical training with regard to the body. Man becomes aware of his bodily capabilities and finds real pleasure in their application.

Poetry and physical training together sanctify the whole man, the former the soul, the latter the body.

QUEEN VICTORIA AND THE BICYCLE SPORT.

Queen Victoria of England was, as is generally known, a very zealous friend of all kinds of sport and has done much toward the physical regeneration of her people.

Especially is this true of the fair sex which in the early part of the century boasted a laughable sentimentality. She led their activity toward sport and thereby highly influenced their physical welfare for good, suppressing their artificiality.

She was also the advocate of different fashions in dress which were enforced upon the court-ladies for sporting purposes. With a queen in the lead to partake in the many different sports, one need not wonder to-day that the English ladies are so apt in all the branches of out-door pastime. It was not unusual for the queen to spend from nine to ten hours in the saddle on fox hunts. When the wheel came into general use she induced her ladies to ride and was not in the least shocked when one day one of the daughters of the Prince of Wales was thrown from her wheel in one of London’s busiest streets.

Digitized by Google
-155-

i

OLYMPIC GAMES IN ATHENS 1903.

As a result of an order issued by the King a committee has been appointed to prepare plans for a second and more elaborate display of the Olympic Games. The Crownprince, who is chairman of this committee, has already appointed the necessary sub-committees who will make the preliminary arrangements for the games.

—A few statistical figures will help to illustrate the growing care and attention that is being given to the personal hygiene of the school children abroad. In Leipzig, Germany, two-hundred and eighteen thousand shower baths were served the children in the course of the last school year, this making a daily average of five hundred and ninety-eight.

THE HARVARD SUMMER SCHOOL.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

The Harvard Summer School has closed another very successful year. Again the attendance surpassed that of the previous year; and the gymnasium floor as well as the several lecture halls were filled with eager students, who willingly yearly sacrifice their summer vacation that they may fit themselves better lor the profession they have chosen.

The work is so arranged and varied that every comer is certain to find just what he or she desires. The final exhibitions which every year close the course are a gratifying illustration of the different phases of physical training.

Harvard undoubtedly has the most successful summer course, and well may have, since the facilities at command are the very best. For the last several summers the students of the physical training department have organized as a class and arranged weekly social gatherings which not only serve the purpose of affording pleasure, but which give the students an opportunity of getting better acquainted with one another and expressing their views and telling there experiences, be it in conversation or in debate.

It works like an inspiration to be thrown in contact with enthusiastic co-laborers, and it is certain that every one returns to his or her field of labor with renewed vigor and love for the ensuing year’s work. Quite a number of Cuban teachers who last summer were given a free course at the University returned this year of their own accord, and of these about forty formed a class to learn as much as was possible in so short a time.

A good deal of special attention was given them on the part of the Faculty and apparently they were taking hold of the exercises excellently. The summer course ended on August 11th with the above mentioned closing exhibition followed by a reception and dance.

World’s Records. Baker, the professional athlete, has established a new record in the running high jump in London, clearing the bar at a height of 67% inches. He also broke his previous record of six successive jumps by 2 feet 4V2 inches, his best jump being 82 feet 9 inches.

Digitized by

Google
Misp ftND BODY. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

Mllw'Wlaconb1t>.

r Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

tOT Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

WHEN we received a pamphlet “The Chase System of Infantile Phys" ical Culture” we were prepared to be confronted with a new freak. Coming from Chicago, as it did, when a football-professor had already invented a system of bodily training for small children we were naturally somewhat prejudiced. But upon closer examination we are pleasantly surprised, for the author had not so much invented a system than a baby-chair which should assist the infant in its natural instinct for such exercise as climbing. Mr. Chase has constructed a chair that undoubtedly is just the thing the baby wants and needs and which at the same time does away with the risk of suffering injuries by falling from ordinary chairs.

The chair is the product of Mr. Chase’s effort to give his little baby-daughter some sort of suitable exercise in order to strengthen her physically.

In the following extract Mr. Chase relates his experiments and gives us an idea how methodically he went about it. He writes :

“A few years ago, I was superintendent of the Children’s Aid Society of Chicago, and had charge of two hundred waifs, most of them babies, and while so employed my attention was called to the necessity of some kind of physical development for babies and small children, and I worked out a system which I afterwards put into practice for my own daughter.

“As a baby she was never locked in a high chair, to keep her out of mischief while her mother was busy, and left sitting there until her back became tired ; but she was placed upon a folded bed-quilt upon the floor with her arms and feet free. Her first independent effort in muscular development was pulling off her own stockings. She soon learned to roll upon the floor, and she became an expert roller and would roll from one room to another. When she saw an object that she wanted she would roll until she reached it. To develop her creeping muscles we tied sleighbells on her feet, one bell an inch in diameter on each foot, tied around the ankle and around the instep. She was allowed to tug with her hands and kick with her feet for one half hour every morning and every afternoon. If she favored one foot that bell was taken off first and she was allowed to exercise with the other bell for ten minutes longer to develop both feet alike. She was soon able to raise herself upon her hands and knees, but she did not creep. She preferred rolling, until we brought in a creeping baby to visit her, and watching the other baby she learned to creep in a few minutes. Then

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

A SENSIBLE IDEA

Digitized by

Google
-157-

with her dress pinned up like a creeping apron, she was allowed to creep all over the house at will. She was on the floor all the time she was awake and she gained in strength every day.

“As soon as she was able to stand upon her feet, all of her playthings were placed upon the stair landing, three steps above the main floor, and the three steps were padded and carpeted so she could not hurt herself in falling, and she was allowed to climb the steps whenever she desired, and as jnany times as she wanted to every day. She soon learned to slide down the steps on her stomach feet foremost. After a few weeks she was allowed to climb the full length of the stairs three or four times a day attended by her father or mother. When the steps were cold she wore her leggins and mittens. She appeared to gain in strength every trip she made. I believe well carpeted and padded stairs are the best gymnasium I ever saw for a baby old enough to climb them. It is especially good for a heavy-weight baby who is backward about learning to walk.

“Mary was allowed to take her own time about learning to walk, but as a result of her stair climbing she walked at eleven months. In all her exercise she has never been urged to greater effort, but she has always been watched closely and restrained at the last suspicions of fatigue.

“Creeping is nature’s own contrivance to develop a baby’s muscles and enlarge the chest. Stair climbing continues to develop the same muscles and enlarge the chest, and it seems quite natural, for I never saw a baby who would not climb the stairs if allowed to do so.

“The next step in Mary’s physical culture was not so easy but I accomplished it in this way. To give her an apparatus that would continue to develop the same muscles as creeping and stair climbing, I fixed her high chair so that she could climb into it. When she was fifteen months old I cut a large opening in the back of her high chair, sufficiently large to allow her to crawl through, but not large enough for her to fall through. I then constructed a. short ladder by putting additional rounds through the hind legs of the chair. Cutting off three inches of the legs lowered the seat of the chair to give her foot-room under the table—and the chair was ready. The first time she saw the chair she climbed up without instructions, and she learned to climb down in one or two lessons. It getting down she pushes her feet backwards through the opening and while holding on to the arms of the chair with her hands, places her feet on the round of the chair and then descends from round to round until she reaches the floor.

“Mary has taken a great deal of enjoyment in using her new dining room chair. She took as naturally to chair-climbing as she did to stair-climbing. Her exercise has been regular, occurring as it does at every meal and on every day of the week. She takes extra exercise only when she feels like it. On vigorous days she climbs up and down as many as six times at a meal; on stale days she climbs up and down only once.

“Her muscular development has been so mild she does not know that she has been in training and yet it has been very thorough, and it has not in any way hindered her natural growth.

“She has a very erect carriage, both in sitting and walking. She is

Digitized by LjOOQle
—158—

very light on her feet, and owing to her great strength all of her movements are easy and graceful.

“Mary is now three and a half years old and she has used her chair over two year**. I have a youth’s chair ready for her when she outgrows the high chair. It is built on the same plan and it will serve her for two years longer.

THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN.

HOW shall the girls be educated ? “In just the same way as their brothers ; in a manner to fit them for self-support ; in avenues that lead to an independent career,” says the extremist, the emancipa-trix. But what is meant by an independent career for women ? In the last analysis it usually means a career in which she may make a living and follow out some chosen life work other than home making, that is, other than the rearing of offspring, for the propagation of the race is the primary fact on which the normal home is founded.

Now, let us assume that the continuation of the human race on this planet is desirable or at least “worth .while”—an assumption which may possibly be unwarranted, but which most people will readily grant, at least as a starter for the argument. It follows that each pair of human beings must, on the average, produce and rear to the age of maturity one other pair ; no species of animals or plants which does less can continue to maintain its existence. But this means that in order to escape annihilation of the race each man and woman must on the average be the parents of four or more children, because even in the most favorable sanitary conditions which modern civilization has yet developed the death rate is such that less than half of those born reach maturity. When allowance is made for the few whom nature or untoward fate has predestined to lives of celibacy—-those who may properly and reasonably be exempt, it is evident that on the average, as things now are, in order that the human race shall not perish from the earth, each mature, normally developed woman must be the mother of about five children on the average. We must have mothers or the race will cease to be.

Take out of a woman’s life a period long enough to rear five children and extending to the time when the youngest is able to do without the mother’s care, and there is time neither before nor after to acquire an education for a profession or business or to pursue an “independent career.” Would it be wise public policy to keep out of the class of mothers a large number of those who are presumably fittest to become the parents of the next generation and guide them into avenues which lead away from the home, family life, and motherhood? Everyone thus diverted from the life work which in the very constitution of our physical existence God has pointed out as the normal “career” for woman, increases the average burden which the others must bear, and, presumably. decreases the quality of those who propagate the race in each succeeding generation.

A rational system of education for women, a system that shall not

Digitized by v^ooQle
-159-

run counter to the everlasting verities which dare not be ignored, has not yet been discovered. G. Stanley Hall, of Clark University, in a recent address contributed his views on the subject in an address which is thus summarized with quotations and comments in Harper’s Weekly:

The writer says Dr. Hall believes in educating girls, but has his doubts whether the sort of education now lavished on American girls is doing them good, and benefiting the race and the nation.

Dr. Hall has studied statistics to find out about the health of college women, and what percentage of them marry; and though the statistics are not conclusive nor especially convincing, as far as they go they make somewhat for disquietude. The gist of the figures he quoted was that less than half the college women have good health ; that less than a third of them marry; that those who marry marry late and have too few children, and of those few far too many are lost in infancy. “Woman’s colleges,” he said, “have done little or nothing for the proper education of women. . . . While I sympathize with the claims of women, and yield to no one in admiration of their work in the colleges, it looks as if the colleges were training for independence and support and celibacy —motherhood to take care of itself.

“Bookishness,” says Mr. Hall, “is a bad sign in a girl. We must educate chiefly for motherhood. Co-education should cease at dawn of adolescence. The present civilization is harder on woman, who is less adapted to the world, than on men. We must also recognize that riches are harder on her than poverty.” He goes on to give his ideas about what a college for girls ought to be ; how its first aim should be health ; how it should be a place of cottage homes, not too far from a city, with pets, gardening, plenty of outdoor exercise, and plenty of time for it ; a place where “regularity should be exercised, idleness cultivated, and revery provided in every way.” And he would have the students learn religion, rudimentary mathematics, and physics, a little chemistry, and a good deal of botany, but would take care not to have them oppressed by books. Think of a college president writing such a prescription as that !

If it were with women more as it is with hens, we could afford to be less solicitious about the cultivation of the capacity and taste for motherhood. The uneducated domestic hen is disposed to sit three times a year, and while she is sitting and raising her chickens she does not lay. The argument af the incubator-men in favor of their machines is that they save the hen’s time, and that having more leisurs to lay, she lay’s many mote eggs in the course of a year. The question naturally suggests itself: if the hen has the brooding instinct, won’t she brood anyhow, and stop laying whether she has eggs to hatch or not ? She will, they tell us, at first, but can be easily broken of that propensity. Travelers report that in Egypt, where incubation in mud ovens warmed by the sun is known to have been commonly practiced for thousands of years, hens have entirely lost the brooding instinct, and having laid due eggs, feel no further concern about the continuance of their species. So it is evident that you might teach hens all sorts of new knowledge, and not imperil the supply of eggs or chickens. But no analogous truth seems to be available as to girls.

Digitized by Google
—160—

Even if it can be demonstrated that the sort of development that girls get in colleges tends to keep them out of the nursery, we ought not to forget that colleges are only one of many contempory institutions and conditions that have that tendency. “The present civilization,” says President Hall, “is harder on woman than on man, and riches are harder on her than poverty.” So far as women are concerned, riches in our day by no means imply ease, for it is matter of daily observation that women are driven into nervous prostration by the cares, exactions, and opportunities that come with plenty of money. Routine and regular habits are great conservators of energy. Mothers who have regular occupations and good homes that they stick pretty close to, because they can’t afford to leave them, lead doubtless easier and more wholesome lives than richer ones who make and execute many more plans and struggle much more.—ptfom The Western Teacher.

HYGIENIC LIVING.

By J. L. WOLFE, M. D., Cedar Falls, Iowa.

NO class of our race is at the present day doing more injustice to themselves and to the community in one direction than those engaged in literary or mental pursuits. It would seem better that their very intelligence and education should be the safeguard against the dire neglect of the conditions of health; and yet, sad facts show a strange oversight, even of physical axioms. The history of literature, of science, and of mental acquirements is too much a history of invalids; and there is some propriety in defining scholars as “complaining men who eat too much and exercise too little.” The love of books and of learning is indeed a noble passion, but the enticement of the charm must not be allowed to hurry the body into premature decay. The want of regularity, and the want of proper, lively exercise in which subjects of study are dismissed, and even the mind given up to the sway of its present occupation, is the fruitful source of educated ill health.

None is more to be pitied than the intellectual sufferer; the mind rendered sensitive and acute by training, and the body a broken constitution like a shattered musical instrument,resounding plaintive discord, sad accommpaniment, or rather, sad impediment to the noble execution of intellect, the more sad because too often the direct result of injudicious confinement. Study is continued until an exhausted mind disposes the body to a slothful inactivity, and exertion is avoided not so much for want of time as for want of inclination.

There is no greater error of logic than the oft-repeated excuse of the student, that he has not time for active manual employment. Statistics have shown that he who observes the sabbath will accomplish more than he who labors every day alike; and equally true is it, that the mind is capable of more when the body which contains it is kept in working order. The buoyant step, the active walk, the jolting ride, the hearty sport, is not time lost from the studies, but a guarantee that the whole framework will return to the task more able to compete with the intricacies of ancient or modern lore.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-161-

Self-sacrifices on the altar of learning are no less venial than others ; and neither our Maker nor the nations ask or need of us devotion to study so intense as to destroy health. We have often been surprised how even good men shelter their sins under the most flimsy excuses. Recreation is as much a duty as it is a privilege. It makes possible achievements, mental as well as physical, and the biographies of greatness prove that most of those whose names are plainly legible upon the scroll of fame, have written the productions which have made their names immortal by improving the hours when they found their minds exuberant, active, or analytic, rather than by goading them on with lengthened measurements of time.

As to eating and drinking, the student and the learned incline to two quite opposite extremes. The one class with appetite inflamed by unreasonable indulgence, or rendered morbid by nervous sensations resulting from an overtaxed brain, have plunged into the excesses of gluttony and intemperance, while others more safely but yet erroneously have landed on the shoals of abstemiousness. The clubs of Britain which were once the entire points of English literature, and at which there was indeed “feast of reason and flow of soul/’ sent many a genius to an untimely grave; and even such men as Johnson and Addison became charmed with the pleasures of the table. The passion of Burns, Byron, and many others are too sorrowfully known to lead me to multiply less noted examples. In noticing the biographies of great men, we have been too often surprised to find how many of them were addicted to excesses in eating and drinking, whose fair literar}' fame has overshadowed the memory of their evil habits, and whose error is only slightly noticed in the more minute records of their lives. “Died of over-feeding,” would be a truthful epitaph on the stone of many a one who has the credit, falsely so-called, of dying from a “too earnest devotion to literary pursuits.”

On the other hand, Aristotle boasted that he could have lived when acorns were the food of men. Newton seemed to eat only that he might sustain life, and Shelly and Milton belonged to the frugal class. Experience shows that Swift was right when he declared ‘temperance to be a necessary virtue for great men,” and enough of good food and good exercise are no unimportant elements of greatness.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—Deutsche Turner in Wort und Bild. Von Professor Dr. Hugo Ruehl, Stettin, Germany. Mk. 2.—. Dr. Hugo Ruehl, the secretary of the “Deutsche Turnerschaft,” the gymnastic organization of Germany, which numbeis over half a million members, is preeminently fitted to publish a book like this. It is a collection of biographies of all those prominently connected with the German system of gymnastics from the day of its foundation until the present. The book contains 263 well-known names with the same number of portraits and biographical notes. The book is especially valuable for the members of the N. A. G. U. and those interested in the history of physical education.

—“Miss Alcott’s Letters to Her ‘Laurie,”’ now printed for the first time and edited by “Laurie” himself, form one of the strongest features of The Ladies’

Digitized by CjOOQte
-162-

Home Journal for September. “With Seton-Thompson in the Woods” shows the great animal-story teller in his element, and “Some College Scrapes We Got Into,” as told by “A Graduate,” give good cause for laughter. There are also interesting articles about “Cats That Draw Salaries,” “Famous People as We Do Not Know Them,” and “How a Village Changed its Name.” Mr. Bok’s editorial on “The School Question Again” is a strong arraignment of American parents for not .taking the proper part in the education of their children. In addition to many other literary and pictorial features, twice the usual amount of space is devoted to the coming styles, for this is the “Special Autumn Fashion Number” of The Journal. The new dresses, hats, and wraps are all shown. There is also a double page of photographs of “The Handsomest Laces in America,” and a striking cover design by Miss Ellen Bernard Thompson. By The Curtis Publishing Co., Philadelphia. One dollar a year; ten cents a copy.

—Fashions for the Stout.—The general run of fashion plates are the despair of those women whom nature has decreed tor stoutness, or whom time has snowed with gray hair. Many fashion cuts show an impossible sylph-like form of women everlastingly youthful. The Delineator, whose long career of success shows that it meets the needs of women, contains in the September number a special article, carefully illustrated and devoted to the attire of stout and elderly women. This article, with its practical, useful advice about fabrics and quantities, will be appreciated by those who are neither slim nor under twenty-one.

—Introductory Remarks by E. H. Arnold, M. D., to “Gymnastic Games, by Annie R. Hughes.*—In a system of gymnastics, games may be used for hygienic, developmental, and educational purposes. For general hygienic ends their value is great, if for no other reason than that it usually requires a large air space, oftentimes out-doors, to play them. On the other hand, the hygienic value of games is a doubtful one, because the movements occurring in games can only be predetermined in general. That means that they cannot be graded as to quantity or quality with exactness. Exactness, however, in these two things, is an absolute necessity where gymnastics are given for hygienic ends. Such exactness being possible with formal gymnastic exercises, these, therefore, must always be given a preference where exactness in quantity and quality of exercise is desirable or necessary.

The same may be said to be true of the developmental effect of exercises occurring in games. If it be difficult to trace the effect, formal gymnastic movements have, upon the development of this tissue or that organ, it is certainly impossible to exactly predict the effect which the unpredetermined movements in games might have. Formal gymnastics will always be far superior in this respect to games.

To turn to the educational purposes of games. They are mental and moral ones. Among the mental ones co-ordination should be separately considered. As far as some of the mental processes (to be mentioned hereafter) are serviceable to establish co-ordination, games may be said to help co-ordination. Games can, however, not be arranged methbdically for co-ordination purposes, for the simple reason that the movements occurring in them cannot be predetermined. The development of co-ordination power must, therefore, also be the domain of formal gymnastics.

Of what use games are in the moral training of children and youth has been enlarged upon by many authors in many places. Even that teaching has to be incidental, as the occasion for pointing a moral offers in the course of a game. The great value of games in this direction lies in the fact that most of the moral teaching reward for proper, punishment for improper actions is self administered or then applied by pupil-companions and playmates, not by the teacher.

In any attempt to classify games for teaching purposes one should arrange them as to their difficulty. The movements not being predetermined, classification according to mechanical, physiological, or moral principles will be impossible. Classification according to the apparatus the game is played with, as for instance, ball games, or according to the exercise most conspicuous within the games (as running games), is arbitrary and for teaching purposes useless, for it classes together games of the most different grades of difficulty. The mechanical

* Gymnastic Games. Classified by E. H. Arnold. Compiled by Annie R. Hughes, Instructor in Gymnastics, Select Friends’ School, Washington, D. C.

Digitized by C^ooQle
—163—

difficulty might be approximately foreseen and games classified accordingly. Yet if we look closely, we find that most bodily movements occurring in games are in themselves extremely simple and easy of execution. What is it then that makes games differently difficult of execution ? For that they do differ in difficulty, is at once clear. Little children do not attempt competitive games. Youth will not play complicated games, as baseball or football, well. They are too difficult for them. If, then, the difficulty be not mechanical, it must be mental.

Before undertaking the task of classifying games according to mental difficulty for teaching purposes, we should ask, Is it necessary to teach games? May not games be left to the play instinct of children ? If there be any benefit derived from games at all—and who would deny that there is?—it would seem desirable to secure those benefits to a great number of children—to all of them, if possible. Observation of children will easily convince one, however, that not all children play in such a way as to derive any or all of the benefits that may be gotten from play. The puny and weak boy will not play because his strength and endurance will not carry him through the games that stronger boys of like age play. He is ashamed to play with younger ones. The boy who lacks courage and daring will not indulge in games demanding these qualities as a pre-requisite for playing them. The clumsy and unhandy boy will not take part in games calling for skill. It is the boys and girls who possess some or all of these qualities already, who play and by play develop these qualities still more. Boys and girls who are devoid of the qualities above mentioned, and who do not play, are the ones who need to play most, and they cannot be persuaded to play, unless they are led or taught to. play games that will ask for few, if any, of the above qualities, yet give them.

Whatever may be said in favor of games and plays (athletics), in secondary schools and colleges as practiced nowadays, there must be no doubt about one serious shortcoming of them. They do not serve to improve those who need improvement bodily, mentally, or morally, but simply select those most developed in these directions to play these games and derive a little benefit from them. That these select players do derive only a little benefit from gaming and playing, one can readily see, and as far as improvement in mental qualities goes, it has been experimentally proven that such improvement is very small indeed.

In order, then, to secure for the majority of children and youth, the beneficial results of playing, it is necessary, first, to provide them with playing facilities, i. e. playgrounds, play time, and playing apparatus. Then, in addition, the ability to improve these facilities. That means that children should »be led to play games which are suited in their mental difficulty to the ability of the child. They must not offer such difficulties as will make the child stand by bewildered and look at others playing, nor must they be so easy as not to incite the pleasurable feeling of having overcome difficulty.

Classification, according to mental difficulty, is then a pre-requisite for securing the beneficial results of playing to a great majority, or perhaps all children.

The following classification may not stand laboratory tests, but has stood the test of practical application on the floor of the gymnasium and on the playground. I have no doubt but that it may be readily improved upon. The games given under each heading may not all be of pure type, because simple games of a pure type are rare, most games being more or less complex mentally. Especially is it difficult to find games of pure type as we advance in our scale of difficulty. As much as possible or necessary we have indicated in parenthesis and by numerals what mental processes are most conspicuous in the game, so that It may be referred to games of kindred character. This is also to serve in helping to analyze the games. Usually the games of one class partake of the nature of the games of one or more of the next lower classes.

In teaching games of a complex nature it is, therefore, a wise plan to play (teach) each of the component elements of a game separately, then add one by one till all the elements are assembled as a unit in the game. This is practically what is called “coaching/’ and successful coaching will be found to correspond with this idea.

The first set of gymnastic games which children play are games which appar-

Digitized by Google
-164-

ently have no purpose. They can, of course, not be taught. The child needs simply time and space to play them.

The next set of games are games of inexact imitation. Imitation at this stage must be inexact, because all sense perceptions of this period are more or less imperfect. No attempt should, therefore, be made to insist upon exactness of imitation. Again, no teaching can or need be done, a chance to play only being required.

The next set of games are those which will tend to develop the sensual apparatus. The senses which have to do mainly with movement are the sense of sight, of touch, and of hearing. We shall have, therefore, in this group, games that practice and develop the sense of sight, of touch, and of hearing.

Within the series for the sense of sight, a subdivision might and could be made. One can have games where form is to be recognized or distinguished only, likewise such where color is to be determined only. Then, those where form and color both must be distinguished. Progression in difficulty within this group is also effected by first recognizing form or color, or both, of things stationary, thep of bodies moving.

Ih the games for the sense of hearing, those where movents are guided by any kind of noise are first. Then follow those where noises and sounds must be distinguished as to intensity or pitch, or both.

In the games for the sense of touch, the primary ones should be those where simply the perceptions of any form of touch sensation is needed. Later on, games for sensations of touch, differing as to intensity, duration, etc., should be practiced.

It will be seen, therefore, that in a way these games may be called games of discrimination. Having acquired, through games of the above kind, keen sight, touch, and hearing, the pupil is ready to go one step farther. He will play games dependent upon exactness of motion. That exactness of motion is impossible without exactness of sight and touch, goes without saying, and therefore this sequence.

In this group of games, a great many games of throwing and catching missiles belong, beside others. The most commonly used missiles are the various forms of balls, though jackstones, hoops, spears, etc., belong in the like class. Games in this group may be classed as follows: Catching or laying hold of things is to be practiced on rather bulky and weighty things, first, that would require action of both hands or both leet, if catching were to be done with the latter. As one goes along, the bulk and weight grow less. Laying hold, must first be done on things stationary, then on things moving. The moving object should at first move with little, then with ever-increasing velocity. The player should learn to catch first while he himself is stationary, moving arms, trunks, and legs within his place only. Later on, he must learn to step out of place in order to catch, and finally, he wants to practice catching on the walk and run, the running and walking to be done in all directions, forward, sideward, and backward. The speed of the movement, i. e., the running, to be slow at first and ever increasing At first, catcher and object to be caught must both be stationary, and then they both should proceed through the series of increasingly difficult manoeuvres, as above. The catching or laying hold of, or striking, is to be done at first with parts of the body, principally the hands and more rarely the feet, or other parts of the body, then with catching or striking implements. The larger the catching or striking surface is, the easier will be the catching and striking with implements; the smaller, the more difficult, and progression will have to be along these lines. The various batting instruments used in games clearly show the advancing difficulty of catching and striking, according to this principle. Throwing missiles will follow the same outlines. In catching, more yet in throwing, another element in movement enters, i. e. steadiness of motion (or position).

Yet a separate group must be established for games of steadiness of motion. These games are mainly aiming games. Shooting with arrows, blow pipes, pistols, guns, belong to this set. Aiming and shooting is to be done, the marksman stationary, shooting with a large projectile, at a large target, distance between marksman and target first small. The projectile and target grow smaller, the distance larger, as we advance in difficulty. Next the stationary marksman

Digitized by tnOOQte
-165-

will shoot at objects moving in a straight track toward, or away from, the marksman, at first with lesser, then with increasing velocity. The marksman will then aim and shoot while he himself moves toward, then away from, the target, with lesser and increasing velocity. At first he moves himself, then he mounts and moves on an animal, vehicle, or train, and shoots at a stationary target. Finally, marksman and target, both moving at first in straight, parallel tracks, tracks at right angles, tracks running in opposing directions, and finally irregular tracks, will form the most difficult set of games in this class.

Having played games of these different kinds, the player is now ready to proceed to games of exact imitation. The increasing difficulty of games of this kind may be easily judged by examining the foregoing considerations. Now, though our player may be able to see, hear, and feel correctly, though he may, in response to these sense stimulations, be able to perform exact and steady motion, he will be found a deficient player on the athletic field, as well as in the play of life, if he be unable to respond quickly to the stimulation.

The next set of games will, therefore, be games that will tend to shorten reaction time. Reaction time can be shortened only, if the player is to expect, at first, only one well-known stimulus. The only question in his mind being then, when this stimulus is to be received. And if he is to react upon this stimulus as soon as possible, the action must be one beforehand known and practiced. Only when things have been simplified for our player in this way, when he has been prepared for quick reaction, will he not stand still bewildered by the problems of the game.

Having brought our player around this dangerous comer we are ready to have him go one step farther. He will now have to learn the art of discrimination. At first he must be asked to discriminate between only two stimuli, both of them well-known beforehand, and to react with a well-known-and-practiced action upon the receipt of one of them. Difficulty in this group increases as the number of stimuli that have to be discriminated between, increases.

Following this, come games of choice or judgment. Here the player should at first react upon only one well-known stimulus, not being asked, therefore, to discrim nate. He should react, however, no longer with only one action beforehand known but must now be made to choose between several actions, all of them well-known-and-practiced. the one most suitable to the occasion. It stands to reason that the greater the range of choice, the greater will be the difficulty of the game.

After this should come games where discrimination as well as judgment have to be practiced. That is, reaction by a chosen suitable action now takes place only upon the receipt of a particular one among two or more stimuli. With this we are practically at the end of mental difficulty in games. The games hereafter mentioned all partake of the type of the last mentioned ones, more or less. They presuppose all the qualities from correct sight and exact motion to quick reaction and good judgment. They are organized games, mostly of a , competitive character, two or more sides playing against one another in these games.

We distinguish here games of low and high organization. Games of low organization are * characterized by the fact that all players of one side hold practically the same position ; that means at the same time all positions in the game. Every player plays the whole game. Organization proceeds with the subdivision of tach party to a game and the specialization of the work that each party is to do.

So we lave games where each side plays two positions, with a number that means at least two players for each position. This divides the responsibility for the position being well played among several individuals. The more individuals to each position, the smaller the responsibility and the lower the organization of the game. The greater the number of subdivisions in each game, the greater the difficulty of playing it. Basket bal1, for instance, is a somewhat highly organized game, for we have heie, among five players of one side, three positions to be played. Two of the more difficult positions, i. e , forward and guard, have two players. Center, being the least responsible position, is played by only one. When we come to fooiball the number of subdivisions of a side increases. Yet we* have for some of the positions two players. Football, while a highly organized game, is not the most highly organized. Baseball undoubtedly stands at the head of highly organized games. Nine different positions played, each one by only one player. Each one position demands a different style of game, asking of the player good eye, ear, and touch, exact and steady motion, quick reaction, discrimination, and good judgment, and no one to share the responsibility with him for the playing of his position. If a youth or man play good baseball, and plav it so that he can play more than one position on the team, he is very likely possessed of all of the

Digitized by G.ooole
—166—

above most desirable mental qualities. He has in his possession most formidable weapons to enter upon the strife of life w,iih.

I do not wish to be understood as meaning that all games of one class are absolutely more difficult than the ones In the class preceding it, nor that all gsmes of one class must be played first before proceeding to the next one

No attempt has been made to classify the games as to their fitness to be played by either sex, that being left to the discretion of the teacher.

If games be well directed these benefits can be secured for all normal children. That it is highly desirable to secure them all, no one will deny* In order to make all children play as above point d out playing time, playing facilities, as locality and apparatus, are needed, but above all, one to direct the pliy of children and youth so that no harm but a great deal of benefit shall come from them.

If this booklet will help to throw some light upon the methods how to lead and teach playing children, it will serve its purpose. The games herein represented are not new nor original. They have been collected from various sources, a great many from the pages of “Mind and Body.” The booklet possesses, therefore, no merit in the presentation of new games. If it has any merit'at all, it lies in the classification of games.

I am still too busy to write books and therefore had to avail myself of the help of others in order to publish this booklet. For compiling the games and assigning them their proper places in ihe different classes of our classification, 1 am indebted to Miss Annie Rennard Hughes, formerly my assistant at The Normal School of Gymnastic , but now of the Select Friends’ School of Washington, D C. The proof reading and preparing for press Miss M.

S.	Haupt, A. N. S. G., ’99. has done. To the Freidenker Publishing Company, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, my thanks are due for allowing me the use of such illustrations as appeared with games published in “Mind and Body.”

Games for Schools and Gymnasia. By W. C. Schaefer. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.— The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English literature was devoid of any acceptable collection of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—It appears to be the prevailing opinion at Pennsylvania that the university should send a graduate crew to Henley next year to compete for the challenge cup. Many claim that the crew would be much stronger than a college crew and would be mueh more likely to meet the crews on the other side on equal terms. It the crew is made up, John Gardner, who stroked the university crew this year, will undoubtedly occupy the same seat in the graduate boat.

—The Oxford-Cambridge Athletic team, now in Montreal preparing to contest with the Yale-Harvard team, will go to New York by way of the Hudson river and Lake Champlain. Their object is to avoid a long tiresome railroad ride and to be under the coolest conditions possible in case of warm weather. Before leaving Montreal they will compete in a series of games with the students of McGill and Toronto Universities.

—Duffy, the wonderful amateur sprinter, did his training for the Buffalo championship with the Harvard boys at Cohasset, where the latter are training to meet the Oxford-Yale team. Duffy’s presence was a welcome stimulus to activity among the Crimson sprinters.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-167-

—La crosse has had a marked revival in Canada this season. Not that it was ever dormant, but several teams in the senior list have been evenly matched, a tie being imminent in the championships.

WORLD S BEST RECORDS.

(January r, 1901.)

RUNNING.

100 Yds.—94-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, H. Bethune, J. H. Maybury. *94-5 sec.: J. Owen. Jr.. C. W. Stage W. T. McPherson, J. H. Hempton, B. J. Wefers, J. V. Crum, J. H. Rush, A. F. Duffy.

220 Yds.—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins, C. G. Wood. *21 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48^ sec.: R. Buttery. *47 sec.: M. W. Long.

i88o Yds.—1:53^ min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. H. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12^ min : W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

WEIGHT THROWING.

i2 lb Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thos. Carroll.

*16 lb Hammer Throw—169 ft. 4 in.: John Flanagan.

*12 lb Shot Put—55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

*16 lb Shot Put—47 ft.: G. R. Gray.

*Discus Hurling—118 ft. 2.92 in.: R. Bauer.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft. 8% in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. 4.96 in.: R. C. Ewery.

Running High Jump—6 ft. 8% in.: R. H. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney.

Standing Broad Jump—14 ft. 5y2 in.: G. W. Hamilton. *11 ft. 3 in.: R. C. Ewery.

Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *38 ft.: J. Chandler.

Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. % in.: J. F. Hartnett. *35 ft. 6 in.: Courtney.

Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. in.: W.*MacManus.

Running Broad Jump—25 ft. 1 in.: L. A. Carpenter. *24 ft. 7^ in.: M. Prinstein.

Pole Vault—11 ft. 10^ in.: R. G. Clapp.

NATATION.

*50 Yd. Swim—27 1-5 sec.: J. H. Derbyshire.

*100 Yd. Swim—1 min.: T. Meadham.

*220 Yd. Swim—2:34 4-5 min. :	J.	H.	Derbyshire and

F. C. V. Lane.

*440 Yd. Swim—5:43 1-5 min.: J^ H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07^ min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—25:13 2-5 min.: J. A. Jarvis. Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. *Plunging—82 ft.: W. Taylor

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

ROWING.

*J^-Mile—57 seconds : E. Hediey.

*^-Mile—3:08 1-5 min.:	E. Hediey.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbury.

*Two Miles—9:19^ min.: Yale Freshmen Crew Fjve Miles—30:443^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

*100 Yds.—9 4-5 sec : J. S Tohnson.

*220 Yds.—17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson, J. F. Donahue. *440 Yds.—302-5 sec.: J. F. Donahue.

*880 Yds.—1 min. 52-5 sec.: J. F. Donahue.

*One Mile—2:41 1-5 min.: O. Rudd.

* Amateur.

GERMAN LITERATURE.

METHODIK.— ZETTLER................................................1.00

GESCHICHTE DER METHODIK.—PROF. DR. CARL EULER.....................2.00

“	“	“	“	“	“	“	bound..................2.50

SCHWEDISCHE HEILGYMNASTIC.—F. J. HARTELIUS...........................*.1.70

HAUS-GYMNASTIK FUER MAEDCHEN UND FRAUEN.—DR. E. ANGERSTEIN UND G.

ECKLER........................................ ...............1.00

HAUS-GYMNASTIK FUER GESUNDE UND KRANKE. — DR. E. ANGERSTEIN UND G.

ECKLER.............................. .........................1.00

DAS TURNEN IM HAUSE.—BEER WALD UND BAUER..........................1.00

HANDBUCH FUER VORTURNER—BULEY UND VOGT. (Zwei Theile).............2.35

BUCH DER REIGEN.—W. JENNY.........................................2.20

Address for any gymnastic or pedagogical literature:

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

468 EAST WATER ST., MILWAUKEE, WIS

Digitized by L.ooQle
Physical

Exercises

^2?TZD THEIB



91 *ijovt	of	t*j*	.	.	.

BENEFICIAL

^INFLUENCE.

♦ ♦ ♦ ©ttmim §hi*tewt of ©ymnootico.

For teachers of gymnastics and all friends of physical training

wr

F. A. SCHMIDT, M. D.

This physiological treatise of German gymnastics has been published by the Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union.

CONTENTS:

Introductory.

I. The different kinds of bodily exercises and their value.

a.	External form of motion.

b.	Participation and kind of muscular exercise.

c.	Participation in an kind of work of the nerves.

d.	Activity of the lungs, the heart and the circulation of the blood.

e.	Exercises of quickness hi a stricter sense of the word.

f.	Influence on tne molecular changes and the nourishment.

H. Need of exercises at the different ages of life.

a.	The different ages of life.

b.	The first school years.

c.	The school years from the ninth to the fourteenth years.

d.	The years of development from the fourteenth to the twentieth year.

e.	The years from twenty to thirty.

f.	The years trom thirty to forty.

g.	The years of forty to sixty.

Plate I. The beneficial influence of exercise.

Plate II. Summary of the physical exercises most beneficial at the different ages of life.

Price 25 eta. —Send two cents extra for postage.

Address :

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Publishers and Booksellers~(Gymnastic Literature a Speciality)

Digitized by t^oosle