"■	      '	C.	^	  —

PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. ij.	SEPTEMBER 1906.	No. 151
		

EOtTORIAL COMMITTII J

DR. K. H. ARNOLD. New Haven. Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

NEED OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE COUNTRY.

By CARL L. SCHRADER, Instructor of Gymnastics, Harvard University.

(From “Education.”)

ANY specific and emphatic plea for the introduction of rational physical education into our public schools must seem trite at a time when the school authorities are already awake to this necessity and have permanently established departments of this kind in their respective schools. The well established departments of physical education in our large cities are undoubtedly the most convincing means of propaganda for the cause to-day, and by far more effective than any lecture, paper or demonstration for the same purpose could be. In the cities' where physical education was added to the school system ten or more years ago, the result manifests itself to-day in the demand for exercise in private gymnasiums, created by those young men and women who have left school. It is undoubtedly the greatest achievement in physical education to create a desire for physical activity in our youths in after school life, and this is the problem and aim which confronts every country to-day.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-194-

In the magnificent writings which have emanated from our leadings men and the pioneers of the profession for the introduction of bodily education in our public schools we find the arguments to be general only in a measure, and specific only in considering the necessity for such education for the city child. Crowded conditions of the city and schoolroom, confinement of children to the house, general lack of activity and many other reasons equally important and well founded make up the points as arguments for physical education to counteract the tendencies of civilization. These promulgations, emphasizing health and prevention specially, without question appealed most to those in authority upon whom the deciding of this momentous question was thrust, and it was well that that side should have been held out as pre-eminent.

There is something, however, which needs to be said for the country child with equal emphasis, to whom so far has been denied the kind and convincing intercession of the physical educator. Is it because there is no need for physical education in the country population ? Has living in the open, dwelling in separate houses and the varied farm work done everything to satisfy the demands upon physical education ? A decided No must be the reply from everyone of whom this question is asked.

Since the country child is surrounded by this health promoting environment, unadulterated as compared with that of the city child, where then is the necessity for such an education ? This is the one question which the country population will thrust into the face of a promotor of such a proposition, and the answer can best be given by those who have dealt with pupils from rural districts and to whom the needs have amply been demonstrated. There are, of course, differences in entire communities as there are differences among individuals.

It has been my privelege to teach for the past ten years in two leading state normal schools, one in Pennsylvania, the other in New York, where, as in all state normal sshools, the majority of the students came from the country. Here was an opportunity to study the wants of the country boy and girl individually, and of the country population as a whole. There were but few angemics, few ill nourished, few weaklings; in brief, few health lacking individuals among these country students, so that it became evident that the main stress in any effort to promote physical education in the country would have to be placed on something else than the restoring of health. Who cannot pick out the country people on the city streets on a Saturday, or who fails to detect the country boys and girls when they first enter the higher schools? They may differ from the rest in their ruddy complexion, they may differ in appearance because of their clothing, but above all and without fail may they be sized up by their physical habits, such as slouchy walk, poor carriage, awkward movements, backwardness; in brief, they carry the typical stamp of a physically uneducated being. This is the rule rather than the exception.

Where, of course, the people live in villages and these again are located near cities, these conditions are less marked. The student body of a state normal school is made up of the middle class from the city as well as from the country, so that as far as social standing is con-

Digitized by Google
—195>

cerned, they are alike. Why then is this contrast between city and country boy or girl so striking? Because in the city there is that great possibility for observing what others do, what others wear, what others say, etc., the following of which may be for good or evil. Furthermore, the parents of the city child usually have the better educational advantages and thus make many suggestions and corrections in the habits of their offspring, an advantage which to the country child in most cases is denied for just the reverse reason. In the country the opportunity for observing is almost entirely missing, and is frequently centered upon the country school teacher only. The parents are not to be blamed in the least; they were brought up under the same conditions, and hence feel confident of doing what is proper by bringing up their flock in the same good old way.

Upon entering the normal school or any higher school, the country boy or girl experiences many embarrassments, a good share of which are met in the gymnasium. The gymnasium to many at first is a chamber of horrors, because of these many embarrassing moments. It takes the utmost tact on the part of the instructor to gradually win over the individual.

It is a common occurence that the parents object to their boy or girl partaking in such “nonsense.” Their child has no need of such training, he or she has to do chores at home, walks several miles, and thus gets all the exercise that is necessary. Then, too, they themselves never did anything of the sort, and never were sick a day either. That is about the average argument, and, to be sure, in most every instance the boy or girl in question shows all the physical characteristics of these very country chores.

However, it is equally, or even more, frequent that parents send a message of appreciation to the instructor when seeing their son or daughter for the first time after a long absence from home and notice the difference in appearance. It is the most tedious kind of teaching that a gymnasium instructor of a normal school does in the early part of the school year. Instead of a few awkward ones the class numbers only a few good ones.

Such then is the condition in which the country child is left after graduating from the country school. Can the education be called complete as far as it has advanced? In a military country like Germany there is still a two years’ service awaiting the country lad before he enters his life’s work, and in this respect militarism may be considered a blessing for the country. Awkward and countrified the recruit enters the service, and when he is dismissed after two years he is a vastly different looking man, with a polish which obliterates every undesirable stamp of country. In Germany a great deal has already been done for the country school, and more piessure is being brought to bear now than ever before. The movement of compulsory physical education should invade our country schools, and compulsory it must be in order to take away the right of the parents to legislate for the child whether or not it shall participate.

The obstacles are not as many and as unconquerable as it may seem when once such a requirement has been established. First of all,

Digitized by Google
-196 -

who is to teach this subject? The same teacher who teaches everything else, including all the other specialties—drawing, singing, etc.—such is the country school teacher’s calling. A teacher can only teach one thing at a time, so while he teaches gymnastics he is doing nothing else, and consequently is not burdened with additional work. It rests with the state normal schools so to equip their graduates that they can conduct their work efficiently. The physical education department of a normal school must conduct method work and practice teaching together with the regular floor work. This is done now in some individual normal schools, but as a state requirement to my mind only in New York State, where last year physical education was placed on the list of required normal course studies. In addition to eighty hours of floor work a year each graduate must have to his credit one hundred and twenty hours of methods in teaching gymnastics before being entitled to a certificate.

A teacher thus equipped can do the required work in the country school. Much of it will have to be done in the schoolroom when the weather does not permit of outdoor exercise. I need not mention here how much can be done in a schoolroom and what excellent results may be brought about by an enthusiastic teacher. The peculiar conditions of the country school must have found consideration in the method work ©f the normal school, so that the teacher is prepared to meet these conditions.

As stated above, the main object of physical training—that of health promotion-falls in the background, and exercises which tend to teach the pupils to command their bodies must stand out prominently. Exercises which necessitate correct posture, exercises which promote grace in walking and running, which foster rhythm, and which cultivate a general sense of admiration for the beautiful, exercises which promote prompt action, self-confidence, reliance, spontaneity, atnd initiative, are the kind which must make up the major portion of a system ©f training in the country school. The value of the development of the sense of beauty cannot be overestimated, and no object lends itself more fittingly than ©ur body when we know how to use it for that purpose. It is therefore essential that the exercises are such as appeal to the artistic sense. A beautiful position •r exercise need not be very complex nor lose any of its other inherent values. The simplest exercise performed with grace and precision in a way becomes an artistic production, and grows more so as the body rounds into good form. Every involuntary contraction of a voluntary group of muscles in a degree causes a flaw in the g3'mnastic picture. Any exercise which is ungainly in appearance because of the movements it combines had better be discarded even though ift may contain physiological value, for we have sufficient material from which we can choose and thus satisfy every aim.

It is not skill, or strength, or endurance, or grace, but all of these qualities combined, which must be considered in aiding the physical education of the individual. Together with the development, the pupil must be taught to control the acquired power. The qualities above mentioned—self-confidence, prompt action, courage, etc.—are best fostered by the use of games since an equipment ©f apparatus in the country school yard is still a dream of the future. The public in general does not realize how little actual playing the country boy or girl does. This is due to the fact that they are practically isolated, at least to •uch an extent that any organized game is out of the question because of lack ©I players. Hide and seek is perhaps the most popular game we fin'd in the country.

A game of baseball is almost out of question, so is every other game which acquires numbers. The school, therefore, offers the only opportunity for the pro-auetion of organized play, as that is the only place where the children collect Atom miles around. It is not sufficient that they play at it, but they must receive finetruction in playing the game right, for only then do the inherent good qualities of a game make themselves felt upon the individual.

Digitized by tjOOQle
A regular time must be set aside during the school hours tor this instruction, so as to lend it the dignity it deserves. The results promised are not phantoms, but are real, and farther reaching in their influence than can be foreseen. We have such an abundance of games at ourcommand that every condition can be met.

I believe the attitude of the country teachers to be most favorable toward such an innovation, especially when once they have experienced the far reaching advantage to be gained from such training. During my connection with the New York state normal schools I had the opportunity of meeting many country school teachers in different parts of the state at teachers’ institutes, where I had been called to address the teachers on the subject of physical education in the country school. It was a delightful experience and a surprise to me to find the teachers in every place enthusiastic over the proposition and ready to give the suggestion a trial. This manifested itself in two ways particularly. First, in the attendance of these talks. I usually had one general talk to the entire institute and on the following day one general talk each to the elementary teachers and the advanced teachers. Several subjects are on the program for the same time from which the teachers may choose. In every institute by far the greater majority selected physical education, and what is more, they would remain for two separate talks. I may mention here that I gave no personal practical demonstration which might have aroused curiosity, but merely outlined a possible plan for them to carry out if they so desired. The other way in which the interest was manifest was by the many questions which were asked at the conclusion of every talk, wherein local conditions were cited and remedies requested; also in letters sent me later for the same purpose.

In addition to the training by means of exercise, instruction in personal hygiene should find consideration in the country school. It is not necessary to enumerate all the various needs in this direction. To an observing teacher and one whose physical habits have been properly created, the opportunities for such instruction will be many. In not a few instances will such instruction make itself felt in the respective homes, and thus the environment of the child be improved. It goes without saying that it requires a great deal of tact to impart such information, but the relation of hygiene to physical education gives a splendid opportunity to do this intelligently and logically.

From the conditions cited above it might be inferred that the country child is inferior to that o! the city, which, however, is not the contention. The slum conditions of the city are not found in the country, so that that particular type of child life is not brought into comparison. The country poor are vastly better situated than the city poor and where in single instances slum conditions de exist, it is the great ignorance rather than dire need that prompts them. Physical education in its broadest sense would prove a great blessing to the country population. The subject of sociology, in which physical education plays such an important part and which to-day works wonders in the cities in lifting the masses from the mire, in part at least should invade the country, and the logical center for such operation in every community is the school.

The country school teacher in a measure plays a more important part as a teacher than does the city school teacher, inasmuch as he or she must be prepared to teach everything, and besides to figure conspicuously in all social functions. Theirs is indeed a calling which presupposes a wide range of knowledge, and usually is compensated by a most meager salary only.

Let the normal school graduate go into the schoolroom equipped to teach physical training at least as well as she is expected to teach the three R’s and other subjects, and it will not be long before the public appreciates the innovation. and instead of considering it a waste of time will hail it as a valuable adjunct to the fitting of their children for «ife.

FLY, FLEE, FLAW, FLUE.

A fly and a flea in a flue

Were imprisoned. Now what could they do? Said the fly: “Let us flee!”

“Let us fly,” said the flea—

So they flew through a flaw in the flew.—Puck.

Digitized by ^ooQLe
-198-

WHAT SHALL BE THE PURPOSE OF LEADERS’ CLASSES AND HOW SHALL THEY BE TRAINED ?

By H. J. MARTIN, President Senior Leaders Corps, Dayton, Ohio.

(From “Physical Training.")

THE first aim is to better men’s physical condition; and the second, taking advantage of the ground gained, to lead them gradually to higher thinking and better living. We must not rest contented with physical betterment and then transfer the responsibility for moral training to another department of the Association, for by so doing we lose much. We have already learned the men and their needs, and here is our opportunity to bring them to a knowledge of higher and better things.

First, then, let us consider the phj'sical needs of our members. With whom have we to deal? First, we have the boys who must be developed into strong, healthy men—we must watch them carefully, guiding them in their development, correcting faulty tendencies, strengthening weak places, coordinating muscular powers and making the will their master. We have the students with their various needs, differing in many respects from thostf of the boys. Next come the older boys and younger men; and lastly, the business men of various vocations— clerks, lawyers, physicians, merchants, mechanics—whose needs must be studied individually, taking into consideration their occupations, as their general physical condition.

The situation that confronts us is exceedingly complex. All these various classes must be instructed in general hygienic measures—proper diet, bathing, clothing; care of the body, of the eyes, of the teeth. Notice must be taken of their social needs, their environment, their associations. We must endeavor to direct their thoughts in cheerful, wholesome lines.

The physical director must be the executive, the organizer, the one who shows the way. But, unaided, his efficiency would be very limited, as any one who is familiar with the work of the physical department can easily appreciate. In an association of average size he has in the ueighborhood of five hundred men coming under his supervision at least twice a week; and to give the required personal attention to all these alone would be impossible. Here, then, is where the leaders find a place in the work in multiplying the efficiency of the director.

The efficiency of these assistants depends upon their general qualifications and their special training for the work in hand. A leader ought, first of all, to be a man of character; he should be entitled to hold the respect of his fellows; he should be a real leader as well as a teacher, capable of imparting information; and he should be enthusiastic. He must also be a fairly good, all-round gymnast, with the ability to execute the various exercises in good form.

We will now consider how best to judge of a man’s fitness for admission to the leaders’ corps. There are three general methods—by examination, by arbitrary choice of the director, and by vote of the members of the leaders’ class. For many reasons we consider the last named method preferable. Of course, in the initial organization of a

Digitized by Google
-199-

leaders’ corps it will be necessary for the director to make the choice, and an examination is in order. But as soon as such class has been formed, all future members should be elected by a vote of the class, with the advice and consent of the director. This method has been pursued with decided success in the Dayton Association. The manner of procedure is as follows:	A name is proposed by the membership

committee of the class at a regular meeting, and is laid on the table until the next meeting. In the meanwhile the leaders watch the candidate's work on the floor and satisfy themselves generally to his fitness or unfitness, so that they may become able to vote regarding him intelligently. If called for, a secret ballot is held, so that timid members may not hesitate to vote against a man should they see fit to do so. There are many reasons for recommending this method above the others. In the first place the leaders come into closer touch with the men than is possible for the director, and they are better able to judge of their general fitness. They better appreciate the standing of a man among his fellows, and his influence with them. Then, too, if the director made the choice, and it should be unsatisfactory to the members of the department, he would be considered responsible and his influence lessened thereby. Again, it is important that new members be satisfactory to those already in the class, in order that they may be congenial, mutually helpful, and work together in harmony.

The Training and Duties of Leaders.—It is advisable to have a separate leaders’ corps for each class organized in the physical department, composed of members of such class. The reasons are obvious.

The leaders' class should meet at least once each week, entirely independently of the meetings of the general class. In addition to these regular meetings of the separate classes we would suggest joint meetings of all the leaders’ classes at least once each month for the exchange of opinions and suggestions and for a social time. It would act as an inspiration, for in numbers there is enthusiasm. For the purpose of our discussion we shall consider a single representative leaders' class. Its meetings should be held at stated times for instruction by the director and for the transaction of general business.

The regular subjects of instruction should embrace:

1.	The Physiology of Exercise, together with a study of methods of physical examination, with the necessary corrective exercises! so that the leaders may be able to interpret the results of such examinations.

2.	Gymnastic Nomenclature, including calisthenic movements and class evolutions. The principles of the different movements should be thoroughly understood and the apparatus should be used in practical demonstration of the various terras. Each leader should have opportunities for giving the commands in class evolutions to the rest of the class, not only that he may become familiar with the commands, but also that he may have training in their proper delivery, and that he may gain confidence in himself and get rid of possible nervousness in leading a class. The leaders should form a separate division for apparatus work in the meetings of the general class, and the leaders in charge should describe the exercise orally to the class before executing it, in order to familiarize them with the terms.

Digitized by CaOOQle
- 200—

3.	Game Rules with Interpretations.—A careful study should be made of the rules, with interpretations of the various games in use in the gymnasium,such as basket-ball, volley-hall, indoor baseball, hand ball.

4.	Athletic Rules.—Where the Association is so fortunate as to possess an athletic field, the continuance of the leaders’ class is suggested through the summer at the athletic park, where there would be opportunities for practical demonstrations of athletic rules.

5.	Where it is possible, special lessons in fencing, wrestling, swimming, etc., should be given, for all these tend to increase the usefulness of the leader.

In addition to the above subjects of instruction special lectures by experts on helpful topics should be arranged for, such as general hygiene, first aid, dieting, the skin, the teeth, bathing, clothing. Reading along physical lines should be encouraged and a library of helpful books provided.

Methods of discipline should also be given attention in the class. This is important, as it means much in the successful conduct of classes.

The Business Session.—In the first place we would suggest that, for the transaction of business, the leaders should be organized, with officers chosen from their number, and the meetings should be conducted in accordance with the rules of procedure for legislative bodies. There should be standing committees for the various lines of work, such as rules and organization, social work, education, games, athletics, as local conditions may dictate, with special committees for special affairs. In this way all details for the various events are conducted by the leaders. All plans should be subject to the approval by the director.

Subjects for consideration at such business meetings should include the admission of new members, arrangement of class and inter-class games, tournaments, social events, exhibitions, and the conduct of the general class.

The Duties of Leaders.—These have been pretty clearly indicated in what already has been said. In the division work of the general class the leaders should take entire charge of the divisions, thus giving the director an opportunity to oversee the work and offer suggestions. A schedule should be prepared for the entire season, indicating at what time each leader is on duty, and a copy of such schedule should be in the hands of every leader. Whenever a leader finds it impossible to lead on a certain date, he should make provision for another leader to take his place, so that the director may not be embarrassed in providing for a division at the last minute. The exercises should be furnished the leader a sufficient time before a meeting of the class, that he may have an opportunity to familiarize himself with them and be able to execute them in good form. In setting the exercises he should first explain them, then do them correctly and with proper form. There should be no attempt on his part to show off or to “play for the gallery.” He should see that good discipline is maintained in his division, and endeavor to hold the attention of the men and keep them interested. While a man is on the apparatus the leader should watch him carefully, give him necessary advice; be ready to assist him in difficult movements and, should he fall, to catch him or break his fall. He should be

Digitized by CaOOQle
-201-

able to execute the exercise with ease, giving the impression of reserve power, thus increasing the respect of the men for his ability, and gaining their confidence. The leader should be able to explain the reasons for the various exercises and their purposes in the development of the individual. Good discipline and consequent efficiency depend to a great extent upon the attitude of the leader and his manner of giving instruction.

When the general class is dismissed, the leaders should mingle with the men, see that they are occupied and interested, offer suggestions, give advice, and endeavor to be generally helpful. In the class games they should lead; one or more leaders should be on each side when teams are formed. They should see that the right spirit prevails—the unselfish spirit which enters into a game not for the glory of winning, but for the glory of playing; not for individual glory, but for the glory of the team. Healthful exercise and recreation should be the objects, as well as the development of a healthy unselfish social spirit.

Leaders should help the men to acquire an all-round development. They should not encourage specialties or specialists. We do not want record-breakers or basket-ball champions. So if a leader sees a man devoting all his time to high kicking, high jumping, high diving, or kindred featurs, to the exclusion of all else, he should seek to interest him in other lines, such as the side horse, parallel bars, or horizontal bar. The development of the specialties is not conducive to health. On the contrary, it is decidedly injurious, developing certain sets of muscles at the expense of others, and often to the detriment of certain functional parts. There is a dangerous tendency in many associations to develop the specialist, to run wild on basket ball, etc. This should be jealously guarded against.

Leaders should be designated by proper emblems, that the men mpy be able to single them out on the floor. This also adds to their dignity and increases their feeling of responsibilty as well as the respect of the men for them.

Leaders should realize their influence with the men and see that their example is always for good, both inside and outside the Association.

Aside from the value of the leaders’ class in providing helpful assistants in the work of the physical department, is its value to each individual member of the class. It arouses in him responsibility for right living; it creates in him an unselfish spirit; it teaches him to think of others; and makes him a nobler and better character, opening the way for a life of service.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—The Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union (Tur-nerbund) has opened its last one-year course under favorable circumstances. The 1906-1907 class consists of about 16 members. We would have gladly published the names if we had been favored with a list. Beginning with next year there will be a two-vears’ course.

—The Instructors of the Turnerbund, who were at Chautauqua this year for their post-graduate work, were so pleased with the location, surroundings and facilities offered them that they already have taken steps to purchase a site and build a club building thereon. Tnat means that it is intended to make the work at Chautauqua a permanent feature.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-202-

WORK AND PLAY IN EDUCATION.

PRACTICAL ADDRESS BY J. W. CARR, SUPERINTENDENT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF DAYTON.

(Concluded.)

THE NEED OF WORKERS.

One of the prime objects of an education is to fit persons for an efficient service. The question once was, “What do you know?** The question now is, “What can you do?” The high school boy ’or girl, yes, even the college man or woman is asked to step aside unless he or she can do something worth while and do it well. One of the serious criticisms upon our public schools is that the)’ do not teach pupils how to do things—how to work and how to relish work. The world needs workers, efficient, willing workers, workers that will ask, not how little, but how.much can 1 do? The church of the living Christ does not need so many members who will “forever sit and sing” as it needs disciples of the Master who will give “a cup of cold water in His name.”

CHILDREN SHOULD BE TAUGHT TO WORK.

It is not my purpose to make a special plea for manual training in the public schools, although I am in favor of manual training. It is *iy purpose to make a plea for something that is more fundamental, and that is that the children be taught how to work—how to plan work, how to relish work, both in school and out of school—whether the work be intellectual or manua).

One of the results of our “soft pedagogy” is that we are endeavoring to make all school work play. We would reform spelling because it is so hard to learn. We would not insist on accuracy in arithmetic because that would require too much effort on Johnny’s part, and Johnny might collapse. We would abolish examinations because Susie is nervous and und “unhappy” whenever she has anything to do. The kindergarten is an excellent thing and I would have more kindergartens •tad better ones. But it is a perversion of the true kindergarten whenever we try to introduce kindergarten methods into the grammar grades and the high school. Milk for babes, but meat for strong men.

PLAY LEADS TO WORK.

The ultimate purpose of play is to enable people to work. The little girl plays with her doll in order that some day she may the better care for her own child. But the day comes when she lays aside the doll forever. She will be all the better, however, if she has had the care f»rt of the time of some of her own little brothers and sisters. The boy plays in order that he may acquire strength, skill and courage to w’ork and to fight the battles of life successfully. But the day comes when he quits making kites and goes to making something worth while. We pity the imbecile Mr. Dick in David Copperfield, because at the age of 40 he was still making kites—not to sell, but just for fun.

WORK AND PLAY, BOTH NECESSARY.

Play gives zest for work, and work zest for play. The boy that flays in a half-hearted way is usually of no account for work. On the

Digitized by Google
-203-

other hand, the hard player is usually a good worker. Too much play clogs, too much work deadens. The hard working student enjoys recess, and he enjoys study all the better after the recess. The one who dawdles away his time during school hours derives the least benefit of play at intermission. The tramp and the indolent rich are alike useless and unhappy—each bears the mark of Cain in his forehead. Very early in life, children should begin to work; people never get so old that they should entirely cease to play.

But in the education of children we should not wait until they have reached the age when they are expected to “put away childish things” before we begin to teach them to work. They should begin to do some work very early in life. Then as they grow older the amount of work should increase and the amount of play decrease—just as the forerunner said, “He must increase, but I must decrease.”

CHANGE IN THE HOME LIFE IN REFERENCE TO WORK.

The necessity of teaching children to work becomes all the more imperative when we remember the changes that have recently taken place in the home life of many people. Most of us who now have homes were brought up in homes where each member of the family who was old enough had some specific duties to perform daily. It is true that these duties were sometimes onerous and that some of us did not have enough time to play. But after all we were taught how to work, how to plan our work, how to “hang on” to our work, as my father used to say, how to work by ourselves, and finally how to stay with our work when the boys were whistling for us to join them in their sports. That is not all. We were taught to mind not a little heat nor cold, neither did a little sweat nor a few blisters on our hands appall us. This is not ah of an education, of course, but it is the part of many a person's education that has won for him success where others have failed.

Now in the majority of our town and city homes, what is there to take the place of this home training? In most instances absolutely nothing. There are few or no home duties, and most of the time not spent in school or in sleep is spent in some sort of amusement. It is play and amusement and amusement and play, until they clog and the child is surfeited and becomes dissatisfied with everything, and is positively unhappy. Poor creatures! They are the victims of neglect as positive and far more harmful than if they were compelled to go to bed at night without their suppers. God has given to us splendid talents, but we must use them, else they are taken from us as an aw* ful penalty for our neglect.

HOW CAN CHILDREN BE TAUGHT TO WORK ?

How can children, especially in our cities, be taught to work? This is indeed an important question and one which must be answered. Of course, I do not speak “as one having authority;” I only venture an opinion.

The home must do its share. There is no escape for it. The school can supplement, can assist, but children must have home duties, must be taught to work at home, or they will be positively handicapped, perhaps crippled for life. I never see a fat, pampered, wheezy poodle but that 1 feel sorry for him. But one child is worth many poodles. Let us endeavor to give every child a fair chance in life.

Digitized by Google
*204—

But you say, “This is very well, but how can I provide work for my children? There is no work for them to do.” That is a problem for every household to solve for itself. For many it is a problem. Father is too busy, and mother is too indulgent, or is lacking in force or disposition, or both. A prominent lawyer came to me the other day, urging that the school day be lengthened, “because,” says he, “I know where Jack is during school hours. But when school is out he runs wild.” Two hours’ work each day at home at something that is really worth while would be of unestimable value to Jack. He needs that far more than added hours at school.

Many families in our towns and cities are recognizing the necessity of providing work for their children and as a result they are finding something for them to do that is really worth whilef Some of these have come to my notice. I give a few typical examples.

One family, whose father was a professional man, had three boys, vigorous lads, who would have played all of the time if they had been permitted to do so. But from the time they were little tots they were taught to work systematically. They helped their mother do the house work. Yes, house work is better than no work at all. Then, as they grew older, they did outside work—carried papers, drove delivery wagons, mowed yards, ran errands, carried water for laborers, built fires and carried out ashes for the neighbors. Sometimes they were sent to the country, where they worked on a farm all summer. Later they worked in some of the factories and lumber yards. They became well kown to many of the leading business men, and as a result they never failed to get a job on Saturdays and when school was out.

“Why is each of your boys such a good worker?” I once asked their father.

“O, that is easy,” he replied. “We have taught them to work from early childhood. There are three rules regarding work,” he continued, “that we adopted years ago.”

First—Every child in the family must work. That is, whether he likes it or not, he must do his share of the work. This we have always insisted upon.

Second—He must learn to do his work on time without always being told.

Third—He must learn to love his work.

These are splendid rules, whether applied at home-or at school. Any child who is taught to follow them faithfully has accomplished much.

“But how do you always find work for your boys? Most persons do not like to have boys around. They are usually in the way.”

“Well,” says he, “I have made it a business to keep in touch with men that would likely need some one to help them, and then at the right time I sent one of my boys to ‘strike him’ for a job. Wfhen asked what he could earn, the boy was told to say that he did not know, but to let him have the work, aud whatever pay that he (his employer) thought proper would be alright.

“Most bovs,” he continued, “are more particular about the pay than they are about the work. That is the chief difficulty. My boys

HOW ONE FATHER SECURED WORK FOR HIS SONS.
-205-

have been taught to work for anything they can get and if they cannot get anything to work for nothing. I would even be willing to pay some one to let them work rather than have them spend all their time in idleness. The essential thing is the work, and whatever money they receive is just like finding it.”

WIFE AND DAUGHTERS OF A MILLIONAIRE.

Not long ago I visited the home of a millionaire. It is a rare thing that I, a school teacher, am invited to be the guest of a millionaire. But on this visit I witnessed a rare sight. The mother and her two daughters, Helen and Ruth, were doing all the house work, including the cooking and serving of meals.

“Have your servants suddenly left you?” I inquired of the mother.

“No,” she replied, “that is not it. We cannot afford to rear our daughters in idleness. If they are to be useful, helpful and happy, they must be taught to work. Besides, work is good for our health as well as for our morals,” she said smilingly, “and I work with them. It is an essential part of education. Helen is a fine musician, but I will leave it to you if she is not a better cook.”

Sensible mother. She was not rich enough to neglect the education of her daughters. There is also a suggestion for the solution of the servant problem. Parents will find work for their children whenever they come to recognize the fact that work is necessary for their health, happiness, success and moral development.

TRAINING PUPILS TO WORK AT SCHOOL.

But what can the school do in the way of teaching children to work ?

Very much indeed. Even if it cannot give a course in manual training, which is very’ desirable, there are ways that it can aid greatly in teaching children to work. I shall mention only two or three. The thinking out or planning of any piece of work is an essential part of it. Skill in execution is indeed important, but the power to conceive and the ability to advise, not only a plan, but the best plan, are of equal, if not of greater importance. Every problem that is to be solved, every lesson that is to be prepared furnishes an opportunity to teach pupils to plan their work as well as to execute it. The element of time should be considered, and the lesson, whatever it may be, so planned as to enable the pupil to accomplish the most in the least time without over-exertion.

Pluck and perseverance are necessary if pupils are to be taught to work. The school has many opportunities to develop these traits of character, both on the plavground and in the school room. To exel in any of the manly sports requires both pluck and perseverance. If football is to be justified at all as a school sport, it is because it develops these traits. But it is comparatively easy to “buck the line” when cheered on by one’s own partisans. It is much harder to eontinue to try to solve a difficult problem, when one is alone or when his classmates have already solved it. That requires pluck and perseverance of a high order, but exactly the kind that enables him to stay with a job in after life. It is therefore the kind that he most needs.

To my way of thinking, much of our “soft pedagogy” that causes

Digitized by CjOOQle
-206-

me to make everything easy for the child is fundamentally wrong. It is far better for him to solve one difficult problem by himself, even if it takes a week to do it, than it is to help him solve a dozen problems. If work is an essential element of an education, then children should be so trained at school that they will know how to work, and how to persevere until the work is fully completed. This is one of the chief missions of the pubiic school.

CO-OPERATION OF THE HOME AND THE SCHOOL.

Finally the home and the school must co-operate if the best results are to be attained in teaching children to work. One of the hopeful signs of the times is the fact that gardening and elementary agriculture and the elements of carpentry and sewing, and cooking are beginning to be taught in the school. This fact alone tents to interest parents, teachers and pupils alike in some form of manual labor, and as a result, labor is dignified. Whenever the school can teach the child to be far more willing to work and more efficient in his work, the home will support the school as it never has done before, and the schools will be more helpful to the home, and the two working together will do more— vastly more—for the child. Then Van Dyke’s beautiful sonnet on “Work” will become a living reality.

“Let me but do my work from day to day,

In the field or forest, at the desk or loom,

In the roaring market place, or tranquil room;

Let me but find it in my heart to say,

When vagrant wishes beckon me astray —

‘This is my work, my blessing, not my doom;

Of all who live, I am the one by whom This work can best be done in the right way.*

Then shall I see it not too great, nor small,

To suit my spirit and to prove my powers;

Then shall I cheerful greet the laboring hours,

And cheerful turn when the long shadows fall At eventide, to play and love and rest,

Because I know for me my work is best.”

The closing remarks were made by Rabbi Lelkowitz. The association, he said, had three hopes:

First, so to mold public opinion that ptople will clamor for a public recognition of vacation schools and playgrounds.

Second, that there may be a vacation school in every district, and that the buildings and playgrounds do not stand idle for three months in the year.

Third, that the needs of those who toil may be realized and that light, air and play in larger breathing places be given the older children.

Last season $500 made 1000 children happy and healthy for. four weeks, only 50 cents per child, and he hoped there would be funds this year to give the same privileges to 5,000 children.

The meeting then adjourned with many expressions of interest.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receiot of $*1.00 for 4 new subscribers.
-207-

LAUGHING.

“Anatomically konsidered,” says Josh Billings, “laffing iz the sensashun ov pheeling good all over, and showing it principally in one spot. Morally konsidered, it iz the next best thing tew the Ten Commandments. Philosophically konsidered, it beats medicines three doses in the game. Theoretically konsidereff it kan out-argy all the logik in existance. If a man kan’t laff, there was sum mistake made in putting him together; and, if he won’t laff, he wants az much keeping away from az a bear-trap when it is sot.

“Genuine lafhng iz the vent of the soul, the nostrils ov the heart, and iz just az necessary for he’lth and happiness as spring water iz for a trout.

“In konclusion, i say laff every good chance yu kan git, but don’t laff unless yu feel like it, for there ain’t nothing in the world more harty than a good, honest laff, nor nothing more hollow than a hartless one. When yu do laff open vour mouth wide enuff for the noise tew git out without squealing, thro" yure hed back axt-ho’ yu waz going tew be shaved, hold on tew yure false hair with both hands, and then laff until yure soul gets thorolv rested.—Success.

The value of swimming as a physical exercise has been placed high by probably every authority. In Germany, and to a considerable extent in England, swimming is a part of the school curriculums and the boys and girls are taught how to handle themselves in the water quite as much as how to walk and run on land. So far this element in the education of boys and girls has been quite neglected in America, there being hardly a single exception to this statement. And this, notwithstanding that it has been repeatedly proven that no other form of bodily activity produces such wonderfully good results in health, strength and power as swimming when correct methods are used. The importance placed on swimming in the instruction of the cadets at Annapolis and West Point for our army and navy is evidence in this line. This deficiency has been pointed out many times by writers and swimming instructors, but their words have not produced much in the way of results. Possibly because of the fact that no book written by a recognized physical training instructor for the use of instructors has been produced and placed within the reach of the profession in this country. A new book about to be published by the American Gymnasia Co., Boston, Mass., fills this vacant place. It is entitled “The Art of Swimming” and the author is Richard F. Melligan, instructor of physical education at Amherst College. The book presents in a very concise and practical manner the essentials and some of the ornaments of the swimming art and it also outlines one of the first steps in the direction of making swimming compulsory in educational institutions in America. At Amherst College, beginning this fall, all students will be required tti qualify in swimming. An examination will be conducted in June in the sophomore year to test the abilities of the students in certain fundamental water movements and strokes. For tthose who desire to pursue this part of their education further, honor or advanced courses will be offered. The Massachusetts Humane Society has recognized the advantage of this forward step and has consented to award its certificate of proficiency in swimming and life saving to the students of this college who satisfactorily pass certain conditions.—Exchange.

13P ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.
A/\lND AND BODY,

Published Monthly.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

Subscription Price, 91.00 per Year.

adCU'ttra.'uJcM, Wluconnin.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W* Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

HERE is considerable discussion in the foreign press in regard to

the poor showing made by their representatives as contrasted with the American team.

A few German writers attribute the low score of the Germans to their beer-drinking habit, which, as they claim, saps the national vigor. Of course, these “writers” draw to a marked degree of liberty and superficiality on their imagination. Nobody would want to call the German nation physically degenerate, though even no German were able to break a single athletic record. The German system of gymnastics is founded on principles which have for their aim the development of the masses, as exemplified by the splendid physical condition and the quite recent achievements of the German army, and also by the long existence of the largest gymnastic body of the world, the “Deutsche Turner-schaft,” with its % million of active members.

This organization alone is representative of German gymnastics, just as the Amateur Athletic Union is representative of the athletics of the United States of America. But the “Deutsche Turnerschaft” did not take part at Athens, therefore we cannot speak of a German representation. Those taking part as Germans did so as individuals, perhaps be- * longing to some independent societies or clubs.

It is true, Germans have been beer drinkers since times immemorial, but statistics show that Germany does not by any means head the list of alcohol consuming nations.

The British also have a grievance. According to “Physical Education” (London, Engl.,) Mr. J. Astlev Cooper in the “Daily Mail” quotes Mr. G. Blake, one of the Australian representatives, as follows:

“Were the games well conducted?”—

“No; the arrangements were bad. The English jurors were weak-kneed. They allowed the Americans to do just as they liked, and a number of the races were regular fiascos. The heats in many instances were badly arranged. In the walking race, Bonhag, the American winner, had never previously won a walking event. He is a long-distance runner, and his walk was by no means a fair heel-and-toe. The committee pulled an Englishman off when he was walking fairly. In the hurdle race an Englishman got a good start and had virtually won it when the race was called back. If this is true this does not tend towards British eredit in the colonies.”

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

ANENT THE OLYMPIAN GAMES,

THE OLYMPIC GAMES AT ATHENS.
Digitized by

Class of the “Deutsche Turnersehalt.” Prolessor Kessler, Leader. (From the “Souvenir of the Indianapolis Turnlest.”)

-1*11-

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF PHYSICAL DIRECTORS TO THE TUBERCULOSIS PROBLEM.*

By JAMES ALEXANDER MILLER, A M., M.D , New York, Director of the Tuberculosis Clinic, Bellevue Hospital, Attending Physician to Seton Hospital for Tuberculosis.

(From “Physical Training.’’)

TUBERCULOSIS is occupying a very large share of the attention of medical men nowadays, and also of all others interested in the physical and social conditions of mankind.

The reasons for this are obvious. This disease has always been alarmingly prevalent in all countries, and has for centuries been considered inevitable and incurable. The brilliant discovery of the tubercle bacillus by Dr. Robert Koch and the immense amount of knowledge given to the world bv this discovery and the subsequent researches which have followed it, have now placed us in a position to know how this dreaded disease is caused and disseminated.

From this knowledge we have further learned that it may be prevented by observance of simple rules of hygiene in the care of the expectorations of those suffering of the disease, and in the manner of living of those who may be directly or indirectly exposed to it. In other words, if a consumptive invariably destroys or properly disinfects his expectoration he cannot transmit the disease to others, and on the other hand, if people not tuberculous learn to live, or are allowed to live, in a sanitary way with an abundance of fresh air, good food and cleanliness and a minimum of darkness, dampness and dirt the chances of ever contracting tuberculosis, even if there is a certain amount of exposure to infection, at*‘marvelously reduced.

In addition to this, we have learned to apply these same methods of fresh air and plenty of good food, combined with rest from physical exertion, to the treatment of the disease so that it is now conclusively demonstrated that from 40 to 60 percent, of early cases of tuberculosis can be cured by these means.

With this knowledge before us it is no wonder that we are staggered when we realize that 10 per cent, of all deaths are now caused by this preventable and curable disease, that of all deaths among men between the ages of 20 and 30 years it causes more than one-third, and that in the United States alone 125,000 people die every year from consumption.

The formation of the National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis is the natural response of a civilized community to the necessity for strenuous and united effort to remedy such intolerable conditions, and the cooperation of such a splendid organization as you have in the physical directors of the Young Men’s Christian Association is therefore desirable and is urgently requested.

The opportunities which are offered to you to help in this movement are very great and lie closely at your hand in the every-day supervision of the physical condition of large numbers of young men. Moreover, tuberculosis selects its victims by preference from just the class with whom you are working, that is, the young men. For statistics show

* Abstract of an address before the Physical Directors of Greater New York.

Digitized by Google
212-

that it is more prevalent among men than women, and that 68 per cent, of all cases occur between the ages of 15 and 35. It is therefore inevitable that many cases should develop all the time among young men who are under your observation.

I.	—PROPHYLAXIS.

In considering your responsibilities in this matter we can consider them as two-fold:

First.—Efforts to prevent the development of tuberculosis, i. e., Prophylaxis.

Second.—Efforts to discover it as soon as possible after it has developed, /. e., Diagnosis.

1.	Proper hygienic conditions in the gymnasium.

Good ventilation, frequent cleaning to prevent unnessary dust, and the prohibition of promiscuous spitting with the provision of convenient cuspidors should be mentioned here.

2.	Proper home conditions.

Inquire carefully into these and strongly advise light, airy and clean sleeping rooms with open windows at night the year round. Also plain, good food, slowly eaten, and not too large a proportion of time spent ip crowded, ill-ventilated places of amusement. Temperate habits, of course, in smoking as well as drinking.

3.	Especial attention to hoys or men evidently predisposed to tuberculosis.

Here I should include boys who have grown too rapidly, with narrow chests, sloping shoulders, and poor chest expansion. Those with large tonsils, adenoids or enlarged cervical glands, especially if they are subject to catarrhal colds; also those who are easily tired or out of breath for no evident or sufficient reason. Such young men should be given separate attention from those who are strong and robust. Nose and throat treatment should be advised when indicated, exercise should be very moderate and carefully graded, breathing exercises are in such cases especially valuable, and no competitive games should be allowed. Cold chest sponges in the morning and as much time in the open air as possible is also good advice.

I am very certain that by care along such lines'many susceptible cases can be made more resistant, and thus the development of subsequent tuberculosis becomes much less probable.

II.	—EARLY DIAGNOSIS.

1. This is not a simple problem, and I regret to say it is one which even comparatively few physicians have as yet mastered. It is not fair to ask you to become expert pulmonary diagnosticians, but you should be able to recognize certain suspicious signs or danger signals, and whenever such are found to recommend thorough medical examination at once. For, remember that tuberculosis is curable, but only in early cases, and the onset of this disease is so insidious that the first symptoms very often do not suggest to the patient the fact that he is really ill. For this reason a physician is very often not consulted during
-213-

the early stage, and when the fever, night sweats, and marked loss of weight, though sure signs of advanced disease, bring the patient to his phycisian, the golden opportunity for cure has already passed.

Will you allow me to briefly state some of the danger signals?

1.	Persistent cough.

No cough should be allowed to persist for more than one month without exciting suspicion, and demands a thorough examination into its cause. Of course there are many other causes than tuberculosis, but in any event a thorough and careful examination should be made to make sure of an acurate diagnosis.

2.	General malaise.

“That tired feeling/1 especially evident after very moderate exertion is a very frequent early symptom of tuberculosis poison in the system. It is very often set down to malaria, and the patient rests in fancied security until the graver symptoms have developed.

3.	Slight fever and rapid pulse.

These signs generally go together although not always, and in early tuberculosis are more marked in the afternoon and after exercise. The well recognized fact that exercise aggravates all the symptoms of active tuberculosis, especially the fever, gives to you, gentlemen, a most unusual opportunity to recognize them early, and the men in your charge should be observed after their exercise; more especially, of course, if your suspicions are already aroused by other symptoms.

I feel sure that routine observations of temperature and pulse rate made from one-half to one hour after exercising, would often lead to the diagnsis of tuberculosis. From what has been said it is evident that all exercise should be stopped in cases where a rise of temperature is caused by it, certainly at least until after the possibility of tuberculo-lis has been absolutely excluded.

4.	Blood-spitting.

In over 90 per cent, of cases the spitting of blood is due to tuberculosis, aud is often the very first symptom. It should not be passed over lightly as coming from the throat and of no consequence, without a searching investigation, and in all cases the strong probability of the source of the blood being in the lungs should be remembered.

5.	Loss of weight and disturbances of digestion.

When these symptoms are not otherwise accounted for, and when accompanied by one or another of the others already mentioned they are very usual signs in earlv tuberculosis and furnish valuable corroborative evidence.

These are a few of the cardinal points in early diagnosis, and I am sure that you will admit your capability of recognizing one or all of them when once your attention is directed to them. It is just the lack of attention to these slight signs of beginning disease, even among physicians, that helps to make the tuberculosis death rate so high. Fortunately, however, we are gradually learning to become more alert and observant of them.

To summarize what I have so inadequately endeavored to say. In-

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
-214-

still into all your pupils the love of clean, hygienic, fresh air lives. Separate those who are physically below par from the others, and give them more thought and attention but less exercise. Be alert to your opportunities to be the first to notice danger signals of incipient tuberculosis, and thus to directly aid in making early diagnoses and saving valuable lives.

In conclusion, may I urge vou again most strongly, both as an organization and as individuals, to lend your powerful aid to this movement to stamp out tuberculosis, and thus to free our civilized country from the disgrace of allowing each year thousands of our best young men to die from a preventable and curable disease.

NEW GYMNASIUMS AND EQUIPMENT.

Oxford, Ga., Emory College, contract let lor $25,000 structure.

Lebanon, Pa., Lebanon Valley College, gymnasium planned.

Lawrence, Kans., University of Kansas. $100,000 gymnasium building.'

Buffalo, N. Y., Niagara University, $100,000 gymnasium.

Holland, Mich., Hope College, $40,000 gymnasium will be completed in spring.

Philadelphia, Pa., University of Pennsylvania, construction ol $60,000 tiain-ing house in Franklin Field begun.

Greenville, N. J., Turnvereiu, gymnasium projected, and Matteawan, N. Y., Sargent Industrial School, gymnasium is building.

New York, N. Y., New York Church and Missionary Society, gymnasium in basement of new church and parish house to be built on 114th Street.

Chicago, 111., Association House Settlement, new building being erected to contain gymnasium.

Minneapolis, Minn., University of Minnesota, $60,000 woman’s building projected with gymnasium.

Meriden, Conn., Connecticut State School for Boys, $10,000 gymnasium projected.

Baltimore, Md., St. Agnes Collegiate Institution, gymnasium planned.

Washington, D. C., University School, largest school gymnasium projected, 36 by 80 feet.

Y. M. C. A. buildings planned, in which gymnasiums will be locatedDetroit, Mich., Miss Helen Gould promising $200,000; St. Paul, Minn., $300,000 building; Duluth, Minn., $150,000; Pawtucket, R. I., $100,000; Spencer, N. C.; Painesville, G.; Bennington, Vt.; Fremont, Neb.; Lexington, Ky., (R. R. branch); Lincoln, Neb.; Lansing, Mich.; Grand Rapids, Mich.; Buffalo, N. Y.; West Side Branch (R. R.).

GYMNASTICS IN THE VATICAN.

A recent gymnastic exhibition in the grounds of the Vatican at Rome is the “first really great athletic gathering ever assembled” in Italy, according to the London “Tablet,” which prints a letter from a correspondent, describing the event. Several hundred picked youths from Roman Catholic clubs and colleges all over Italy took part in bicycle races, running, walking, jumping and gymnastics of all kinds. Of this “innovation,” as it is stated to be, of Pope Pius X., the pontiffs own words are interesting:

“I bless your games and your athletic exercises—while they make your bodies healthy and strong, they are certain also to have a powerful and beneficial influence on your minds. Physical exercises, occupying your bodies and your minds, will keep you from idleness which is the father of all vices.

“Do not be afraid that in asking you to be good and religious I would deprive you of your pastimes. . . . On the contrary, I wish you to have recreation of body and mind, which is necessary for you, so that in the autumn of your life you may be able to reap the fruit of a healthy springtime.”

Digitized by Google
-215-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

( Continued. ^

A CLASS DRILL, apparatus work in divisions and closing with the game “Three Deep Tag.” See explanation below. As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

Form ranks of fours or sixes from a flank line. Fours (or sixes) bv the 1. flank—march! The remainder to follow in successive order after four (or six) steps, then march down the center to location for drill. Open ranks sidew. from the center to full distance.

CALISTHENICS.

1. Raise heels and raise arms forw.—1 ! Bend knees (full squat) and move arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

In front leaning rest.—

2.	Raise 1. leg backw. (upw. direction) and raise r. arm forw.—1! Pos.—2! Same opposite—3, 4! Pos.—stand!

Hands on hips—place!

3.	Turn and bend trunk forw.-obi. to the 1. and stretch arms forw.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4! Arms down!

In back leaning rest.—

3.	Raise 1. knee (flex thigh upon the abdomen)—1 ! Extend 1. leg in upw. direction—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8! Pos.—stand !

5.	Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise arms outw.—1! Cross bend-kneestep backw. 1., bend trunk sidew. 1. farms remain on level with the shoulders—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

Class march forw. in square 1. as: Four steps forw., on fifth count all I. face and continue to th« remaining three sides—1, 16 counts. Same r. and start with r. foot—1,16counts. Repeat 1. and r.—1,32counts.

Arms to thrust—bend !

6.	a) Lunge forw. 1. and r. alt. and thrust arms upw.—1, 4!

b) Lunge sidew. 1., thrust 1. arm sidew. upw. obi. and r. arm sidew. downw. obi.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4! Arms—down!

7.	Raise 1. leg and arms forw.—1! Move 1. leg backw. and arms overh.—2! As 1—2! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

8.	Toe-touch backw. 1. and place hands on shoulders—1 ! Bendknee-step forw. 1., bend trunk backw. and throw arms outw.—2! As 1-3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Or-5, 8!

Hands on hips—place!

9.	Stationary run with raising lower legs backw. twice alt.—1, 4! Change to raising extended legs forw. twice alt.—5, 8! Repeat alt. 4 or 5 times.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms outw. overh. in four counts; exhale slowly and lower arms forw. to Starting pos. in four counts. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-216-

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Close ranks sidew. toward the center, march forw. the first rank by the r. flank (r. face)—march! The remaining ranks follow in successive order after four or six steps. File I. or r. and form divisions (squads). Then to places lor apparatus work.

First Division : Second “ Third Fourth “

Long buck.

Low horizontal bar. Low parallel bars. Side horse.

Remove all the apparatus and reform class in as many rows as there are climbing poles available.

First Division .—Long Buck (height of chest).

A short run precedes all movements.

Rear vault mount r. to riding seat in front of hands; rear vault dismount sidew. r. with Ya turn 1. to front side stand, hands on buck ; straddle vault forw.

Rear vault swing r. with Ya turn 1. to front rest (on r. side of buck); straddle dismount forw. with Ya turn r. to cross stand on 1. side of buck.

Rear vault swing r. with *4 turn 1. to momentary free front rest and immediately add flank vault 1. to back side stand.

As ex. 3, to momentary free front rest; but instead of flank vault, Yz circle r. with 1. leg and immediatel}” dismount sidew. r. with Ya turn 1. to front cross stand.

As ex. 4, to Yz circle r. with 1. leg and instead of dismounting, scissors sidew. r., then dismount sidew. 1. with Ya turn r. to front cross stand on near side of buck and add flank vault 1.

An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all movements 1. and r.

Second Division.—-Low Horizontal Bar (height of chest).

In front side stand, hands in ordinary grasp:

Jump to front rest and squat forw. between hands with 1. leg to side riding rest; Yz circle 1. with 1. leg to front rest; underswing and Ya turn 1. to cross stand on the far side. Same opposite.

Jump to front rest and squat forw. with both legs to back rest; Yz circle r. with 1. leg (cut under r. leg and r. hand); then Yz circle 1. with r. leg (cut under 1. hand) to front rest; drop kip (upstart) to free front rest, underswing and Yz turn 1. to front side stand on the far side.

Hands close in ordinary grasp, jump to momentary front rest and squat forw. on outside of arms (astride of the latter); drop backw., squat forw. with both legs under bar, feet to bar, kip (upstart) to free front rest and immediately flank vault 1. or r. Jump to momentary front rest and Yz circle r. with both legs to back rest; drop backw., squat forw., feet to bar, immediately squat backw. on outside of the arms and circle forw. (as a seat circle forw. with legs astride of the arms) and dismount forw.

As ex. 3, to both legs astride of the arms; drop backw., squat forw., feet to bar; kip (upstart) to front rest, or to free rest, and im-

Digitized by i^.ooQle
-im-

mediately squat vault forw., extending both legs forw. before lowering, to back side stand on far side. f». An exercise free for all.

Third Division.—Low Parallel Bars (height of chest).

In front sidestand, ordinary grasp on farther bar(arms under near bar) and front hip circle backw. over farther bar to front leaning rest and—

1.	Place 1. foot on farther bar; flank vault 1. dismount forw.

2.	As ex. 1, but rear vault dismount r.

3.	Flank vault forw. 1. over both bars.

4.	Rear vault forw. r. over both bars.

5.	Squat rest on near bar; squat vault dismount forw. over farther bar. A. Squat vault over both bars.

7. An exercise free for all.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Squat vault sidew. 1. (both hands on r. pommel).

2. Squat vault backw. (Vfc turn r.), the 1. hand on r. pommel and weight of body carried by the same until the Va turn is completed, when the r. hand grasps the 1. pommel, weight equally divided on both arms, and down.

3.	Squat vault forw. 1. (1. hand on r. pommel) with V% turn r. to side riding rest (1. leg on far side), the r. hand to grasp the 1. pommel after the V2 turn; V2 circle r. with the r. leg (backw.) and dismount with 14 turn r. to cross stand an the far side (screw dismount backw. r.).

4.	As ex. 3, but instead of dismount, screw mount backw. r. on croup; place hands in front of thighs and raise both legs backw. to front leaning rest; straddle dismount forw.

5.	Flank vault forw. 1.

6.	Rear vault forw. r.

7.	Front vault 1.

8.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all movements 1. and r.

The 5th, 6th and 7th exercises were added in case time permits.

Remove all the apparatus and reform the class for exercises on climbing poles.

Class formation.—Divide the class into as many rows (files) as there are climbing poles available. If there are only a few climbing poles for use, then have the first and second divisions begin on the climbing poles, while the third and fourth divisions are exercising on the low parallel bars and side horse respectively, then change places, etc.

Class Work on the Climbing Poles.

(Exercises on one pole.)

1. Grasp the pole height of head with the 1. hand and place the 1. lower leg against the pole on the near side (knee about height of

NOTE.—Execute exercises i to 4 1. and r.

Offer assistance to exercises 3 to 6.

Fourth Division.Side Horse.

Digitized by
hip), for climbing; jump to bent arm hang, the r. hand grasping pole close above the 1. hand and place r. lower leg in front to complete the climbing pos.; lower to first pos.; down. Same opposite. Repeat 1. and r.

2.	As ex. 1, but raise r. leg sidew. Same opposite. Repeat 1. and r.

3.	Jump to climbing pos., but arms extended; bend arms and raise both knees; extend knees and hips and move hands alternately as high as possible to close grasp. Repeat to upper end and descend in reverse order.

4.	As ex. 3. but move hands simultaneously t6 upper end; lower legs to hand hang and descend by moving the hands alternately.

5.	Place 1. lower leg as in ex. 1, but both hands grasping close about height of the the head; jump to bent arm hang, with 1. lower leg supporting, the r. leg hanging free, climb to upper end, moving hands and 1. knee as in ex. 3; descend in reverse order. Same opposite.

6.	Jump to bent arm hang, both legs behind the pole or held forw. at r. angle astride the pole, climb to upper end by the hands only, moving them alternately; descend by moving hands alternately.

Remove the climbing poles and form one large circle (better two smaller circles) for “Three Deep Tag.”

Play the game as follows.—Members of each couple face each other and grasp hands. The object of the runner, in order to escape, is: to dodge under the arms of a couple and the one he faces toward must leave and becomes runner; the former then turns around and grasps his new partner’s hands. Otherwise the game continues as in the regular way of playing the game and indefinitely.

After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.)

GILHOOLEY.

Gilhooley is a “slugger” who killed a strike-breaker during the riots in Chicago. He was arrested, and will either be hung or spend the rest of his days in the penite'ntiary. There is no hope for Gilhooley, nor has there ever been, according to his own statements. And still Gilhooley is something of a student of sociology, if not a philosopher.

The other day Gilhooley was interviewed in jail. His language was that of the slums, but it was also reeking with good, sound sense, and his words ought to make people think. “I don’t want to holler about my case,” said Gilhooley, “but just the same, I’d be all right now if I had been given a chance when I was young. I will admit that I was tough, but I wasn’t always that way. I didn’t have much help being better, that’s all. It was Chicago’s fault. I was as good as the average kid when I was small.”

Then Gilhooley proceeded: “You can’t raise boys in Chicago and make good men of them—leastways not in the poor parts of town. It’s fight, fight, fight all the time. The kids whose folks are poor don’t have no chance. Everything’s against ’em. They get a dozen chances to do wrong to one to do right. If they do right, their ain’t much fun in it. If they do wrong, there’s a chance for fun a little while.”

Now, it will not do to agree with Gilhooley entirely. There are too many examples of good men who have come from the slums. We have

Digitized by CjOOQLe
-219-

becn tanght for too long a time that poverty is a precious inheritance for boys, and that riches are enervating, to say at least. We see around us too many instances of rich men’s son’s going to the dogs or something worse. None of us has any respect for the rich sons-in-law whose only recommendation is cleanliness, and who would not be clean if they couldn’t hire some one to bathe them. We can all point out too many cases of triflingness due to money for us to admit that Gilhooley’s reasoning is without a flaw. We like to talk about free America, where the son of the poorest citizen has as good opportunities as the son of the wealthiest. But, seriously, is there not something in Gilhooley’s “holler?*’

Have you ever been about the poorer parts of a city, even this city? Have you ever watched the children of the extremely poor at play, and noted the places they play? Have you ever thought what you are doing for your boys in the way of giving them advantages, and then considered that these children of the extremely poor must compete in life with your children ? There have been instances where a horse of unknown breeding and with little training has won a race, but such an animal doesn’t stand much chance these days of ever doing anything but pull a plow.

Probably the strongest part of Gilhooley’s remarks is in the reference to having fun. “If they do right, there ain’t much fun in it,” he says. There is food for thought in the statement. Have you considered what limited opportunities the boys of cities have for “having fun,” if they do no wrong? They cannot romp and play without disturbing some one. They may not pluck a flower or a bit of fruit without committing larceny. They may not go in swimming without running away from home, and then being chased out of the water and into their ragged clothes by a policeman. It’s against the law to toss a ball in the city, upon the streets, and they have no parks they can reach conveniently. They cannot afford car fare to get them into the suburbs and away from the influences of the city. They may not row or drive or hunt or fish. Gilhooley is right; it is fight, fight, fight—the only manly sport that is left for these street urchins, and that is, of course, wrong.

Then, fet some fellow propose the expenditure of a few dollars for public playgrounds, and immediately “Taxpayer,” or “Old Veritas,” or “Subscriber,” or somebody else, rises up and opposes it because taxes are already too high. If a man were to propose in council that a portion of the river be prepared for a swimming hole for the boys; that they be given free bathing suits, or free baseball bats and furnished with a sanitary playground; or that they be given free rides in the country—let a man propose such a thing in council, and the taxpayers would want him sentenced to limbo. And yet if such things are done it would, within a few years, lower taxes instead of increasing them. Enough money was spent in the Gilhooley trial to have fitted up playgrounds for a thousand children, or to have furnished them with free baseballs for a hundred years. And we have Gilhooley’s word for it that if he had been given an opportunity when he was a boy, he would not have committed murder, and there would have been no Gilhooley trial with its attendant costs. That is but one instance. Every day

Digitized by
—220 -

of the year in every city—even cities of this size-money must he spent: in arresting and prosecuting people who would not have had to be* arrested and prosecuted if they had a better chance.

When we think about Gilhooley, we are bound to admit that the millennium is a good way off, and that we have not as yet struck upon a proper solution of all our social ills.

NEW ATHLETIC ERA DAWNING IN THE WEST.

DAY OF SPECIALIZING, ESPECIALLY ON THE PACIFIC COAST, IS-

DOOMED TO GO.

ANEW ERA is to dawn for clean and general amateur athletics throughout the middle and far West. The day of specializing one branch to the detriment of the general scheme of all-round athletics is fast waning, and the Pacific district is destined, once the movement is really going well, to wrest from the East the athletic honors so long held in this section.

In brief, this is the belief of Joseph B. Maccabe, of Boston, President of the A. A. U., after a journey of over 10 000 miles, made in the interest of the governing body, from which he has just returned. Also, as a result of his investigations, a new organization was formed, the Rocky Mountain, an impetus given to the formation of municipal athletic associations, and difficulties such as that caused by the fighting clubs which are in control in the Pacific A. A., were attended to and are in a fair way to be amicably settled.

Over the possibilities for expansion Mr. Maccabe is enthusiastic as regards the section under the jurisdiction of the P. A. A., and was emphatic in stating that onCe the clubs there got working in the broad field the prestige in the East was in danger. He was impressed with the great opportunity, stating that the athletes had advantages equalled nowhere else.

He instanced many cases, particularly those of Parsons and Dan Kelly, as showing what could be done with individuals, and used the great meet on July 4, when over 100,000 people gathered in and about the Golden Gate Park to witness what he characterized as one of the best handled and most complete athletic meets he had ever seen, as a fair sample of what organization effort could do.

In the matter of the boxing or fighting clubs in San Francisco, President Maccabe stated that the matter had until September to work itself to a satisfactory conclusion. He was severe in his criticism of these clubs stating that they were nothing more than professional bodies, and that the competitors were nothing else. Their course in the athletic world is a menace to amateur sport in the broad sense of the word, he declared, for they developed boxing to the utter exclusion of everything else.

The clubs were thoroughly discussed by Mr. Maccabe with the leaders of athletics in the city, and it was the sentiment that boxing should be eliminated.

The Olympic Club, which has done so much for athletics, and such

Digitized by v^ooQle
-221-

men as William Greer Harrison and John Elliot head the movement, and it is said that the work of cleaning out the stable will be accomplished without having the national board step in.

The first thing done by President Maccabe on his tour of investigation was the creation of the Rocky Mountain A. A., which was brought about by joining Colorado, Wyoming and New Mexico with Utah, the latter being taken from the Pacific A. A.

Denver is the headquarters for the new body, and from now until September the association stands organized with five good under bodies and a possibility of there being eight. In this connection there will probably be another division formed by taking Kansas City, the State of Kansas, North and South Dakota, Oklahoma, Nebraska and Iowa, to be known as the Southwestern A. A.

Athletics generally through the Middle West and further out were found in a very healthy condition and everything was encouraging. In St. Louis particularly this was so, and athletic meets of size were held every week. In Kansas City the interest was keen and the local athletic club is building a new club house in the city, besides being in possession of a handsome country club affair in the park district. The clubs in the vicinity of Kansas City were all doing their oit to make the sport thrive.

In San Francisco, considering the results of the earthquake, everything was satisfactory except where the specialization of boxing was held to be the thing. The Olympic Club has recovered from the disaster, and already has signed contracts for a new club house to take the place of the one wrecked, the cost of which will be $425,000. The P. A. A. is doing good work in the way of establishing outdoor municipal gymnasiums, and two, if not four, are now in full operation.

The Pacific Northwestern organization is, according to Mr. Maccabe, a model body, its entire aim being to encourage sport for sport’s sake and to encourage everything coming under the head of amateur. He said that in its management the true amateur spirit prevailed as he had seen nowhere else. The athletes were in receipt of nothing more than their exact traveling expenses, being obliged to furnish everything in the way of equipment out of their own pockets, received no training expenses, and even when traveling did not come in contact with a penny. The entire standard of the way the games and everything was conducted by the body was distinctly high.

The Central A. A. was in a very healthy condition and the officials were found earnest and intelligent in their work for the advancement of general sports. The movement for municipal gymnasiums and athletic associations in the Central is well defined and plans are well along in Chicago and Milwaukee, as well as in other places. Wherever the movement has started the governing body has had the support of the leading men of the cities and in most cases the leadership has been taken by them.

The tour just completed by Mr. Maccabe will be followed by others, for it is now the intention of the A. A. TJ. to have all the affiliated bodies visited and looked into at stated intervals, so that all may be in closer touch with the main body.

Digitized by Google
-222-

GRADUATES OF THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION 1868-1902.

The following list of graduates does not contain the names of teachers that completed the course now designated as Course A.

Adler, Morris, ,77.

Alleborn, Henry, ’81, Suj>ervisor of Public Playgrounds, Detroit, Mich.

Alletzhaeuser,Max, ’88, Director of Physical Training, High School, Duluth, Minn.

Arnold, Dr. E. Herman, ’88, Director cf New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics, New Haven, Conn.

Backhusen, Dr. Richard, ’93, Practicing Physician. Chicago, 111.

Ballin, Hans. ’90, Instructor in Physical Training, Southwark Turnverein, Philadelphia, Pa.

Barth, Robert, ’84, Director of Physical Training in Public Schools, San Francisco, Cal.

Bartsch, W. E., ’93.

Bauer, Minna, ’79, deceased.

Belitz, Dr. Alfred, ’88, Practicing Physician,. Waumandee, Wis.

Bennefeld. Dr. Allred, ’82, deceased.

Bercher, Edward, *93. Instructor Tn Physical Training, Schweizer Turnverein, Chicago, 111.

Besser, Dr. David, ’86, Instructor in Physical Training, Columbia Turnverein, Philadelphia, Pa.

Best, Louis. *68, deceased.

Betz, Carl, ’76, deceased.

Bissing, Theo., ’77.

Boos, Herman, ’90, Director of Physical Training, High School, New York City.

Braun, Rudolph, ’95, Instructor in Physical Training, La Salle Turnverein, Chicago, 111.

Brosius, Fritz L , ’88, deceased.

Bruck, Dr. Carl, ’81, Practicing Physician, Milwaukee, Wis.

Buckelmueller. Carl, 79.

Burger, Dr. Fritz, ’93, Supervisor of Physical Training in Public Schools, Kansas City, Mo.

Burger, J. Robert, *92, Instructor in Physical Training, Public Schools, Chicago, 111.

Camann. H. R., ’84, Director of Physical Training, High School, Chicago, 111.

Cobelli, Carl. *90, Director of Physical Training, High School, Chicago, 111.

Conrad, August, *90.

Dick, August. *76.

Dick, Richard, *75, deceased.

Doehla, Adam, *90, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein McKeesport, Pa.

Docrter, Julius, ’91, Supervisor of Physical Training in Public Schools. Evansville, Ind.

Dohs, Francis. ’92, Assistant Director* of Physical Training, U. S. Milita^-Academy, West Point, N. Y.

Dreier, Francis, ’97, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Saginaw, Mich.

Dreisel, Otto, ’95, Instructor in Phys ical Training,Turnverein, Portland,Ore.

Eberhardt, Christ., ’97, Director of Physical Training, Boston Athletic Club and Sargent’s Training School, Boston, Mass.

Ebsen, Christian, ’99, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Belleville, 111.

Eckel, August, ’91, Instructor in Physical Training, Public Schools. Norwood, O.

Eckstein, Gustav, ’86, Instructor in Physical Training, Public Schools, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Eifler, Felix, ’69, deceased.

Ernst, Otto, ’94, deceased.

Essers, Charles, ’71.

Fager, Oscar, ’99, Instructor in Physical

• Training, Turnverein, Topeka, Kans.

Feldman, H. W., ’82.

Fischer, Hugo, ’88, Director of Physical Training, High Schools, Indianapolis, Ind.

Fischer, Dr. Robert, ’92, Director of Physical Training, High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

Flach, Conrad, ’76, Director of Physical Training, Santa Cruz, Cal.

Fleck, W., ’81.

Freytag, L. P., ’93, Director of Physical Training,HighSchools,Milwaukee,Wis.

Froehlich, F. W., ’88, deceased.

Fuhrberg, A., ’82.

Funk, Dr. Joseph, ’90, Practicing Phyici-cian, Elizabeth, N. J.

Gamper, Adolph, ’73, deceased.

Gebser, Carl, *78.

Gehrmann, W. H., ’81.

Geiser, Geo., ’86, deceased.

Gcrlach, (Miss) L.,’77.

Gerlich, Francis, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Chicago, III.
-223-

Graner, Carl, *86, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Peoria, 111.

Greubel, Otto, ’81, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Chicago, 111.

Groddeck, Victor, '88, deceased.

Groener, Emil, ’88. Director of Physical Training, High Schools, Chicago, III.

Groth, Dr. Hemian, *92, Instructor in Physical Training, Allegheny Turnver-verein, Allegheny, Pa.

Gruetzner, Hugo, ’91, deceased.

Grundhoefer, Joseph, ’86, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein Monon-gahela. Pa.

Guenther, Emil, ’81.

Harabrock, Paul, ’73.

Hanssen, Gust., ’77, Teacher of Dancing and Swimming, St. Louis, Mo.

Harder, Dr. Henry, ’93, Practicing Physician, Milwaukee, VVis.

Hartung, Dr. Henry, ‘88, Practicing Physician, Chicago, 111.

Haug. Emil, ’93, Director of Physical Training. PublicSchools. NewYorkCity.

Heckrich, Carl, ’93, Director of Physical Training, McKinley High School, St. Louis. Mo.

Heers, Ernst, ’90. Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Boston, Mass.

Hein. Herman, ’86, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, New Ulm, Minn.

Heinze, Louis. ’73.

Held, Otto. ’73.

Hermann. C. Julius, ’78, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, St. Paul, Minn.

Hermann, Dr. N., ’88, Director oi Physical Training, Y.M.C.A., Baltimore, Md.

Herz, Edwin, ’88, Director of Physical Training, Jewish Orphans' Home, New Orleans, La.

Herse, William, ’92, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Brooklvn, E. D., N. Y.

Heydweiler, Carl, *77.

Hibbeler, Ernst, ’88.

Horn, Robert, ’69, deceased.

Huchting, E. J., ’93, Director of Physical Training,PublicSchools,St. Louis, Mo.

Jahn, Fr. Ludw., ’86.

Janichen, Herman, ’73.

John, Fred, ’94-, Instructor in Physical Training, Turnverein, Johnstown, Pa.

Jones, Carl, ’93.

Kaiser, Theo., ’98.

Keller, Eckart, '98, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Kindervater, Alwiu, ’81, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, St. Louis, Mo.	,

Kissinger, Louis, ’86.

BOOK. REVIEW.

(All ihe books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.V

—The Outing Magazine for September covers a wide scope from India to Alaska and from Labrador to Devonshire. It contains four capital, profusely illustrated articles; capital both in subject-matter and illustration, and in variety of topic and treatment. Dillon Wallace continues his remarkable story, “The Long Labrador Trail,” which, in September, carries the reader well into the wilderness. Ralph D. Paine’s “The Builders,” this month is about “Th£ Heart of the Big Timber Country.” As usual it is crammed full of optimistic American fact and incident. Charles Belmont Davis tells the story of one of the most unique of American carnivals, the Asbury Park Fairy Carnival and Baby Parade. Arthur Goodrich writes of “A Day with a Devonshire Farmer,” an article full of local color and quaint characters. There are many other papers in this number which are well worth while. Herbert K. Job has another of his first-hand nature study articles. John R. Spears tells some thrilling tales about “Drake and the Golden Hind.” There is a character sketch of “Tippecanoe Harrison,” by L. T. Sprague, and, among many practical articles by authoritative writers, an interesting paper by C. William Beebe concerning “The Names of Birds.”

The fiction of the number is striking and varied also. W. A. Fraser has never written a better story than “The Orientalizing of Budge.” “The Silver Fox” is another of Lawrence Mott’s stirring stories of the Northwest. Zona Gale’s "The Magic of Orchards” is a charming story in a peaceful setting. Maximilian Foster contributes another of his rattling out-door stories—this one is called "Along the Stubbles,” n semi-humorous sketch of a prairie chicken shooting in Dakota. The illustrative features of the number are up to The Outing Magazine standard.

Digitized by Google
CORRESPONDENCE.

Cincinnati, 0., Sept. 15, 1906. Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

Dear Sirs.—Received a copy of “200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games” which you sent me, with great pleasure—it seemed so much like meeting old friends.

The author has certainly made a very good collection of games and understands how to clothe the same thought with new garments, thus making practically a new game out of an old one.

For kindergarten and primary teachers in schools, as also for gymnastic teachers who deal largely with children, the book offers a fund of useful information.

For older pupils and adults the last part of the book offers such well known games as: Volley, Dodge and Captain Ball, as well as a number of other very good games that are not so well known.

On the whole the book is a credit to Miss Grey and well worth the price to anyone who wishes a: good collection of games.

Respectfully yours

Carl Ziegler.

—Miss Stella M. Burnham of Milwaukee, who for \ears has conducted a Normal School of Physical Training for ladies, has been deprived of her gymnasium. She is at present negotiating for new quarters.

WORLD S BEST RECORDS.

RUNNING.

ioo Yds.—94-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, J. H. Maybury, H. Bethune. *93-5 sec.: A. F. Duffy. 2ao Yds.—ai 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins, C. G. Wood. *21 x-5 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yds.—48K sec.: R. Buttery. *47 sec.: (straights way) 47 4-5 (curved track): M. W. Long. 880 Yds.—1:53)4 min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. H. Kilpatrick.

One Mile—4:12)4 min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

Two Miles—*9 32 1-5 min.; W. D. Day.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 1-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—23 3-5 sec.: A. C. Kraenzlein.

WEIGHT THROWING.

12 lb Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thomas Carroll. *184 ft. 1 in.: J. R. DeWitt. 16 lb Hammer Throw—*171 ft. 9 in.: John Flanagan.

12 lb Shot Put—*55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

16 lb Shot Put—*47 ft.: G. R. Gray.	4

Discus Hurling—*120 ft. 7 3-4 in.: M. J Sheridan.

NBTATION.

50 Yd. Swim—*26 1-5 sec.: J. H. Derbyshire, too Yd. Swim—*1 min.: T. Meadham.

220 Yd. Swim—*2:344-5 min. : J. H. Derbyshire and F. C. V. Lane.

440 Yd. Swim—*5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:07Vi min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—25:13 2-5 min.: J. A. Jarvis. Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. Plunging—*82 ft.: W. Taylor.

CANOE PADDLING.

One Mile—9 min. 29 sec.: A. F. Mackendrick.

ROWING.

J^-Mile—w57 seconds: E. Hedley.

54-Mile—*3:06 1-5 min.:	E. Hedley.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stanbuiy.

Two Miles—-’*9:19)4 min.: Yale Freshmen Crew Five Miles—30:4444 min.: Four-oared Crew.

SKATING.

100 Yds.—'9 sec : E. Davidson

220 Yds.—*17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson, J. F. Donahue

440 Yds.—*28 1-5 sec.: N. Baptie.

880 Yds.—*1 min. 2-5 sec.: N. Baptie, K. Pander. One Mile—*2:41 1-5 min.: O. Rudd.

* Amateur.

Digitized by G.ooQle