Ujs Ar	'	*	^•TJOvjaj

A9	CAI	,

'-'■AA-txunjv/A

Tol. 21.

MIND AND BODY

FEBRUARY, 1915.

No 236

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis.'Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., P» All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

A fezv days ago we encountered the following telegraphic notice in one of our daily papers:—

“Macon, Ga.—Military training will be introduced in the public schools of Bibb county, including those of this city, it was announced here today by the County Board of Education.

It. is planned to obtain an instructor who has had regular army experience. There are n,ooo students in the public schools, approximately half of whom are boys.”

As a result of the war, undoubtedly we will have many such mistaken efforts to elevate the physical and moral standards of the millions of children attending the schools of this country. Well-meaning, but ill-informed men will be rushing forward with all sorts of plans to increase the efficiency of our future citizens. It, therefore, is well for teachers of physical training to know that not one of the great European countries now involved in the war believes in training children for military service. What the most successful countries have done is to increase the time devoted to physical training in order that the young men, when they arrive at the age for entrance into military life, usually at about 20 years, are strong physically. As a matter of fact, the military authorities state that the training for military service is such a serious matter that they do not want any well-meaning but usually not well-prepared group of teachers to meddle with it. As one of the noted members of a general staff said: “Give us healthy young men, we will make soldiers of them.” Therefore, keep a lookout for schemes like the one outlined above and tell such people that they are on the wrong track. What we need is not military training in the public schools, but at least five hours of physical training work per week for all children,

Digitized by Google
— 474 —

including those in high schools. We further need enough well-equipped gymnasiums and play fields to make this training effective. What we need is not army officers in the public schools, but an army of well-prepared physical training teachers. What we need is not “playing soldiers” but real play suited to the mental and physical development of our growing boys and girls.

There is food for much thought in that part of the annual report of President G. Hibben of Princeton University in which he speaks of athletics and says:—

“Our athletics, not only in Princeton, but throughout the country, are suffering from an over-organized system of coaching. I hope that the time may soon come when the paid coach will disappear. He and his ever-increasing number of assistants, all of whose expenses prove a heavy drain upon the athletic treasury ancj tend to keep up the gate receipts of intercollegiate contests at an abnormal figure, render intercollegiate sport an unduly expensive affair.

“Particularly in the game of foot ball, the captain of the team should be the sole responsible person for the management pf his men, devising and directing their play in practice games so that in the critical situations of a great contest he and his team will rise to the occasion and win or lose with honor.

“It is quite absurd, when one comes to think of it, that the control of the team in all preliminary games should be in the hands of a body of men who are relegated to the side lines when the play is on. After all, it is an undergraduate affair, and the game should be planned and played by undergraduates. If you place upon them the responsibility, they will respond to it, for it is certain that responsibility always provokes efficiency.

“That men may be resourceful in time of emergency, they must be schooled in the art of resourcefulness by some stimulation of their latent powers of ingenuity.

“If we release our undergraduates from the unnatural domination of their sports by graduate coaches, and from the confusion of manv minds and voices in the direction of their activities, we will simplify the whole athletic situation and liberate intercollegiate sport from the abnormal incubus of a superimposed system which tends to make puppets of the players, limiting the spontaneity and free play of their natural initiative.”

What President Hibben says of the system of paid coaches who officially are not connected with the educational system applies with still greater force to athletics in our high schools.

If a high school has properly prepared teachers of phvsical training there is no more need for special coaches for athletic activities than for any other form of legitimate school activity. As a rule, the teachers regularly employed in our schools are better able to direct

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 475 _

and conduct athletic activities for the development of the mental and moral traits spoken of by President Hibben than are coaches who have no. official relation with a school.

The time will come when athletics will be compulsory for every one attending school, but this time will come only when we get away entirely from the viewpoint which now in most colleges and high schools still is the dominant one. Athletics are necessary in modern education as character developers not as gate receipt producers.

NORMAL COLLEGE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

On December 18, 1914, the students of the Normal College were privileged to listen to an address by David Starr Jordan on ‘The War Situation in Europe/' Mr. Jordan .had just lately returned from Europe where he had been studying the situation, and his subject was made intensely interesting through his first-hand knowledge of facts.

The Christmas vacation began December 19th and lasted until January 4th, after which work was begun with renewed vigor in anticipation of the coming examinations. The second semester will begin February 1st with the usual change of program.

The Seniors have organized themselves into a Social Dancing Class which meets for an hour and a half twice every month. The members either volunteer or are appointed in turn to take charge of the class and teach one or several of the newest social dances or their many variations.

On December.16th the Junior class gave a Christmas dance for the Seniors and the faculty. Since our return, after the holidays the advent of the semester examinations has put somewhat of a damner on social affairs.

Helen E. Homan, Recorder.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, LA CROSSE, WIS.

Immediately upon the opening of school after the vacation, active work was commenced in preparation for the gymnastic exhibition to be given January 2Qth. The work is under the direction and supervision of Dr. Carl B. Sputh assisted by Mr. Fred Carter and Seniors of the School of Physical Education.

A very pleasing number on the lecture course given at the Normal School was heard January 12th. Cornelius Van Vliet, celloist of the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra appeared, assisted by Miss Meta Schvman, soprano. The number was largely attended and was very fine in all respects.

Basket ball has begun in earnest with three practices a week. The team is very strone this year and the school looks forward to another championship this year.	Marcus	Byers, Reporter.

Digitized by
— 476 —

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, MINOT, NORTH DAKOTA.

The enrollment during the fall term of the Minot State Normal School was very gratifying, reaching the 150 mark, and being twice as large as in the year preceding. At the opening of the winter term, the enrollment was 192, with prospects of passing the 200 mark before the term ends. Together with 160 pupils in the model school, this makes a very satisfactory showing for the school, in its second year.

The school was much pleased and felt singularly honored in having its president elected to the presidency of the State Educational Association. All wish President Crane much success and feel sure that he will maintain and possibly raise the high standard set by the association in years past.

Although the work at the school has been rather heavy during' the fall term, the social side of the students’ life was not neglected. Many of the social events included forms of healthful physical recreation as hikes, game parties, romps and skating parties, the following perhaps deserving special mention:

The Hallowe’en Party on October 23 was a fitting opening for the social season, being attended by a large percentage of the students and enjoyed by everyone present. The chief entertainment consisted of games and activities appropriate to the occasion.

The hike and “wiener” roast at Puritan Spring on October 31 was one of the most enjoyable events of the season. About sixty of the students were present and enjoyed the tramp too, and the games and roast at the spring. The relay race was especially interesting, being closely contested by Freshmen, Rurals and .Junior-Specials,, the honors being finally carried off by the freshmen.

On November 27 a Pilgrim Party was held in the gymnasium and proved to be the most enjoyable social gathering of the.term. The attendance was larger than expected, there being about 130 present, many being alumni.

At the Juvenile Party, with its Christmas tree and Christmas festivities, the students turned out en masse.

Skating has been much enjoyed this winter, first on the Mouse river for a period of about four weeks, and now on the enclosed rink maintained by the Association of Commerce. Although the rink seems rather confusing after a person has enjoyed the almost limitless stretches on the river, it fills a great need, that of providing a place to skate, independent of weather conditions.

Basket ball now comes in for a large share of the students’ attention, both boys and girls being actively interested. In order that every girl may have an opportunity to play, intra-class games are being played by them, while the boys have developed two teams which have already played several outside games. The annual bas-

Digitized by LiOOQle
— 477 —

ket ball tournament for the championship of the northwest district in the North Dakota High School League will be held on February 19th and 20th in the Normal School gymnasium. The tournament will be managed by the Normal School.

The students appreciate very much the outline in physical education prepared by that department. This outline covers all the essential phases of this work for grade and rural schools in this section.

Mr. George Altmann, director of physical education, is a regular contributor to the Westland Educator published at Lisbon, N. Dakota. His articles deal with the hygiene and physical education of the school child.

In the Daily News, Chicago, January 14th, we find the following short note which might be shown with good effect to some school teachers as well as principals. It bears the signature of William Brady, M. D.:—

Poisoning the school children.—It was a chilly day. Worse still, it was a damp day. The teacher was half past 40 and the clock was half past 2. The principal—well, perhaps he was innocent of any intentional harm to the children, but in this day of hygiene it is up to the principal to see that children under his supervision are not poisoned by their own excretions, no matter how old-fashioned and one-sided the teacher may be about it.

Well, the outdoor air was fine—cool and moderately moist, and enough wind blew to make it bracing where still air might have been depressing. But inside the school room, how about it? The air there was simply rotten. We dislike to use the word, but no other will suffice. The air was so bad that it was almost impossible to remain in the room and look pleasant. Yet the teacher smiled and smiled, and even some of the noor little unfortunates there at her mercy tried bravely to smile.

Suddenly the physical training instructor hove in sight on the street, approaching the school. * * * Teacher rushed and opened some windows—we don’t understand exactly why. * * * Maybe the physical training instructor was a bit cranky on the fresh air question. * * * Wish the school board would detail one physical training crank for each schoolroom presided over by an old-fashioned teacher.

Yes, yes, the school board employs medical inspectors and furnishes blanks for medical examinations—and the blanks say nary a word about sight or hearing—and the board even employs visiting nurses, all in the interest of the health of the. school children. But what can doctors and nurses do when the board employs teachers who don’t like fresh air unless it is artificially warmed to about 76 degrees and standing perfectly still?

Digitized by
— 478 —

ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUGy DeWitt Clinton High 8chool Now York City.

PANAMA-PACIFIC INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITION GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIPS----AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION OF THE UNITED STATES--------

OPEN TO ALL REGISTERED ATHLETES-----MARCH 26 AND 2J, I915.

The following events will be contested:—Rings, Horizontal Bars, Rope Climbing, Side Horse, Indian Club Swinging, Parallel Bars, Tumbling, Long Horse, All-Around Championship. The all-around championship includes competition on the Horizontal Bars, Side Horse and Long Horse.

Gymnastic rules of the Amateur Athletic Union relating to Horizontal Bars, Parallel Bars, Flying Rings, Vaulting Horse (Side and Rear) and Club Stringing.

t. The competition shall be conducted by a jury composed of three Judges, whose decision shall be final and without appeal.

2.	The Judges must place themselves on both sides of the contestants, in order to observe their general form.

3.	The contestants shall draw lots and then perform in rotation.

4.	Each competitor shall perform three exercises of his own selection or combination.

5.	Except in case of accident to the apparatus, no secand trials shall be allowed.

6.	The Judges shall mark each for himself, in a ratio to ten points for a perfect performance, taking into consideration: i. The Difficulty of the exercises. 2. The beauty of the combination and its execution. 3. The general form of the contestant.

7.	The winner of the competition shall be the one having obtained the highest aggregate number of points, next highest second,, and so on.

Indian Club Swinging :—

Clubs weighing three pounds each shall be used, and each contestant be allowed three minutes for a performance. Clubs will be furnished by the Committee.

Rope Climbing:—

1.	The rope, measured from the floor to a tambourine or bell fastened above, shall be as nearly twenty-five feet as the height of the hall will allow.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 479 —

2.	The start shall be by pistol shot, and the time taken when the contestant strikes the bell or tambourine.

3.	Each contestant shall sit on the floor, with legs extended in front, and shall not touch the floor with any part of his person after the pistol shot.

4.	Each contestant shall be allowed three trials.

A Gold Medal, emblematic of the Championship of the United States will be given to the Winner in each event, Silver Medal to the Second and Bronze Medal to the Third.

In addition a special Exposition Placque will be presented to the Club, College or School scoring the greatest number of points: five points for the first, three for the second and one for the third. The all-around counts as one event.

An entrance fee of $2.co per man will be charged in each event. Entries close March loth, 1915, with Department of Athletics, Panama- Pacific International Exposition, San Francisco, California.

The Athletic Research Societv, at its annual meeting in Chicago, Dec. 28th, 1914, passed on the following “Rules for Athletes'’:

“Contestants will not attempt to play to the grand stand for publicity or applause. Appreciation from the spectators will be taken for granted and not acknowledged.

Further ideals of conduct were laid down as follows: “Opponents will be treated as friends and honored guests, even if they do not reciprocate. No unfair advantage will ever be taken of them/ Good plays will be suitably acknowledged.

“Officials will be considered as impartial and competent arbitrators. Decisions will be accepted without dispute, even when they apparently are unfair. Advantage will not be taken of lax rule enforcement. Ill-feeling of any kind will not be publiclv manifested even when an official is palpably incompetent or dishonest.

“Athletic rules will be considered as mutual agreements between contestants for the purpose of providing a basis of honorable competition between gentlemen. The letter or spirit of the rules will no more be ignored or evaded than will a gentleman’s word of honor.

“Every honest and earnest effort will be made to win a contest, but dishonesty will be not accepted.

“An amateur will always be loyal to his teammates in every conceivable endeavor, and will do his utmost to prove a worthy representative of his institution or club.”

Concerning amateurism, the code stated:

“A true amateur athlete will never intentionally make anv misrepresentation regarding his eligibility, abilitv, or intentions, nor will he continue competing as such after he has ceased to be in sympathy with the spirit of amateurism.”

Digitized by C^ooQie
— 480 —

George Bothner, the amateur wrestling champion, has announced his retirement from the ring. For more than thirty years he has been an active exponent of the ancient sport, and not once during this long period or servitude on the mat has a single word of scandal been connected with his name. He was “on the level” at all times and his numerous appearances was a great boost for the wrestling game. It is to be hoped that others at present in the wrestling game will endeavor to live up to the example set by Bothner for it is only men of the Bothner type who keep sport alive.

Duke Kahanamoku, the Honolulu and Olympic swimming champion, has set a new record for the ioo-yd. swim at Sidney, N.

S.	W. The Duke covered the distance in 53 3-5 seconds.

FIRST COLLEGE SKI MEET.

Skiing as an intercollegiate sport in this country will make its debut' at the annual Winter carnival of the Outing Club of Dartmouth College at Hanover during the week of Feb. 8. Entries have been received from four colleges—Yale, New Hampshire, Williams, and McGill, in addition to the many men who will represent Dartmouth. The entry of the McGill University of Canada will give an international touch to the carnival. There are several other northern colleges in this country at which skiing is a popular pastime and the prospect is that some of them will send in their entries before the closing date. The skiing will be only one of the features of the carnival, snow shoeing, hockey, and skating races combining to fill up the programme of Winter sports.

The announcement has recently come from Yale that Walter Camp, the athletic adviser, has tendered his resignation as such and will simply continue his connection with the university as a member of the rules committee. Mr. Camp has had charge of Yale’s athletics for more than thirty years. His successor is Prof. Robert Nelson Corwin. He played on the football teams of 1884, 1885 and 1886, captaining the eleven the last of these three years.

Digitized by C.ooQle
- 481

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By H. ARMIN 8TECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR BUSY PEOPLE.

By LEONHARD FELIX FULD, LL.M., Ph.D., Assistant Chief Examiner, Municipal Civil Service Commission, New York.

You need not go to a gymnasium nor buy a special gymnasium suit to obtain the benefits of physical training. Physical training means only such systematic exercising of the muscles of the body as will result in the symmetry and the grace and in the clear complexion and the cheerful disposition of radiant good health. In the course of your daily activities you are obliged to use your muscles constantly. If you know how to use these muscles properly you can obtain from the performance of your daily activities most of the benefits to be derived from a systematic course in physical training. You can obtain these benefits without any inconvenience and without devoting to this physical training a single moment of your precious time for which you have so many other uses.

How do you get up in the morning? Do you roll out of bed like a sailor? Or do you try to make yourself into a foot ball by drawing up your knees and bending your back before you attempt to arise? Do you consider it an especially pleasurable sensation? It ought to be.

Try this method of arising in the morning. When you awakeny lie flat on your back, fully extended, with the arms extended above the head. (Fig. I.) Stretch yourself and try to make yourself as

long as you can. Take several deep breaths. Unhampered by the constriction of your clothes, which would prevent you from assuming this attitude during the day, you experience the novel and pleasurable

Digitized by Google
— 482 —

sensation of feeling the blood tingling through your arteries from head to foot. The extension of your arms above your head will tend to develop your chest and your back will be supported and strengthened in this position. The assumption of this position every morning will tend to overcome that tendency to flat chest and round shoulders which all possess who do not exercise regularly.

When you start to get up, do not turn over on your side and roll out of bed. Get some benefit from the movement. Holding your hips with your hands, rise to a sitting position without helping yourself at all with your hands. (Fig. 2.) You may find this

movement somewhat difficult at first, because in performing it you use the muscles of your abdomen which are seldom used by you during the day. In most of us these muscles have become through disuse a mass of fat. When exercised daily they become smaller and firmer and the size of the waist is reduced by the removal of this fat. If your abdominal muscles are exceptionally weak it may be necessary for you to help yourself at first by placing your hands on the bed instead of on your hips and pushing yourself up. This makes the movement much easier and also much less beneficial. This device should therefore not be resorted to unless absolutely necessary and the hands on hips position should be used as soon as possible.

Have you ever given any thought to the function of the spine or backbone in the maintenance of your strength and the retention of

Digitized by <^.ooQle
— 483 —

your attractive appearance? The spine is a column of bones having twenty-four joints. In its beautiful natural position it forms a double curve. It curves outward at the shoulders, inward at the waist and outward again at the hips. As we hustle and bustle about our duties during the day we continually disturb this beautiful double curve. If every disturbance is a necessary disturbance and if after every disturbance of this curve we promptly bring the spine back to its natural position no harm but rather benefit will result from the movement. Frequently however we disturb this double curve unnecessarily and more frequently after disturbing it we fail to bring it

back to its natural condition. The proper and the improper methods of treating the spine are well illustrated when you put on your stockings.

Do you not generally assume the position indicated in Fig. 3 when you put on your stockings? The pretty double curve of the spine has been changed into an ugly single outward curve. This has been accomplished by the exaggeration of the upper outward curve and the actual reversal of the inward curve at the waist. In this position you cannot take a full and invigorating breath, because your chest is cramped by the bad position of your spine. The whole weight of your distorted trunk rests upon the principal arteries and veins of your body, rendering it impossible for the heart to maintain the circulation without impediment. The abdominal organs also suffer from this unnatural pressure of the spine and are crowded out of their natural position. If this position is maintained by you for the time it takes to put on your stockings each day you begin the day’s work in a manner which tends to interfere with the natural functions

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 484 —

of the body and to injure the organs of the body at the very commencement of the day's activities.

If you wish to assist in maintaining the double curve of the spine, upon which so much of your health, strength and beauty depends, assume this attitude when putting on' your stockings: Lie on your back on your bed fully extended. In this position your spine is supported at the shoulders and at the hips and the inward curve at the waist is properly maintained. (Fig. 4.) Raise the right knee to the chest and while in this position put on your stocking. Repeat this exercise with the other leg. Deep breaths may be taken by you in this position, since your chest is unhampered by pressure from the spine. Deep breathing will stimulate your circulation and permit you to feel the tingling of the blood in your arteries. ‘The contraction of the muscles used in bringing the legs up to the chest will

serve to strengthen the muscles of your abdomen, which are seldom used during the day. This exercise will also stimulate the liver and the other organs of the abdomen.

The three or four minutes devoted to putting on the stockings, if utilized in this manner will convert a movement which is usually harmful to health into one of distinct benefit. It will strengthen the double curve of the spine instead of destroying it. It will give you an opportunity of developing the chest instead of cramping it. It will stimulate the circulation instead of impeding it. It will strengthen the abdominal organs instead of displacing thenl In short it will enable "’ou to begin the dav’s work with the refreshed feeling of radiant, buoyant good health instead of with the discouraged, disheartened feelir*- that always accompanies cramped respiration, impeded circulation, and deranged digestion. See to it that you begin your day right.

Digitized by C.ooQle

.j
— 485 —

THE PLAY AND SPORT MOVEMENT IN GERMANY *

By LEOPOLD ZWARG, Baltimore, Md.

The play and sport movement has lately made enormous strides in Germany. Apart from the phenomenal development of the Deutsche Turnerschaft, whose aims center chiefly in the promotion of educational gymnastics and the physical prowess of the whole nation, this movement for play and sport has created numerous associations for the furtherance of play or sport alone. The following figures should suffice to show the rapid growth of these organi-

zations:	:—	
1909		1913
60,000	Foot Ball Players ....		 162,000
44,000	Light Athletics			 131,000
43,000	Swimmers 		
20,000	Tennis Players 			
7,000	Winter Sport 		
25,000	Heavy Athletics		
75,ooo	Bicycle men		
44,000	Oarsmen 			1913 figures not available

While these figures may not be very exact as to the number of real players or active sportsmen, they nevertheless demonstrate the immense growth and the ever increasing popularity of play and sport in Germany. Foot ball, known to most of the German people only by hearsay a decade or so ago, is now played in small villages as well as in big cities.

Large as the above given figures seem, they do not represent by far the whole organized play and sport movement. They are, in fact, small when compared to those of the Deutsche Turnerschaft as follows:—

Jan. i, 1910. DEUTSCHE TURNERSCHAFT. Jan. 1, 1914. 946,115 Total membership (males over 14 years of age.. 1,188,181

435,511	Of those	were	active	Turners................... 529,044

161,097	Of those	again	Juniors	(Zoglinge).............. 217,246

Not included in these figures are:—

53,447 Women .....................*..................... 75*392

54,753	Boys .......................................... 110,851

24,469	Girls .........................................   39T34

The Deutsche Turnerschaft, of course, had begun its marvelous development and had a firmly established basis long before the play and sport movement, which is of a more recent organ, but there can

* Paper read at the Training Class for Leaders, Vorwarts Turnverein, Baltimore, Md.

Digitized by C.ooQle
486 —

be no doubt that this modern movement influenced the further growth of this gigantic organization and, in a measure, was the immediate cause of its recent phenomenal growth. The Deutsche Turnerschaft is ever emphasizing the fact that it draws a distinct line between the aims of so-called sport which aims simply at the creation of records, and its own endeavors in the field of physical training. This organization has ever pursued its own steady and sound course, the course prescribed by Jahn, and it will never deviate from it.

Sport in its real sense, i. e., the active engagement in games of skill and recreation, has of course never been a hostile element to the Turners; on the contrary, it always has been an essential feature of “turnen,” and the recent sport craze might never have found a foothold but for the established popularity of “volksturnliche ue bungen” (field and track exercises) through the Turnverein. As a matter of fact, the existing sport clubs draw and have drawn their best material from the Turners.

But wherever the new sport conception and the cry for sport took root, the D. T. and other organizations interested in national welfare were confronted with a problem which they could not afford to ignore. As a rule the problem was met by forming sport sections within the Turnerschaft’s own ranks; and so we find lately nearly all the great Turnverein having their sport divisions.

Those members who are more inclined to engage in sport events than in turnen, may do so without giving up their membership in a Turnverein; they are eligible in any meet that is held by other athletic organizations, and may enter as Turners. At the last Olympic meet in Stockholm some of the best athletes, such as Liesche and Pasemann, were Turners. That they were not entered as such may have been due to the fact that the Deutsche Turnerschaft did not participate officially in the games, but allowed its members to do so individually. The writer happens to know both mentioned athletes very well, the latter is a personal friend of his, and he can vouch for their true Turner spirit.

If such, then, is the case with what we in America would term “stars,” there is little reason to fear that sport with its evils of specialization and desire for individual glory will ever find a permanent place in Germany.

The number of the purely sport organizations is small in comparison with the size of the Deutsche Turnerschaft. The wise manner in which the Deutsche Turnerschaft handled the “sport problem” by not eliminating the sport events but only their objectionable features, gave the sport friends not only no cause to leave the ranks of the Turners, but gave them a better chance to participate in regulated sport events. It also protected them. It kept the ideals of its participating members in harmony with its own and at the same time

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 487 —

effectively checked all efforts to replace the tried system of the “turn-en” by a system which seeks glory simply in creating records.

Of equal significance, and of perhaps still more force, was the playground movement that has swept over Germany and is steadily expanding. Many societies in the Deutsche Turnerschaft were slow to recognize that play was of the same importance and of as great value as was turning. Such societies, however, could not long resist the demands of their own members to give to play officially the place it deserved. Before 1909 the Kreise (districts) and even single societies of the Deutsche Turnerschaft formed their own “Spiel” divisions, and competitive games came more and more to the foreground at their festivals. Although the “Spiel” was not as yet fully acknowledged as of equal importance with turnen, it could no longer be looked upon as a step-child. The leaders of the Deutsche Turnerschaft could not be blamed for their hesitating attitude; they would not take a step of so far-reaching a nature before it was clear that the step would be an improvement and in absolute accordance with the principles of the Deutsche Turnerschaft. This principle is defined by a sentence which appears in an outline published by the “Zentral Ausschuss fuer Spiele.” “Our German institutions should consider only such forms of physical training which benefit all participants equally, which furthermore inculcate a noble spirit of solidarity among them, and which, lastly, strengthen patriotic feeling.”

As there were no objectionable elements in the games then in vogue in Germany, it would have been unwise to let the cry for recognition go unheeded much longer. Different “Spielverbande” (play organizations) were being organized everywhere. Their further increase and growth could bring only dissension, as many were of quarrelsome nature and lacked the uniformity of so large an organization as the Deutsche Turnerschaft.

So just in the nick of time, in 1911 the Deutsche Turnerschaft established a sub-committee for the promotion of games within the Deutsche Turnerschaft. With an admirable thoroughness and great skill the play movement within the Deutsche Turnerschaft was brought under expert control. Each Kreis and Gau (district and sub-district) now has or at some future time will have its own “Kreis-spielwart,” who is required to arrange and manage the games between the district teams. At the last turnfest at Leipzig the best teams of the Kreise competed for the championship in the different games. These final contests aroused great interest.

The games chiefly played in Germany are: foot ball, schlag ball and faust ball, (also played are tamborine ball) prisoners base, schleuder ball and tennis.

It seems to be the German’s instinct to avoid games detrimental or at least not helpful to general and national welfare. Even should

Digitized by Google
-488 —

this instinct be led in wrong directions, watchful authority soon will bring it back into the right path.

Just how many members of the Turnvereine are simply players it is difficult to say. The whole movement is relatively recent among the Turners and definite statistics are as yet not available. One fortunate characteristic is apparent in the new development: there seems to be no tendency to draw the youths entirely away from the “turnen.'' Many a strange face appears in the gymnasium when cer_ tain games can no longer be played during the season. Young men who were never attracted by the gymnasium have suddenly taken a keen and lively interest in all bodily exercises and are afterwards regular visitors of the gymnasium. It was the play that aroused in them the love for further physical strength and skill.

On the other hand, there now are but few orthodox Turners who do not participate in some kind of play or who try to hinder its promotion. The best Turners of a Turnverein are often the best players, the stars of the “Spiel Abteilung.”

Passing review of the modern German nlay movement, it must be remembered that it has not reached its summit yet, it is still in its infancy. The number of playgrounds established by Turn- and Spiel Vereine in large and small cities increases every year. In most instances the ground is given free by the city or state. Play courses for the training of play leaders are given at many places, and receive substantial financial as well as moral support from the government.

TWO SHORT COUPLE DANCES FOR GIRLS' AND LADIES' CLASSES.

NO. I.

Schottische time. Music, Four Little Blackberries, by Lawrence B. O'Connor.

Partners stand side by side with inner hands grasped shoulder high, outer hands placed at waist. Both begin with the outer foot.

MEASURES.

1.	Glide balance hop obliquely forward—2 counts. Step swing

hop obliquely backward—2 counts............................. 1

2.	Release inner grasp and triple balance hop turn outward. .	1

3.	Repeat 1 and 2 beginning with inner foot.................... 2

4.	Partners face each other, grasp inner hands again, schottische step sideward in direction of dancing.................... I

5.	Repeat 4 in opposite direction.............................. 1

6.	Partners face forward, leap hop forward with outer, inner,

outer, and inner foot..................................\	.	2

Digitized by U-ooQle
— 489 —

NO. II.

Music same as I. Partners stand side by side with front chain lock. Both begin with left foot.

1.	Triple balance hop forward left and rieht.................... 2

2.	Step swing hop forward left, right, left, right.............. 2

3.	Schottische step forward left and right. (Glide, cut, leap

and hop swing)............................................... 2

4.	Right partner Yi turn left releasing left hand with partner, holding right hand with arms extended. y* wheel right around center with 8 running steps rising on toes when stepping left and bending knee (dipping) when stepping

right ....................................................... 2

Repeat the dance as often as desired.

MAT EXERCISES, ELEMENTARY INDIVIDUAL AND TEAM TUMBLING.

By H. DARNELL BRITTIN, Lorain, Ohio. (Continued.)

FORWARD AND BACKWARD ROLLS, ETC.

1	Forward drop. (Fall forward, breaking fall by bringing hands to mat.)

2	Forward drop, snap feet through arms to sitting position, grasp right foot with right hand and rise to standing position with one-half turn left. (Keep both legs straight.)

3	Forward roll with hands and “tuck.” (Fig. 6.)

4	Forward roll with legs spread.

5	Forward roll with legs crossed.

6	Forward roll with legs crossed and half turn at finish.

Digitized by U,ooQle
— 490 —

7	Forward roll without “tuck.”

8	Forward roll without hands or “tuck.”

9	Forward roll grasping toes.

10	Forward roll with arms between legs grasping ankles.

11	Forward roll holding right leg—(i. e., hop, stand position.)

12	Forward roll holding left leg.

13	Forward jump and forward roll.

14	Backward jump and forward roll.

15	Forward jump and half turn left, forward roll.

16	Backward jump and half turn left, forward roll.

17	Forward roll with arms folded.

18	Forward jump into forward roll—(Short dive.)

19	Backward jump into forward roll. (In jumping, one half turn left, bringing hands (not feet) to mat immediately followed by a forward roll.)

20	Forward roll and full turn left (repeat several times.)

21	Long dive. (Similar to short dive, precede with run.)

22	Long dive without hands.

23	Long dive over obstacle; one or more boys kneeling, etc.

24	Forward roll and long dive.

25	Forward toll and forward drop (precede forward roll with short run.

26	Monkey jump and forward roll (repeat several times.)

Various combinations with jumps, etc.

BACKWARD ROLLS, ETC.

1	The “Sit down.” (Bend forward at waist, grasp toes and “sit down” keeping legs straight. Try this on double mats first.)

2	Knees bend and backward roll without “tuck.”

3	Knees bend and backward roll with “tuck.”

4 The “Sit down” and backward roll without “tuck.”

5 The “Sit down” and backward roll with “tuck.”

6	Forward drop, snap feet to hands, backward roll.

7	Forward jump and backward roll.

8	Backward jump and backward roll.

9	Forward jump and half turn left, backward roll.

10	Backward jump and half turn left, backward roll.

11	Backward roll with legs crossed.

12	Backward roll with legs crossed, half turn and forward roll.

13	Backward roll with legs crossed, half turn and backward roll.

14	Run, forward jump with one half turn left and backward roll.

15	Backward roll with legs crossed, half turn, forward jump, forward roll, backward roll.

16	Run, forward jump with one-half turn left and backward roll, forward roll, forward drop, snap feet to hands to stand.

Digitized by L^ooQle
— 491 —

iy Monkey jump backward and backward roll (repeat several times.)

Various combinations with jumps, forward rolls, etc.

ELEMENTARY TUMBLING FIGURES AND COMBINATIONS.

1	Cart wheel.

2	Cartwheel and forward roll.

3	Round off. (Preceded by short run, Figs. 7-8-9.)

4	Round off, jump with one-half turn left-forward roll.

5	Short run, forward roll, jump and touch toes with hands. (Fig. 10.)

6	Short run, forward roll, chest roll. (Momentary hand-stand,

bend arms and roll on chest, abdomen and legs to stand.)

7	Snap down. (Momentary hand stand, snap feet to mat to stand.)

8	“Bucking Broncho.” (Snap down repeated several times in iapid succession.)

9	Successive cartwheels.

10	Short run, cartwheel, forward roll, chest roll.

11	Backward roll, snap down, jump with one-half turn left-forward, roll, jump and touch toes.

12	The “sit down” grasp right foot with right hand and rise to stand with one-half turn left-forward drop, snap feet to hands to stand.

13	Short run, forward roll, jump and touch toes, forward roll, jump, full turn left, backward roll, the “sit down.”

Digitized by
— 492 —

14	Round off, backward roll, forward drop, snap feet to hands to stand.

15	Running forward jump with one-half turn left into backward roll, forward roll, “bucking broncho,” forward roll, jump and touch toes.

16	Short run, cartwheel, long dive, jump and touch toes, forward roll, chest roll, backward roll, backward jump into forward roll, jump and touch toes.

17	Round off, “bucking broncho,” jump with one-half turn left, forward, drop, snap feet to hands to stand.

18	Round off- backward jump into forward roll, dive to chest roll.

19	Running broad jump with full turn left, forward roll, jump and touch toes, frog leap, forward roll, backward roll, monkey jumps to end of mat.

Various combinations with jumps, etc.

(Note:—In the combination figures, each should follow in rapid succession.)

(to be continued.)

UNIFORMITY IN ATHLETICS FOR WOMEN.

By CARL L. SCHRADER, Cambridge, Mass.

The last ten years have shown a very hopeful growth in athletic activities among women. Equipment as well as instructions have steadily increased and improved in well nigh all girls’ schools



Digitized by Google
— 493 —

and colleges. In some schools, to be sure, the practise of athletics is still too pedantic to bring effective results. Pedantic, because many events and games are prohibited, and others restricted, the performance being considered undignified for a young lady to take part in. Private schools particularly are too much inclined to cater to the whims of both children and parents instead of pursuing a definite policy. The plans of a progressive physical director are thus much interfered with.

In other institutions athletics are poorly managed and do not net general results. But it is safe to say, that in practically all institutions for women, athletics are conducted arbitrarily; that is, rules for games and performances of events are interpreted either according to the narrow conception of the persons in charge or are sacrificed to the selfish likes or dislikes of these. With the growth of a healthy desire on the part of the young woman for out-door activity, and with her gradual liberation from the old-fashioned regime of dont's, this great lack of uniformity in the conduct of athletics and of standards becomes more and more evident. To the playing of games, at least in some, their arbitrary method has been largely overcome, and good sport has resulted. Comparison of teams and institutions have been made possible. In basket ball and field hockey this is particularly true. Of the former it has been justly claimed, that the girls' game of basket ball today is a better game than the game played by men. This undoubtedly is due to the uniformity of rules and their correct interpretation. The girls' rules have been changed gradually and with but one motive, i. e., that of improving the game. Whereas, the game for men has actually been spoiled by the constant and arbitrary changing of the rules. Field hockey is fast becoming the fall game for high school and college girls. . It also is played according to one accepted set of definite rules. It is admirably managed and played uniformly by women. The game of soccer for women also promises to enjoy great popularity. It has been experimented with for a number of years, and with the rules modified it has proven to be a game to which girls take very eagerly. It requires no individual equipment, which fact, at least in public high schools, makes it at once a game more feasible than hockey, since even the small item of a hockey stick has prevented many from playing hockey. The most deplorable conditions, however, exist in the general track and field athletics, and it is with this branch of athletics that this article will deal with mainly. Here no standards exist, no general rules are applied, and consequently there are practically no reliable records in any of the events in which girls compete. It seems strange that this should be so when much might be borrowed from the rules and regulations which govern the track meets of the men. These rules have been carefully constructed, and they are applicable to most of the events suitable for women.

Digitized by Google
— 494 —

There is but one explanation for this condition, and this is, that athletics as such, and the management of them is a too practical subject to find thorough understanding and appreciation by the average woman. The significance of exactness, such as is essential in all details pertaining to the performance of athletics as well as in the conducting of meets, and the strict adherence to rules has never been fully appreciated by women. This statement which may appear offensive to some is based upon many years of experience with women students, as well as with women colleagues. Lack of knowledge of the definite and essential details in athletics I have found to be general. Results of examinations given to students, both in the Sargent school and in the Harvard summer school, as well as answers received to questionaires, have caused me to come to the above conclusion. I repeat it: that athletics and its management is too practical for women to comprehend readily.

Figures denoting height, distance or time appear to have an indefinite meaning to them. Feet and inches, seconds and fifths of seconds, feet and yards, all of these different values seem to be merely figures of speech and by most women are not associated with definite measures of space and time. Here are a few examples of such erroneous conceptions which are by no means uncommon, but rather general in occurrence at examinations, particularly at the summer school. There always are a number of women who try to pass the examination without having taken the course. This is granted them upon the plea that they have taught for a number of years and have coached and conducted athletics. In writing out a program for a meet in which they are expected to place a fictitious school or college record over each event, there were these startling figures: In the running high jump the figures ran from 3 feet to 8 feet 6 inches. In the running broad jump from 7 to 45 feet; in the base ball throw from 25 feet to 300 yards; in the 50 yard dash from 2 seconds to 3 minutes, etc., etc. I repeat that this is not one or several cases singled out, but a frequent occurrence which repeats itself every year.

From physical directors of high schools and colleges I have had reports of meets which are equally enlightening. One gave a running broad jump record of 18 feet. Upon inquiring it was found that the tape had been torn and tied together, leaving it several feet short. Another gave the record of the 75 yard dash as 9 6-5 seconds, the former record having been 10 seconds.

Unfortunate as this particular condition is, it is far less disastrous than the lack of that information which concerns itself with the teaching or coaching of field and track events, and the failure to observe the rules which govern them. In this lack of knowledge, and of faulty or arbitrary interpretation of rules is to be found the chief cause of the very unsatisfactory status of girls’ athletics today.

Digitized by
*— 495 —

There are many girls' records claimed and published, most of which were made under conditions which would not be accepted if standardized rules were in existence. Records in the high jump, for example, are obtained under any one or several of the following conditions: the take-off is from a beat board, the jump is over a rope, the measurement is recorded from the figures on the standards, the approach is a decided downgrade, etc. In the running broad jump the approach may also, like in the high jump, be a down grade, the measurement may be taken from the actual take-off instead from the toe board, to the toe end instead of the heel end of the imprint in the pit. In the runs the distances are likely to be inaccurately measured, the starting faulty, and by other means than by a pistol; the time obtained from only one watch, and that one sometimes only a common watch instead of a stop watch, etc. Practically all other events suffer more or less from like conditions, which may be per-missable at a picnic, but should not exist at a meet which is held under the auspices of a department of physical education. Arbitrary and faulty decisions at a meet for which large numbers have prepared themselves are unjust, and have a tendency to dishearten many and cause.them to lose confidence in the head of the management, and interest in athletics generally. Very little attention has been paid to the choice of events, and for those which were eliminated no substitutions have been made, so that the program of most track meets is not a well balanced one. With the establishing of the Sargent Camp three years ago, where the students of the Sargent school spend two months each year, a good opportunity offered itself for experimenting with all the various phases of athletics. The equipment and facilities there are ideal. Separate full-sized fields for all large organized games; track and field completely equipped for all athletics, a lake with diving tower, canoes, four and eight-oared boats, and finally a string of riding horses. Dealing with large numbers, that is with several hundred young women, it is reasonable to suppose that the inclinations as to likes and dislikes as well as the average physical ability are those of the average young woman.

The first event with which we experimented for a long time before deciding on a definite standard was hurdling. This event above all others in women's meets has been conducted most arbitrarily, and because of this has met with little success. The first thing we tried to determine was the height of the hurdles. All girls were employed in this trying out, and not merely a selected few. It was out of question to retain the heights of hurdles used by men, although there were a few girls who could clear them. The two heights which were found most satisfactory, and which were cleared in good form, were 2 feet 6 inches for the high, and 2 feet for the low hurdles.

With the establishing of these heights the interest in hurdling

Digitized by
— 49G —

began to grow, evidently because every girl saw the possibility of mastering it, which in any event is a factor we can ill afford to ignore.

Next the distance between hurdles was taken up for experimentation. This was not an easy problem and took a longer time to decide. Everyone knows that good and speedy hurdling involves the covering of the distances between hurdles in a definite number of strides. With the men the distance between the high hurdles is io yards, and is covered by most hurdlers in 3 strides. The low hurdles are 20 yards apart and the distance is aimed to be covered in 7 strides. The advantage of being able to do this is that one need be able to hurdle only with one and the same leg. The ones who need four strides for the high and eight for the low must learn to take-off with both feet. Here, as in trying for the height of hurdles, there were a few girls who could make the distance of 10 yards in three strides, but not for more than two hurdles. So it was evident that the distance would have to be reduced in order to get a distance which would bring the running of the entire distance, with a definite number of steps between the hurdles, within the reach of the average girl. After much shifting back and forth, seven yards between high hurdles was finally adopted and proved successful. .For the low hurdle 14 yards was fixed and found equally satisfactory. What remained to be fixed next and last was the entire distance of the two respective races, and also the number of hurdles. This choice naturally had to be more or less arbitrary, but the distances which were finally adopted were in harmony with all the other determined standards. It was also borne in mind that hurdling is merely one of several events in a meet, and that it is to be expected that a girl hurdling will also compete in other events. The high hurdles distance therefore was fixed at 65 yards with six hurdles, and the low hurdles 100 yards with six hurdles. This established the hurdle races complete as follows:	The high hurdles 65 yards

with six hurdles, 15 yards from start to first hurdle, 7 yards between the hurdles, and 15 yards from the last hurdle to the finish. The low hurdles 100 yards with six hurdles, 15 yards from the start to the first hurdle. 14 yards between hurdles, and 15 yards from the last hurdle to the finish. Individual hurdles are used and are of simple construction. Uprights made of 2 x 2’s on an oblong base with two cross pieces about eight inches long fastened at the two heights of hurdling running at right angles to the base. Near the ends of these cross pieces are wooden pegs, protruding 3 inches, which should be the exact height of the hurdle from the ground. One upright holds the ends of two cross bars, which are of bamboo.

(to be continued.)

Digitized by
— 497 —

APPARATUS EXERCISES FOR MEN.

By EMIL. RATH, Indianapolis.

Arrangement based on the classification in “Der Vorturner" by Carl Moller.

SIDE HORSE—LOWER GRADE.

Every exercise is executed to the left then to the right.

I.

Topic: Supports and seats on near side.

1.	In support frontways: single and alternate leg-swing sideward.

2.	Jump with l/\ (Y>) turns to cross-seat) on end and in saddle.

3.	Jump with Y turns to support rearways.

4.	As 2, intermediate jump and repeat to right. (Simple combina-

tion.

5.	As 1, and intermediate jump to seats.

6.	Jump to free support and straddle legs, knee-swing, foot-swing. Emphasize: straight arms, raised chest, straight legs in support;

knee-bending upon alighting.

Note:—lessons containing difficult exercises not mastered IN ONE LESSON SHOULD BE REVIEWED AT A FUTURE TIME.

II.

Topic: Seat changing from end to end of horse.

1.	Change from cross-seat on neck to cross-seat on croup.

2.	Front vault mount to riding-(cross-stride) seat on ends; front

vault dismount.

3.	Front vault mount on end; (a) intermediate jump and repeat;

(b)	intermediate jump and mount on other end.

4.	As 3 b, through momentary support; i. e., no intermediate jump.

5.	Review exercises in free support.

Emphasize: straight arms in support, straight legs; knee-bending upon alighting.

III.

Topic: Development of flank vault.

1.	Jump to support frontways with:

a)	Leg-swing left (outward forward) under left hand and return.

b)	As a, intermediate jump and repeat.

c)	As a, intermediate swing and repeat. (Try the intermediate swing separately.)

d)	As a, and immediately right. (Simple combination.) Development of Flank Vault.

2.	Grip on end and pommel:

a)	Flank vault mount on side-seat.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 498 —

b)	Flank vault mount to stand.

3.	Grip on pommels :

a)	Flank vault to support lying.

b)	Flank vault to stand. (Aim.)

c)	Flank vault to support rear ways.

Emphasize: extended legs and arms in leg-swings, vigorous side-swing of both legs in the vault.

Practice: (1) Vaulting for strength, repeating frequently and in rapid succession the vault to be learned; (2) Vaulting for form. (Criticise.) Proceed likewise in all vaults that follow.

IV.

Topic: Single leg-swings under same hand, alternated with legswing outward forward with 34 and ]/i turns.

1.	Leg-swin~ left under left hand, return, and immediately right.

(Review.)

2.	Leg-swing outward forward with 34 turn; front vault dismount.

3.	Leg-swing outward forward with F2 turn; leg-swing outward

backward to stand.

4. As 1, intermediate jump, and then 2.

5. As 1, intermediate jump, and then 3.

6.	Review: Flank vault over ends.

PARALLEL BARS----LOWER GRADE.

Every exercise is performed left, then right.

Breast high.

Topic: Leg and trunk exercises in support; jumps to seats in front of hands and rear vault dismount from these.

I.

1.	Jump to support, intermediate jump and repeat (four times.)

2.	As 1, then double knee-raising forward, straighten forward and

lower slowly (three times.)

3.	Turn trunk in support.

4.	Jump to inner cross-seat in front of left hand, swing backward

and intermediate jump to cross-seat in front of right hand (four times.)

Rear vault dismount from last seat.

5.	As 4, but to riding-seat.

6.	As 4, but to straddle seat.

7.	As 4, but to outer cross-seat.

Emphasize: straight arms in support, chest up, hips straight; correct seats.

Note: Difficult exercises not mastered in a lesson should be reviewed at a future time.

Digitized by Google
— 499 —

II.

Topic: Hand hopping and jumping in support.

1.	Support: alternate hand hopping in place.

2.	Support: alternate hand hopping in place with striking chest.

3.	Support: alternate hand hopping forward.

4.	Support: alternate hand hopping backward.

5.	Support: single and double leg-raising forward.

6.	Support: alternate hand hopping forward on oblique bars.

7.	Support: Ya turn to side-support and return.

8.	Support: hand jumping forward ; backward.

Emphasize: correct posture during hopping and jumping.

III.

Topic: Rear and front vaults from swings; seat changing moving forward, moving backward.

1.	Fore-, back- and fore-swing to rear vault.

2.	As 1, add back-swing to front vault.

3.	Repeat 1 with Ya turn toward apparatus.

4.	Some seat in front of hands, intermediate swing and front vault.

5.	Some seat in rear of hands, intermediate swing and rear vault.

6.	Seat changing moving backward (a) from a given seat to same

seat; (b) from a given seat to a different seat. From inner seat to outer seats.

7.	Seat changing moving forward (as under 6.)

a)	Straddle seat changing forward; straddle seat front of hands, fall and grasp forward, hips straight, and front vault dismount.

b)	Straddle seat front of hands, grasp forward and intermediate swing to seat.

Additional lessons with different changes of seats m.ay be arranged.

Emphasize: correct seats.

IV.

Topic: Swings over both bars from one seat to another in front and in rear of hands. Development of scissors. Leg exercises in swinging.

1.	Swinging (center) with leg-straddling, knee-swing, leg-cros-

sing, single and double squat-stand in front and rear of same and opposite hand.

2.	Back-swing and scissors backward; intermediate swing and

front vault. Preparatory exercises for scissors backward consist of cross leg-swings with Ya, then turns on the single bar; then scissors over both; first execute on horse.

3.	Over-swings from one seat to the same or different seat in front

Digitized by
— 500 —

of hands:—from outer cross to outer cross-(ridding-) seat, etc.; rear vault.

4.	As 3 from seats rear of hands:—from riding-seat to riding-(cross-) seat, etc.; from vault.

Emphasize: correct seats.

An additional lesson can be arranged by omitting 4 the first time and then taking it with a review of 1 and 2.

HORIZONTAL BAR—LOWER GRADE.

I.

Topic: Hang with various grips and simple leg exercises in the hang; arm exercises in hang-lying; the cross hand, foot and knee hang.

1.	Jump to hang (side and cross) with various grips and inter-

mediate jumps (in one turn.*)

2.	Jump to hang (side and cross) : linked knee- and leg-raising and

swinging fore-upward.

3.	Jump to hang: double knee-raising (swinging) fore-upward. Waist-high (or lower) :

4.	Hang-lying: arm bending, double grip changing.

5.	Hang-lying: arm bending to upper arm hang.

Shoulder-high (or higher) :

6.	Cross-stand: cross hand-foot hang or hand-knee (single) hang.

7.	As 6, then arm-bending.

Emphasize: correct jump to hang; correct hang position as width of grip; chest and head up (active hang) ; legs straight; back straight; toes pointing downward. Also correct^ hang-lying position.

Note: Dicult exercises not mastered in a lesson should be reviewed at a future time.

II.

Topic: Traveling and hand-jumping in the hang; development of inverted balance-hang (5, 6, 7) on head-high bar from stand.

Jump-high.

1.	Traveling sideward left, right; also to span-hang.

2.	Traveling forward and backward.

3.	Hand-jumping in place and sideward left and right.

4.	Hang: raise knees, straighten forward and lower slowly four

times.

Head-high.

5.	Stride-stand (to obtain leg-swing), arms bent: swing to inverted

squat-hang, lower slowly to stand, to bent hang.

6.	As 5, then single, alternate, linked, double leg-straightening

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 501 —

close to bar and return. Emphasize: correct inverted balance-hang; i. e., avoid sinking of hips, keep knees at bar.

7.	As 5, but swing extended legs to inverted balance-hang; lower slowly to stand, to bent hang.

III.

Topic: Turn-traveling forward and backward; bent hang with various grips and exercises in it.

Jump high.

1.	Turn-traveling forward.

2.	Turn-traveling backward.

3.	Raise knees fore-upward, straighten legs, lower slowly.

Reach- to jump-high.

4.	Jump to bent hang (side, cross) with different grips and inter-

mediate jumps (in one turn.)

5.	Jump to bent squat-hang, different grips and intermediate jumps

(in one turn.)

6.	Jump to bent hang, then double knee-raising three times.

7.	Jump to bent hang, then linked leg-raising forward.

8.	Jump to bent hang, then leg-straddling sideward.

Emphasize: slow sinking to hang when not jumping off from

bent hang; correct posture in bent hang, i. e., head and chest up, shoulders back, legs straight and toes pointing, grip fairly wide.

IV.

Topic: Leg-exercises in the inverted balance-hang; hand and arm exercises in the bent-hang.

Reach-high.

1.	Review: leg-swing from step-stand to

a)	inverted squat-hang;

b)	inverted balance-hang.

Progression by (1) raising bar; (2) by slow raising of extended legs from the hang—final.

2.	As 1 to inverted balance-hang, then straddle legs.

3.	As 1 to inverted balance-hang, alternate leg-swing under bar be-

side hand.

4.	As 3, but both (straddle) under bar.

5.	As 3 to outer knee-hand hang; return to balance-hang. Emphasize: slow lowering of the extended legs from the balance-

hang in each exercise.

6.	Alternate grip-changing in the bent hang.

7.	Change to single (double) arm hang from the bent hang.

The elbow hang may precede 7.

Digitized by C,ooQle
— 502 —

BUCK AND LONG HORSE—LOWER GRADE.

Topic: Various mounts; straddle vault.

* I. BUCK (side).

1.	Front vault mount to riding-seat and dismount.

2.	As i, but l/2 turn (in all) to side stride-seat. Repeat frequently

for strength and form.

3.	Flank vault mount—jump off forward.

4.	Rear vault mount and dismount. Preceded by leg-swing under

opposite hand to seat.

5.	Free support with side straddling.

6.	Straddle vault. Repeat in rapid succession for strength, slower

for form. Emphasize: straight legs, thrust from hands, and straightening of hips (not too forcibly).

7.	Straddle vault from support.

8.	Repeat 1-4 preceded by single and double knee-mount and inter-

mediate jump.

Note: Difficult exercises not mastered in a lesson should be reviewed at a future time.

II. LONG HORSE.

Topic: Seats and supports on long horse.

1.	Free support. Repeat in rapid succession again and again for

strength and form.

2.	Jump to cross-seat left (right) on right side of horse.

3.	Jump to cross-support sideways left (right.)

4.	Jump to side-support frontways, rearways.

5.	Straddle vault mount and front and rear vault dismount.

6.	Straddle vault mount; 34 turn; leg-swing forward to support

rearways; jump-off forward. Emphasis to be placed on correct seats.

7.	Jump to squat-stand left, right, both; jump off backward.

in. buck (long).

Topic: Development of straddle vault over long buck; straddle vault with 34 and *4 turns before alighting.

1.	Jump to riding-seat, swing to support-lying, straddle vault.

2.	Jump to riding-seat, straddle vault.

Preparatory: raise to balance-support several times from riding seat.

Emphasize: grip on far end, vigorous thrust against buck, legswing forward.

3.	Jump to support-lying, straddle vault.

4.	Straddle vault over long buck. Repeat frequently in rapid suc-

cession for strength; later for form.

Digitized by LjOoq le
-503-

Preparatory exercises (1-3) for the straddle vault over long buck.

Emphasize: correct grips; i. e., on far end of buck; assistance by standing close to buck with one (right) leg forward.

5.	Straddle vault with l/i and J4 turns before alighting.

IV. LONG HORSE.

Topic: Development of front vault from oblique run over long horse with support on neck; from straight run with support on croup. (Preparatory exercises.)

1.	Oblique run, grip on neck and front vault mount to

a)	riding-seat;

b)	support-lying; front vault dismount.

2.	As 1, but front vault.

Emphasize: straight arms, straight hips, body arched.

Repeat frequently in rapid succession for strength and later for form.

3.	As 2, with % turn toward apparatus.

Preparatory exercises (ia and b) for front vault from oblique run, long horse.

4.	Straight run and jump to side-support frontways on left side.

5.	As 4, with :

a)	leg-swing left sideward on horse;

b)	leg-swing left sideward over horse to stride-seat:

c)	leg-swing left sideward over horse with T4 turn right to riding-seat; front vault dismount.

6.	As 5c, but both legs to support-lying frontways.

These latter exercises (5 a-3 and 6) are to be repeated at a future time in preparation for the front vault.

(To be continued.)

THE INFLUENCE OF PHYSICAL .ACTIVITY ON THE BODY AND ITS ORGANS.

Translation by GEORGE ALTMANN, State Normal School, Minot, N. Dakota.

A.	Why should the human body be erect, with the chest arched ?

1.	Because erect posture is desirable from an aesthetic point of view.

2.	Because the internal organs, heart, lungs and digestive apparatus as well as the abdominal organs are interfered with in their functions thru a stooped position, gradually degenerate and are never in condition fully to meet the requirements of life, on the contrary they may cause early death, or chronic ill health.

Digitized by uooQle
— 504 —

B.	What causes may produce permanent poor posture or tend toward its development?

1.	Labor conditions, for example:

Occupations requiring stooped sitting position.

Occupations requiring stooped standing position.

Occupations requiring one-sided bodily movements or carrying weights on one side only.

2.	Bad habits, as—

Unnecessary stooping forward while reading, writing or while otherwise engaged.

Crooked, slouching^ sitting position.

Standing, supported by one leg only.

Sitting with legs crossed.

3.	Mistakes in rearing children.

Carrying them always on the same arm.

Encouraging them to sit up before they show an inclination to do so.

Encouraging or compelling them to stand or walk before they try to stand of themselves (false pride of the parents). Crooked sitting in school or at home—often caused by defects of sight, in which cases eye glasses should be worn. Too little physical exercise in the open air and sunshine.

4.	Senseless fashions, as—

Wearing of corsets.

Fastening and lacing garment about the hips.

Ill	fitting shoes—usually too narrow.

5.	Perverted physical training thru one sided exercise, as— Weight lifting as the only exercise.

Running and jumping as the only kind of exercise. Apparatus exercise, in support only.

Taking part in only one sport (football, tennis).

Improper training—overtraining, overexerting or straining definite muscle groups.

C.	What produces poor posture directly, and what assists therein ?

1.	Stretching beyond normal limits individual muscle groups, especially those of the back, sides and abdomen, and at the same time permanently shortening the opposing muscles.

2.	Gradual adaptation of the skeleton to this posture, especially in early childhood, and because of soft bones (rickets).

3.	Malnutrition and lack of compensatory exercise in the open.

4.	Too long hours of work.

General infirmity and loss of energy.

D.	What postural defects may be present at birth ?

Excepting inherited diseases or tendencies thereto:

1.	Unlike limbs, etc., a short leg, lameness; legs and arms

Digitized by Google
— 505 —

too short and trunk too long, giantism, or the reverse, dwarfing.

2.	Stiffening of certain joints and muscles whereby the usefulness of the limb is lessened.

E.	What can be done to counteract those influences which tend toward poor posture?

1.	Remove the harmful influences.

Avoid sitting stooped or for long periods.

Avoid standing stooped, on one leg, or for long periods. Refrain from unnecessary one sided work.

Develop the bodies of the children according to basic principles of health.

Avoid harmful styles—corsets, etc.

2.	All round physical activities out of doors which tend to stretch the body and develop the chest.

Gymnastics, games and sports in moderation.

Tramping and swimming.

3.	Sensible living.

Moderation in the use of alcohol, tobacco and in other pleasures which tend to weaken the body.

Sufficient sleep—at least 7 hours for adults. Early to bed, early to rise.

Hearty eating.

4.	Active assistance in elevating and improving conditions of labor and wage.

Better pay—without this it is impossible to eat heartily of good food and to live healthy.

Shorter hours of labor—without which mental development and a desire to train the body toward an ideal is impossible.

A PLEA FOR GOOD SPORTMANSHIP.

By W. P. MAC LEAN, Topeka, Kansas.

The following is a copy of the “Good Sportmanship” bulletin, which has been sent to every school in Topeka, Kansas. It is an earnest plea for clean athletics, and many of our cities, where sports are popular, would do well to send around a similar bulletin to inspire the youth to clean competition, and to better and straighter athletic life.

GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP.

One of the principal reasons for the out-door sports which are now being conducted in the public schools of Topeka, is exercise. All who engage in these contests are bound to benefit physicially by the practice, training, and contests in the open air. The losing team

Digitized by t^ooQle
— 506 —

benefits just as much as the winning team, so that a boy or girl must not think that time and energy are wasted if lie is not on a winning team. In every game, one side must lose, else no one could win. Your turn to win is sure to come sometime—now, next week, or next year, according to how well you are prepared. The losing team of this year may be a winning team next year. Losing is the friend that points out mistakes and weaknesses which can be mended.

Athletic contests should create friendships, not make enemies. Cheer the team that defeats you. It deserves it for winning. Cheer for the team that you defeat if they have “put up” a good fight.

One of the most valuable lessons in athletics is to learn how to take defeat. Everyone must meet many defeats in life, in work as well as in play, and the fellow who is a coward in defeat will never deserve to win. Every great man in history suffered some defeat before winning greatness and by learning its lesson and then getting back into the game harder than ever, with new spirit and better head-work, became really great. Had he stood about and tried to blame it all on hard luck or the decisions of the umpire, he probably would not have gotten much space on history’s pages.

Be ashamed to win by underhanded means or dirty work. Much better be a good loser than such a winner. A true sportsman will not try to “get” the fellow who is playing a good game for the other side, but try to give him a fair chance and then beat him at his own game.

Over two thousand years ago, when the original Olympic games were an important factor in the history of Greece, two young men were leading in an important race. One was just going to pass his rival when the rival stumbled and fell. The young athlete waited until his opponent had gotten to his feet and caught up with him again, and then he sprinted ahead and tried his best to beat him. History does not tell us which won the race, but people have remembered all these years and talked about the fairness of the young Greek in refusing to pass his rival when he was down. Give your opponent every fair chance, then do your best to win, and if you lose you will have nothing to be ashamed of, at least.

I	have seen many teams defeat themselves. They elect a captain and then refuse to follow him or anything else save their own selfish desires to be the “whole show.” In games we must learn to sacrifice ourselves to the good of the team—to give up our own wishes for what is best for the school. Don’t squabble about who is to kick off or tend goal. Let the man who can do it best do it. and you do what you can do best the best you can, so that the whole team will be at its strongest. This makes patriotism. The man who can not sacrifice himself for his team will never sacrifice himself for his country. If he cannot be loyal to his school, he is not to be trusted in anything.

Digitized by Tooele
— 507 —

Nobody should call attention to a player's mistakes except the captain, and he should be careful lest he take all the “pep" out of his men by causing them to be so afraid of making mistakes that they become nervous and not able to play hard, lest they blunder again.

I have seen more energy than it would take to win a game wasted in squabbling over some trifle that would probably have no real effect on the outcome of the game, no matter which way it was decided. Save all of your energy for playing. Squabbling excites you and unfits you to do your best when the game starts again. If there is a point in dispute, let the captain talk. You sit still, get your breath, quiet your nerves, and be ready for another “go" when the game is resumed.

To be a good sportsman, a good athlete, it is first necessary to be a gentleman, a lady. It is the poor player who pulls off the little, mean, “stunts." The good player does not have to. After a contest, if you win or lose, and the one you have been playing against has put up a clean, plucky game, take him by the hand and congratulate 'him. That is the way the real athletes in the big colleges do. Only street loafers hoot and jeer and make insulting remarks.

At the end of the year, a banner will be awarded to the school which has been the most sportsmanlike in all of the contests during the year. I would rather have this “Good Sportsmanship" banner in my school than forty championships.

PLAY AS A TRAINING IN APPLICATION.

By W. S. FRANKLIN, Lehigh University, S. Bethlehem, Pa.

NEVER YET WAS A BOY WHO DREAMED OF ICE CREAM SUNDAES WHILE

PLAYING BALL.

Every one knows that play means health and happiness to children, and nearly every one thinks of the playgrounds movement as based on ideals of health and ideals of happiness in a rather narrow sense; but the movement means much more than health and happiness as these terms are generally understood.

The Indian boy's play, which included practice with the bow and arrow, foot racing, ball playing and horse-back riding, was perfectly adapted to the needs of his adult life, but how about base ball and prisoner's base for the boy who is to become a salesman or a mechanic, a physician or an engineer? Good fun and a good appetite certainly come from these games, and one may also place to their credit a tempered reasonableness and a high regard for what is fair and square; but as a training in application nothing can take their place.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 508 —

Play as a training in application! that certainly is a paradox; and yet everyone knows that play is the first thing in life to give rise to that peculiar overwhelming eagerness which alone can bring every atom of one’s strength into action. Ability to focus one’s whole mind upon an undertaking and to apply one’s whole body in concentrated effort is what our boys and girls are most in need of; and vigorous competitive play serves better than anything else, if, indeed there is anything* else to create it.

Intense and eager application! That means not only an escape from laziness and apathy, but eagerness is the only thing in the world that defies fatigue. A healthy boy can put forth an amazing amount of physical effort and be fresh at the end of a day or play. And a man whose habit of application is so highly developed that it assumes a quality of eagerness and never fails in absolute singleness of purpose, is there any limit to what such a man can do?

CARE OF EXCEPTIONALLY BRIGHT CHILDREN.

By M. GROSZMANN, Ph. D., Plainfield, N. J.

We may distinguish four classes or types of exceptionally bright children, using this term as meaning children who are in advance of their fellows of same age, especially in school work. This success in school, however, is not altogether an index of real mental excellence. The very first group of children which we may consider does not necessarily represent brightness or brilliancy at all. It simply represents success, at least temporary success.

This group is composed of children endowed with a good memory, largely of a mechanical kind. In school work which consists mainly of recitations and the acquirement of book knowledge, they are apt to make rapid progress thru the grades. They “learn” because they retain the lessons and can reproduce them, as a sponge returns the water it absorbed, when squeezed out. Certainly, there are good minds lucky enough to be also endowed with a good memory, and weak minds whose weakness is augmented by lack of memory. But it does not infrequently happen that very mediocre minds, yes, even distinctly feeble minds, will, thru having a good memory, outshine their betters in school work, at least during the elementary period, before the higher reasoning faculties come into play. At that time they will be hopelessly left behind, much the worse for their “learning” which does not represent any live value to them, and the acquisition of which has prevented them from preparing themselves for life in their own lowly fashion. In their case, it is a matter of early diagnosis to direct them along educative lines.

The other type involves real intellectual faculties of an unusual character.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 509 —

There is, first, the child whose physical and mental growth is generally more rapid than that of an ordinary child. His pace is faster, his process of maturing accelerated. He travels in an automobile, when the others ride on horseback or travel on foot. He covers distances with lightning speed. As long as his physical health and strength keep pace with his mental advancement there is nothing to fear. But he certainly needs to be given the opportunity to live and learn according to his quickened rate. He must not be held back to chafe under the restraint of his vitality and initiative, and must be given tasks commensurate to his strength and ability to cover ground. In a number of school systems, arrangements have already been made, or thought of, to accommodate these racers, thru semi-annual promotions, or individual advance schemes, or special classes. Yet, there is no generally accepted system to meet their needs. And the warning must be given that at the first sign of tension between bodily and mental development, or in the emotional sphere, such as is likely to appear at the pubescent age, a new adjustment becomes imperative.

The two last groups of exceptionally bright children are those in whom I am personally most interested and which suffer the most from the lack of adjustment in the ordinary educational system, in home and school. They have been more particularly the objects of study in the Association which I have the honor to represent, and, being truly “a typical” children according to our tentative classification, have come under my personal observation at “Herbart Hall”, our laboratory school.

There is the type of child in whom one faculty is developing at the cost, it would seem, of all or most of the other faculties. They will be bright in certain directions and dull or ineffective in others. Distinct types can be differentiated: the motor type which is largely constructive along motor lines; the sensory type; the artistic type; the mathematical type; the linguistic type, etc. As long as there is otherwise good physical and mental health these types must merely be recognized as such. Of course, all of us have some tendency towards specialization along one or another activity; but we are now speaking of those who possess pronounced gifts of a specialized character. If they are forced to conform to general treatment and average class aims they are in danger to become mentally and morally warped, and to develop dangerous traits, losing their balance and getting out of touch with normal life conditions. They need a training which takes the lead from their specialty and makes all other mental activities focus in it. Under the guidance of wise parents and teachers such children may become splendid social assets, helping the world thru their special gifts.

I	have not in mind, in speaking of the training of this class of children, that their specialty should lead to a narrow elective system of studies. Not at all: they need the broadening which is given thru

Digitized by
— 510-

building upon a culture level which covers all the main elements of human endeavor and thought. What they need is an opportunity for their individual attitude towards the subjects of instruction to assert itself. “We must start with the pupil's own point of view, and from this lead him to a recognition of the proper relations and proportions of all branches of human knowledge with reference to his individual needs. But before a special subject can assume the dimensions of a world-view, the different studies and occupations must have been explored and partly assimilated to be at last organized under the common heading of the individual aspiration and view-point." (Cf. the author's CAREER OF THE CHILD, p. 325).

In other words, the special bent furnishes the point of vantage from which to enter the entire filed of learing, thus counterbalancing the one-sided development as far as possible. But unless the child's main interest is taken as the starting point, he will become hopelessly averse to study and all-around culture, and degenerate into a drifter or a narrowminded egotist, devoid or socially constructive ability. He may even become an absolute failure, a burden to himself and to others.

Here is the case of W. B., a boy of 16. A mechanical genius; has constructed several workable motor boats; erected telegraph line between his playhouse and his home. Also erected wireless station on his home grounds. Goes about with his pockets full of tools. Interested in machines of all kinds, but not for using them, but for studying their mechanism: not the moving pictures but the picture machine is what interests him; got a typewriter to learn on, and broke it up to study the machinery. Takes bicycles, watches, etc., apart continually. Not much interested in the usual boy's games; never much enthused over anything; calm and self-possessed; physically normal and healthy. But has been a failure all along in grammer school. No tutoring could get him into the high school. As parents did not want to try special training away from home, his case could only be diagnosed but not relieved.

Very different did another case develop: H. H., a boy of 13. A decidedly inquisitive and experimental type. Built fires is the cellar, not from viciousness, but because he wanted to see what would happen. Played innumerable pranks on his schoolmates and teachers who did not understand him so that he was constantly in mischief and upset all discipline. When he came to Herbart Hall his inquisitive tendency was made use of thru experimental study of all kinds. He stayed only a few months and left altogether re-articulated, mentally and emotionally. Since he has been standing at the head of his classes in select private schools.

The last and most difficult type is the one where these special endowments are coupled with a nervous temperament, or even a neuropathic or psychopathic tension. All kinds of disturbances in the

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 511 —

sphere of the nervous system and of the psychic life may occur and mar the mental health and the vitality of the body.

Here we have the genius and the crank; the great leader of men—the prince of commerce, the poet and the philosopher; the musical prodigy and the artist of high degree, with his Bohemian contempt of conventionalities. Sentiment is apt to overpower the reasoning faculties in many, and hysterical characteristics are frequent. Or, there is cleverness of extreme acumen untempered by qualities of the heart. There is lack of poise which may cause distinct mental derangement. In this sense, genius is akin to insanity. The greatest criminals of history belonged to this class, whether they were international crooks, or sitting on thrones, or in counting houses. The moral tone is often unhealthy, self-control weakened, the ego exaggerated, and morbidity sensative. In some, this over-efficiency in one direction is coupled with complete underdevelopment in all others: Here we have the idiots-savants.

Children of this type—and the type can be recognized and diagnosed in childhood—need very careful study on the part of the physician and psychologist as well as the educator, so that a balance of vitality may be established. In order to preserve the excellence without yielding to the weakness and defect in the emotional and moral make-up, a healthy environment must be established for them; the nervous system must be toned up; sane life-habits must be developed; companionship of the right kind must be provided so as to have the ego rub up against other egos; and contrary to the method suggested for the previous group, the special bent of the individual must be curbed and controlled until it blends more easily with an expanded self of variegated interests. Not that the special interest must be combatted and thwarted, but it must be supplemented, and the ever-strain diverted until it is relieved.

Not all of these children can be saved for independent life; but even these can be saved from destruction. And by giving the vast majority of them the benefit of a scientific diagnosis and proper training in youth, the human race will gain an enormous amount of constructive elements of leadership such as would otherwise either go to waste or become powers of destruction.

The following is a case in point:	W.	B.,	a boy of 9, highly

nervous and with a system full of malaria. His principal asset and excellency was a most marvelous imagination. He was very mischievous and irresponsible. Once playing Wild West, he became so realistic that one of his comrades escaped an actual hanging only by the intervention of a passer-by. Most erratic in school and home. He, who had been almost given up in despair by his parents and his physician, had a year's training at Herbart Hall, where his diet, regimen, schooling, play, etc., were carefully arranged. He blos-

Digitized by LjOOQLe
— 512 —

somed out into an amazing case of progress, constructive imagination and self-direction. He went back to his home and to ordinary schools, saved from mental and physical disintegration, making good in every way, as one of the brightest boys among his fellows.

From the many other cases which I might cite, I will only mention the following, even tho it was not my good fortune to help the child whose parents were so morbidly attached to him that they would not let him go away from them. W. K., a boy of 14: Wrote a story when he was 9 years old, with excellent dialogue and plot; grammar excellent, wrote it himself on the typewriter. An inventive genius; thought out new appliances—patent applied for, for two of his inventions, one a slit fire place for boarding house, the other an organ player. Is a connoisseur of antiques with a vast knowledge of the history, value, marks, etc., of old clocks. May be seen at any opportunity in an antique store. Cannot play with other boys of his age, they are too silly for him. Likes cats with a passion. Screams if not allowed to play the orchestrion in railroad stations; has a passion for music. Sexually precocious to the degree that he knows the medical terms of sexual parts and relations. Has fits of melancholia, hysteria, passion, etc. Yet, on the other hand he is backkward in a general way of school studies and self-adjustment to his environment. In a way, he is childish and utterly spoiled, without any real moral or emotional stamina. For him, a training such as indicated before, away from his home influences which are bad, would save him from mental disintegration which is now threatening him.

This brief statement of the case of the exceptionally bright child is obviously inadequate and incomplete. But it may have at least demonstrated the need of a careful consideration of the claim of these children to be educated in a manner which will be fair to them and helpful to the race. At present, they are receiving less attention than the feebleminded and defective. And yet, their number is at least equal to the number of the abnormals at the lowest end of the scale. And they are infinitely more worth while. For from them come our leaders and builders, our banner-bearers and thought-heroes, our saviours and martyrs—as well as our destroyers and cranks and perverts and felons, the Mephistopheles and the Tartuffes. It is well that we have a regard for this great problem of clinical research and education.

Digitized by v^ooQle
PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. F. KROQH, M. D., Cleveland 8chool: Newark, N. J.

Educational Work of the Nczv York City Health Department.— A program of educational work recently undertaken by the Department of Health of the City of New York promises jjreat things. Though familiarity with advances in medical and sanitary science is necessary to their highest efficiency, the medical and lay employees of health department find it difficult to keep up with the rapid progress along such lines. To overcome this difficulty the New York City health department has provided four courses of lectures, one for its medical .inspectors and other physician employees, one for its lay inspectors (food and sanitary), one for its hospital nurses, and one for its field nurses. Attendance is not compulsory, but employees are expected to be prepared to pass an examination, at the termination of the course, on the subjects discussed. All the courses except that for hospital nurses (which is given in the various hospitals for contagious diseases) are open to the public. The health department further offers to provide lectures on any of the subjects in the course on anolication from organizations. The plan and scope of this work are so good that the results cannot fail to be a great public benefit.

Characteristics of the Health Movement.—The New Health is thus an index of our civilization, a composite result of all our wellbeing and a tremendous asset for the advancement of that well-being. Health is economic. Sound men cannot be exploited; and for that reason, if for no other, I greet with enthusiasm the advent of the New Health. Health is moral. Sound men will not be unjust and for that reason I salute the era of the New Health. Health is civic. Sound men will eliminate poverty and that of itself should make us all sanitarians. Sound men will learn to do without jails, recognizing that so-called criminals are properly candidates either for an educational reformatory or for a custodial hospital, and therefore again I turn gladly toward the dawn of the New Health.—Edward T. Devine, Journal of Outdoor Life.

Health as a Social Ideal.—The New Health, as a social ideal, signifies that in our day, because of our new knowledge, our new science of sanitation, our new conscience, our new spirit of brotherhood, our new democracy, our new social intimacy of understanding, we are coming to feel about the public health as our fathers have felt about religion, education, liberty and nationality. We are to feel that health is fundamental and inalienable, that it imposes sacred obligations, calls us to willing service, becomes the object of our

Digitized by L^ooQle
— 514 —

constant concern, makes us ashamed of inefficiency, stupidity and graft, because they mean disease, raises us to a new level of brotherhood.—Edward T. Devine, Journal of Outdoor Life.

Adaptation to Environment.—Surely that much-abused philosopher, Lamarck, was not far from the truth when he said, “The production of a new organ in an animal body results from a new requirement which continues to make itself felt, and from a new movement which this requirement begets and maintains.,, Is not this merely another way of saying that the individual makes adaptive responses to environmental stimuli? Where so many people fall foul of Lamarck is with regard to his belief in the inheritance of acquired characters. But in speaking of acquired characters Lamarck did not refer to such modifications as mutilations; he was obviously talking of the gradual self-adjustment of the organism to its environment.— Arthur Dendy, Medical Journal of Australia.

Medical Inspection of Schools in Ontario.—The education department of the province of Ontario has issued in book form a new code of regulations for the medical inspection of schools. Provision is made whereby school boards may undertake free medical treatment of pupils whose parents are unable to pay; the school boards may appoint a school medical inspection committee representing one or several conjoint boards. This committee must appoint a qualified medical inspector of not less than two years' experience in his profession; and power is given with the consent of the ministers of education and the provincial secretary for the Ontario Board of Health to name the municipal health officer as this medical officer for inspection. Nurses are also to be employed of one or more year's experience. Medical inspectors and nurses are to be subject to the ordinary school inspector or principal. This act makes medical inspection compulsory in rural school sections once every three months, in villages once a month, in towns once every two weeks, and in cities once a week. A complete physical examination must be made of every pupil as soon after admittance to school as possible. The school medical officer will also be required to confer with school boards on sanitary matters.

Teaching Sex Hygiene in Schools.—There has been considerable discussion on the question of teaching sex hvgiene in the public schools. The advantage of increased knowledge for the children, as well as the practical difficulties of presenting this subject properly, have been commented on from various points of view. There has been little effort, however, to secure an expression of opinion from those vitally interested, namely, the parents and the children themselves. For this reason, the report of the Bureau of Research of the

Digitized by v^ooQle
-515-

Upper Peninsula (Michigan) Educational Association, recently issued, is of interest. This bureau was organized to make a direct study of the schools of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, their equipment and their methods and material for study. It is at present endeavoring to discover the points of strength and weakness of the schools, as judged by the parents and others interested in them. The report just issued is divided into four sections: moral education, physical education, industrial education and general. The basis for the report is the individual opinions of 317 representative citizens. Under the first head, among many others subjects discussed, the question was asked of parents, “Do you believe that sex hygiene should be taught in the schools ?” To this question, ninety-two replied “yes,” while 175 opposed such instruction; six made qualified replies. Commenting on these answers, the report says that the replies indicate that patrons of schools are not ready as yet to have sex hygiene taught in the schools. “Doubtless but few teachers are qualified to teach the subject well,” says the report, “and to teach it poorly would be much worse than not to teach it at all.” The bureau also endeavored to get the point of view of the pupil. At Houghton, two lectures on sex hygiene were given to boys and two to girls. Some time after the lectures, the boys and girls were segregated and were asked: “Did you learn anything of value at the last lecture on sex hygiene?” Ninety boys stated that they had learned something of value and eight that they had not, while fifty-four girls regarded the lecture as of value and twenty did not. When asked: “Do you favor another lecture?” eighty-five boys were in favor of further instruction and thirteen were opposed to it, while forty-four girls were in favor and thirty were opposed to the proposition. This report emphasizes the points which have been previously brought out; until we know what should be taught pupils at different ages, until we have formulated a definite graded course of instruction and have trained teachers to give this instruction, the proposition for teaching sex hygiene in the public schools should be approached with the utmost caution. In no case should an effort be made to force such instruction on the pupils or on the community. When the parents of children are convinced, by a large majority, of the advisability of such instruction, it should be provided. Premature efforts to place such subjects on the school curriculum in advance of public opinion can only cause misunderstanding and trouble. —Current Comment, The Journal A. M. A.

High School Athletics.—The Journal of the American Medical Association has freely expressed the view in the past that the competitive athletics of our American colleges and universities often harbor unsuspected dangers in that they encourage overdoing on the part of the participants. No one would gainsay that systematic and

Digitized by
— 516 —

even strenuous exercise may exert a most wholesome effect on the human organism. But the win-at-any-cost exertion, taxing vital organs to the very limit of their endurance, exceeding the factor of safety in physiologic functions, and sometimes carried to the breaking strain, represents a sort of unjustifiable self-sacrifice that may properly be made for one’s country but is never called for to uphold the glory of one’s college. The sooner it is realized that there are better tests of manliness than the ability to endure a 4-mile race in the college boat or to complete the football season in spite of acquired injuries, the more wholesome will American college life become.

Unfortunately, there is a widely manifested tendency for the pupil of the high school to ape the performances of his older brother in the college. This is shown in the introduction of Greek letter societies and social functions into the secondary schools, tending to counterbalance some of their wholesome features of social intercourse with the snobbery of exclusiveness and the deteriorationg influence of late hours and tiring distractions. Even more baneful, however, is the growing custom of allowing the same sort of intense competitive sports in the high school that are the cause of complaint in respect to their dangers to the older college student.

We are glad to note a spirit of protest awakened in various parts of the United States against all the forces, social and athletic, which tend to deteriorate the American boy (or girl) at the adolescent age of the high school period. One health officer has recently made a public announcement that proper exercise in a well-equipped p-vmnasium, under the guidance of a trained instructor, is good for any one, but that competitive athletics, requiring most strenuous exertion, long and tedious training and self-denial, is positively bad for any one before full development, and that all such overacts tend to impair the keenness of the mind and interfere with school work proper, as well as to injure the body. The competitive interscholastic games which require great physical exertion and mental tension should be done away with and a good gymnasium, under the direction of one trained in physical culture, should be provided and work according to the condition and need of each pupil assigned.1 We agree, further, that mild and well-timed athletic exercise and occasional social functions will tend to relieve the monotony of school life and invigorate body and mind; but overindulgence is likely to be detrimental.

The dangers referred to are not insignificant; they are real. Prof. C. R. Bardeen of the University of Wisconsin has pointed out, in connection with the participation in athletics in his institution, that the increasing amount of cardiovascular disease noted in

1. Wright, Frank W.: A Plea for More Healthful School Customs, Bull. New Haven Board of Health, 1914. xli. No. 10.

Digitized by U.00Q le
517

this country by life-insurance companies and others makes it important for the physician to make himself acquainted with the chief causes responsible for these conditions so that he can protect his patients. Overexertion in competitive sports, especially in schoolboys, is one factor. From 5 to 19 per cent, of freshmen entering the state university have cardiac hypertrophy with dilatation attributable to athletic sports. While in most cases there is good compensation, in many there are mitral murmurs and a myocardial irritability which not only keeps these students out of college sports, but to some extent hampers their scholastic work in college. Practically all college students taking part in the major sports have hypertrophied hearts. While in many cases compensation is good, in a large number there is a myocardiac irritability, sometimes accompanied by mitral murmurs, which indicate somewhat serious lesions. In the past two years there have in addition been four cases of acute cardiac dilatation among the relatively few members of teams in the major sports to one case among the far greater number of students not members of teams. In the latter case the dilatation occurred while the student was running in the gymnasium.2

Criticisms of this sort are never welcomed when they contravene established customs. Yet there is an obvious contradiction in directing the energies and funds of the state toward the prevention of disease and the establishment of habits of right living in the earliest years of our public schools, only to permit their undoing at a subsequent period. School doctors and school nurses in the primary departments have come to stay for some time, at least. Why not more healthful school customs in later years?

Fundamentals in Teaching Sex Hygiene.—Most of the plans for introducing the subject into the home and school insist that the facts of human reproduction should be taught to the child by an indirect method. This indirect method J. C. Hollister {Cal. State Jour. Med., July 1914) believes to be wrong, because it does not rest 011 what to his mind are the fundamentals of sex education. The fundamentals are not to be found in general biology or nature study; they are not plant or animal reproduction; they are not cells nor evolution nor life itself. They are human anatomy and physiology. Any plan that does not recognize the truth of this, any plan that does not rest on these foundations, is inherently weak. It is unnatural, illogical, and has not a sound psychologic basis. If this be true, the child should have a knowledge of human anatomy and physiology before it can appreciate the matter in sex education.

Hollister claims that: 1. Human anatomy and physiology can-

2. Bardeen, C. W.: The Effect of Athletic Sports on the Heart, The Journal A. M. A., Nov. 1, 1913, p. 1657.
— 518 —

be taught successfully to the young child. 2. The knowledge of normal human anatomy and physiology is particularly advantageous to the child. 3. There are no important reasons why the genital system should not be taught as part of general anatomy and physiology.

4.	Such a plan rests on a sound psychologic basis.

VENTILATION.*

Fallacies, Facts; Experiments, Experience.

Bp JOHN B. TODD, M. D., Syracuse, N. Y. (Continued.)

I	wish now to call attention to an experience in ventilation made under actual conditions of life. In a close, stuffy, conventionally ventilated school-room, filled with body odors, occupied by pupils, restless, easily fatigued, hacking, and coughing, and where it was not uncommon for one to faint, I placed wood frames covered with medium weight, unbleached cotton cloth in the lower sash opening of five windows. Fifty square feet of opening were so screened. The restlessness, hacking, and coughing disappeared; instead of becoming easily fatigued, the pupils showed increased energy, did better work, and discipline was easier to maintain. , Summer school,, in Syracuse, in which I tried this out, is now fully equipped with fresh air screens in every class room, hall, and coat room. There are seventy-eight windows screened with a total opening of 645 square feet through which filtered air is diffused; odors have disappeared, with a great freedom from dust. Out of door conditions of air purity exist in the building, together with a temperature of comfort.

Subsequent examinations revealed a scientific basis for the improved conditions. The humidity was found to be practically that of the out of doors air. The dust was practically eliminated, except where mud. was brought into the room b'r the children’s feet. The odors entirely disappeared and the lighting of the room was not interfered with, the screens giving a diffused light that was comfortable to the eyes.

The conclusion is inevitable that in this experience the resulting conditions were not only those of comfort, but those that are at the foundation of health. “After all,” as stated by Hough, “the final test is the experience of the occupants of the room,” and therefore to give that experience I will quote what the principal and teachers have to say who have worked and lived in fresh air school rooms: The principal, Alice S. Town, of Sumner School, writes: “When you first suggested screening one room for an experiment, while I agreed to try it, I was doubtful of its success. After weeks’ trial I was completely convinced of the success of the experiment. Since then

Digitized by C.ooQle
-519-

eight rooms have been equipped with the screens at the request of the teachers in those rooms, and I hope before another year we shall have them in every room in the building.”

Miss Whalen writes: “The open air room was enjoyed from November to May. The class entering the room at midwinter made no objection to change in temperature. Twice only were the windows lowered because of strong wind. Attendance was unusually good. There were no colds until April. One case of measles and one of scarlet fever occurred. The children are quiet and attentive, showing little, if any fatigue to the end of the day. Upon entering the room the fresh clean air was always noticeable; winter seemed forgotten here.”

Miss Hinsdale, head of the Kindergarten, writes: “Your fresh air window screens have certainly been most satisfactory in our kindergarten. Our attendance of little folks during the winter months was unusually good. Reason for this: The children seemed free from colds, thanks to plenty of fresh air. Children more wide awake, less restless, and not tired when session closed. As teachers, we both found our voices stronger and throats less sensitive.”

Miss Reisig, of the 2-2 grade, writes:	“Since	having	the	open

air windows I find the children less restless. It is very much easier to keep their attention. They do not seem tired, even at the close of the school. The attendance has been good. The children themselves like the fresh air and do not complain of feeling the cold. Personally, I have felt benefited by the fresh air.”

Miss Marie Keefe, of the 5-1 grade, writes: “After using the screen windows for the past term, I feel as if I should never want to teach in a school-room without them. There are five windows in our room, and I can recommend and praise them most highly, as they are a wonderful help. The discipline is easier, as the children do not become so uneasy and restless. I have also noticed that there has been less coughing in school during the past winter than ever before. It is my opinion that the screen windows would prove a great help in every class room.”

Miss Amelia A. Morris, of 8-1 grade, writes: “In four of the eight windows in my schoolroom I had cloth screens placed in last December. They were there until May, and I was greatly pleased with the results. The air was much fresher all the time than by the old method of ventilation. The windows were open during all kinds of weather, only a strong wind making it necessary to close them partly or entirely. I had no cold during these months and very few pupils were absent because of colds. I am heartily in favor of the cloth screens, as I think it the only safe way to keep the air fresh and pure in a room occupied by so manv people.”

Miss Kinsella, of the 5-2 grade, writes: “We have enjoyed our open air room very much this term. The air has always been pure

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 520 —

and fresh and the room did not at any time seem close, as it often does with closed windows. When we moved during the middle of the term from an open air room to a closed room, both the children and I were greatly disappointed. The principal said we might take the screen windows with us, but as it was impossible for them to be transferred for a few weeks, the children and teacher who were then in our former room had enjoyed the onen air room so much that they did not want to give up the windows. The principal then very kindly had some made for our room and we were happy again. • I have found the discipline of the room to be much better since We have had the screens. The children do not get so restless or tired as formerly. During the winter the children had fewer colds than usual, which I believe to be due to being in the fresh air all the time. I also found this to be true in my own case. We are all very glad that you tried the experiment in Sumner School.”

From Madison School Annex, an old furnace heated building, Miss Frances T. Daley writes: “We tried your cloth screen method of ventilation as an experiment in our school this year, and were highly pleased with the results. The temperature of the room was not lowered, and there was absolutely no draft. The air, being-sifted, entered gradually, yet was changing constantly. Only in case of severe rain or snowstorm was it necessary to lower windows. I think it surpassed artificial ventilation, for in the latter air usually comes in over the heads of the children, increasing danger of colds from drafts. A naturally dark room might be made too dark, yet in our rooms we all liked the subdued light. To a certain extent screens might be receptacles for germs. I think they should be occasionally sterilized. I will be pleased to discuss the method with other teachers, and recommend their use in other schools.,,

District Health Officers for Ohio.—A bill to divide the state into health districts and to provide for whole-time, experienced district health officers, will be introduced at the next session of the general assembly. Each district will comprise one or more counties, and the county commissioners will act as a board of control. Only persons who have the degree of M.D., D.P.H., or some equivalent degree, will be eligible as candidates for the position of district health officers. All candidates will have to pass a civil service examinatioii. The minimum salary is fixed at $2,000. In addition to the duties now performed by health officers and boards of health, the district health officer will be required to provide for medical inspection of school children, the inspection of work-shops, factories and a complete system of milk and dairy inspection. District health officers will have jurisdiction everywhere except in incorporated cities.

Digitized by t^ooQle