MIND AND BODY

Tol. 21.	SEPTEMBER,	1914.	No	231

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 62 Mason St., Room 300, Milwaukee Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

The Nezv York World recently printed the following editorial:

The Roof Playground.—The opening of an apartment-house on Riverside Drive with an ample playground on the roof was rightly enough made the occasion of a neighborhood demonstration of rejoicing, with the presence of the Park Commissioner to give it something of official recognition and approval.

The purpose and the hope of roof gardens for all residence buildings run far beyond that of mere improvement in the buildings themselves. Every part of the city shares in the benefits derived from every increase of playground for children, however small it may be in itself or in whatever locality. Borough President Marks has addressed letters to fifty noted architects, asking them to cooperate in such use of roof space not only “to relieve the congestion of the streets,, but to stimulate open-air sleeping.

As the Park Commissioner said in his address at the opening of the new garden, “We cannot spare another foot of space in the parks for playgrounds.,, Vacant lots now available in many localities will eventually be required for buildings. We must lift our playgrounds up in the air.”

Let us pause for a moment and ask ourselves if “we must lift our playgrounds up in the air.” It may be necessary for the city of New York to do so, but for the sake of the future American we hope that nowhere else will this become necessary. Playgrounds belong on the ground, they should be where children always can use them. Roofs are splendid for sleeping and for rest, but they never can be anything but poor substitutes for playgrounds, except for very young children.

No, we don't want our playgrounds up in the air, we want

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 202 —

them on the ground. We want them to be large enough that vigorous games may be played on them by many children at the same time. We want them on the ground that many forms of track and field work that need “ground" may be indulged in. We want play-apparatus like giant-strides, swings, etc., in our playgrounds, and we want this apparatus to be ready for use at any time of the day without first having the children climb five or six flights of stairs before getting into the small cage up on the roof.

Roof playgrounds are wonderful things for newspapers to talk about. They also give some inhabitants of the few cities that have them an opportunity to look down upon the rest of the benighted world that hasn’t them. But has anyone ever studied the problems involved in the construction of buildings that would have “rear playgrounds on the roof; problems of getting up on the roof without annoyance to the occupants of the building, safety for the players, safety of the apparatus to be used, special water and toilet facilities for the children, supervision of the towers in which the stairs leading to the roof would have to be placed, etc., etc.

Let us use our roofs more than we now do, and let us get our adults (the modern cliff-dwellers) more out of the caves in which they live, but let us not stop the great movement that is giving our schools more playground space, that is increasing the number of municipal playgrounds and parks, by letting the idea gain ground that it may be possible to preserve health and vitality by using every available foot of ground for buildings if only you place a different kind of roof on the top of these buildings, and call this space a playground.

Little did zee think when in our last edition we asked our readers to help in every possible manner that the European visitors, that intended to inspect our play and recreation facilities in September, would at this time he in the midst of a most formidable war. Whatever the outcome of the struggle, it will mean the elimination of hundreds of thousands of the best men in Europe. It will mean, physically, a deterioration of all the nations engaged. It will mean that in the next years great stress will have to be laid upon race hygiene, upon the increase of physical strength and vitality of the individual. It is an ill wind that blows no good. Perhaps the result of this great struggle will be a clearer conception of the value of our work in the education of efficient citizens. With this should come the placing of physical education upon the same plane with the orthodox school subjects. An understanding of its value would mean that in the working out of a curriculum the amount of time needed for the physical education of the child would be the first consideration. And, after this time had been determined, the rest

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 203 —

of the time would then be apportioned to the other school subjects. We haven't been serious enough in our demands for more time and better facilities for our work. How can we expect school superintendents and boards of education to be impressed with the importance of physical education when even in most large cities we appear to be satisfied with io to 15 minutes per day of free exercises of a questionable character carried on between the desks of a schoolroom, or of grammar school athletics carried on by a small percentage of pupils for a few minutes per day, or of folk dancing, etc., etc. Any demand of less than one hour of physical training work per. school day, that is five hours per week, shows a lack of understanding of the problem. If, as said above, the present war brings about a realization of what physical training should mean, it will give us at least one thing to be thankful for.

GLAZED PORCELAIN RADIATORS.

A new type of radiator made of glazed porcelain was recently exhibited at a building exhibition in Leipzig, Germany. It is claimed that this form of radiator has a higher efficiency than the cast iron type. The general design is similar to a cast-iron, radiator, except that the walls are considerably thicker. The sanitary features of its construction are emphasized.

An error occurred in printing Mr. N. W. Johnstone’s swimming chart in the June issue of Mind and Body. In the chart, under the heading “Salvage,” the June issue reads: “Weights placed 5 yds. distant;" when it should read: “Weights placed 15 yds. distant.” The swimmer swims 15 yds. for the weights, dives for them, brings them up and carries them 15 yds. back to the starting place.

ATHLETIC NOTES.

The International Amateur Athletic Federation, at its recent convention in France, has agreed on the following rules as to the status of an Amateur Athlete. They are as follows:

“1—An amateur is one who competes only for the love of sport.

“2—Competing for money or any other pecuniary reward in any sport considered as athletic sports makes the competitor a professional in all sports considered as athletic sports.

“3—In the event of an amateur competing with or against a professional in any snort, not for monev or other pecuniary reward, then the member of the federation to which the athlete belongs shall be the judge of such competitor’s status according to its own rules.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 204 —

and its certificate as to the competitor’s status shall be accepted by all other members of the federation.

“a—In track and field athletic sports anv one who knowingly competes with or against a professional thereby ceases to be an amateur.

“5—One who teaches, trains, or coaches in anv sport for money or other pecuniary consideration is a professional, except, however, that so far as competition in his own country, and there only, is concerned, an employe or representative of the State or a school or other educational institution, who teaches, trains, or coaches as an incident to his main vocation or employment, may or may not be a professional, as the member of the federation of the country of such a person shall decide.”

Twelve regulations are also set down as an interpretation of the fundamental rules on the violation of whi^h an athlete ceases to be an amateur. They prohibit an amateur from making any wager in connection with the competition in which he is to participate, prohibit him from accepting certain kinds of prizes, or selling, pawning, or giving away his prizes, and provide for the manner in which he is to receive expenses.

What effect the present European war will have on the next Olympic Games, to be held in Berlin in 1916, is causing the authorities a lot of trouble. It is only three months ago that the International Amateur Athletic Federation met in France to settle all disputes on rules and regulations and other important matters. Now with all principal European nations, especially those who would send the largest number of contestants to the games, at war with Germany, which is to conduct the games, it is doubtful if they will be a success.

It has already been suggested to transfer the games to America. The matter is under consideration by the authorities and will be settled very shortly. Washington, D. C., would undoubtedly be chosen as the city in which to hold the games.

It is reported on good authority that Dr. Kraenzlein, the American track and field coach in Germany, who has recently returned to America on a visit, will not again return to his post of duty owing to disagreements with his assistants.

Rumor also has it that Ernie Hjertberg, coach in Sweden for several years, is also about to sever his connections.

What’s the trouble ? Are the Americans not competent enough to fill their positions, or are the foreign nations such adept pupils that they become experts within a short time and naturally refuse

Digitized by
— 205 —

to follow instructions? There are still a few American coaches left in Europe and we wonder how long they will hold their jobs.

NO AMERICAN YACHT CUP RACES UNTIL I915.

The New York Yacht Club has turned down the suggestion of Sir Thomas Lipton and the Royal Ulster Yacht Club that the contest be put over from September to October in the hope that by then the war would be over. The club gives as its reasons that “in view of the grave conditions due to the war, we do not think it proper to race in October.,, This was contained in a cablegram sent by Secretary George A. Cormack, to H. L. Garret, of the Royal Ulster Yacht Club.

“We regret that in view of the ~rave conditions due to the war,” it read, “we do not think it proper to race in October. We are willing to postpone the series until 1915 subject to future negotiations as to date. We request a cable reply as soon as possible.”

THE DAVIS TENNIS CUP CAPTURED BY AUSTRALIAN TEAM.

After a three days’ hard struggle, the American players had to bow before the superior playing power of the Australasians. Their defeat, however, was not a disgrace, for the game was not won until the last set was played. The individual honors, however, go to Maurice E. McLoughlin of California. He defeated both Brookes and Wilding and thereby becomes world’s champion. If he never does anything else, McLoughlin always will be famous for having taken six out of seven Davis cup sets in 1914 from Brookes, the unrivaled strategist, and Wilding, the great master. Following is the score day by dav and also preliminary rounds which led up to the finals:

DAVIS CUP MATCH, AUGUST 13, 14, 15, I914—CHALLENGE ROUND------

WEST SIDE TENNIS CLUB, FOREST HILLS, LONG ISLAND.

Australasia team wins 3 matches to 2.

FIRST day’s MATCHES.

Anthony F. Wilding, Australia, beat Norris Williams, 2d, America, 7—5, 6—3, 0—3.

Maurice E. McLoughlin, America, beat Norman E. Brookes, Australia, 17—15, 6—3, 6—3.

SECOND day’s MATCH.

Anthony F. Wilding and Norman E. Brookes (Australia) beat Maurice E. McLoughlin and Thomas C. Bundy, (America.) 6—3,

8—6, 9—7.

Digitized by CjOOQie
— 206 —

THIRD DAY’S MATCHES.

Brookes 1>eat W illiams 6—i, 6—2, 8—io, 6—3.

McLoughlin beat Wilding 6—2, 6—3, 2—6, 6—2.

Referee—Robert D. Wrenn.

Umpires—William J. Clothier, George T. Adee, Edward C. Conlin, E. I7. Torrey, and A. L. Hoskins.

PRELIMINARY ROUNDS.

At Folkestone, England—England defeated Belgium, 5 matches to o.

At Wimbledon, England—England defeated France, 4 matches

to 1.

At Lake Forest, 111.—Australasia defeated Canada, 5 matches

to o.

At Pittsburgh—Australasia defeated Germany, 5 matches to o.

FINAL ROUND.

At Longwood, Mass.—Australasia defeated England, 3 matches

to 2.

FENCING TROPHY OFF.

Arrangements for a tournament in New York City this fall between American and Belgian amateur fencers have been halted, and it is almost certain now that fencing will join the list of international sports that have been upset by the European war. The meet was to have been held at the Astor Hotel in October, and the Amateur Fencers' League of America was preparing to interest the swordsmen of other European countries in similar competitions. There is little likelihood, even in the event of an early cessation of hostilities abroad, of negotiations being renewed this year.

The announcement has been recently made at the U. S. Naval Academy that the negotiations for plavino* the Army-Navy football game in Washington on Nov. 28th have been abandoned. It is now up to the two secretaries to reach some agreement. It is believed that after all the game will be played in New York City.

OXFORD, ENGLAND, WINS 4 MILE RELAY BY 8 INCHES.

Philadelphia, April 25.—Oxford University of England won the four-mile college relay championship of America from the University of Pennsylvania in the most sensational finish ever seen in that event in the seventeen years the race has b?en run on Franklin Field. The English team had to fight all the way and won the remarkable race by a scant 8 inches.

Jackson, the Olympic 1,500-meter champion, the anchor man

Digitized by UjOOQle
— 207 —

of the English team, was pushed to the limit of human endurance by Wallace McCurdy of Pennsylvania, the two-mile intercollegiate champion, and fell into the arms of his supporters as he breasted the tape.

The race was run in a heavy rain-storm, and the time, 18 minutes 5 seconds, broke the four-mile record for the Pennsylvania relays. The American and world’s record is held hy Cornell, 17 minutes 55 seconds. The track was very wet and experts believed it to be about five seconds slow to the mile.

NEW 12 HOUR WALKING RECORD MADE IX LONDON MAY 2.

E. C. Horton made a new amateur walking record for 12 hours by covering 73 miles and 14 yds., as compared to the previous record of 72 miles 33 yds.

A world's record for eleven miles was created by Robert Bridge, a one-armed postman, who travelled that distance in 1 hour, 24 minutes, 9 4-5 seconds, and thence to the sixteenth miles in 2 hours, 5 minutes, 39 4-5 seconds, when he retired. Bridge had surpassed all the best previous records.

At the fifty-first mile mark Horton began making records, his time for that distance being 8 hours, 8 minues, 23 1-5 seconds.. He completed sixty miles in 9 hours, 22 minutes, 10 seconds.

NEW world’s HIGH JUMP RECORD.

Edward Beeson of the Olympic Club of San Francisco established a new world’s high jump record of 6 ft. 7 5-8 inches May 2 at the Pacific Coast Conference. The former record was 6 ft. 7 inches made by George Horine, also of California.

NEW ROPE-CLIMB RECORD.

T11 a 35-ft. rope-climb, an event which has not been open in competition for 20 years by the A. A. U. four new records were established in one meet. The old mark of 20 7-8 sec. was made at Cambridge by S. E. Allen. The first new record to he established was by F. Siehert of Grace A. C. (N. Y.) in 134-5 sec. Ed. Linden-baum of the V. M. H. A. (X. Y.) on his first try did 13 1-5 sec. Siehert on his second try did 12 3-5 sec* aiK^ Lindenbaum 11 .1-5 sec. T. Rudolph Leissring of the New York Turn Verein was third with 18 sec..

3 NEW NATIONAL FENCING CHAMPIONS.

Three new fencing champions came to the front last mouth in the final rounds of the national events in foils, dueling swords, and sabres, which were held at the Hotel Astor, New York City. One

Digitized by C.ooQLe
— 208 —

was captured by Lieut. W. P. H. Van Blijenburgh of the Holland Army, who is in this country for special duties. The others to win their way to the front were Dr. F. W. Cairns of the Boston Athletic Association, in dueling swords, and Dr. Scott D. Breckinridge of the Washington Fencers Club in foils.

Miss Margaret Stimson of the Fencers’ Club of New York won the women’s national championship with foils, defeating three Philadelphia Fencers’ Club representatives. Miss M. Bradley tied with Miss Stimson as to the number of bouts won, each having two, but the latter gained the title. Third place was also a tie between Miss D. Samuels and Miss E. Evans, each winning one bout and losing two, but on the percentage basis of scoring Miss Evans took third place. The bout which Miss Stimmson lost was to Miss Samuels, while the bout between Miss Stimson and Miss Bradley went to the former.

COMPULSORY INDUSTRIAL INSURANCE.

“Every workman in the steel industry has the expectation of nine days lost by sickness in a year as against four days lost by accident, and it is estimated that each year there are 284,750,000 days of sickness among workmen in the United States, costing $792,892.-000,” said Joseph P. Chamberlain of New York, speaking at the annual meeting of the American Association for Labor Legislation.

“Compulsory sickness and burial insurance is already an accomplished fact in the United States,” said Mr. Chamberlain, “but it is insufficient in amount and totally wrong in its method and purpose, and can never be health insurance.” That the present insurance of the poor is enormously and hopelessly expensive and promotes extravagant funerals; that workmen do not oppose compulsory insurance, and that contributions of employers is already accepted in principle; that the enormous value of the organization of hospital funds is at present largely dissipated, as well as fraternal society and trade union benefits, so that their combined force are not brought to bear upon the problems of sickness, on the spread of information, and on the enforcement and improvement of legislation ; and finally that the problem of sickness insurance through legislation is a problem of the immediate future in America, were the principle arguments advanced.

A Tax on Aviators.—An entry and circulation tax upon aviators in Germany is not likely to be favored in aeronautic circles. It is now being considered by the Foreign Office, and applies to all outside aeroplane pilots with their machines, somewhat like the rules'i which exist in Alsace-Lorraine as concerns automobiles. The tax will be $12.50 and even $25 per pilot, regardless of whether he enters by railroad or by actual flight.

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 209 —

THE CARDIAC EFFECTS OF IMMODERATE COLLEGE

ATHLETICS.

LEOPOLD iSHU M ACKER, M. D., and WILLIAM S. MIDDLETON, M. D.,

Madison, Wis.

(This is the title of a very interesting’ and instructive article from the Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, an abstract of which appears in the Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. Copies of the complete article containing cuts and tables illustrating and describing the text and experiments, may be had from the authors upon request and by sending an addressed stamped envelope. The following abstract contains the main gist of the original article).

“The frequency of cardiac lesions among the men participating in competitive sports at the University of Wisconsin has emphasized the urgency for a study of this subject from a clinical point of view. From this aspect it may be divided into three parts: first, the immediate effects of severe muscular strain on the heart; second, the effects of training and a series of severe athletic contests on the heart, and, third, the ultimate effects on the subsequent life of an individual of alterations brought about in the heart through athletic contests in early life.

Recent medical literature has been rich in the study of the immediate effects on the heart of severe prolonged muscular exertion. From the physiologic point of view the results of the various investigations in this field coincide sufficiently to make it possible to draw the following rather definite conclusions:

1.	Muscular exercise sufficient to cause an increase in cardiac activity causes a rise in the systolic and diastolic arterial blood-pressure, as well as in the venous blood-pressure.

2.	As a rule, the rise in the systolic pressure is greater than in the diastolic, thereby giving an increase in pulse-pressure. Lowsley interprets this as meaning augmentation as well as acceleration of cardiac action.

3.	The rise in the systolic pressure increases after the exercise is begun and increases to a maximum, after which it may decline, to increase again to the maximum, if renewed effort is made. It remains above normal, however, until the muscular effort ceases, after v^hich it usually declines to and frequently below normal.

(The extent of increase of systolic pressure depends on the exercise, the individual and his condition. In young men sprinting on a stationary bicycle, Lowsley found the time for reaching the maximum systolic pressure to vary from five to twenty-five minutes and the increase to vary from 10 to 65 mm. Hg. It was greatest when the man was fresh. The average rise in sixteen men was 32.7 mm. Hg.)

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 210

The rise of the diastolic pressure reaches its maximum about the same time as the systolic or a little later. It fluctuates little after the maximum is reached, and returns to normal more slowly than the systolic and invariably shows a fall to subnormal after exercise.

(In Lowsley’s work, cited above, the rise in the diastolic pressure varied from zero to 40 mm. with an average in seventeen individuals of 22.9 mm. Hg.)

4.	The pulse-pressure curve generally follows the contour of the systolic curve, because of the fact that the systolic pressure fluctuates more than the diastolic. (Lowsley).

5.	The venous pressure usually rises to a maximum, which is maintained throughout the period of exercise. If, however, the exercise be not severe and deep breathing come on, it may drop to normal during the exertion. As a rule, it drops fairly rapidly to normal after exercise, but in some individuals remains high for a considerable period. (Hooker),

6.	In exercises requiring severe strain with the chest rigid and the glottis closed, the blood-pressure is increased more than the heart-rate, and the venous pressure is especially high.

7.	The pulse-rate rises rapidly at first, but usually does not reach its maximum as soon as the blood-pressure does.

(In Lowsley^s experiment the averaee time for reaching the maximum pulse-rate was 35.4 minutes. The average increase of pulse-rate in nine experiments was 51 per minute).

After the maximum rate has been reached, there is not much variation until the muscular effort ceases, when there is a fall to normal, or rarely, to subnormal (Lowsley). The fall of the pulse-rate after exercise is, however, much less rapid than the fall of the blood-pressure. After prolonged rapid muscular exercise, the pulse-rate may persist above normal for a long period of time. There may be a secondary rise “which is probably a reflex effort due to the low blood-pressure of the sub-normal stage” (Lowsley).

8.	Since, after prolonged exertion, the systolic pressure falls more rapidly than the diastolic, there results a low pulse-pressure (Lowsley). At the time of this low pulse-pressure, albumin is frequently found in the urine. An albuminuria due to low blood-pressure has been described by Erlanger and Hooker.

9.	“Rapid exercises, vigorous, fatiguing and exhausting, are followed by a fall of pressure below normal, which lasts longer than after moderate exercise, even if the former is continued for a very short period and the latter for quite a long period of time.” (Lowsley).

10.	“Long-distance running races and similar forms of exhaustive exercise give rise to a serious strain on the heart, as is indicated by the long period of subnormal blood-pressure” (Lowsley).

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 211 —

11.	In hypertrophied hearts in which there is a systolic murmur not due to valvular lesions, the murmur may temporarily disappear after a severe athletic contest. On the other hand, murmurs of this character may appear in the heart, where none were heard before the contest. Barach has called attention to cases of this nature.

12.	After prolonged severe contests arhythmia may appear in the cardiac action. It is possible that this may be due to a mechanical injury to the conducting apparatus; that is, fibrillary tears in the myocardium.

Concerning the morphologic effects of prolonged muscular exercise on the heart, there is less agreement than concerning the immediate physiologic effects.

Acute cardiac dilation may occur during sudden severe muscular effort or after an endurance contest. In the former case, the general contraction of the voluntary muscles quickly forces a large amount of blood toward the heart through the veins; that is, increases venous pressure. At the same time, the muscular contraction reduces the volume of the arteries and arterioles in their substance, to some extent forcing the blood back into the arteries, and thus gives rise to a sudden increase in peripheral resistance. This is further relatively and absolutely augmented by the increase in cardiac activity, both giving a high arterial pressure. During the violent effort the glottis is closed and great expiratory pressure is put on the thorax with the result that intrathoracic pressure is raised. This undoubtedly interferes with free cardiac activity, but nevertheless, may be temporarily compensatory, in that it offers support to the myocardium in its resistance to the increased venous pressure. In spite of the increased intrathoracic pressure, venous-pressure increase puts a strain on the heart-muscle. If its tone be good, the strain stimulates the heart to strong contraction. If not, the heart dilates. Acute dilation is especially frequent after a sudden severe strain. In short speed contests we have similar conditions; but here the muscles, as they rythmically relax, offer a decreased peripheral resistance and greater opportunity for the flow of blood from the heart.

In endurance contests, on the other hand, the respiratory rate is quickened and greater freedom is given to the cardiac action. The venous pressure is less and does not need to be resisted by a high intrathoracic pressure. Indeed, belts, bands and clothing interfering with free breathing are especially liable to put an over-strain on the heart. On the other hand, the prolonged rapid action of the heart brings about a condition of fatigue which lowers the tone and increases the liability to acute dilation. This may result some time after the causative fatiguing contest in a person under only slight exertion at the time of collapse.

Acute cardiac dilation has occurred in three members of Univer-

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 212 —

sity of Wisconsin athletic teams, as compared with one non-athlete in a period of two years. During this period there were about 4,000 male students in attendance during the regular session of the university and not over 200 men active in the major sports. The frequency of acute dilation among the athletes was therefore sixty times as great as among the non-athletes. A report of the cases follows

One case is an example of a heart overworked for several years, finally showing signs of breaking compensation under training and giving away more severely after limited period of rest followed by sudden strain.

From this review of the immediate effects of severe muscular exercise on the heart, we conclude that:

1.	Normally, during severe muscular exertion, there is an increase of pulse-rate, arterial and venous blood-pressure, pulse-pressure and of the systolic output of blood.

2.	In the period immediately following, there is a fall of pulse-rate to normal, and of arterial blood-pressure, pulse-pressure and, frequently, of the diastolic size of the heart to below normal.

3.	increased diastolic distention during violent effort may reach a point beyond the capacity of the heart-muscle to bring about a complete systole. This results in the typical symptoms of acute cardiac dilation. The weakened condition of the cardiac muscle is shown after the cessation of bodily effort by its inability to contract to its normal size or below. This precludes all possibility of obtaining the rest needed after the strain of increased diastolic expansion and systolic contraction prevalent in very active exercise.

4.	Clinically, it is well known that infectious diseases predispose to myocardial weakness and to acute dilatation. Experimentally, de la Camp has shown that starvation, likewise, so predisposes. Some authors doubt if there be non-pathologic hearts with a musculature so weak that it can be strained sufficiently bv muscular exertion to dilate acutely. Case 2 appears to indicate that at least chronic overstrain may weaken the myocardium to this extent.

5.	At present we have no definite means of judging by clinical tests whether or not an untried apparently normal heart is capable of standing the strain of athletic contests. Some weak hearts remain dilated after a relatively slight exertion and are, therefore, clearly without adequate tone to withstand the severe strain. On the other hand, hearts known to be diseased may respond in the normal manner by contracting slightly after the cessation of moderate exercise. Hearts that give distinct systolic murmurs may withstand a Marathon race better than hearts apparently much more normal (Barach).

6.	Extreme care should be given to the examination of the heart before and after moderate exercise in all who desire to enter severe athletic contests. Failure to normal reaction should bar any

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 213 —

one from such contests. Even those withstanding these contests well should have the heart examined at frequent intervals during their training to avoid over-straining. Many men weaken the heart-muscle, instead of strengthening it, by continued overstraining.Riv-iere’s, 1909, observations on the effect of prolonged overstrain on young boys, which he found to result in the production of persistent cardiac changes, should serve as a special warning in care of the young.

7.	Infectious diseases are especially liable to weaken the myocardium. For this reason, severe athletic contests should be avoided by sufferers with, or convalescents from, acute infectious diseases, even of so mild a nature as tonsillitis or grip. “To work a cold off” by severe exercise is dangerous advice.

The question next naturally arises as to the condition of the heart in athletes who pass through one or more seasons of training and contests without obvious symptoms of cardiac trouble.

To determine the extent of cardiac alterations in athletes at the University of Wisconsin, we have made an examination of the hearts of forty-five athletes who have taken part in major sports of the University, and for the sake of control have examined the hearts of seventy non-athletic students. In both cases we have been guided by the desire to pick out men whose social and medical history gives no reason for assuming that extraneous factors have altered the normal structure or functioning of the heart.

Of the thirty-six men examined who have been active in college athletics, all showed cardiac hypertronhy. This was especially marked in most of the prominent college athletes.

Functionally, the hearts of athletes may be grouped into several classes:	(1)	physiologically	hypertrophied	hearts; (2) dilated and

hypertrophied hearts with slow rate of beat and good compensation, sometimes, however, showing some arhythmia or murmur after exercise; (3) dilated and hypertrophied hearts with a pulse-rate greatly increased on slight exertion: (4) dilated and hypertrophied hearts with a murmur before and after exercise, a relatively high pulse-rate, usually much increased by exercise; (5) hearts convalescent from acute dilation, and hearts showing lesions several years after ceasing athletic training.

Our studies show that while acute cardiac dilation of an immediate serious nature is not so frequent as one might expect among college athletes, marked cardiac hypertrophy is the rule rather than the exception, and that in a considerable percentage of cases functional disturbance of a more or less serious nature accompanies the hypertrophy.

The marked cardiac lesions found in so large a proportion of our college athletes present a serious problem, especially at a time

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 214 —

when physical training is extending from the colleges to the secondary schools and the popular idea of a good physical trainer is so often the man who can turn out winning teams. While it is not desirable unduly to restrict healthy sports, on the other hand, the leaders in athletic sports should not be called on to sacrifice too much, the future for the present. The tendency in boys from 14 to 18 to develop cardiac lesions which are transitory, if the heart is not at this time subjected to overstrain, complicates the problem when extended to high-school athletes.

There seems reason to believe that at present there is an increase in cardiovascular disease in this as in most civilized countries. The relations of violent muscular exertion to such diseases should be thoroughly understood. The college athlete represents a type of special interest in this connection. During violent athletic contests he is stimulated by the excitement of the crowd to exert himself far beyond the point of physical comfort. Between seasons and when out of training he is apt to lead a more or less sedentary life, and this becomes usually the case after his athletic career is over.

The effects on the after-life of the members of the college crews at Oxford and at Harvard have given rise to several studies, but the results are not of much value in throwing light on the general problem. They show in general that the crew men have lived a few years longer than would have been expected from mortality tables used by life insurance companies, but accurate medical details are wanting and we have as yet no good data on the life expectations of the picked classes from which the crew men have come. Perhaps the most significant tables are those of the Surgeon-General of the Navy, who reports six deaths in athletes from diseases attributable to athletic overstrain to one in non-athletes among the select lot of young men trained at Annapolis. It seems reasonable to assume that a young man whose athletic training had led to cardiac hypertrophy with some functional disturbance likely to increase when the large heart no longer has exceptional work to do, will be physically handicapped in life, to what extent, careful study of numerous men is necessary to show. It will be found not only in the field of cardiovascular diseases, but also in the deceased resistance which such men show to acute infections such as typhoid fever and pneumonia. Dr. Harlow Brooks in IQ13, as medical officer of a regiment of the National Guard in New York, in which there are manv college athletes from five to fifteen years out of college, has found the health of these men on the whole decidedly inferior to that of the other members of the regiment.

conclusions.

1. Athletic training leads at first to physiologic hypertrophy of the heart; but when prolonged and marked by severe athletic

Digitized by Google
— 215 —

contests it usually leads to hypertrophy plus dilatation of a variable degree, frequently marked by valvular insufficiency.

2.	Functionally, the hypertrophied heart, even when dilated and giving distinct evidence of valvular insufficiency, may prove more fitted to carry the man through a severe athletic contest than a •normal heart would be. On the other hand, acute cardiac dilatation occurs more frequently in athletes and men used to severe muscular strain than in normal men, and the ultimate effects are more prolonged and severe.

3.	There is reason to believe that for normal human activities an “athletic” heart is distinctly disadvantageous.

OUR SEXUAL BIRTHRIGHT.*

By GEORGE V. N. DEARBORN, Professor of Physiology in the Tufts College Medical and Dental Schools, Boston; of the Relations of Body and Mind in the Sargent Normal School for Physical Education, Cambridge; etc.

From the point of view of the law, children (as well as women) formerly, centuries ago, had hardly any rights at all. Women were practically slaves, and their children had in some respects no more rights than slaves; fdr example, the father had in some regions legalized power of life and death over them. Some of you may not realize this,—that in former times the father might legally put his children to death for certain offenses; and the same was true more or less of his wife. As our old world has grown wiser and better, things have improved in general, and on this account all the more it is hard to understand why so very slowly children’s rights have been recognized. Women are in some places (California and England, for instance) getting on, if not honor, and the children’s time is coming.

One chief reason for this deplorable ill-appreciation of the inherent birth-rights of the child is the general ignorance of child-nature. You all know of the books entitled “Little Men” and “Little Women”—just as if children were really “little men” and “little women”! That is an extremely unfortunate idea, and of course those of you who have children must all realize and yet most of you inadequately, how very different children are from real little men and little women. Their whole psychophysical nature is different all the way through. Because, however, the “child is father to the man” (or mother to the woman), our special interest to-day is not really with the children, but rather with our entire population. What I have to say does not concern children alone, and indeed children only as they are related to the adults which grow out of them.

* A plea made before the Prospect Union, Cambridge. Sunday, March 22, 1914.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
— 216 —

Children anon certainly will be men and women*, but there is a most dangerous space of time between, the period of puberty or adolescence.

The meaning of the term “birth-right” I need not point out. It is something involved in the very fact of our being born. Procreation of children involves fundamental obligations, actual, practical obligations which no moral man can escape,—obligations to provide food, shelter, clothing, education, religion, above all to provide happiness and the wisdom of life whereby alone happiness comes. The wisdom of life, then, is a birth-right, and in a sense is the sole road to happiness. The United States Constitution, as you know, speaks of “the pursuit of happiness,” but of course you cannot “pursue” happiness. The more you “pursue” happiness, the more it escapes you. You have got to live happiness. The reason why happiness cannot be gone after deliberately, however, we cannot properly take the time to adequately describe this afternoon.

The wisdom of how to live was handed down from generation to generation for unnumbered ages before man ever learned to scratch his rude language-symbols on the walls of his cave homes. Half a million years ago or more or less, when men were just developing out of some animal like the apes, children were certainly told by their parents what to do and how to live; perhaps they were told then, indeed, better than they are to-day! Why is it that such basal wisdom has been allowed to lapse? Knowledge in general has not caught up with the complexity of our civilization. Regarding sexual matters especially it is certainly true that knowledge as taught to the children has not caught up with the complexity of things, and that is the reason why there is so much agitation at present regarding these ancient yet ever new sexual matters. We have a large amount of making-up to do as to what to tell our children about how to live. Our educational system (now “about to be reformed”) is too superficial, too narrow, too intellectual, too artificial. It is in general mere knowledge and not wisdom, skims the surface but does not go at all deep into humanity. You get facts only, and not wisdom how to live, at school. Not even knowledge of man’s most precious and most practically important and most essential things is taught to the child in school—knowledge of himself, knowledge of his fellows, male and female, and knowledge of his fundamental and inevitable relationships to them. Plenty (more than plenty) of facts, but infinitely too little of the feelings and emotions and the nature of will! though these, and not those, are the wellsprings of our being, and the incentives and the motives of our lives, personal and social. Of all feelings and willings, none certainly are so entirely indispensible to a happy and successful life as love, in one form or another.

Digitized by
— 217 —

The birth-right, then, to which particularly I ask your brief attention this afternoon, is the right, by the very fact of being procreated and born, to an understanding of love,—starting, if you please, with our mother’s cuddling to her breast and ending if it end at all, in God himself. We teach our children the differential calculus, sometimes, and invertebrate paleontology, and Greek, and algebra almost to nausea, but never a thoughtful and systematic word as to how to live well and to be happy,—the ancient wisdom of the happy home, without which life is really of little use. To the great mass of men and women this last statement to which many might demur, is perfectly true, for in philosophy as in poetry “it is love that makes the World go ’round.” Those who deny it, either do not know whereof they speak or speak whereof they do not know.

We have heard of late a great deal of talk about “eugenics,” or race-improvement, as you know the word to mean. Now, I take it that there is much to be done before we come to eugenics, and that by the time that much has been done, eugenics will take care of itself. My plea, then, to you, ladies and gentlemen, and to all ladies and gentlemen, week-days and Sundays, is the trite but ever new plea for love-education some way, anyway, and new way, even any old way, but somehow, old or new, education for all who are in any way concerned (and who are not, save Grandma and Grandpa) !

Everyone is indeed concerned in this most important present-day interest. It is not for the children only, for emphasis I repeat, save as they are the future adults. The younger children know nothing of sex, or else they usually know of it wrongly; and the children’s parents cannot teach them for they do not know it themselves. It is only here and there that there is heard singing itself a verse of this great life-chorus, learned by chance or by dire experience, and then frequently for too late to be of any personal use, for we live our experiences but once. This is indeed the true tragedy of our general ignorance about essential sexual matters:— that knowledge by experience usually comes too late, for we must still remember that we live here but once. You cannot bring up the old educational theory (Rousseau’s for example) of natural punishment in regard to these things, you surely would not say, “Let the child learn these matters by experience.” It would be just like letting little children play with scissors: while they are learning by experience to handle the scissors they would perhaps put an eye out, and this could never be restored. It would be like the old reproach of children and matches: if we let a child play with matches and “learn by experience,” he is liable to set himself on fire. It is a crime, of course, that so many children are burned to death by being left alone with matches, and it is strange that some women never learn until too late, of the tremendous attraction that exists between

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 218 —

children and fire. Yet our sons, yes, and our very daughters, are getting their hearts burned to death and the eyes of their one life's happiness put out all “about us every day.

“Dead, your Majesty. Dead, my lords and gentlemen. Dead, Right Reverends and Wrong Reverends of every order. Dead, men and women, born with Heavenly compassion in your hearts. And dying thus about us every day!” These familiar words of the master novelist apply, metaphorically used, quite as well to sexual unfortunates—and with far less excuse in the ordering of the social life.

It is not only a matter of sexual immorality in young people. The whole divorce evil, as an evil, I am firmly convinced, will become a thing of the past when the public learns the physiology and the psychology of sex. Of course, here and there is a case of in-compatability or crime, but look even through the newspapers and see what a large proportion of suits for divorce are really due to the misunderstanding and ignorance of sexual matters, largely psychological rather than physiological. The traditional prudery of the last hundred and fifty years is certainly passing, no w-a-days; this one thing has already really been accomplished, in part at least: the first thing. This very word “sexual” is a good illustration: ten years ago no one would have thought of putting the word “sexual” on a large bulletin in front of a club house on a main street like this. Even now, still, the word “sexual” has a forbidding sound I in the minds of a great many people. That people are beginning to ! talk about these things is a sign, however, that the prudery is pass- 1 ing. The problem now (a two-fold problem) is

1.	How convince the tax-payers of the infinite necessity of education in the basal relations of life, and

2.	How conduct this inevitable branch of education to the best advantage of all concerned.

This necessary education of the great public must be done safely and sanely, but it must be done thoroughly. This campaign of in-dispensible sexual education is not for the children, primarily, but for us all, and for this reason:—Teachers adequate in tact, knowledge, and numbers do not exist at present in the United States or anywhere else. When they do exist, “eugenics” will take care of itself as well as it ever can be taken care of. We are not cattle, merely, to be bred by rule. We are not cattle, but free agents who fall in love: we do not know how or why: that is all there is to it. But nothing under the heavens can check or control men and women under normal conditions from falling in love. Physicians who so often hear in consultation the wail of the men and especially of the young women “If I had only known!” realize how intensely, urgent this problem is. We all know cases of young women whose lives

Digitized by Google
— 219 —

have been ruined simply from lack of a little definite information, knowledge a ten-minute talk might have imparted.

What the world needs, then, most, is not “race-betterment," but race-efficiency and universal and personal happiness. Few as yet realize how much sex knowledge will further these two great ends (really one) of efficiency and happiness.

In my deliberate opinion, a single traditional error, based at first on the ancient biological brutality, uncorrected by knowledge, and as yet not civilized away, is greatly at the basis of the social sexual mischief, and that error is the assumed intellectual and general inferiority of ivoman. I have little interest in women's suffrage, and only wonder and pity for the suffragette, but I do thoroughly believe, as a student of human nature, that this old error and wrong and now the insult of the ages, coming down from man's universal savagery, is at the bottom of many of our life's miseries, especially its urgent sexual miseries. The present widespread, perhaps more or less subconscious, notion that man is properly superior in a degree to woman exists in many minds (in women's minds as well as in men's) who by any means perhaps could never be made to admit it, and yet whose sexual behavior is determined by this scarcely recognized belief. Cultured and learned men and women as well as their ruder fellows really suppose still that women are, properly and scientifically speaking, in essential respects inferior to men. This certainly is a tremendous mistake, both in fact and in consequences. We may not stop here to trace the interesting history of this delusion coming down from an early human period. Suffice it to say at this time and place, that the notion is a still uncorrected relice of the historical prejudice comir»~ down from the days when women were de jure as well as de facto the slaves of men, at first of many and then gone, to do with as they pleased. It was not a matter of ribs, so to say, but of laws, rules of expedient behavior. So strong is the sexual appeal oftentimes to women that there has never been adequate revolt, effective revolution, against this monstrous presumption that women are men's inferiors. There is in leading communities such a large excess of young women over young men, the competition is so strong, and women therefore so glad to have husbands that sometimes they are not so particular as they else might be, and actually do not object for the most part to being considered tacitly man's “inferiors." To this day, therefore, women are the common victims still; while the social system makes the men too frequently also the victims of themselves and of their women. This matter is too complex for adequate exposition at this time.

I	may not take the time now to enlaree upon the scientific fact, true beyond cavil, that women are fully men's equals in our vital

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 220 —

scheme. They are different because of necessity they are complementary to men, but in no sense (save in mere muscular force) a re they inferior. Logic is not all, and whatever women lack in logic they make up otherwise. The finer feelings and the finer emotions compensate their lack of logic and of their powers of mechanical reasoning.

This really extremely vital error has gone on long enough. It is “up to” science to smash it and to replace it with the scientific truth. It is part of our children's and our own birth-right to know the psychologic truth, especially that truth which is vitally important in the conduct and happiness of our lives.

One result, sooner or later, of an universal appreciation of the fact that the female is fully the equal of the male, as dignified in the scale of values in life as he, and therefore not in any degree to be longer his slave or his toy, would be the abolition of the double standard of chastity, an almost unaccountable reproach, in our cities especially. Why men should be allowed, by almost universal consent, to be unchaste and women should be most strongly condemned for being unchaste, is one of the things that depends on this supposed inferiority of women, coming down from our remote brute past. Whence came this monstrous manner of judging the relations of men and women? Obviously from a time when women were legally the slaves of men. But social custom has not yet, strangely enough, seen the inherent absurdity of this double standard. Man's honor should be as sacred as a woman's, and man's body as inviolate, and when it is so considered, and behavior has been altered to accord, much of the sexual wrong will be forever past into the limbo of the world's outgrown mistakes. -Many wholly untrue suppositions underlie men's unchastity, as others underlie that of women. There is no time nor for discussion of this. Suffice it to say, that the physiologists all know how very great is the practical advantage,, in the struggle for success (requiring all one's energy, initiative, and endurance) to be chaste in body and in mind and to be free from venereal infection. If you could be in the hospitals for a while and see the great numbers of capable men and women who are “laid up” at great cost of time and money on account of venereal infection, you would begin to realize what a vast problem this venereal problem is. Physiologists can tell you, too, and make it plain so that none can fail to understand, the necessary chemical and nervous conditions of manly excellence.

Education, real, active education, on sexual matters is positively necessary therefore to forever abolish from men's minds and from women's hearts:

1.	The traditional “inferiority of women;”

2.	The double standard of sexual ethics;

Digitized by (^.ooQle
— 221 —

3-	Numerous errors of sexual fact;

4.	Education on sexual matters is necessary in order to point out to men and women alike that sexual incontinence is an index of a lack of personal culture; that it is essentially clumsiness, inefficiency, stupidity, failure, brutishness as contrasted with humanity. Continence is not, then, only a matter of morals, but fundamentally a matter of practical value measurable often in dollars and cents, as well as in self-respect and manhood and womanhood, about which I need not preach. Moreover, incontinence can be made unfashionable just as drunkenness is unfashionable. There is a great field there, and much good could be done by making sexual immorality unfashionable. At the present time it is certainly more or less fashionable, to the common woe and degradation.

The despoiler of girls or of boys (for the girls seduce the boys only less often than the boys seduce the girls) is morally and mentally like the victim in bodily deformity in Edward Markham’s and Millet’s “Man with the Hoe;” and we may likewise sing:

“Through this dread shape the suffering ages look;

Time’s tragedy is in that aching stoop;

Through th!s dread shape humanity betrayed,

Plundered, profaned, and disinherited,

•Cries protest to the judges of the world,

A protest that is also prophecy.

O, masters, lords, and rulers in all lands.

Is this the handiwork you give to God,

This monstrous thing distorted and soul-quenched?

How will you ever straighten up this shape;

Touch it again with immortality;

Give back the upward looking and the light;

Rebuild in it the music and the dream;

Make right the immemorial infamies;

Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes?”

Let us try to do our little part to “rebuild in it the music and the dream”—love’s eternal dream, the sweetest in the world!

Above are some of the pressing principles of sexual normality. The mere facts are legion—simple facts of anatomy, of physiology, and of psychology especially. Education, sexual education, after a time would make both the fundamental principles and the simple but essential facts common knowledge. Interest, which is half and more in the getting of knowledge, is present already: everyone who is normal is interested in sexual matters, whether they say so or not, and one of our American authorities on sexual mental diseases (Brill) 'has said that the best evidence that there is something wrong in a patient’s sexual life “is an apparent absence of sexual factors.” But how accomplish this necessary and inevitable education? you are sure to ask, and as soon as possible? All that is lacking for this coming great “uplift” is popular demand from the tax-payers and the mere matter of practical arrangements.

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 222 —

I	am no “reformer,” boisterous for instantaneous reform, for the big, teeming old World is hard to change, either slowly or all at once. Man is 800,000 years old, so they say, and it is indeed hard to teach so very, very old a dog new tricks. But this sexual need crieth loudly in the wilderness of sexual wrong, and is so easily satisfied, could we all only get together! Would I might wax eloquent for its necessity! God of our fathers, is there no need ? But I can only sing my own trite and humble plan, familiar but as yet not realized, in its importance. Progress is certainly obvious, but it is hidden, owing to the very nature of the subject.

First Educational Suggestion. Our public school teachers do seem fit, even thus early in the sexual educational campaign, to tell most boys and girls up to the age of six or eight years, where babies come from. It is a matter of natural curiosity and every child not already informed is sure to ask where babies come from,—himself, his chums, his parents, or someone else. Children up to the ages of six or seven years do not know this oftentimes, and I am sure that I cannot see why that question should not be answered systematically by the teachers. As little as possible more than this, it seems to me, and as to sexual personal relations nothing, should be taught at present in the public schools.. Mothers and fathers should do this for their children, for all could readily do so who are not mere prudes rather than real men and women; yet even this many parents ignore or shirk.

Second Educational Suggestion. At puberty or a year or so before (11 for girls, 13 for boys) every girl and every boy must be told the practical aspects, especially the dangers, of the sexual life and the deep and sometimes overwhelming nature of love. If you want to know why they must be told this thing, just read the newspapers and read also between the lines. We wish no “marriages at 17” and very few at 19, but every girl and boy must know what marriage really means by then, and the cruelty of the sexual claws, sometimes.

Third Educational Suggestion. The fact obviously is that parents do not know how to give this knowledge, so strong is the old-time prudery and so utterly ignorant are they of the simple principles and essential facts themselves. They have had, remember, no chance as yet to get them. The teachers in our schools are at present clearly out of the question for this purpose, i. e., the rank and file of our half million public school teachers. Not one in a thousand of these has requisite knowledge, and not one in a hundred the tact not to do more harm than good. But adequate instructors can be readily made out of this multitude of material as soon as we really try to make it.

Fourth Educational Suggestion or inquiry. Where and who

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— sn-

are the school boards in our towns and cities that they do not at once institute lessons to teach the parents what all both need and wish to know? Nine out of every ten couples would be greatly happier themselves if they could have such instruction as an informed psychologist could give them quickly, and would .live more happily together, with deeper satisfaction with life. And they would then have the wisdom of life which they could teach to their children, increasing their happiness in turn.

Fifth Educational Inquiry. Where and who are the normal school principals who do not see that every normal student (our children’s future teochers) gets this sex-knowledge (if not this tact) so that she may do her duty by the boys and girls whom she is hired to teach, as soon as she knows how to do it properly. Ariel why are not the teachers who are already teaching, taught what they need to know on these all-essential matters? Our school buildings, paid for by our taxes, are not half used as yet; they are closed to the essential truths of life.

Why continue to let the boys and girls “teach” themselves regarding sexual structures, sexual processes mental and physical, and sexual consequences? We need not discuss (because alas! we all know only too well) what they “learn” or how they learn it. Suffice it to say, that sexual nature is strong often to absolute tyranny, and learn it most of them will, somehow. Few, certainly, very few, realize, save those who are caught, now subtle, how widespread, and how strangely strong and cruel and irresistible is the trap of sexuality which Mother Nature has spread along our short but changeful path to insure the peopling of the earth. Few realize how many easy roads of entrance there are to this all-important sexual trap; how easy it is to get in; how almost impossible at times it is to stop going on; and 'how forbiddingly hard it is to get out unscarred of this maze of this universal trap of sexual passion. Few indeed of the strongly sexed escape its toils who understand its strength and intricacy. How then can we expect our bays an 1 girls to avoid its miseries as long as they go stumbling in the dark, groping unheeded, always, for guidance and for light? All this wisdom of life, all this sexual knowledge, is most certainly a birth-right. When are we all going to claim it?

Digitized by A^OOQle
— 394 —

ATHLETIC MARCH IN “DOUBLE-QUICK” AND CALISTHENICS FOR BOYS, ILLUSTRATING SOME OF THEIR FAVORITE GAMES.

For Gymnastic Exhibition at MetHIl High School, Chicago. Arranged by

J. CERMAK.

(Remark:—This “athletic march'' in a more elaborate form was composed originally by the author as a prelude to a “boxing drill" for a class, sent to the gymnastic festivities in Prague 1912. But as the members of the class were from different parts of U. S., and unable to come to Chicago for a longer stay, the author was obliged to present the march in this simplified form, so that it could be mastered in a short time on the deck of a steamer. Last fall it was executed in our high school gymnasium entertainment in connection with the calisthenics mentioned above.)

Enter in a single file. 8 performers.

Mark time 8 counts and on the 5th count face forward.

March forward and march to the rear on 7th and 8th count (military way). March to original places on 7th and 8th count turn to the rear, and with two stamps close heels.

Music plays 8 counts introduction—on the 5th count bend arms to thrust—elbows backward, fists above the hips.

Running on toes with moderate elevation of heels.

During all the running exercises arms are bent.

Music: “Schottish"—4 steps to one measure, or one step on e&ch Ya note.

(Note, that the half-tones, illustrating different athletic positions, are marked with Roman, and the drawings illustrating marching, are marked with Arabic numerals.)

PART I.

A.

1.	Left 4s Ya wheel right and the right 4s 4 steps forward. (Fig. 1.) One measure.

2.	Left 4s after finishing Ya wheel 4 steps forward and right 4s Ya wheel to the right. Second measure.

Repeat this change 4 times, (8 measures) until all return to their original places. The wheeling starts always by the left 4s. (Fig. 2.)

B. STARTS FOR RUNNING.

First measure. On the first note of the 1st measure all drop quickly to a “crouching start," on the right knee. (Fig. I.) Remain one measure.

Second measure. Position “set." (Fig. II.) One measure.

Third and fourth measures. Run forward, beginning with the

Digitized by U.ooQle
— 225

Digitized by L.OO'
— 226 —

right foot, making six steps. On the third note of the 4th measure raise arms upward and swing the left foot forward, as high as possible. On the fourth note with a hop on the right foot make a quick turn to the right, arms remain upward. After the turn the left foot will be in position backward. (Fig. III.)

Fifth measure. Drop to “crouching” position again on the left knee. Remain one measure.

Sixth measure. “Set” one measure.

Seventh and eighth measures. Run forward beginning with the left foot. On the last note jump from left on the right foot at the same time executing 3^ turn to the left.

PART. 11.

A.

First and second measures. All run forward 4 steps and with 4 steps in place JA turn to the left.

Third and fourth measures. Run forward (to the original places) 4 steps and with 4 steps in place Y* turn to the left.

The participants are “counted off” 1st and 2nd.

Fifth and sixth measures. First: 8 steps forward; Second: repeat exercise 1, 4 steps forward and with 4 steps in place Y* turn to the left.

Seventh and eighth measures. First: with 4 steps in place Y turn to the left and on the last measure finish with 3 stamps; Second:

4	steps to their original places and with 3 steps in place >4 turn to the left (accent the last step.) (Fig. 3.)

B. PITCHER AND CATCHER.

First measure. First: lunge backward right, and raise the left leg forward inward (knee bent.) By a backward circle, raise right hand above the right shoulder, and close left hand on the right. (“Winding up” for pitching.) (Fig. IV.); Second: hop to side-straddle position, bend knees half way, and place hands on the knees (“catcher”) (Fig. VII.)

Second measure. First: lunge forward left, swing right arm forward (pitch) left arm backward (Fig. V.); Second: jump upward with arms extension upward (catching the ball) and lower closed hands on the chest, elbows sideways (Fig. VIII.)

Third measure. First: change position of knees to a lunging position backward, move the right arm backward, and bend left arm height of the head; Second: lunge forward inward right, move left arm backward and right hand touching floor in front of the right foot (“out!”) (Fig. IX.)

Fourth measure. Both resume fundamental position.

Fifth and sixth measures. First: 4 steps forward and 4 steps

Digitized by t^ooQie
Digitized by t^ooQle
— 228 —

in place; Second: 4 steps forward and with 4 steps in place 34 turn to the left. (Thus forming one rank again, facing to the original place.)

Seventh and eighth measures. 4 steps forward (to the original places) and with 4 steps in place 34 turn to the left.

PART. III.

A.

First and second measures. First “twos” from the right end 34 turn to the left (2 steps) and run 6 steps forward. Second “twos” run 2 steps forward, 34 turn to the left and 4 steps forward. Third “twos” 4 steps forward, 34 turn to the left and 2 steps forward. Eighth “twos” six steps forward and 34 turn to the left. (Fig. 4.) The change in 2 measures. Repeat 4 times, always starting from the right end, until on the last note of the 8th measure all are in their original places again.

B.

The following change will be described for the left “4s” only— the right executing the same opposite:	Man	next to the centre, one

step forward, but at the same time executes 34 turn to the left, and runs 3 steps forward. Second: two steps forward, 34 turn left with the 2d step and 2 steps forward. Third: three steps forward, 34 turn with the 3d step and one step forward. The 4th 4 steps forward and with the last step 34 turn to the left. (Fig. 5.) Remark :—The turn is executed quickly, before the stepping foot is planted on the ground.

Second measure. 4 steps in place.

Third measure. Ranks of 4, facing opposite direction (like in Fig. 5) 4 steps forward.

Fourth measure. On the first note of the 4th measure (when the landing on the left foot) swing the right leg forward. On the 4th note of the same measure with a hop on the left foot, make a quick 34 turn to the left. On the third note land on the right foot, on the 4th note on the left foot, (making two steps in place on the last two notes.)

Fifth measure. 4 steps forward beginning with the right foot.

Sixth measure. On the 1st note of the 6th measure swing the left foot forward, and on the 4th note with a hop on the right foot, make a quick 34 turn to the right. On the 3d note step with the left, on the 4th note step with the right.

Seventh and eighth measures. The inner members of each rank run outward in a semi-circle and on the last 2 notes face forward. The outer mark time 8 steps. (Fig. 6.)

Digitized by
C.	ANCIENT AND MODERN DISCOBOLUS.

First and second measures. Point left foot forward, raise arms forward inward (imitating holding the discus in vertical position, left hand on top. (Fig. X.)

Third and fourth measures. Position of Discobolus before throwing. (Fig. XI.)

Fifth measures. Lunge forward left, raise right arm forward oblique upward, left arm backward. (Fig. XII.)

Sixth measure, ^turn to the right on heels, and change position of arms.

Seventh measure. On the first 2 notes bend trunk forward (imitating picking up another discus) on the second 2 notes raise the trunk and lower arms. (Fingers of the right hand closed halfway, as if holding a discus.)

Eighth measure. First 2 notes stride forward left; on second 2 notes V2 turn to the right and close heels with the right foot.

D.	MODERN FORM.

First and second measures. Lunge backward right, raise right arm sideward, fingers closed half-way, as if holding a discus in a horizontal position, arm forward, palm downward. (Fig. XIII.)

Third and fourth measures. On the first 2 notes of the third measure turn trunk to the left as far as possible and bend right arm in front of the chest, left arm remaining in position. On the second 2 notes resume first position. Repeat the same in fourth measure.

Fifth measure. With 4 quick steps in place, beginning with the right foot, complete turn to the left—arms remaining in position. (Fig. XIV.) (First turn, landing on the right foot.)

Sixth measure. After the turn land on the right foot, lean forward, right arm extended forward, left backward—left leg slightly bent, raised backward. (Fig. XV.)

Seventh measure. On the first 2 notes kneel left, move right arm backward, bend left arm height of forehead (Fig. XVI.) On the second 2 notes straighten knees and at the same time make V* turn to the left, raising left arm obliquely upward, right arm backward.

Eighth measure. On the first 2 notes stride forward right, on the second 2 notes turn Y2 turn left, lower arms and close heels with the left.

First and second measures. The inners 8 steps in half a circle to their places in the middle of the rank.

From third to eighth rrieasure. Repeat the exercises of the first two measures of exercise B., (Fig. 7, 8 and 9) until all come to their original places in a front rank.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 230 —

PART IV.

A.

(Remark:—It is a common custom to count off the pupils from the right to the left, but the artist making these drawings had his own way of “counting off” from the left end.)

Form a circle in an open order from a front rank in the following manner:

The rank—as soon as the participants come to their places (Fig. 9) starts to wheel to the left. No. 1, as soon as the ranks starts to wheel, makes a 34 turn to the right and runs forward 7 steps, where he marks time until all get to position (28 counts.) No. 2 wheels with the rest 4 steps, then makes 34 turn right and six steps forward, mark time. No. 3 makes 8 steps in a wheel with the rest, makes a 34 turn right and five steps forward, mark time. No. 4 12 steps in a wheel, turn and four steps forward. No. 5 16 steps in a wheel, 34 turn right and 3 steps forward. No. 6 20 steps in a wheel, 34 turn right and 2 steps forward. No. 7 24 steps in a wheel, 34 turn right and one step forward. No. 8 28 steps in a circle and on reaching his place, makes 34 turn to the right (all faces outward, away from centre). On the last measure, all stamp 3 times and halt. (Fig. 10.) The change in 8 measures. (All, on reaching places, mark double-quick time until on the 8th measure all finish with 3 stamps.)

B.	SHOT put.

First measure. Lunge backward right, bend right arm, like in a shot-put, raise left arm forward, left foot pointing forward. (Fig. XVII.)

Second measure. On the first 2 notes extend the right arm upward and on the second 2 notes bend the arm again.

Third and fourth measures. On the first 2 notes of the 3d measure, turn the trunk to the right and the left foot points forward inward. On the second 2 notes resume position. Repeat the same in the fourth measure.

Fifth and sixth measures. With a jump lunge forward right, extend the right arm forward and left arm backward. (Fig. XVIII.) Remain in position 2 measures.

Seventh measure. On the first 2 notes 34 turn to the left, raise left arm oblique upward and lower right arm backward. On the second 2 notes bend forward as if picking up another shot.

Eighth measure. Raise the trunk, lower arms and stride forward right. On the second 2 notes make /4 turn to the left, and close heels with the left.

Digitized by LrOOQle
231

Digitized by Google
— 232 —

C.	SECOND FORM.

First measure. Lunge backward right, bend right arm, left arm forward. (Same position like fig. XVII.)

Second measure. Extend right arm upward and bend.

Third and fourth measures. Raise the left foot sideward (Fig. XIX) and lower. Repeat twice—each movement 2 notes.

Fifth measure. Leap forward to deep knee-bending position— arms stationary. (Fig. XX.)

Sixth measure. Leap forward with a Y* turn to the left, landing on the right foot, extend arms sideways, left leg raised backward. (Fig. XXI.) In this position the left flank is turned toward the centre of the ring.

Seventh measure. On the first 2 notes straighten the body, make Yz turn to the left and step forward with the left foot. At the same time lower arms. On the second 2 notes step forward right.

Eighth measure. Close heels with the left.

(Remark:—All finish facing centre of the ring, except No. 8., who makes a % turn to the left (right flank toward the centre) and in the next measure starts running in a circle to the right.

D.

Change the ring to a front rank again in the following manner: (Fig. 11) No. 8 runs in a circle to his original place (28 steps). No. 7 1 step toward centre, Y\ turn to the left and runs in a circle with No. 8. All the rest make just as many steps toward the centre as they have made before, (running outward) and on reaching their places, make a Ya turn left, thus joining the rest. The front rank is formed in 7 measures (28 counts) and on the last measure all run to places, in an open order for the calisthenics and halt.

(To be concluded.)

THE ANGELUS OF MILLAIS.

(Vouched for as an essay by a New York school boy precisely as given here.)

This picture was painted by Malay. It contains a man and a church steeple. The man and woman are very poor, they have been digging potatoes because they need them to live on. The potatoes look very small. Just at sunset they hear a bell ring, it is the An-gellus, it means they must pray. So they bow their heads and pray for bigger potatoes.—Lippincott’s.

Digitized by Google
— 83S —

EFFICIENCY TEST FOR BOYS IN THE LAKE VIEW HIGH SCHOOL, CHICAGO, ILL.

By EMIL, GROENER, Chicago, 111.

The greatest interest and general enthusiasm amongst the pupils of the Lake View High School is aroused by two events—the Field Day, in which all pupils of both sexes participate; and the Efficiency Test, which up to the present time has been arranged for boys only.

As shown in the scale later on, the requirements for this test are by no means low, for two reasons:—to make it a great honor to succeed in getting one of the coveted prizes, and to cause the participants to prepare themselves through hard, all-around work. Four weeks are allowed for special preparation during which time the use of the gymnasium, under the direction of the physical director, is granted three afternoons weekly.

The tests are given during the regular gymnasium periods and after school hours. As all the boys take part, inspiring scenes of friendly combats are to be seen. Boys of all classes are endeavoring to improve their marks and to get the necessary number of points in the events in which they are weak. And great is the joy when after hard work a boy succeeds in clearing the bar at the necessary height or putting the shot the desired distance or makes his required record in any of the other events. Following are the regulations that govern this test:

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, L. V. H. S. BOYS* EFFICIENCY

TEST, I914.

1.	All boys are divided into two groups according to age, juniors and seniors.

2.	Juniors are boys whose i6th birthday does not come before April 1st, 1914.

Seniors are boys who have already oassed their 16th birthday, or whose 16th birthday comes before April 1st, 1914.

3.	Events.

a)	Running high jump, b) Three standing jumps,

c)	Shot-put.	d)	Pull-up on the horizontal bar.

e)	72-yard dash. (One lap.)

4.	Every contestant must participate in all five events.

5.	Points; from 5-100, for the performance in each event are shown in the scale. Less than 5 points, i. e., fractions of 5 points, are not considered.

6.	Those scoring a total of 250 points will receive a bronze button; those scoring a total of 350 points will receive a silver button; those scoring a total of 450 points will receive a gold button; provided further that the score in each event is at least 40 points.

Digitized by LrOOQle
>int

5

io

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

50

55

60

65

70

75

80

85

90

95

00

)int

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

50

55

60

65

7o

75

80

85

9o

JUNIORS.

Jump 3 ft. Jump 8 lb.		Shot-put  18'	Pull-ups. 72-yd. dash		
3' 5'’	1 6’6”				
3’ 6”	17’	20’	5 times	12.4	Sec.
3’ 7”	17’ 6” 18-’	22’			
3’ 8” 3’ 9"		24’	6 times	12.3	Sec.
	18’ 6”	25’  26’			
3’ 10" 3’ 11”	19’  16’ 6”		7 times	12.2	Sec.
		27’  28’			
4’	20’		8 times	12.1	Sec.
4’ 1”	20’ 6”	29’			
4’ 2”	21’	30’	9 times	12.0	Sec.
4’ 3”	21’ 6”	3i’			
4’ 4”	22’	32’	10 times	11.4	Sec.
4’ 5”	22’ 6”	33’			
,9 S'9  4 °	23’	34’  35’	11 times	ii-3	Sec.
4' 7”	23’ 6”				
4’ S'’	24’	36’	12 times	n-3	Sec.
4’ 9”	24’ 6”	37’  30’			
4’ 10”	25’		13 times	11.1	Sec.
4’ 11”	25’ 6”	40’			
5	26’	40’	14 times	II.O	Sec.

SENIORS.

3’ 8"	20’ 6”	18’				
3’ 9”	21’	2C’	6	times	12.1	Sec.
3’ 10 ’ 3’ 11”	21’ 6”	22’				
	22’	24’	7	times	12.0	Sec.
4’	22’ 6”	25’				
4’ 1”	23’	26’	8	times	11.4	Sec.
4’ 2”	23’ 6”	27’				
4’ 3”	24’	28’	9	times		Sec.
4’ 4”	24’ 6”	29’				Sec.
4’ 5”	25	30’	10	times	11.2	
4’ 6"	25’ 6”	31’				Sec.
4’ 7”	26’	32’	11	times	11.1	
4’ 8”	26’ 6”	35’				
4’ 9”	27’  27’ 6”	34’	12	times	11.0	Sec.
4’ 10”		35’				
4’ 11"	28’	36'	13	times	10.4	Sec.
w 9  D	28’ 6”	• 37’ 38’  39’  40’				
5’ 1”	29’		14	times	10.3	Sec.
5’ 2”	29’ 6”			times		Sec.
5’ 3”	30’		15		10.2	

Digitized by

Google
— 235 —

RESULTS.

Seniors.	Gold button 1. Silver button 4. Bronze button 10.
Juniors.	Silver button 7. Bronze button 23.
	SENIOR RECORDS.
Pull-up.	20 times.
High Jump. 5ft. 3in.  Three standing Jumps. 28ft.	
Shot-put.	(12 ib.). 35ft.
72 yard Dash. 10.1.	
	JUNIOR RECORDS.
Pull-up.	14 times..

High Jump. 5ft. 2in.

Three standing Jumps. 26ft.

Shot-put. (8 lb.) 42ft.

72	yard	10.2.

At the out-door Field Day the Athletic Competition is in four groups—considering height, weight and age in the division of athletics. While this is a more equitable basis of division than that used in the Efficiency Test, yet the leeway of 100 points allowed between one button and the next seems to be sufficient to make the opportunity for all a fair one.

ATHLETICS AND THE COLLEGE.*

By C. A. STEWART.

The abolition of all intercollegiate athletic contests involves the destruction of many phases of undergraduate life very dear to the college man. To mention the subject seriously is to brave the epithet 'old fogey/ and to hear the scornful laugh of those who believe that nothing can successfully assail the position of intercollegiate athletics as one of the most valuable features of college life. Qt is a fact, however, that many thoughtful men, occupying positions of influence in college administration, are at present contemplating with alarm abuses which have crept into this phase of undergraduate activity,—abuses which to them seem so serious and so deeply rooted as to Justify the abolition of the whole system of intercollegiate contests//

( These abuses have nothing to do with the roughness of some of

* Printed by kind permission of the publishers of The Atlantic Monthly. See also the May issue of Mind and Body.

Digitized by C,ooQle
— 236 —

the games, or with the conflict between play and work; they have to do with the pernicious influence of athletics upon the moral life of the whole undergraduate body^[Participation college athletics may indeed teach control of temper, abstinence from dissipation, and willingness to subordinate one's self to the efficient working of an organization; but it also teaches trickery and deceit. } Training for a college team in these days furnishes a Fagin-likeTfrill in complex dishonesty which far overbalances any benefits. At least that is the belief of many careful observers,—and it is a belief which experience as a student and a teacher in three universities, and an intimate acquaintanceship with athletics in a score of others have convinced me to be well-founded.

In competition among gentlemen there is no place for the man who ‘stacks' the cards and signals his partner across the table; who deliberately miscalls the score at tennis, or who picks his ball out of a bad lie on the golf links. He is barred from reputable clubs, and is not welcomed in respectable society. Even the professional gambler respects fair play, and repudiates the ‘crooked game.' Yet college men, so often the soul of honor in all their other activities, see no wrong in deliberately and slyly violating in football, baseball, and kindred sports any rule which may diminish their chances of victory?; A few illustrations will make this clearer.

To weaken the opposing side by ‘putting out' its strongest players is a common practice in football, lit may be done legitimately by concentrating the attack upon one man until exhaustion forces him to give way to a substitute; but in actual fact few strong players leave the game for this reason; they are more often temporarily disabled by a kick in the ribs, a knee thrust into the stomach, or a twist of the neck slyly given under cover of the play. ^Gleeful discussion of the success of such tactics can be heard among the players after many intercollegiate contest?? The progress of every football game is interrupted by the referee's penalizing first one side, then the other for ‘holding,'—an unfair use of the hands and arms. Every such penalty means that some one has cheated, whether involuntarily or with deliberation, yet the spectators make no comment, and in college circles the guilty players lose standing only in so far as the coach scolds them for being caught.

Not many years ago I was watching the football practice at a well-known eastern university. The coach was a graduate of the university, and a mature business man of good repute, and I had heard members of the faculty express satisfaction that the students were going to be in the hands of so reliable a man. I saw this coach drilling the linemen in an illegal play, the essence of which was to swing the fist violently into the opponent's face. After some minutes he vented his disgust with an awkward pupil in these words:

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 237 —

‘Not that way, not that way, you dub! You have got to be nifty to get away with that play/

I	see no objection to one man’s using his fist upon another, provided that it be part of the game. I see every objection to teaching a boy to ‘be nifty and get away with it/

pin a basket-ball game it sometimes happens that a player gets theH5all close to the basket. None of his opponents is between him and the goal, and there is no chance for any one to get in front of him to block his throw in a legitimate way. The only defense is to rush at him from behind, and to shove him violently enough to spoil his aim. Such a play is a foul under the rules, but it is made time and again, because the well-trained player reasons thus:—

‘If I do not shove this man, he will almost certainly shoot a goal. If I do, he will not get the goal, and there is a chance that the referee will not see me; and even if I am caught, the penalty for the foul counts less for the other side than the goal which I am going to prevent/

No account is taken of the fact that the man has won this favorable position by skill and quickness, and is entitled by the rules to what he can make of it. The same tactics are followed in regard to certain rules forbidding the blocking of opponents, for these rules are particularly hard to enforce. It is no uncommon thing to hear players explaining after a game, that they missed this or that play because they were blocked; and seldom is there any expression of resentment at the unfairness. It was forbidden b"r the rules, but the opponent ‘got away with it’ and was entitled to the fruits.

\jThe same principle is at the bottom of ‘cutting the bases’ in baseball. A man knows when he has failed to touch a base, yet time after time we see a runner cut wide of a base, and his opponents protest in vain, because the umpire has not seen the play^ Mean-while the man who by violation of a rule has shortened th(Tdistance he has had to run, grins complacently because he ‘got away with it,’ and his college mates among the spectators applaud him as heartily as if he had scored by skill instead of trickery.. In the few foregoing illustrations no reference is made to the faults committed in the heat of the contest. A man may lose his temper and break his opponent’s nose, and still be honest; he mav get over-anxious and start play before the signal, and vet not be a cheat; he cannot strengthen his plaving by an assortment of intentional tricks that are expressly forbidden by the rules, and still be entitled to the respect of good sportsmen.

The question of the eligibility of men to represent their colleges in intercollegiate contests calls forth tactics similar to those in vogue in the actual conduct of the games. VPiere is a rule providing that no man who has competed in athletics for money shall play on a

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 238 —

\ college team, and'every candidate is required to give a signed stately ment that he has not violated this rule. ^In spite of this requirement there are constantly charges and countercharges of professionalism made by one college against another^ It appears that the college athlete does not think highly of the word of honor of his fellows. Every charge of professionalism is an accusation of lying against the man involved. The fact that the implied falsehood is ignored, and that attention is given only to investigating the man's amateur standing, shows clearly that prevarication in this matter is not considered a grievous fault.

r"As a matter of fact, every man who has lived among college athletes knows that many of them have at some time received money, directly or indirectly, for athletic competition. Actual proof of professionalism in any one case is as difficult as proof of bribe-taking among aldermen. Payments are not made by check, and are often disguised in more or less clever ways. I know of one athlete who received a goodly sum for acting as watchman of a building. His duty was to sleep in the building every night. In the day-time he played baseball with a professional team. 1 know of another who played a game with a professional team,—for which he was not paid. But after the game the manager went to his room and said,— Til bet you twenty dollars that you can't jump over that suitcase.^

IJThe bet was taken, and the jump was successfully made. Both of these men afterwards went to college and signed a statement that they had not ‘competed in athletics for money, directly or indirectly.' I believe that a large percentage of the men playing college baseball are guilty of dishonesty of this kind. The evil, of course, rests not in the playing for money, but in the cool denial of the fac€\

Another eligibility rule in effect in most colleges is that no man shall compete in college athletics more than four years, yet I have learned of many cases in which men, after representing a small western college for a year or more, have entered a large eastern university and played under its colors for a full four years. To do this they had to deny their participation in athletics at the first school.

v If practices like the above involved only the guilty players, they could be attributed to the ‘black sheep' sure to be found in every group of men, and would not be ground for the arraignment of college athletics in general. They are, however, known to the other players, and in some degree to the whole body of undergraduates, which becomes so imbued with the spirit of ‘anything to win’ that it supports them, and is therefore equally guilty.' At every big intercollegiate contest you will hear among the spectators denunciation of the ‘dirty play' of the visiting team, when similar play by members of the home team has passed uncondemned, or mayhap has

Digitized by
239

been praised in a gleeful, ‘Did you see Jack “get” that fellow? He's a slick one/

Except at a few institutions of notoriously low standards, college men are of very much the same type, and, on the average, one college team is no better or no worse than another. Why then do undergraduates so seldom rise up and denounce the tactics of their own representatives, but so frequently demand the ruling-out of this or that player from a rival school?

At my own college we learned, one autumn, that our baseball captain had played as a professional all summer. Our concern was not in regard to his successor, now that he had made himself ineligible, but about the chance of the discovery of the conditions by the faculty. It happened in this case that the faculty did learn the truth, and debar the man from further competition; but if they had not, the entire undergraduate body would have cheered that matt madly at the baseball games the following spring, and would have rejoiced boastfully over the victories made possible by his deceit.

There is at large in the East at the present day a football coach who some years ago was involved in a notorious scandal concerning the eligibility of several members of a team under his charge. Many years ago his mastery of the details of football crookedness earned him the familiar sobriquet of ‘Mucker,' but last year he acted as coach for one of the best-known colleges in the United States. His tactics are a by-word among men connected with athletic history, yet his retention is tolerated by alumni and undergraduates,—for he is a successful coach.

These last two cases do not involve a few men, they speak for .the attitude of the great majority of the alumni of two large universities. In fact the stories told 'in the foregoing pages are not taken from the athletic history of obscure colleges of uncertain standing. Yale, Columbia, and Cornell figure in them, and I could give others involving Harvard, Princeton, Pennsylvania, and universities of equal prominence and solidity. TVIv quarrel, however, is not with any specific colleges, or with specific instances of unsportsmanlike conduct; it is with the lax moral spirit which rules college athletics everywhere; and the stories are only illustrations in pointT) To prove that these illustrations are indeed typical of conditions in general is difficult, but if you are skeptical, let your mind run back over the intercollegiate contests you have witnessed, or watch keenly those which you see next spring and autumn; note the number of fouls called, and the penalties inflicted for offenses such as I have mentioned,—offenses not chargeable to loss of temper but to deliberate breaking of rules,—and see the matter-of-course way in which the cheating is passed over by both players and spectators; recall the instances in which athletes have been declared ineligible
— MO —

after having competed part of a season, and yet have remained in good standing among their college-mates in spite of the fact that they must have falsified to have competed at all, and you will see that the college man does expect these things, ‘and that fair play in college athletics and fair play between gentlemen out of college are two different things.

jCount the number of officials required to supervise a football game, and read the special rules designed to let them watch the movements of every man; investigate the complex systems which college athletic associations have instituted for deciding upon the eligibility of competitors who have already given their ‘word of honor’ that their records are clear; read the stories of some of the disputes,—as full of affidavits and canceled checks as a New York State impeachment proceeding,—and then picture the analogue outside of college: two country clubs engaging in a team match at golf, each competitor required to show a signed statement outlining all of his past athletic history, and reiterating in half a dozen places his good standing in his club, and nevertheless being followed all through the match by a carefully selected official who keeps a catlike watch on his every move. The absurdity of it will emphasize the true meaning of the everyday occurrences in college athletics. ^

In short, college men have in regard to their sports a standard of honor—if we may call it such—which permits practices not tolerated in any other walk of life. These men would not cheat in their private games; as a class they are honorable and courageously truthful in all the other relationships of life; but in athletics they tolerate trickery and deceit, and rejoice in the victories gained thereby.

This is not merely a question of the conduct of college sports; it is a question concerning the moral training of future citizens. We are dealing on a small scale with that vicious philosophy of ‘get away with it/ that has been at the root of dishonest ‘big business/ Men, not content to make their fortunes in a lawful way, have contrived to circumvent interfering laws,—to violate them without paying the penalty, or so to violate that the penalty evoked will he small compared with the resulting gain. The heads of dishonest corporations and the participants in the profits of public graft are often men with a keen sense of honor in their personal relationships, strong supporters of philanthropies, and sincere worshipers in the churches, but they lack the complete moral sense necessary to enable them to apply one standard of right and wrong to all of their acts. In the same way college students are failing to carry their ideals upon the athletic field, and are allowing themselves to be governed in this one respect bv a standard that is essentially immoral.

When we reflect upon the prominence given athletics bv under-
\

— 241 —

graduates, and consider the hero-worship accorded the successful athlete both in college and by the general public, the deep import of the matter becomes evident. The undergraduate loves to say that every college community is in a sense a toy world wherein the struggle for fame and influential position is waged in miniature,—the scene of a sham battle fought under the same conditions and with the same weapons as in the world at large, and fought as a preparation for that real battle. If this mock world is to train good citizens it should be so governed that honor and truth are first in popular esteem, and trickery and deceit are outlawed.

\^How to infuse into college athletics a spirit of fair play and truthfulness comparable to that ruling other undergraduate activities is a difficult problem, and some of the methods suggested are based upon a superficial study of the conditions. The abolition of the professional coach, for instance, is not a solution of the question. We are told that when a man’s livelihood is dependent upon the success of his coaching he will stoop to any tactics to insure victorious teams, and that if athletic coaches were chosen from alumni, moved solely by love for their college and having no financial interests involved in victory, there would be less of the ‘win-at-any-cost’ spirit inculcated. It must be remembered, however, that all graduates are the product of the evil system that we are discussing. We have seen that the college man does not regard the tactics we have mentioned as wrong, or that if he does, he tolerates, even supports them. His policy is not likely to change on graduation. The desire to win is as keen among men who have gone through four years of intercollegiate athletics as is the desire to make a living. A careful comparison fails to show that colleges boasting of a ‘graduate coaching system’ are at all superior in athletic ethics to those employing professionals, The practices prevailing in athletics at present may indeed have been first introduced bv professional coaches; they flourish now, not because certain men teach them, but because undergraduates and faculties lack the logic to analyze them properlv, or the courage to cope with themTj

A most certain cure for the evils mentioned, and one often sug- / { gested by these college administrators who give thought to this sub- inject, is the total abolition of intercollegiate athletics. Such a policy is yielding to an evil rather than overcoming it. If it be true that a keen desire to win will drive the modern college student into unfairness and cheating, there is some weak spot in his moral fibre, and it would seem to be the business of the college, not to remove the temptation, but to make the man conquer it. Sooner or later every one must choose between losing fairly and winning unfairly. A boy *who is made to face this problem in college, and made to solve it rightly, is better equipped to repeat the victory in the larger issues
— 242 —

of life. Any one who has spent four years of his life working for the popularity and renown of a successful college athlete, and who has through it all resolutely refused to do anything but the fair and honest thing, is sure to come out of the experience very much a man.

I believe such a solution is possible. The conditions existing in college athletics to-day are the result of gradual and insidious growth. The rottenness prevails largely because the men do not realize that it is rotten. The sanction of general custom is given to practices which, viewed as isolated acts, are manifestly wrong, and the average college man accepts the conditions as he finds them simply because he has never stopped to analvze them. ^Tfe lies about his eligibility and develops his dishonest tactics, not because he has deliberately chosen between honesty and dishonesty, but because it is the thing expected of him,—the thing that everybody does as a matter of course. J

Faculties should undertake a vigorous campaign of education, designed to show these matters in their true light. Most college men are essentially honest, and the chief need is to make them realize the true significance of what they are doing in athletics under the present system. Arouse the boys to the facts; make them see that cheating in football is the same as cheating at cards or as stealing money; foster a college sentiment that says fairness first and victory second; and attach the same obloquy to lying about eligibility that is attached to any lying. Do this, and you have gone to the root of the evil, and laid the foundation for lasting reform. This basic campaign for moral acumen should, however, be reinforced by two supplementary measures. First, make no rules, either of play or of eligibility, which are not strictly just, and which cannot be entirely enforced; and secondly, subject all dishonesty to severe punishment.

The first measure is in accord with the belief that legislation which the majority of the people does not consider just, or which cannot be enforced, makes for disrespect of the law in general. Many of the rules in regard to eligibility for college athletic teams are neither fair nor enforceable, and should therefore be eliminated if we are to have respect paid to those which are based on justice. The only condition which we have a right to impose in limiting the personnel of a college team is that all members shall be bona-fide students in good standing, and not brought to the institution by special inducements offered because of athletic prowess. Because some colleges do violate this essential, a number of rules have been made which aim indirectly to prevent this violation,—rules which in themselves are unjust. The practice which obtains in larger colleges of recruiting athletes from smaller schools is guarded against by the rule forbidding a man who has transferred from one institu-
— 243 —

tion to another to compete in athletics until after a year's residence at the second school. This restriction works a real hardship by prohibiting from engaging in any sports men who are in actual fact members of the student body, but who have, for some good reason not connected with athletics, changed their choice of colleges; and the manifest injustice often makes evasion of the rule seem less reprehensible.

Particularly vicious is the custom of denying the right to engage in college athletics to all men who have previously competed for money, and adherence to it is monumental hypocrisy. There is hardly a poor country boy with fleetness of foot or skill of arm who has not at some time in his life received a cash prize for winning a race at a village picnic, or who has not played on a country-town baseball team for a share of the gate-receipts. Such an indiscretion, committed long before he enters college, debars him forever from athletic competition. Moreover, men who attend college primarily for intellectual purposes often find that playing professional baseball during the summer offers the easiest and most healthful method of solving their financial problems; yet they must not depend upon this one resource if they wish to play with their fellow-students during the academic year. Here again the unfairness of the rule makes evasion of it seem, not a wrong, but the only way to obtain justice.

To my mind there is no place in college athletics for the distinction between amateur and professional; that a man be a bona fide student of the institution he represents is all we have a right to ask. Carried to its logical conclusion, the rule against professionalism is held in some countries to forbid any man who makes a living with his hands from calling himself an amateur athlete. A carpenter, for instance, cannot be an amateur oarsman. If there persists in colleges a vestige of this snobbery,—if we are not yet ready to abolish all distinction between amateur and professional— we must at least so revise the present rule that it will work less hardship. A few colleges have been courageous enough to do this, and now permit summer baseball, but most institutions still persist in a pretense of strict enforcement of the amateur rule, knowing full well that it makes many students either lie or submit to an injustice. Most of them lie, and feel that the means is condoned if not justified by the end.

The second measure supplementary to education in right athletic ideals, is a firm stand by the faculties in all matters of athletic honor. All opinions to the contrary notwithstanding, undergraduates are influenced in their views of right and wrong by the general attitude of the faculty. Knowing that their teachers are interested in their moral welfare, they conclude, naturally enough, that any-

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 244 —

thing* these teachers do not oppose and punish is not so very wrong. This is well illustrated by a consideration of cheating in examinations. In those colleges in which the instructors are lax in the conduct of examinations, seeming to care little whether or not cheating is done, and punishing it when detected only by a reprimand and a mark of failure, there is always a feeling among the students that ‘cribbing’ is a part of the game, and not a matter of honor. On the other hand, when every possible means is taken to prevent cheating, and when it is punished by expulsion, there is usually an undergraduate sentiment which puts the cribber in his proper place. I have' seen in one college the whole student attitude upon cheating in examinations changed from indifference* to stern disapproval by an improvement in the conduct of examinations on the part of the faculty. JXo change in the spirit of college athletics can be expected until faculties array themselves firmly on the right side, and refuse to tolerate dishonest practices. A few men expelled for lying about eligibility, and a few teams disbanded because of unfair play, would arouse undergraduates with a wholesome jolt.J

A forceful presentation of the facts of the situation with an appeal to the innate sense of honor of the undergraduates; such a revision of the rules as will retain only those based upon essential fairness; and a strict supervision by the faculty,—upon the success of these three measures rests the hope that college athletics may be purged of trickery and the spirit of ‘get away with it.’ It will be a struggle of some duration, for it involves the remoulding of the undergraduate point of view,—something akin to the making of public opinion, and not to be done in a day. I believe it can be done.

In fact there is some basis for asserting that conditions in the larger Eastern institutions have greatly improved during the past few years,—a contention which finds sunoort in the lack of scandal and recrimination connected with the big football games of last autumn as compared with the days of the Cutts and Hinkey disputes. Thi$ improvement is not, however, fundamental. Disputes as to eligibility prevented, not because the spirit of the undergraduates or of the^ coaches is al>ove reproach, but because faculty committees maintain strict supervision over this matter, and allow no doubtful case to pass without investigation. More rigid enforcement of the rules has indeed made it harder to ‘get away with it/ but that there is still a desire to do so whenever possible, is shown by the continuous need for these very faculty committees, and by the ever-increasJ ing mass of complex legislation designed to prevent or punish unfair play.

If an honorable spirit of sportsmanship ruled college athletics, why need there be severe penalties threatened for coaching from the

Digitized by L,ooQle
— 245 —

side-lines in football, and special precautions exercised by the officials to detect it? Should not merely forbidding it be sufficient? Why should it be necessary in basketball to provide that after four personal fouls a player must be removed from the game? I do not contend that every play, or even that the majority of plays, in intercollegiate games involves trickery, for I know that faculty supervision and vigilant umpiring have greatly reduced the more obvious forms of cheating in the games between the larger eastern institu-? tions. I do contend, however, that even this veneer of fairness is lacking in most colleges; that college athletics are still ruled by the spirit of ‘get away with it;’ and that merely preventing the actual success of fraud is but a superficial reform. Men interested in the ethical aspects of college life should not rest until college men meet in sports as do other gentlemen,—relying upon officials merely to aid in the administration of the games, and trusting to their own integrity to prevent intentional unfairness, and to their collective sense of honor to deal summarily with the occasional intruder who may refuse to accept their own high code.

Dulness over the Apex in Children.—Dr. F. Mielke has found that a pathologic dulness over the apex is often simulated by conditions resulting from weakness of muscles which prevents the child from holding himself normally. As this condition is usually accompanied by pallor and lassitude, tuberculosis is incriminated. The evidence against this includes the shifting of the dulness to the other apex as the child sits or stands. He is convinced that in many cases of supposed tuberculosis the alleged signs are in reality merely the effect of the way the child stands. He encountered eighteen such cases during a recent four-month period. All treatment tending to strengthen the muscles aids in throwing off this anomaly.

He differentiates it by examining in various positions, especially when the child relaxes all its muscles. This is best realized by having the child stoop forward a little, its arms hanging loose, the abdomen drawn in. Of course it has long been known that scoliosis may induce dulness over the apex but Mielke thinks that no one has appreciated hitherto the importance in this line of even a very slight tendency to an asymmetrical attitude.—Berliner Klinische Wochen-schrift, June 29.

Liquid chlorine is now being used to sterilize water in Philadelphia and Wilmington, Del., according to “The Journal of the A. M. A.” The advantages claimed are economy in cost of installation and operation, simplicity in regulation of the quantity of chlorin applied, and absence of the unpleasant odors and tastes sometimes resulting from the bleaching-powder treatment.

Digitized by Google
•24«-

SWIMMIXG POOL DESIGN FOR SANITATION AND GREATEST PROFIT.

By N. W. JOHNSTONE, Minneapolis, M nn.

The intrinsic value of a swimming oool consists in the pleasure of unalloyed recreation which it affords to its patrons. A limited degree of recreation may be secured by variations in labor, change in location, companionship or activities. Complete recreation, from a mental and physical standpoint, necessitates conditions which supply, in purity and abundance, without effort to the vital organs the life sustaining elements.

The underlying reason why people leave business and spend weeks or months in isolated country or mountain regions is not expressed in terms of health, good time, etc., though these blessings are thereby acquired, for they are but products. Evidently the reason is, that in securing the life sustaining elements mingled with the dust, smoke and other pollutions of modern city life, the vital organs are forced to make a sustained and straining effort, which is relaxed on entering the pure atmosphere and wholesome conditions of remote mountain and lake districts, where the life sustaining elements are found in pristine purity.

Housed as we habitually are, the life sustaining elements of sunlight have little chance to benefit us; they are also lost to a very large degree in the pall of smoke ever hanging over our cities.

Can a swimming pool be made to afford its patrons a complete recreation equal to the lake in the mountains, with its clear sunshine, bracing air, pure water and restful scenes? To produce conditions that furnish the same recreative elements found at a mountain lake in summer will not only add to life's enjoyment, but will greatly increase its efficiency. With the elimination of the “smoke nuisance/’ free access can be given to the vitalizing sun's rays; in pleasing colors the restful mountain scenes can be depicted on the walls of the room surrounding the pool; clear filtered water as pure and sparkling as is found in any lake can flow into the pool; and filtered, warmed, water-washed, outdoor air, as pure as blows across mountain lake ,can be constantly sweeping the surface of the pool. With these vitalizing, sanitary conditions a daily recreation nearly perfect is placed within reach of all.

A swimming pool which automatically keeps itself sanitary may seem to some exceedingly expensive, or an impossibility. But if we are to believe the results shown by analysis of the water of swimming pools after being used by fifty people, a swimming pool to be safe for this small number of people to use without being completely emptied, cleansed and refilled every hour, or oftener, must of ne-
247

Digitized by L^ooq ie
— 248 —

cessity to a large degree be self-cleansing. Cases in proof are cited in sufficient number to warrant the statement that diseases have been communicated through the medium of the swimming pool, and we are thus admonished to consider the subject with profound sincerity and intense earnestness.

Let us consider the sources of swimming pool contamination. What are they? Assuming that the original water supply is pure, from a practical standpoint there are three sources, and each a distinct problem.

ist. The visitor who “just wanted to see the pool.,,

2nd. The bathers who use it.

3rd. The air supply.

The visitors carry in, on their shoes, dirt from hallways, locker rooms, or mud from the street, with whatever contagion and filth that may be gathered from such sources. All is promptly deposited at the poolside when the shoes come in contact with the wet floor. The bathers, passing along the same course and entering the pool, unconsciously carry this pollution washed from the visitors’ shoes into the water. This is repeated bv each visitor, and disease germs find the warm water helpful to their multiplication.

When bathers accidentally swallow this water, or a bather's skin has some small unnoticed break in it, such as a pin scratch; except as the bather's vital resistance prevents it, there is but one result, viz: inoculation with whatever disease is carried in by the visitors.

The bathers pollute the pool to the danger point if they are just recovering from, or being taken by a contagious disease. If known, they usually are excluded from swimming pools.

Normal, healthy bathers render a pool unclean by the discharges unconsciously but constantly pouring from the skin, mouth and nostrils; and to overcome the results of this discharge, the common practice of daily disinfection by the use of chemicals has proved very unsatisfactory. Hypochlorite of lime, when used in sufficient .quantity and strength, sterilizes the water in swimming pools, but cannot remove the tilth. Its use in swimming pools is objectionable* not only because of the uncleanness, but because of the irritation and injury to the skin, hair, eyes, ears and nostrils, caused by this chemical compound, and also because of injury to the system from swallowing any quantity of such water, even if organic life in it has been destroyed. Nervous depression or exhaustion follow continuous frequent use of pools so treated.

Attempt has been made, with some degree of success, to remove

* The author’s experiences do not seem to harmonize with those of hundreds of others who have been using the hypochJorite of lime with great satisfaction to

the users of the pools.—Ed.

Digitized by LiOOQle
DRAIN ________T TROUGH	o	4-‘	DEEP

— 249 —

Digitized by L^ooq ie
— 260 —

this condition by a continuous filter system used in connection with the lime treatment, but the results are far from ideal.

In a few hours after fifty or more people have used the pool, we find a condition which takes vital energy from the bathers; producing, in a single swim of less than thirty minutes, a state of languor and lassitude, which lasts from one to three days. This condition of the water is accompanied by a very faint lead-gray appearance, and extraordinary coldness; which continues until the temperature is raised five degrees above normal, when it “saps the life out of one” more rapidly than before. One or more charges of hypochlorite of lime does not appreciably alter this condition, except perhaps to slightly intensify it.

The fact that the atmosphere is a most fruitful source of pollution was revealed in an attempt to purify it for furnace use by washing. Screens were placed in the washing tank with the intended purpose of finely dividing the air bubbles, and thus collecting all the impurities. Only a fraction of the foreign matter was secured, which instead of sinking to the bottom formed a tangled mat of strings, clogging the screens so they were extremely difficult to clean. This experience offers the suggestion of a reason for lung trouble, and explains the source of a certain pollution found in swimming pools where window ventilation is used.

Can a pool be built which can be kept clean and still be used? The answer in the affirmative necessitates the solving of the above stated problems. The results of man- tests in practice show, that by a very simple, mechanical method, the bacterial count of water in swimming pools is maintained so low that it is about equal to good average drinking water.

The practical solution of the first problem is to remove the cause, viz: to prohibit all visitors from entering the room where the pool is located; or, to so construct a convenient place of observation for visitors, that pollution of the pool is rendered impossible.

The solution of the second and third problems require building the pool after plans drawn in harmony with its governing physical and psychological laws; laws which involve much more than the water and air supply. Such pools mav be built far cheaper than the cost of many of the unsanitarv swimming pools now in use; and the expense of operation is less than those which are emptied and filled twice a week.

After some years of personal daily observation of the habits of men in and around the swimming pool; and a careful, protracted study of the physical laws governing the situation, a plan of construction and procedure has been drawn which seems to permit of the perfect working of these laws with the results before stated, and more.

(Continued.)
jaaauttgt_LZi*

251



Digitized by L^ooQle
— 258 —

BOOK REVIEW.

“The Chalif Text-book of Dancing ” by Louis H. Chalif. 184 pages by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by the author, New

York. Mailing price, $............

The book is a description of the elemental positions and exercises of classical dancing. As such it should be of great service to the numerous teachers who have taken up the Russian methods. So long as Mr. Chalif confines himself to explaining dancing he is on safe ground, when, however, he speaks of walking in “The Graceful Walk” and says that “the legs swing freely from the hips, the forward movement starting here, not in the knees,” and “a bent knee is in bad form and ugly,” and several other statements of like erroneous nature, we fear that the author does not understand the mechanics of walking. This, however, should not detract too much from the value the book will have for all teachers who really want to learn the Chalif methods.

“Youth and the Race” by Edgar James Swift, Professor of Psychology in the Washington University, St. Louis, Mo. 342 pages 5 by 8 inches. Published by Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York. Mailing price. $1.65.

All teachers who have read Prof. Swift’s “Mind in the Making” will welcome this new book, which is a study of the psychology of adolescence. In his usual illuminating manner the author lays before us the escapades of the growing and developing boy and girl and then interprets them. The chapter on “Fallacies in Moral Training” will set many teachers who still are capable of growth to question many of their methods in dealing with children. The book is warmly recommended to all teachers and parents.

EFFICIENCY SWIMMING IN THE ELEMENTARY

SCHOOL.

By EARL B. KOCH, M. D., Critic Teacher in Physical Education for Chicago Normal College at Carter Practice School, Chicago, HI.

The duties of a swimming instructor in an elementary school do not close when he has taught all the pupils how to swim. In the first place, all pupils do not learn with the same rapidity, and what is there to interest those who have already learned, while the instructor is hurrying along the delinquent ones, and second, how is the mere knowledge of sustaining one’s self in the water going to give a pupil the exhilaration of swimming a mile or winning a race sometime or other in his later life. It is therefore the duty of the swimming director first to teach the proper stroke, then to de-

Digitized by

Google
— 253 —

velop the pupils in such necessities of the natatorial art that will stand them in good stead, not only as life savers, but as an element of future happiness in regard to their powers in the water. If one has been instructed from youth and becomes a proficient swimmer, one is sure to adopt swimming as an exercise at every possible chance, no matter how much athletics or gymnastics one has previously had.

Many colleges in -casting about for a form of exercises for the students suitable for recreation in the future years of their lives, do not heed the call of the natatorium, simply because the average college student who has not learned to swim does not ask for it, on account of his false pride and natural bashfulness. I have met a number of college students who said they could swim, but could not. They were as delicate about admitting their inability to swim as they would be if they did not know their A. B. C/s. That is the reason so many want private instructions in this art.

After teaching the majority of your boys how to swim you must keep them busy some way or other or they will not progress very far, but will relapse into a set of ruffians, pushing one another into the water, splashing and getting into all sorts of mischief. Again, if you want to stimulate a boy throughout his later life, you have to start at this age by giving him a little prominence in the way of winning a race, holding a record, etc., no matter how insignificant it may be. Therefore in casting about for a suitable procedure to attain this end I decided on two courses. First—give marks on their report cards and grade their marks according to their proficiency, and second—sppeal to their class spirit to keep them on the move and make them better swimmers.

I	made out the following grade card and posted it in full view, so the pupils all knew what was expected of them to get a high mark on their report card.

SWIMMING REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADES.

(e) EXCELLENT.

1—	swim 6 lengths, any stroke, or

2—	swim i length each: crawl, breast, back trudgeon, or

3—	break any school record.

(v. G.) VERY GOOD.

1—	swim 3 lengths, dive, float, or

2—	swim i length each: back, crawl, breast, or

3—	break a class record.

(g) good.

Swim 2 lengths, dive, float.

(f) fair.

Swim across the deep part.

Digitized by L-ooQle
— 254—

(P) POOR.

Cannot swim at all.

This system keeps a boy busy striving for an “E” as he knows as soon as he has filled the requirements he is sure of the “E.” Of course the requirements must be raised every year, as he could start with an “E” next year and once having it he will be a source of trouble through his idleness, as “idleness breeds mischief,” more so in the swimming pool than anywhere else.

In forming a record sheet for the boys I thought it best to give as many chances as possible for them to hold a record, and is possible to interest every boy of every room by having him hold some kind of a record no matter how small.

The following School Record brought the looked-for result.

8th grade records—rooms 308-307-306.

1ST PLACE	2ND	PLACE	3RD	PLACE

1 Event	1  R’m ! Name No. 1  1		T’me	II 1  1! R’m 1 Name 1 No. |  1' 1		i i  IT’mel  ,	1  | R’m II No-	Name	1  IT’me
1 length crawl										
2 length crawl										
4 length crawl				  1					|			
6 length crawl										
10 length crawl....		1									
1 length Trudgeon									
2 length Trudgeon				|						
1 length Rreast. . .	1			I  |						
9 length Rreast. . . . 1				1  |						
1  1 length Back	1				1  i						1	
2 length Back.	1				1				1  	|	
I  1 length Under wtr.l	1  	I			1	  I					|	1  ...;	1	
Plunge for distance1 4 men relav	1	1  .. 1	. .1		i	,			  	II		1  	|	
	1	I  . .i		1 i i  i	 i..	i	ii			1	i	1  	|	
1  Dressing 	1				i I ii  i	i	i	n			1	1	1  	|	
1	1	|	1	ll l li			i i	1	

I have a bulletin for each of the 7th, 6th, 5th and 4th grade rooms respectively, and it is remarkable how the rooms show that spirit of competition shown in our large inter-collegiate meets. In fact I see more competition among a greater number of boys in the Carter Swimming Pool by this method, than is usually seen in Y. M. C. A.’s and clubs where gold, silver and bronze prizes are given for just such events. A boy is as elated over his holding the record for staying under water, or being the fastest swimmer in his room, (even if it takes 20 seconds to swim the length of the tank) as he would be if presented with something his heart most desired. It is

Digitized by OooQle
— 25fi —

a foregone conclusion that he will become a better swimmer in the future by his having held a record at some time, and it will take ever so many defeats before he will drop competition entirely.

Several high school swimming directors have told me that the boys from my school were ever on the alert for swimming races and that they usually won, which is simply a result of their training along that line. In Y. M. C. A.’a. Social Centres, etc., it is the hardest thing for a director to get a sufficient number of boys together, for exhibitions, races, etc., especially if there are no medals in sight, just because the boys did not have a stimulant at the proper age for such a thing. They also become more proficient by intra-grade competition as is shown by their records.

The best previous time for one length of the tank was n 4-5 seconds, which at present has been cut down to 6 seconds. The reason for the record of each grade being kept separate is the unfairness for the lower grades competing against the higher ones, although at present there are a number of 7th grade boys who are trying to shatter some of the 8th grade records. I do not allow one boy to hold more than 5 records because the object is to interest as many boys as possible which would not result should two or three boys hold most of the records.

In my recent swimming campaigns I have tried the different kinds of strokes and compared the results and found that the Australian Crawl is the best to teach to beginners, as it requires less exertion, is the most natural of all the strokes, and the easiest to master, therefore I teach the strokes in the order named.

1st, the Australian Crawl modified to the needs of the eight to fourteen year old boy;

2nd, the Trudgeon;

3rd. the Breast.

4th, Back.

The results I attained last year are as follows, counted on a basis of J37 boys. A boy being able to swim 40 feet before he was

considered a swimmer.

Pupils who did not take swimming...............18	per	cent

Pupils who could swim previous..................10	per	cent

Number of pupils learned in 3 lessons...........23	per	cent

Number of pupils learned in 6 lessons...........21	per	cent

Pupils swimming at middle of term...............54	per	cent

The changes in February were noted and the results at the end of the year were as follows:

Pupils who did not take swimming................12	per	cent

Number of pupils learned previously.............34	Per	cent

Pupils who learned latter half...............  .85	per	cent

Making a total number of swimmers up to date. . . .85	per	cent

Digitized by
— 25G —

This leaves but 3 per cent to be taught, among which may be considered the few cripples and abnormal children who are always found among so many boys, and from whom nothing is expected but good behavior, while in the pool.

It was a surprise to notice the better performances of the 7th grade boys and the rapidity with which they learned to swim the different strokes. Sixty-four per cent learned in 10 lessons while only 48 per cent of the 8th grade boys had learned in the same number of lessons.

The question is asked: Do you approve of the first, second and third grades taking swimming lessons? If you are looking for results it is useless to try and teach them, as very few learn to swim before they reach fourth grad£, but for a change in their school work, nothing is better than to let them paddle around in the water and have as good a time as possible. Another question often asked is the proper stroke for girls. Although I have never taught girls enmasse, I am of the firm opinion they can be taught this Australian Crawl stroke a great deal easier than the breast stroke, not only for short distances but for long distances as well, which is shown by the performances of girls all over the country. Those of special note, being the 5 mile swim .in 3 hours by Florence McLaughlin, a 9 year old school girl of Philadelphia and Rose Pintinoff's record for distance in Boston, while a good many of the stage celebrities in swimming have assistants still in their “teens.”

It must be taken into consideration that the older a girl gets the less freedom of motion she is capable of, and this lack of rotation at the waist while bringing the arm overhead greatly handicaps her in later life, as the dictation of the modern habits, tends greatly toward immobility of certain joints which later remain so on account of the adhesions and lack of muscular tone.

Recently a member of our board of education came to me for instructions and on inquiring into her habits found out that (although well past the middle age of life) she was still very active. I decided on the crawl stroke. Beside overcoming her fear of the water she mastered the stroke and swam 40 feet easily without wings at the end of her third lesson. Of course such instances are by no means common, but by a proper survey of the field, conclusions are reached which greatly assist in the ao-oregate results.

Acknowledging the receipt of a series of pamphletes from Dr.

G.	V. N. Dearborn of Tufts College and the Sargent Normal, on the subject of muscular exercise and the nervous system, attention is called to later issues of Mind and Body in which some of this eminent teacher's publications will be printed in abstract.