Vol. 25.

MIND Ar®f§8s^

No. 270

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mioo.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as sesond-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulmt Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O' in. .   ■	,n	■	■	i	in	i	i r ■ ,n -	t—, . n	,Q.

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS |

0-1— I—- -1—I i -I	II	........ .n. .n. . ■ ni— ,.r. -Q,

FUNDAMENTALS REGARDING THE SELECTION OF EXERCISES*

EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Ind.

The selection of exercises according to clearly defined principles is quite in harmony with the characteristics of our modern life of efficiency. We strive to attain results quickly, and hence, guided by some rule of selection eliminate all such activities as are not absolutely essential to attaining the object we are after, just as the efficiency expert endeavors to eliminate every movement unnecessary in the performance of a certain task, so the modem physical director with his purpose clearly in mind, eliminates all non-essentials, and confines himself strictly to the useful. It was always so.

Looking back to the period of the Renaissance with its revolutionary methods in education, we find that the times and conditions existing then undoubtedly influenced to a very great extent the movement inaugurated to make bodily exercise a part of education. The physical being had been entirely neglected and all education was directed toward the spiritual and mental. The Humanists recognized this and so we find in their writings a plea and a demand, that the health and strength of the youth be de-

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, Philadelphia, April 1918.

Digitized by L^ooQle
146

veloped by means of bodily exercise, in connection with their spiritual and mental training.

Montaigne and Locke emphatically stated these damands in their writings and later we find the thoughts expressed by the Humanists upon this subject crystalized in Rousseau’s educational novel, “Emile”.

The philanthropinums which later arose, particularly Base-dowe’s and Salzmann’s, endeavored to realize the ideals set forth in Rousseau’s work, and besides striking out into new lines of mental education, along untrodden paths, they placed equal em-

Shasis upon the bodily training. They strove to attain the things lontaigne and Locke claimed as necessary, that is: health and strength of the body, in order that the body be a useful instrument of the mind, “that it obey, and not oppress the soul”. These, were the aims which suggested the fundamentals according to which the early teachers of bodily exercise, as Simon and Gutsmuths selected their activities.

Conditions demanded that they be activities which produce health and physical hardihood, hence we find in Gutsmuths’ “Gymnastics of the Youth,” a very useful and judicious selection of activities suitable for attaining these ends. Their attention was centered upon improving the human body, as Gutsmuths’ explanation of gymnastics: “a system of bodily exercises with the object in view of perfecting the body,” would suggest. Gutsmuths, however, also placed emphasis upon training the senses in his Spielbuch (Book of Games) and, furthermore, gave us a classification, tho somewhat crude, of games, according to mental difficulties.

Jahn followed closely the footsteps of Gutsmuths, and although the motive underlying the introduction of the playground and his type of “Tumen” was a purely patriotic one at its beginning, the ultimate object of this work could only be attained by improved physical development. This later became his sole aim. To him “Tumen” was a means of “restoring the lost harmonious development of the human body,” and his activities like those selected by his predecessors covered a wide range, and had no clearly defined values. This entire period seems to be one of promiscuous selection of activities intended to make the body healthy, strong and symmetrical, while the influence of exercise upon the development of character tho hinted at by Jahn, was not yet appreciated.

About the same time that Jahn opened the first playground. Ling originated his system of gymnastics, and there followed, at least in Sweden, a period of specialized selection, every movement being chosen for a definite effect, and all those eliminated whose effect could not be determined. It, however, confined itself principally to the physiological and anatomical effects of movements.

While this was developing in Sweden, we find Jahn’s work in Germany with its vast variety of activities and its appeal to the interest and joy of the individual, continuing to grow in wealth of material. His disciples and others who followed him elaborated and amplified what he had begun.

Digitized by Google
147

Spiess evolved the all-possibility theory of movements, claiming that any movement possible by virtue of the articulations of the human body was justified in being practiced, because of that fact. Maul later summarized and organized what had been gradually developed by Gutsmuths, Jahn and his followers, and gave us a fairly complete system of physical education, with reference to variety of activities and methods of presentation.

Within recent years the influence of Ling on physical training has modified the selection of material to some extent. In America this influence was represented by Enebuske, Niessen and Posse. Thus, from Gutsmuths to the present time, some general fundamentals regarding the selection of activities have been developed.

These fundamentals have been retained and others, determined by the present conception of education, have been added. During the early years of the last century the importance of the individual’s education for social purposes was not appreciated. Social efficiency is, however, our chief aim in education today, hence, our selection should consist of such activities as will develop and strengthen those attributes of an individual’s nature essential to social efficiency and capable of being influenced by movements. I believe we all agree that health, physical hardihood, personality and character constitute these traits. We can by physical education influence and affect these sides of man’s nature.

Tho we may all agree upon the aims set forth, there is divided opinion as to the presentation and the selection of the activities necessary to attain them. These opinions are represented by three .groups of physical educators, each possessing a different point of view: — the formalist, the informalist, and the semi-formalist.

The formalists are the ultra-Swedes. Their fundamentals of selection are based upon the scientific value of movements performed according to precise rules. They are the followers of Ling. Within recent years they have modified their work to some extent so that they have become semi-formal.

The informalists intend to go back to Gutsmuths and earlier times in the application, presentation and selection of their material, and claim to be able to attain the aims we have set forth, without the use of any formal procedure. We have never been able to discover the principle underlying their selection of materials. It has not.been presented in any of their writings, nor has it been stated at any of our conventions. They have told us that the Normal Schools are on the wrong track, that we must change our method of selection and the presentation of our material and its application; but have offered us no substitute. As generally understood, they want to apply a sort of Montessori method to physical education — create an environment — and assisting the pupil in adapting himself to it. To this, many objections may be raised.

The third party, the semi-formalists, represented principally by the school of Gutsmuth, Jahn and his followers, are such of our colleagues as have recognized the value of the formalist and in-formalist ideas, and therefore combined them. They base their selection of material upon scientific data, and vary their work

Digitized by
148

in such a way that the formal is equally balanced with the informal. (I shall touch upon this later). They are undoubtedly in the majority in the profession, and I shall confine myself to such fundamentals regarding the selection of activities as they might apply from their point of view and base these upon the existing conception of educational ideals. These ideals we have characterized so far as physical educators are concerned, as consisting of health, physical hardihood or stamina, character and personality. It is our duty to select exercises which will attain these ends.

As is evident from the foregoing, some fairly defined procedures with reference to selection of materia-gymnastica have gradually been evolved during the past. We shall now try to formulate these into some definite fundamentals of selection, and we may suggest as the first principle, one which concerns itself with the practical values.

The Utilitarian Principle. We insist that activities selected serve the purpose in view. Thus, the activities selected for public schools differ somewhat from those used in association work or playgrounds, while those needed for military purposes are again different in many respects. In the same manner as the work of different institutions is necessarily different, so the work for various kinds of classes cannot be similar. We may even go further into the make-up of periods of instruction and ask ourselves “Are the exercises given to develop physical hardihood?” or, “are they to train athletes for contests and games?” which puts to a test the physical hardihood of the young and maintains interest in the work, or, “are the activities intended for recreative and health

Kurposes only” the type of movements that are needed for adults, usiness men? Whatever is the object, the trained physical director knows what activities will obtain those results.

To determine which is the correct material to apply we use the method of the efficiency expert and test the different branches of activities with reference to their values. We apply the pragmatic test. If the activity works, i. e., serves the purpose subjectively and objectively considered, it is good and usable. Thus, it is the value peculiar to any branch of physical education which determines its use.

To illustrate: the values of free exercises are distinctly different from those contained in games; just as the value of track, field and apparatus work varies from that inherent in dancing; but all of them may assist in the development of some of the traits of the ideal citizen.

When thus selecting activities, an over-lapping can scarcely be avoided, for some branches have the same values; they may be primary, however, in one, and secondary in the other. Here the teacher must see that he places his emphasis upon attaining the primary value of each branch.

It is further essential that the instructor should not permit the arrangement of his exercises to be so complicated as to make it difficult to attain the values of that particular activity. Thus, for example, postural exercises if too complex may fail in their pur-

Digitized by Google
149

pose since the effort to attain the skill of good posture may be lost in the effort to coordinate the many movements.

Therefore, in order to have the value that we wish to attain stand out distinctly, it is well to confine ourselves to the simpler types of movements, in some of our work. However, such limitation in selection carried to extremes would destroy interest eventually, and this suggests the second fundamental, which concerns itself with the maintenance and growth of interest.

The. Interest Principle. Activities must grow in difficulty and be varied in order to retain interest in them. Having attained a certain efficiency and skill the pupil is no longer interested in that particular activity. He looks for “other worlds to conquer” and the physical educator must offer material which will present new difficulties and find new sources of interest. Hence, we compose exercises according to the gymnastic laws of progression, applying them to the various activities, that thus may be influenced. Adding to these, the vast material contained in games, (which might also be considered subject to laws of progression), and related physical training activities, as hiking, swimming, etc., there is usually no difficulty in maintaining and heightening interest. It is well, however, to guard against too much expansion, too much liberty in the arranging of exercises for the reason previously mentioned.

It is undoubtedly true that we have reached a state of complexity in arranging free exercises, apparatus work and even dancing, that makes the doing of these difficult stunts the chief object, instead of using them as means to develop the traits intended by their peculiar values. There is no need of going to such extremes. We should endeavor to direct interest into other channels rather than to continue in the same branch of activities, so that the pupils will like many different physical education activities, changing -easily from indoor to outdoor work, from apparatus work and free ■exercises to athletics, from games to swimming, etc. We must, furthermore, instill love for healthful, muscular activities and arouse a deep interest in them by an occasional talk about their hygienic values and in that way lay the foundation for their continuance as physical pastimes. We must give the adult a powerful motive, that will bring him out of his office, store and shop and take him into the gymnasium and outdoors. This can be done by making the work in the gymnasium, which after all is the most convenient place for exercising, tho not the most conducive to health, enjoyable and interesting by a correct choice of activities and by pointing out to him their important values. So, at least one phase of hygienic instruction, that of the individual as affected by movements, should be an essential part of the physical educator’s duties. However, a thorough understanding of the effects of the exercises upon the body is absolutely essential in order to speak 'convincingly, and is of the greatest importance in the correct choice of material. This brings me to the third principle underlying the selection of activities.

Principle of Values. Activities must be considered with ref-

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
160

erence to their effect upon the human organism. In this respect we take into consideration the age, sex and the condition of the individual. We consider him at all stages of life, as Shakespeare describes him in "As you like it", from the “whining school boy, the lover, the soldier, to the "spectacled justice in his lean and slippered pantaloons,” and inquire as to the effect different exercises have upon these various age-groups. With this knowledge as a basis we can fairly determine the quantity, quality and duration of exercises, the effort put forth, the degree of skill required, etc.

Dr. Schmidt has given us a good classification of exercises according to physiological effects, vis., exercises of speed, endurance, strength, skill, attention and alertness, and applied these to the different age and sex groups, indicating the classes to be used for the various ages of each sex. They are splendid guides that will keep the physical director from selecting the wrong activities. Thus the first two principles, the Utilitarian and Interest Principles must take cognizance of the Principle of Values which is the basic one in the selection and adaptation.

So far we have considered fundamentals of a general nature, pertaining to activities usually employed in physical education. We now come to the choosing of special activities composing lessons and the first rule we hold as important is, that a lesson should consist both of formal and informal work. Hence I submit the fourth principle:

Formal and Informal Activities Must be Correctly Balanced. The values of formal activities are such that we can not get along without them. They offer many advantages in the handling of classes: instruction of many at one time, observation of the progress made, economy in time, the instructor being enabled to completely utilize the entire time at his disposal with wholesome and effective work, etc., to say nothing of the developing of such qualities as precision, quickening of reaction, accuracy of execution, orderliness, discrimination, cooperation and the values of apparatus, track and field work in the development of will power, courage and presence of mind when taught as class work.

On the other hand the informal activities, even though they are of the same type as the formal work but repeated in an informal manner as is done during the free play period in the gymnasium and on the playground, have distinct values and are as essential a part of instruction as the formal activities. They develop such traits as spontaneity, initiative, leadership, and cooperation. We may conclude therefore, as far as our present knowledge of physical educational values goes, that no lesson is complete without the correct proportion of formal and informal work.

Coming to the detail of the lesson, I have one more principle which I wish to propose, and although it does not deal directly with selection, it offers suggestions as to the kind of movements which should be combined in constructing exercises. This deals primarily with formal work, free exercises, dancing and apparatus work.

Digitized by Google
161

Principles underlying the Combining of Movements into Exercises. (1) Rhythmic similarity. Movements which are performed in alternation, in series or simultaneously in an exercise should have the same time value. Better results are obtained, and the work becomes more enjoyable to the pupils, if a well balanced rhythmic construction of the exercise is observed than if movements of different time values are joined together. Difficulty and discord is encountered if a slow movement is followed or combined with one of greater speed. The pupil feels this in his effort to coordinate the movements. There is a difference in the nerve impulses sent to the muscle groups involved as well as in the speed of their contraction. This may, if used in very advanced classes, indicate a superior type of rhythmic control; usually, however, it only produces unpleasant feelings of effort.

Thus, movements of free exercises, of steps in dancing or of activities upon the apparatus when joined into a combination, should resemble each other with reference to rhythm. This is another one of the checks which will prevent us from drifting into extreme complexity, and confine us to the simple and useful, as well as beautiful.

Furthermore, the nature of the activities employed in a combination should be taken into consideration. There should be some relation between them. This brings us to the consideration of the second phase of combining movements.

(2)	Harmony of action. Movements performed simultaneously should possess harmony of action. That is, there should be no marked contrast between such movements. To suggest an extreme case. It would certainly mar our aesthetic taste and give no pleasure to the performer to combine thrusting with the graceful execution of a waltz balance step.

This principle which will also limit complexity is chiefly applied to free exercises and dancing, although we usually prefer to see swinging movements on apparatus combined with swinging, and strength with strength, rather than swinging with strength.

I might go further into this and discuss the structure of free exercises particularly with reference to the composition of trunk exercises and as to the type of arm and leg sequences that should be selected. I believe, however, that these ideas are rather well known, and I should perhaps be carrying owls to Athens.

Summarizing, may I point out that fundamentals regarding the selection of activities must adjust themselves to educational ideals. They must be based upon a thorough knowledge of the materia-gymnastica, its laws of progression and its values. The three general rules which I have suggested; viz. the principle of value, of interest and of utility, with those referring to periods of instruction; viz. the balancing of formal and informal activities, the combining of movements into exercises with reference to rhythmic similarity and harmony of action, I trust will be of some help in the selection of activities so that results may be achieved quickly and also effectively.
152

MINIMUM ESSENTIALS WITHIN THE SCHOOLS AS TO TIME, EQUIPMENT AND ACTIVITIES*

a)Elementaly Schools b) High Schools

By ETHEL PERRIN, Detroit, Mich.

Attempting to determine in one’s own mind what are the very minimum essentials in one’s life work is apt to be a soul wringing business — nevertheless refreshing and well worth while. Attempting to impose on others of your profession the results of your cogitation and asking them to believe that all things omitted from consideration are non-essentials, is comparable only to standing unprotected on the banks of the river Somme. However, this is the risk that nearly anyone takes presenting a paper during these days of transition in physical education.

The minimum essentials within the school as to time, equipment, and activities — both in Elementary and High School.

Before we can intelligently discuss any of these we must determine the minimum of results we are to be satisfied with. What are the things that we absolutely cannot leave out in determining what children must have on leaving either the elementary or the high school?

1)	They must have Health-, as much of it as good posture and

personal hygiene can give them.

2)	They must have Normal Muscular Strength — flabby non-

muscular limbs and bodies are, everyone of them, slaps at our profession — slaps that hurt.

3)	Essential is Skill, showing a coordination of mind and muscle

without which all the muscle we can develop would be of no avail.

4)	We must demand a reasonable amount of Endurance which

is organic strength.

5)	We can hardly leave out Agility or muscular flexibility, which

is sadly lacking in much of our work.

6)	They must have developed Courage, that is a confidence in

their personal ability; and

7)	We shall have to add for the boys, at least, the requirement

of a “Fighting Mechanism”, as Dr. W. B. Cannon puts it, used entirely in the medical sense, that internal response to opposition, — a reserve strength, latent until called forth by antagonism, which for one reason and another has given signs of disappearing in our youth and without which a nation loses much of its strength and protective power.

Go over these seven essentials if you please and see if you agree they are true essentials. Health and Good Posture interlinked; Normal Muscular Strength, Skill or Coordination, Endurance, Agility, Courage, and a Fighting Mechanism.

Now we have a basis for considering what are the minimum kinds of activities that will produce these results. ' We will have to

♦Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, Philadelphia, April, 1918.
153

bear in mind that although we have called these aims Minimum Essentials, still they also represent an ideal which, no matter how exacting we are as to time, equipment, and activities, never will be quite realized for all the children we have to deal with.

Outlining the essential activities for the elementary schools, I would put first and foremost

1)	Postural Exercises definitely aimed at that object.

2)	Mimetic Exercises designed to use large groups of muscles.

3)	Folk Dancing.

4)	Games.

5)	Athletics.

6)	Stunts.

7)	Contests.

And running through all these — Joy!

To take these up separately:

What about postural exercises? I was not invited to discuss whether the child with good posture makes the best athlete or whether the best athletes are bound to have good posture, or whether free, joyful play and dancing develop good posture, or that good posture results in a desire and ability to play and dance well, or that the physical education teacher who develops Social Consciousness to the fullest extent gets the finest physical specimens as a result — as long as the result is good posture, it is not so important to dwell on how it is done, but I believe that the shortest road is through postural exercises chosen with that aim wholly in view.

Mimetic Exercises of a vigorous nature, using the large groups of muscles, given in connection with the postural exercises are especially necessary to counteract the unnatural sitting and five or six hours a day of confinement that our present methods of education demand. Well chosen Mimetic exercises are the shortest cut I know of for strenuous, blood circulating exercise in a limited space and time, but they are not corrective and should be interspersed with exercises that are.

Dancing — Of course the girls will spend more time in this activity than the boys, but the right teacher can interest the boys, only in the simplest folk dances, however. The object in all of this mixed dancing is social, and if boys can enter into the Virginia Reel and dances of that type with real pleasure, they will receive a big help toward the right kind of social intercourse out of school. Every school should have its girl folk dance captain whose duty it is to attend all meetings held by the department on that subject, learn the dances, do the demonstrating in the school and help in teaching, even taking the whole charge when capable. Simple folk dances are best, especially those to be found on Victrola records and with words, so that they can be sung when the instrumental music is lacking. Dancing affects particularly three of the lesults we are aiming for, — health, skill, and endurance.

Games — Need no special comment. We all know the best types of big movement and big group games, the simpler ones lead-
ing up to the best team games such as, Newcomb, Volley Ball, Basket Ball, Punch Ball, and Base Ball for the girls and Soccer, Basket Ball and Base Ball for the boys. Girls and boys should play their group games separately but the boys should coach the girls and so pay back their debt of gratitude for the dancing. The fact that games effect everyone of the aims we have stated, although posture least of all, is one reason for the great importance that should be attached to them. The main fault to find with making games the whole of physical education is that they by their nature sift out the best and leave the rest high and dry on the shore of inaction.

Athletics, Stunts, and Contests. The question of how far girls should enter into athletics I am glad to leave to the next two speakers. I have grouped athletics, stunts and contests together for the reason that we have been working out a system with our boys for the last four years in Detroit that includes these three together with games, a system that we like better and better.

Briefly, it is this:

The schools are divided into leagues with not more than eight schools in a league and all team games are run off in leagues by schedule, and league winners matched for city championship. At the beginning of the year elections are held in all schools and a school athletic captain is selected together with a lieutenant in charge of each room above the fifth grade. These officers select squad leaders in their respective rooms and those latter preceed to select squads by alternate choosing (not more than eight boys in a squad.) Once each month a meeting is held for the athletic captains of each league (also game captains in season) and members of the physical education department explain, demonstrate and try out each captain in the squad work for that month. A uniform schedule is followed throughout the ten months of the year, one athletic event, ten stunts, two contests, and one game being assigned at each meeting. Bulletins going into detail as to stunts and althetic event are distributed, also record blanks on which each room lieutenant is to keep the results of the athletic event during the month. Usually the squad leaders do the measuring and timing under the captain’s supervision and hand their results to the room lieutenant who fills out the blanks and turns them over to the Captain who mails them to us on the prescribed day. These records are compiled and the league champions, city average, etc., are sent back by the captains on another bulletin showing just where each school stands in relation to the others. Here are the athletic events we are using this year by months: September -Standing Broad Jump - October - Running Broad Jump, November - Standing Hop, Step and Jump, December - Chinning, January - Floor Dip, February - Sit Up, March - Shot Put, April - Overhead Shot, May - Running Hop, Step Jump, June — 100 Yard Dash.

We get from 3500 to 5000 individual records each month and to show that our boys are growing stronger on the average

Digitized by UaOOQle
155

each year, here are the records for the last four years in the Floor Dip:

1915—	7.5	1917—	13.7

1916—	11.9	1918—	15. 5

and other events proportionately.

We require no regular report on stunts and contests of which the boys are shown 120 during the year, but we do have a method of gauging progress in these events. At about this time of year each season we have what we term Stunt Demonstrations in the different high schools in which every school in that district takes part. They afford a chance for reviewing both boys and girls work in dances and postural and mimetic exercises at the same time. The boys put on some “hair-raising” demonstrations and do uniformly good work in stunts. We encourage girls to do certain stunts such as Thru-the-stick, Jump-the-stick, Frog Dance, Bear Dance, etc., but they do not demonstrate these in public.

These activitites lead to health, strength, endurance, skill, agility, courage and the contests especially develop the “Fighting Mechanism.”

I have mentioned in the outline of essential activities that joy must run through them all. Practically everything here depends on the teacher. Even athletics, games, and dances can be spoiled and the joy taken out of them by certain types of teachers. When you are dealing with postural and corrective exercises the joy problem is much more acute. Anyone with a spark of joy in them can teach children to play and to dance but it takes a bigger one to encourage a forlorn anemic child or a careless disgruntled one to form better habits of sleeping, eating, and exercising and to take a joy and pride in merely standing straight. I know from experience that an intelligent teacher wh > understands and appreciates children can give the necessary exercises not as medicine but as a simple matter of joy.

Minimum Essentials As To Time.

So far I have talked of the essential activities - Postural Exercises, Mimetics, Folk Dancing, Games, Athletics, Stunts and Contests. We could give each of these all the attention we liked. But now we are to consider the two limiting factors - Time and Equipment. We must set a minimum as to the amount we can have of each activity. What, then, is the absolute lower limit of time necessary to achieve our ends? One dislikes to be pinned down on this point, for the truth is we realize that school boards and the general public are not yet ready to concede anything like the amount of time most of us feel is necessary. We dare not come out with what we would like to call the minimum essential for fear of stirring up a reaction that would harm rather than aid us. Imagine, for example, the commotion it would cause if we all went on record with the statement that nothing less than an hour a day would suffice to allow us to accomplish even the most meager of results! An hour a day! Why! — more than is given to reading, writing and arithmetic! — (gasps of astonishment and dismay) — and yet there are a few educators of broad minds and far seeing eyes

Digitized by Google
156

who are beginning to dare to claim that a sound body is of almost equal importance with a sound mind and should have its share of education in order to insure a full and complete development of every young life.

However, under our present educational organization, these are but vain imaginings —. And yet I still hesitate to declare myself on the minimum essentials as to time in the elementary schools. In Detroit we have been surviving for ten years on ten minutes a day with (during the last three years) fifteen minutes once a week extra thrown in for boys' athletics.

Next year we are to have half an hour daily for all physical education, and I am going arbitrarily to set that length of time as the very minimum, with the addition of two or three minute fresh air periods. The place on the program for this 30 minute period is a sericus one and must vary. Frcm one point of view it should be equally divided and ccme in the middle (the longest indoor) period morning and afternoon. This means that all have it at the same time, and consequently all, or the majority must stay in their own rooms. It also means that physical education cannot te on the departmental plan, but that every teacher must teach her own children. This is the plan that I have worked with in the majority of my schools, and I believe there are many advantages in having the room teacher give all of this work, the chief one being that she becomes interested in the subject, sees its results, and makes it a

Eart of school life rather than a one-period subject. In all new uildings and in additions to many old ones we are putting gymnasiums, which means departmental work under a special teacher. We all know the advantages of this plan, and that they over-balance the disadvantages, namely that some children will always come to the gymnasium at a poor time of day, and that the room teachers will lose interest in the subject. It is my belief that with special oversight on the part of the supervisors this most important interest on the part of the teachers can be kept up under the non-depart-mental plan.

With half an hour per day we will be able to find time for athletics, games, stunts and contests in one of two ways: Either by allowing the whole time a certain number of days a week, or by using the squad system and each day sending out a different squad for athletics while the rest take the postural exercises, mimetics and dances.

Minimum Essentials as to Equipment

The other limiting factor, equipment, is not so difficult to settle, although here we are apt to be stepping rather heavily on some people's toes. Having detei mined the essential activities, our problem here is merely to say what equipment each activity calls for.

For the Postural and Mimetic Exercises we need space to stand in and facilities for obtaining plenty of fresh air, (always to be taken outdoors if possible).

Dancing:	In the lower grades much can be done in the rooms,

but for larger children more space is necessary, — a large hall or a

Digitized by L^ooQle
157

room free of seats. A piano or Victrola are great helps, but not essential. Children can sing or boys can whistle.

Games: Balls are the only essential, and there is where we should be as liberal as possible. It is distasteful for me to even think about the minimum in this connection, but at any rate, every school must have a soccer ball, a basket ball, two playground balls, and, if surroundings permit, two base-balls. Every school room above the fourth grade should have this outfit.

Balls should be school property and well taken care of!— mended and remended, and when the covers will no longer hold an inflated bladder, they should be stuffed with rags and paper and used as practice soccer balls, as is done in Detroit with great success and joy. Light, inexpensive balls should be used below the fourth grade.

Athletics: Indoors the only equipment needed to carry out the ten events mentioned is the chinning bar. There should be one in the doorway of every room. The cost of a hickory bar and four iron castings Which are screwed into the door-frame is twenty-five cents.

Stunts and Contests should be a vital part of every boy's life, and to this end we should make the necessary equipment so common and inexpensive that he will always find the opportunity to use them at home after school hours and long after his school career is ended. From this point of view all apparatus that the average boy cannot find quickly at hand without expense should be thrown into discard. For the hundred stunts we have in Detroit the only equipment that is essential is a broom stick and a chair. We are now providing each school with a 3x7 mat that aids the indoor work, but even this is not essential. Contests need no further equipment.

The list of necessary equipment for an elementary school, then, is as follows:

Balls, Chinning Bars, and, if you please, we’ll add the mat, as that seems a reasonable request. Outdoors of course a jumping pit and home-made jumping and hurdling apparatus are essential. For the Shot Put we have had iron castings made at a negligible cost, but a stone of the proper weight will do just as well even for comparative records.

(B) High Schools

There is very little additional to say in the way of Essential Activities in the high schools. We should, I think, expect about the same minimum results. In considering “Health, depending on good posture and personal hygiene,” we should perhaps, lay more emphasis on the latter than we were able to in the elementary schools. So much depends upon the habits of living that, during the little time we are able to influence the lives of these children, we should strive mightily to aid them in forming correct habits. Encouragements in the way of weekly reports, a classified standing of points, or arm bands, buttons, etc. should be carefully worked out. As exercise is so important a habit to establish, we should put our minds on giving them the sort of exercise they will readily accept and continue when away from us.

Digitized by v^ooQle
168

Girls

For girls I suggest always a few simple setting up exercises; including mimetics; dancing, still of the simple folk dance type; organized games with intramural tournaments of great variety so that a girl may begin to specialize in one or two sports and have a hobby. Mr. Reilly’s of Bronx School No. 33, N. Y. method of teaching tennis, golf (driving and putting) basket ball, sprinting and throwing all at the same time to fifty girls in a small gymnasium, with one untrained in physical education in charge, is the best suggestion I can offer. Having seen this in operation, I know it can be done. For a girl to receive a high school certificate from the Physical Educational Department she should be able to hold a good posture, demonstrate setting up exercises, demonstrate dancing, be able to acceptably play games, and enter into sports, prove that she knows how and can follow right habits of living.

The determination of time necessary for physical work in the high schools is not as difficult a matter as it is in the elementary schools. Not less than 60 minutes a week for gymnasium work and from 3 to 5 minutes twice each day for setting up exercises given to pupils wherever they may be at those periods, — these in addition to the time spent in outdoor sports, should be considered minimum essentials. There is no great value in going into a gymnasium without time to make an entire change of clothing, and take a bath.

Equipment

The activities outlined can be done with very little equipment or with very elaborate equipment. A certain amount of gymnasium apparatus is of great assistance, but not absolutely essential. Horizontal bars and ladders are of most importance, for every girl should be able to hang by her hands, and to chin — for safety’s sake, if for no other reason. A stationary bar across each comer of the room, each at a different height, is cheap and out of the way. Jumping standards and mats I would place next. All beyond this I would call a frill, but some of it is a very nice frill.

Boys

I am convinced that we are turning out from our high schools too many boys incapable of living their full measure of life, and the fault lies entirely with us. In Detroit we are about to try the scheme of making very definite requirements for credit in gymnastic courses. A list of these requirements in Course One will answer what I consider the minimum essentials in activities in high school.

Requirements for Credit in Gymnasium I.

(1)	Setting up Exercises.

Demonstrate 3 corrective exercises and show a great effort toward correct posture.

Demonstrate 3 exercises for stimulating circulation and vital I functions.

Digitized by CaOOQle
159

2.	Athletic Events.

Chin	3	times

Floor Dip 7	“

Sit up 10	“

100 Yds. 13 3-5 sec.

St. Broad Jump, 6 ft.

Run. Broad Jump, 10 ft.

Run. High Jump, 3 ft. 4 in.

Shot Put (overhead), 22 ft.

Run. Hop Step Jump, 21 ft.

St. Hop Step Jump, 16 ft. 6 in.

Run Hitch Kick, 12 in. over own height.

30 ft. rope climb High Dive, 3 ft 4 in.

Distance Dive, 6 ft.

3.	Stunts.

Front sommersault Jump Through stick Hand Stand against Wall Back Spring Eskimo Roll.

Choose any 10 of the following

(1—100 exercises mentioned on the Stunt Card)

4.	Sports.

Swimming

Wrestling

Boxing (open hand—hats)

The Minimum Time should be the same as for the girls with more outside work expected.

Equipment — Here again we are quite certain to tread on toes, for, as you see, the required events take little of the regulation gymnasium apparatus. Standard pieces of heavy apparatus can always be made use of if they are at hand, but in my opinion, they should be resorted to only if there is time left after putting a class thru their squad work in the athletic events, stunts, contests, and gymnastic games. The class should usually be opened with the rapid, simple, warming up exercises, designed both to correct common faults of carriage and to prepare the body for the more strenuous athletic work.

The essential equipment, then, I would say should consist of, first, plenty of space in gymnasium; second, plenty of mats; third, horizontal bars; fourth, climbing ropes; fifth, high jump and hitch kick apparatus, and a running track.

What will your September address be? Be sure to notify publisher of any change.
160

STATISTICS BEARING ON MEMBERS OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION IN SERVICE

H. STEICHMANN, Secretary.

When the United States Government took steps to create a great National Army it was to be expected that the North American Gymnastic Union would furnish its full quota of men, and the Executive Committee of the organization has considered it of interest to gather statistics bearing on the members in service.

Of the 208 societies constituting the North American Gymnastic Union, 180 have sent in reports showing 1657 members in army and navy service. This number includes the members of one society which did not give a full report. In the following synopsis of the statistics only the complete reports thus far received, will be considered.

These reports show that 692 members volunteered for service, of whom 467 were “Actives,” or members of the young men’s classes; only 14 of them were rejected for various reasons. They show further that 1071 members were drafted, of whom 765 were “Actives”; 203 of the drafted men were exempted for various reasons.

Therefore, of the 1763 members who either volunteered or were drafted, 217 were exempted or rejected (12.3 per cent), leaving 1546 men in service. To these are to be added 111 members of the Philadelphia Tumgemeinde which gives the above total of 1657. Owing to the large number of its members in the service the Philadelphia Tumgemeinde was unable to answer the ques-tionaire fully and its report has, as previously stated, been omitted in the statistics.

The reasons for exemptions and rejections were as follows: Dependents, 58; government work, 11; foreign bom members who had acquired only the first naturalization papers, 18; too old, 1; too young 1; physical unfitness, 120; unknown, 8; total, 217.

The percentage of rejections for physical unfitness is 6.8 per cent. This is a most significant showing when compared with the percentage of rejections for the same cause in the whole draft, which was over 33 per cent. The large difference undoubtedly proves that regular physical exercise is of great benefit to our young men and enables them to pass the rigid examination for army service easily.

It may be argued, however, that this comparison is not correct since the volunteers are included in the percentage of 6.8, while the 33 per cent, referred to pertains only to drafted men. Considering only the drafted men of our organization, we find that 114, or 10.65 per cent, were rejected for physical unfitness. Even this compares very favorably with the rejections of the whole draft, being less than one-third of the latter.

Of the volunteers only six were rejected because of physical unfitness, or 0.87 per cent.

The following tables show the result of the investigation at a glance:

Digitized by UjOOQle
Non-

Actives Actives Total Exempted or Rejected

Volunteers  Drafted	467  765	225  306	692  1071	14  203	( 2. per Cent) (18.68 per cent)
Total  Exempted or	1232  rejected	531	1763 • 217	217	(12.31 per cent)
In service			1546		

Reasons of Exemptions and Rejections

Actives Non-Actives________Total______

42	16	63

9	2	11

16	2	18

—	1	1

1	—	1

5	3	8

80 ( 6.48%)	40	( 7.8 %) 120 ( 6.8.%)

153 (12.42%)	64	(12.07%)	217	(12.31%)

Dependents Government work Not fully naturalized Too old Too young Unknown Physical unfitness

Total

Rejected for Physical Unfitness

Drafted	Actives	77	(10 per cent)

Drafted	Non-Actives	37	(12.1 per cent)

Total	114	(10.65 per cent)

Volunteers	6	'( 0.87 per cent)

Total	120

Causes of Physical Unfitness

	Actives	Non-Actives	Total
Eyes	20	8	28
Heart	12	2	14
Under weight	8	4	12
Over weight	1	4	5
Feet	8	2	10
Hernia	6	3	9
Haemorrhoids	2	-	2
Ear	4	3	7
Lost finger	4	-	4
Teeth	2	-	2
Too small	1	2	3
General weakness	1	4	5
Various causes	6	7	13
Causes not stated	5	1	6
Total	80	40	120

Digitized by LaOOQle
162

All of the above figures pertain only to the first draft and to volunteers who entered the service during last year. 28 societies have not returned the questionaires. On the basis of their membership we may estimate the number of their members in service at 100. Reports received since the completion of the first draft indicate that a large number of members of our organization have since been drafted. We may safely say that at least 2000 members of the North American Gymnastic Union are now serving the country.

Of the 1657 members in service on whom reports were received, 207, or 12.5 per cent, are officers, as follows: 1 Navy Commander; 3 Colonels; 5 Majors; 31 Captains; 60 Lieutenants; 57 Sergeants; 50 Corporals.

As shown by the reports, 692 of our members, or almost 39 per cent of the whole number in service, volunteered. It is also mteresting to note that 1079 “Active” members joined the colors.

ATHLETICS AND THE WAR GAME

F. L. KLEEBERGER, University of California, Berkeley, Cal.

Considering the problems of preparedness faced by every nation that is involved in the present war, one of the most glaring weaknesses is that of the low percentage of men found physically fit to meet promptly the ordeal of hand-to-hand warfare and of trench life. This is known to be true of American resources, for America has before it the spectacle of military drill-masters struggling desperately to whip raw recruits into fighting shape. These recruits are neither physically clever — save for the pitiably small percentage of athletes who are to be found among the vicarious sportsmen of America — nor mentally versed in the maneuvers of military drill. The government is attemptning to educate and to toughen these men mentally, morally and physically through military drill. It goes without saying that these men must be able to proceed intelligently in military maneuvers, as otherwise the army would constitute merely a mob, unwieldy, and lacking in that discipline which, in the last extremity, must hold men together steadfast in their obedience to command. But on the other hand the development of that physical cleverness, the possession of which, together with its accompanying consciousness of power, may, in the last extremity, mean life or death to the individual, is fully as necessary as ability in tactics. Such development is impossible through military drill.

England, under pressure of immediate necessity, was able to enlist only 42 per cent of the men between 18 and 40 years of age as physically fit for even preliminary military training. During the three years preceding the war the United States army officials were able to accept only 24 per cent of the 400,000 men applying for enlistment at government recruiting stations, and it is a matter of common knowledge that in the course of the recent draft in this country an appalling number were rejected as physically unfit for military service. In this connection it must be noted also that

Digitized by U^ooQle
163

the enlistment of a man for military training as a result of his proving able to meet certain minimum requirements as to weight, height, conformation, and health by no means guarantee that he is physically efficient. To be physically efficient he must be strong of body, skilled in muscular co-ordinations of a practical sort, and possessed of an alert, accurate judgment under the stress of situations calling for physical prowess. In short, the passing of a medical examination in no way guarantees that the individual will prove worth his salt as a fighting man.

The government undertakes the well-nigh impossible task of making, in a short period of time, this average, relatively healthy being — standardized as to certain dimensions but, withal, often a flabby, under-developed animal — into a first class man-to-man fighter. To teach him the manual of arms, drill maneuvers, and marksmanship is relatively easy in comparison with the task of making him an efficient fighting man. The line soldier must be prepared primarily to endure hardships and to struggle for his life hand to hand, knife to knife, with his opponent. The government faces a problem much greater than that of mere technical military training. Specific marching maneuvers, the manual of arms, and formal discipline can be gained in a space of time relatively insignificant as compared with the time required to develop strength, stamina and fighting skill in the average American of today. Muscle power and the habitual reflexes ensuring those rapid and accurate co-ordinations necessary to skill in personal combat develop slowly. The government faces an impossible situation as far as many of its recruits are concerned and the physical plus military training of the great majority means a disastrous expenditure of time, since every day of delay means thousands of lives and millions of dollars lost to the world, to say nothing of the menace which this delay means to the Allied cause. It is needless to comment on what such delay would mean to this nation were an unfriendly power suddenly to invade its borders without the courtesy of several years' warning.

Yet the thing which Americans abhor above all else, which the nation is fighting to overcome even now, and which it dreads most in the future national life, is an overbearing militarism. This great problem of thorough military preparedness must be solved in a way which will safeguard democracy from the menace of military caste, and protect the minds of coming generations from the brutality of a militarism that disregards the individual human life. That attention to this problem is imperative even at this very moment is evidenced by the report of Secretary of War Baker on the Administration’s military policy, in which he sounds the warning note that in legislating for preparedness in the future we must be careful to “be so restrained as in no event to foster the growth of mere militarist ambitions or to excite the apprehension of nations with whom it is our first desire to live in harmonious and just accord”; and he also adds that “by agitating now for the Prussian system of military training individuals deliberately dis-

Digitized by AaOOQle
164

count the possibility of President Wilson's success in 'making the world safe for democracy'".

The logical solution of such a dilemna should be to promote preparedness through an extension of national and municipal systems of education and recreation, but in so doing to plan to accomplish this preparedness through a method of training that will not taint coming generations with the desire to test their skill in the avocation of lolling. The future must provide a new, broad, but intensive physical education, not only in the sense of formal, disciplinary, corrective and educational gymnastic drill, nor alone in the sense of athletics of the bleacher type, but a physical education of the most comprehensive nature, embracing and making use of all the resources of physical drill, free play, and highly organized athletics in the development of real physical efficiency in our entire citizenry. The desire and ability to keep physically fit, the acquiring of respect for discipline, and the habit of playing the game hard, squarely and to win will give us a soldier citizenry superior in fighting quality to the merely military-trained.

The word "military" implies the business of killing one's fellows through organized effort and, for many reasons, should not be used in connection with training in the lower schools if results can be accomplished without doing so. As stated, the training which is best calculated to prepare the average citizen competently to defend the country in time of need is primarily a physical training. A nation-wide enforcement of military training in the schools would lead to the employment of military men as teachers, on the assumption that military training should consist largely of discipline in marching tactics and gun diills, and that therefore any individual entitled to wear a military uniform must be fit to administer this work of training for preparedness in the schools. The real training demanded must promote the health, physical development and muscular skill, and to a great extent serve as the laboratory for the moral education of future generations. It therefore behooves the nation to view the prospect of universal military training with some skepticism and in its proper perspective; for otherwise a great destructive force may develop where a great constructive force lies ready at hand, which, if properly used, will prepare us to meet the issue of either peace or war.

In dealing with this problem the elements involved in the training of a nation's people that they may be ready to meet any military emergency must be classified in the following order, based on their relative importance: health, intelligence, stamina, muscular skill, discipline, strength, knowledge of military tactics, and finally, special skill in marching maneuvers and the manual of arm.

This work can be best promoted by the government through a Department of Physical Education as an integral part of the Bureau of Education in co-operation with the War Department. The government should subsidize physical training in schools and municipalities throughout the country, prescribing definitely the character of the work to be done, just as it does the work of the national guard in
165

Its training. Such physical training would develop discipline, prompt obedience to commands, skill in the specific marching tactics required for military purposes, and, at the same time, accomplish the more important fighting objective of health, physical morale and skill, strength and endurance, as well as afford a source of recreation and pleasurable interest to American young men. A system of government gymnasia and athletic fields throughout the entire country would help to solve the problem of labor unrest, ■dissipation, etc. — superb, intelligently administered athletic fields, gymnasia and recreation centers taking the place of the present poor man’s club — the saloon — and providing vigorous con-strucive recreation which would prove a source of mental and moral, as well as of physical development. The recreative, protective and developmental value of such a procedure is being recognized by the United States Government in the present exigency. The organization and promotion of athletic competition conducted with the participants arranged and maneuvered military formation are becoming universal in the American army training camps. That such formal procedure in athletics develops military discipline and company spirit as well as physical strength and skill, and that it also promotes the health and happiness of all concerned are freely admitted. The dramatic type of athletics, in which the few represent the army, is also recognized as of recreative value by the camp authorities; but the first effort, the big aim, is plainly seen to be “ Every man in the game”. The statements made by the Hon. Newton D. Baker, Secretary of War, in his address before the National Collegiate Athletic Association, may be summarized as

“College athletics must not be considered as merely a means of diversion and recreation. It plays an important part in developing the youth of the day, and the beneficial results may be seen from our experience with the training camps. Of the 40,000 men now undergoing instruction in 0. R. T. C. most are college men. Few had previous military experience. Yet on visiting one of these camps three days after it was organized, I was amazed at the ease with which these young men adapted themselves to military life. After a few days’ instruction they acted in many ways like seasoned soldiers. Almost instantly they adapted themselves to discipline, and the spirit and accuracy with which they carried out orders illustrated very clearly the results of the team play which they had learned in college athletics. It was remarked by some of the British and French officers who visited the camps that now'here in the whole world had there ever been found such a group of men who adapted themselves so quickly to the spirit of military life.”

Also the the following statements of the Hon. Josephus Daniels Secretary of the Navy, are significant on the subjects:

“The call, insistent and imperative, soon will come to all young men under 31 years of age. They are now thinking about the duty for them. Most colleges have added military instruction, and with this training college athletics will make the youths fit for the service •calling for strength and ability to endure hardships.

follows:
166

"Softness is incompatible with efficient military service. In every branch college men are proving that in modern education a sound body must go with a sound mind. How will the young men be made ready for what they shortly will be called upon to do? Colleges will answer that question by encouraging college athletics and emphasizing those games which insure that all the student body will be benefited.

“Intercollegiate games stimulate interest and should be encouraged.

The stimulus both in improved morale and in improved body is every-. where recognized. Let it be emphasized more now that the need for youths of sinew and stuff is more felt than ever before.

“Young collegians, who have trained in athletics, were seen in the military training camps to possess an incalculable advantage over their associates who have permitted delving in the Greek roots to deny them time to develop their muscles.

“It therefore becomes obviously important to spread the benefits of college athletics as widely as possible throughout the student body and to prevent it from being monopolized by a few representatives.

“Both the spirit and the training of the athletic field lend themselves readily to military service and, as the secondary schools of the country model their activities on those of the colleges, both the practice and the example of the colleges in athletics become important.”

Much will be learned during this war concerning the significance and value of athletic sports; it is to he hoped that the government will see fit to continue the good work which it has started in the army cantonments, when the latter are no longer in immediate demand, through some national system of physical training for the future that every man shall become to some degree an athlete and therefore, also, an intelligent “fan”.

Nor should the older men be neglected. This and other great wars have brought out in a marked degree the decided value of old men. Bismarck, Von Moltke, Gladstone, Clemenceau, Hindenburg, Bliss, Cadoma, and many others demonstrate the value of the old man. It is self-evident that the old man, with his long years of training and his great fund of experience, should be the backbone of the nation. But one does not have to look far to find the keenest minds in the country being prematurely lost to the world through physical degeneration. Some provision and incentive should be given such men to prolong and vitalize the useful span of their lives. The movement started at New Haven by Walter Camp along this line is a most timely one, for his Senior Service Corps enlists and helps such men.

The problem under consideration is broader than mere military training, broader than combined military and physical training; it is educational in the largest sense of the word. There is no man living — save among those who are suffering from certain specific diseases — be he rich or poor, young or old, laborer #r professional man, who would not profit mentally, morally and physically through daily participation in vigorous physical activity, and athletic sport. Examples of limited efforts in this direction are seen in the work of the Y. M. C. A. and similar organizations, of municipal playgrounds and social centers, and, in anew form, in the aforesaid

Digitized by kjOOQle
167

Senior Service Corps, started by Camp at New Haven. Americas, in general are not participants; they are “fans”. American love of professional sports, and the desire to see a high class performance have monopolized attention and, to that extent, vitally injured the physical development of the students of American high schools and universities, for it has bred a race of vicarious sportsmen. The physique and morals of the majority of the men of this nation have suffered from this vicarious interest in expert physical activity, and the Allies are now suffering while America tries to make up for lost time, dissipation and physical sloth. “Athletics” has to a certain extent been to blame for the general lack of physical preparedness; but “athletics” has in it the seeds of real preparedness, and the “new athletics” must solve the problem of a physically degenerating race. The importance of an athletic background of training as an asset in the business of fighting is fully recognized by army officials, and especially by aviation authorities, who accept men above the maximum age limit providing their personal history shows them to have been clever athletes throughout life.

Government legislation imposing a proper and definitely specified physical training for all boys—and girls as well—between the ages of 6 and 22, followed up at certain periods by a few weeks of technical military training under camp conditions for the boys, would ensure a citizenry prepared to give a full account of itself under the stress of peace or war.

PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING MINIMUM ESSENTIALS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION*

By WILLIAM A. STECHER, Director Physical Education, Public Schools,

Philadelphia.

There should be no objection to the statement that education must be a conscious process, and undertaken with a purpose. Since physical education is a part of education, it also must have a. definite purpose. To teach anything, we must, therefore, know what purpose is to be served by the thing to be taught.

Obviously bodily health is the first essential, the first purpose in physical education. No one can be completely efficient in any walk of life unless he is in good physical condition. No less important than bodily health is an active mentality, and the habit of having due regard for the rights of others. These, then, we may regard as the aims of physical education.

After the purpose of physical education has been stated it next is necessary to choose from the vast number of possible bodily activities those few that are indispensable to accomplish the purposes indicated. When we have done this, we must select from the many ways of doing these things those few methods of doing them that are likely to lead to valuable results in the shortest time.

In selecting such activities we must never lose sight of the

* Read at the Physical Education Section of the Department of Superintendents, Atlantic City, March 1918.

Digitized by v^ooQle
fact that the various forms of bodily exercise exist for man’s sake, not he for them. In deciding upon the value of any specific activity the question always should be, of what significance is it to man? How can he apply it? What purpose can it serve? An activity should not be its own end. It must help perform some work. It must serve some human purpose.

A further reason for selecting any physical education activity should be the fact that we cannot get along without it, that it is necessary for life and health. It should be an indispensable and direct aid to us in doing our work. In efficient teaching of any type the time has passed when a subject was taught because of its value as general training. In efficient physical education the time also has passed for teaching tactics, free exercises, steps, etc. because of their value in adding to one’s general efficiency.

Modern psychology has demonstrated that there is no great amount of transfer of any ability or acquired skill from one field of endeavor to an entirely different field. Where there appears to be a transfer this has been found to take place only up to the point where the conditions in both lines of work are alike, or where a standard of action, an ideal is established, or where a method of procedure has been raised to consciousness. As soon as the conditions differ, the ability acquired in one line does not appear to affect the performance in an entirely different line to any appreciable degree. Among the foremost educators it now is a generally accepted fact that if you want to improve one’s chopping ability this can be done best and quickest by putting the person at chopping, and not by increasing his coordination through complicated free exercises, or by means of club swinging, or by trunk bending. And if you want a person to be able to vault over an object, the way to acquire this ability best and most quickly is to set him at vaulting and not at knee-bending, or at leg-swinging. Every teacher knows that a habit of being neat in writing arithmetic papers will not automatically transfer to writing spelling papers unless the ideal of “neatness at all times” has been especially impressed upon the pupil.

Since we cannot expect a large amount of all-around benefit in the way of general bodily efficiency from many of the gymnastic activities found in most of the older courses on physical training, it is very important, therefore, that we select and emphasize only such activities that have definite utility. A rational course in physical education should build up in the pupil habits that will go on functioning in his later life, and ideals which will predispose him to truly useful social behavior.

The habits to be developed by physical education might be grouped under three heads:

1)	habits of useful muscular activity

2)	hygienic habits

3)	social habits.

In developing these habits we must first of all teach the pupil certain vigorous muscular exercises essential for physical develop-

Digitized by kjOOQle
169

ment and general health, e. g., running, jumping, climbing, vaulting, skating, swimming and playing various games.

Second, we must develop other habits that are less purely physiological, habits that are more conscious. Among these are the habit of taking frequent exercise out of doors, the habit of doing corrective exercises, the habit of keeping clean (in person and surroundings), the habit of living hygienieally. It is in relation to this second set of habits that the truth appears in regard to the lack of transfer of habits from one environment to another. Consider the sanatorium patient who returns to his own house. He very soon falls back into his unhygienic habits unless during his stay at the sanatorium he has formed very strong ideals of right living, and has in mind very definite rules for carrying out these ideals. The proper kind of physical education should then contain instruction in such matters as will produce conscious practice of hygienic habits.

Third, we must in physical education take into account the development of what might almost be called moral habits — self control, orderliness, punctuality, cooperation, fair play. These habits above all depend upon the raising to consciousness of an ideal — a standard of action. Who has not seen a boy who would scorn to cheat at baseball, nevertheless cheat in school. He had the “be square at ball” habit, not the “be square all the time” habit. It is the task of physical education as of all education to teach proper ideals as well as proper habits.

The number of activities indispensable for securing both results — proper ideals and proper habits — is not large. If, then, the selected activities are taught with due regard to the formation of ideals, physical education will have provided activities and knowledge that will be really useful in the after-school life of the pupil.

For teaching purposes the essential activities might be grouped as follows: Forms of bodily exercise and games leading to:

1)	The ability to control one’s body on the earth and in the water. This would include exercises like running, jumping, tramping dancing, swimming.

2)	The ability to control one’s body in many of the unusual accidental situations that modem life imposes upon us. This would include exercises on apparatus that permits climbing, vaulting, swinging, stemming, hanging, supporting.

3)	The ability to move other objects with accuiacy and dispatch. This would include exercises like throwing, striking (including boxing), wrestling, rowing.

The minimum essentials would be a well prepared teacher, sufficient outdoor space and sufficient time.

Under hvgienic habits we would first of all place cleanliness of person and of clothing, also a disposition to be dissatisfied with unclean surroundings. There should be instruction in the laws of health. Th is training to produce hygienic habits might be classed as:

1)	Health instruction, health knowledge, leading to correct habits based upon an understanding of what is good or bad for the individual.
170

2)	Corrective exercises based upon individual needs as disclosed by a personal examination, leading to a habit of exercising to attain a well proportioned body.

3)	Cleanliness of person, of gymnasium, of building. Cleanliness should begin with the individual, then take in the gymnasium, locker and bath rooms, and eventually embrace the building and its surroundings. It should lead to the habit of civic helpfulness and co-opeiation in health matters.

If these activities are taught correctly, and if the teacher, especially through the correct use of team games incessantly strives to bring into consciousness the ideals of co-operation, of fair play, of helpfulness, of always being square, it is reasonable to expect that many good social habits will be formed. The hygienic habits formed by a desire to live according to the knowledge acquired by the health instruction would be re-inforced by good habits of muscular activity. Sane muscular activity and the desire to reach high standards of hygiene would in time be reinforced by useful social habits. And the result of this threefold striving should be a more useful and effective social being.

Minimum Essentials.

I.	Teachers.

The regular classroom teachers should be able to teach the standard physical activities spoken of above. They should have had a training in applied hygiene and in sociology.

II.	Space.

A playground is better than a gymnasium. If, however, both can be had they both could be used profitably. The playground should be large enough to accommodate the pupils of a school.

For a school having less than 200 children there should be a free undivided play space of not less than 2000 square feet plus an addition of 20 square feet for each enrolled pupil.

For a school having more than 200 children there should be a free undivided play space of not less than 2000 square feet plus an addition of 30 square feet for each enrolled pupil.

In addition to the playground, according to the size of the school, there should be one or more playrooms for use during bad weather. These rooms should be not less than 30x75 feet each.

III.	Equipment.

Balls are the most necessary pieces of apparatus in a playground, a playroom or a gymnasium. A minimum equipment for a year for less than 200 children would be two outerseam small sized basketballs, often called soccer balls, to be used for most games (including soccer football), one volleyball, three indoor baseballs and one bat.

Next in order some simple pieces of apparatus; one giant stride, two low horizontal bars and one ten foot frame with four swings, also a jumping pit.

Digitized by L.oo5te
171

THE PHYSICAL BASES OF CHARACTER

By C. E. RUGH, University of California, Berkeley, Cal.

A1 educators are now giving at least intellectual assent to the doctrine that the end and aim of education is character. Some of the means and methods employed, however, indicate that deeper and fundamental characteristics of character are not understood.

The elements of good character are power, good judgment, and good will. The word “power’' must not be used as synonymous with energy. The tumbling river is energy. Dammed, controlled, directed to do work, it is power. The human body is, first, a reservoir of energy; secondly, a machine for storing energy; and thirdly, a means of transforming this energy into power by directing it to personal ends. Each cell of the body is a veritable magazine of energy, but its function and use for life and power depend, on the one hand, upon how it is related to the other cells of the body and upon, on the other hand, how far it is under the control and management of the mind.

Life and character are best conceived as a harmony of rhythms. Length and strength of life are determined by how well the different organs and functions fit into and support one another. And, like a chain, life and character are just as strong as the weakest organ or rhythm.

These life-rhythms may be divided into three series:	(1)

dynamic, (2) kinetic, and (3) psychic. The dynamic rhythm is the one by which the body appropriates energy from without. It consists essentially of digestive, circulatory, respiratory, and muscular systems. The harmony of this system of rhythms is illustrated, first, by the ratios between heartbeat, respiration, digestion, and action, and secondly, by the fact that if one of these rhythms, the digestion, for example, is disturbed it very readily disturbs the others.

The kinetic system consists essentially of the brain, the thyroid and adrenal glands, the liver, and the muscles. The harmony of this system is seen in the process by which energy is released. An emotion in the brain causes secretions from the adrenal and thyroid glands which set free energy from the liver, made available for the rest of the body, especially the muscles.

The psychic rhythms consist (1) of the impulses, general and special, that arise in the daily routine of life and by certain stimulations; (2) of the accompanying emotions; and (3) of the sentiments toward which or away from which these impulses may be directed.

The significance of this analysis lies in the fact that if physical education is an aid in the development of character it must obey, first, the laws within these rhythms themselves, and secondly, the laws of the relations between these rhythms.

Dr. Criles’s experiments, now corroborated by other and by many observations during this war, establish beyond any doubt the significance and importance of the character of the emotion that sets free and directs energy. Here we begin to have a scien-

Digitized by LjOOQle
172

tific explanation of why one teacher, or coach, or captain can develop so much more power in the same person or in the same team than can some other teacher or coach or captain. Herein lies the importance of a school’s reputation and spirit. The amount of power a pupil or a team can develop is dependent, not only upon diet and regime, but also upon the emotions developed. The reputation and spirit of the school as interpreted by the pupil become a potent factor in storing energy and a more potent factor in releasing it.

The feeling of possessing power plus the feeling of the ability to control and direct it is a known requisite for continued efficiency or success. Success and the feeling of succeeding is an indispensable factor in that energy and stability that make it possible for the individual, or others, to predict what can and will be done. Here we come upon the life-cycle by which this aspect of character develops. Power develops character, and the character in turn develops more power.

STOCK TAKING AT LEHIGH UNIVERSITY

By HOWARD R. REITER, South Bethlehem, Pa.

“By intensive efforts the physical and medical examinations of all men entering this year were completed on October 21, practically one month after the opening of college.

“The early completion of the work was made possible by the kindly cooperation of Dr. W. L. Estes, Jr., assisted by Mr. Rex, together with the department staff, working every night throughout the month.

“Valuable information was obtained from the replies of 220 history forms which were sent to parents of the men expecting to enter through the college office preliminary to the opening of college. By this means a number of men with hernia, defective hearts, and general weakened condition were able to be seen as soon as they entered college.

“The general condition of the class of 1921, like all preceding classes, shows that there is something radically wrong in the early physical education and home training of our American boys. So serious is the situation that it should arouse thought and investigation, especially among those men and women who have to do with the child in the primary, grammar, and high schools.

“The statistics in themselves mean nothing. Some one has truthfully said that ‘figures do not lie, but liars often figure!’ As I look back over the bodies of our college boys which have passed before my eyes during the past fifteen years, I say unhesitatingly that it is a burning shame that our standard of education is so onesided and short sighted.

“It is a deplorable fact that a large percentage of the youths entering our American colleges today are physically unfit, and far below the physical development that should be the heritage of every boy attaining the age of 18-21. This condition of affairs is due to the ignorance, prejudice, and short-sightedness of our educators and school boards in the primary and secondary grades.
173

Poor ventilation, bad sitting posture due to abominable desks,, intensive hours of study, and the lack of a system of physical education are some of the causes which produce the conditions that confront us today. The child's life is the critical period of its-history, when the bones, muscles and nerves are most pliable. As the years come on the ‘clay’ hardens, as it were, in geometrical ratio. ‘No act in childhood’s early day, no thought that ran, no storm that raged; but leaves its track upon the clay, which slowly hardens into man.'

“It is high time that the American public, and especially its educators awake to the situation.

“We hear a great deal about the thread worn phrase, ‘College athletics ministers only to the strong, the weak are neglected/ Why is this so? Simply because intercollegiate athletics are a ‘survival of the fittest.’ There is not enough material to stand the gaff. It is not the fact that the opportunity isn’t offered to all. The writer has time and again urged the youth of this college to go out for athletics, not necessarily to make the team, but as a healthful form of recreation. The reason they do not come out lies in the fact that their physical development is poor. They have never learned the coordinations necessary to play, they feel clumsy and out of place among their fellows. It isn’t the boys’ fault, it is the fault of the system lower down. They have never had the opportunity. This lack of physical vigor and development among the girls of our communities is still more deplorable.

“In view of the critical situation of this country today, and the large number of rejections in the army and navy on account of physical inability, it is high time for us to realize that physical fitness is not only the foundation of an efficient soldier, but it is also the bulwark of a strong citizenship.

“It is an inspiration to watch the new system of required physical exercise for all in its operation at Lehigh. With the gymnasium, swimming pool, and both upper and lower fields taxed to their capacity, the faculty may feel well satisfied that they made no mistake in exacting physical exercise from all. And if the donor of our gymnasium should pay us a visit some afternoon, we feel sure that he would have the consciousness that the gymnasium and equipment was the grandest investment that he had ever made.”

In all, 258 men were examined. The general condition of the students examined is as follows: 137 classed as good, 104 as fair, and 17 as poor. 32 per cent was found with defective vision, as against 27 1-2 per cent in 1916. Spinal curvature seems to be increasing rapidly, as 25 per cent had more or less deviating curves, in 1916 there was 10.5 and in 1915, 12 per cent.

Flat footedness to a greater or less extent was found in 40 per cent of the men as against 62 per cent last year and 41 per cent in 1915. This condition is considered serious for application to the army. There was found an increase in the number of cases of varicocele, 14 per cent as against 10 per cent in 1916. This condition is the result of heavy lifting and straining, and is readily removed by operation. 33 1-2 per cent of the men showed skin
174

below the normal. This was due mostly to poor digestion and faulty assimilation.

In answer to the question, Do you use tobacco? 80 answered yes, and 134 answered no. To the question, Do you swim? 38 answered no.

The average age of the class of 1921 is 18.9 years, class of 1920, 18.8 years, class of 1919, 19 years. Average weight of the class of 1921 is 136.7 pounds; class of 1920, 138.5 pounds; class of 1919 134.5 pounds. Average height of class of 1921 is 5 feet, 7.6 inches; class of 1920, 5 feet, 6.9 inches; class of 1919, 5 feet, 7 inches. Average strength of class of 1921 is 527 points; class of 1920, 553.3 points; class of 1919, 599.5 points.

The defects of the class are as follows:

Number of men having abnormalities, 94, hollow back, 50; round shoulders, 68; right shoulder low, 87; left shoulder low, 9; barrel chest, 6; flat chest, 48; hollow lower chest, 4; bad hearts, 11; nose defective, 53; large tonsils, 41; defective teeth, 24; hernia (rupture), 6; defective hearing, 4; with adenoids, 5; scapula prominent, 25; chicken breasts, 3; clavicle prominent, 1; long foreskin, 30; bowed legs, 6; catarrh, 6; deformity of toes, 8; deformity of chests, 9; knocked knees, 5; right hip prominent, 5; left hip prominent, 3; high palates, 3; right leg shorter, 1; atrophied right arm, 1; weak lung, 3.

In the urinary analysis 7 showed traces of albuminuria. The -other 251 students were negative in this test.

W.	H. Mumford made the best strength test in the class with a total of 1058.4 points. This is the best record in many years, and beats the high man of the class of 1920, E. P. Beach by nearly 100 points.

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF COUNTRY SCHOOLS

Dr. C. Pahud in the Reoue Medicare de la Suisse Romande, •Geneva, March 1918, 38, No. 3, describes what has been accomplished in the canton of Vaud, Switzerland, on behalf of the school-children of the large cities. He practices in the little town of Romainmotier, and he has inaugurated a system of thorough physical examination of all the schoolchildren once a year, including the skin tuberculin tests, with the parents’ consent. Those found below par are partially examined again in the fall. An individual record is kept for each child, recording date, age, weight, hearing, aptitude for work, and previous tuberculin test, with the space remarks for teacher and physician. The teachers superintend the weighing of the children once a month; the height is recorded once in six months, the school rating once a quarter. Douches are given once or twice a week, and sun baths and gymnastics are given daily in pleasant weather, the children in bathing trunks. A conference for parents, to explain the system and especially the advantages of the tuberculin test, is given before the spring main examination. Only for twenty out of sixty-four children.were they unable to obtain the consent of the parents for the Pirquet test. Each child
175

is tested separately, with care not to hint at the findings. The whole system is completed and stabilized, he says, by the Assurance-Maladie infantile, a splendid institution, sustained by the canton and the state, which for two or four francs (40 or 80 cents) insures the child against sickness, so that when the parents are informed that their child is physically backward or the Pirquet test is positive, and medical care and measures are required, this is all provided for without further expense to the parents, by this insurance which, Pahud remarks, should make all the other cantons green with envy. The day is not far distant, he adds, when all the expense of the insurance will be borne by the community, and then the health of the country schoolchildren will be placed on a solid basis. Medical school inspection is incomplete and fails of its purpose unless supplemented by opportunity for medical treatment for which the parents do not have to count the expense. In conclusion Pahud mourns that the care of the teeth is still a weak link in the chain. Among 66 children examined, 14 had one or two decayed teeth; 30, two or three; 12 from three to five, and 9 more than five. Almost always the first lower molars decay first.

Probably the most important element in the education of children is the establishing of good health and right living habits. Certainly the school in which the children of a community are assembled to gain preparation for life should not be a place of dissemination of the germs of disease and death.—P. P. Claxton.

GENERAL PEDAGOGY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Repetition of Activities.

(Continued)

Children seem to possess a love for repetition which is almost instinctive. We may observe them repeating the same words over and over to themselves and if there is jingle to them, it seems particularly pleasing. Just as they constantly review intellectual accomplishments, so one may observe them rehearsing physical activities that they have learned. They will repeat the same actions again and again always finding a new delight and a new phase which appeals to them. So it is with the age-old activities peculiar to and recurring at certain periods of the year. Each season brings the revival of certain seasonal activities. We have the marble time, the kite flying time, the jack time, jumping rope time, etc. etc., not only because some boys and girls are learning these activities for the first time, but because many who have previously learned them review them for the pleasure they afford.

With the directed physical educational activities a similar need and desire for review is necessary. Here, however, it is more purposeful. It has for its object the learning of new activities, the attaining of strength, posture and skill, performing fluent co-

HEALTH
ordinations, which will broaden the motor power of the individual; furthermore, the maintenance of skill and strength and general accomplishment previously acquired by repeating them at future times. These reviews lead to the acquisition of distinctly outlined mental images of the motor activities with firmly linked associations of a wide range giving a broad basis to further build upon. There are four methods of repetition commonly used, they are:

(1)	Repetition by response, that is, by command of word or count; (2) repetition in rhythm, applied only to such activities as are performable in rhythm: (3) repetition in a free manner and

(4)	future reviews, particularly of fundamental activities and their variations. The first three deal with repetitions while learning new exercises. Repetitions on response and in rhythm also form a part of re-presentation of activities learned in the past.

In order to get a distinct and clean cut mental image of any activity repetition must be followed by criticism (and demonstration, see Demonstration) which will point out the faults. Thus in repetition by response, faults should be corrected both during the execution while the pupil is in some definite position and after it. However, it is a mistake to ask pupils to maintain a tiring position too long while making corrections, for usually while remedying one fault other faults of posture will creep in. The duration of a strenuous position must, therefore, be well within the limits of the pupil's strength. Here it is perhaps best to make corrections after the execution and merely offer admonitions during the holding of the position. This kind of procedure applies principally to free exercises and some apparatus work. In a free exercise repetition on response must be continued until it is faultlessly executed if its full postural value is to be obtained. Movements only performed in rhythm are not given for postural values.

(2)	Rhythmic execution, wherever this is in place, follows the repetition by response. There are many instances, however, in which rhythmic repetition is the only kind suitable for the particular activity. This is true in dance steps, some free exercises and some apparatus exercises, where it is impossible to analyze the movements into positions which may be maintained or where this is not desired. The number of repetitions of an exercise depends upon the object of the teacher and the difficulty of the exercise. Some must be often repeated without a pause in order to get the desired effect, others less frequently. When rhythmic execution is accompanied by music, as is usually the case the duration of the activity should be adapted to the musical strain. This is particularly true of free exercises and dance steps. If the instructor observes that the execution is poor, he should insist upon repetition for the purpose of learning the exercise. A difficult combination may require so much coordinative power that many repetitions are necessary; on the other hand, some will require less. Correct progression, however, will not admit of too difficult problems in coordination requiring excessive time for their learning. These must be led up to gradually. Furthermore, the instructor may have in mind certain physiological effects which
177

he wishes to attain by this exercise. He then adjusts tfye length of his repetitions to suit his purpose. Strenuous exercises should not be repeated very long, but may be tried again after a pause. Lasting accomplishments can only be attained by a number of repetitions, and it is only in this way that motor control is gained and that the mental image of the activity becomes fixed and clear.

(3)	Repetition in a free manner is not made use of as much as it should be. Its principal purpose is to give the pupil an opportunity to try in his own fashion activities which require considerable skill and sometimes demand an acquisition of a particular knack essential in their performance. Such tricks can be best learned if the pupil is left to try them out by himself. Occasions of this kind may arise in teaching difficult free and wand exercises, in peculiar club swings, dance steps and apparatus stunts. It is a welcome break in the formal execution and relieves temporarily the attention necessary for performing on dictation.

(4)	Repetition at future periods should place emphasis upon fundamental activities. These are reviewed as such and may be varied by changing the secondary parts according to the laws of progression. Thus certain fundamental exercises should recur in every lesson, as the valuable trunk exercises of the type that will strengthen the large trunk muscles, and vaulting and jumping exercises. The trained instructor is familiar with the methods used to make these exercises progressively more effective and interesting. Other less important exercises may be reviewed at greater intervals of the semester’s work.

The length of the interval between repetition depends upon the age of the pupils. In the lower grades the intervals must of necessity be short. Children learn quickly, but also forget quickly, hence there can not be a long interval between re-presentation of new activities. As you pass to the higher grades, on the other hand, the interval may be proportionately lengthened.

NOTE TO SUBSCRIBERS

This June number of Mind and Body is the last issued until September as there are no midsummer numbers. This announcement is made here to save subscribers the trouble of writing to us for their July and August copies.

We are still in need of several copies of the May 1916, November 1917, and January 1917 numbers of Mind and Body and any one having a copy of these numbers to spare will be doing the publishers and other subscribers a favoi by notifying us. These copies will be paid for and any one who does not care to preserve Mind and Body in volumes can secure credit on subscriptions by letting us have the numbers we need.

Should this copy of Mind and Body be delivered to anyone who does not subscribe for the magazine or who does not want it, the publishers would be very grateful if the recipient would notify us of the facts by postal card. We do not wish to send the magazine to anyone who does not care to receive it or has not ordered it and if there are any such names on our list we are more than anxious to have them removed. Notify

Mind and Body Publishing Co., New Ulm, Minn.,

Digitized by Google
O'

178

«o

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

o	'	111	——	■	■■'	——	I"	o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

ON THE IMPORTANCE OF PRACTICING PERSONAL

HYGIENE.

EUGENE LYMAN FISK, M. D., Medical Director, Life Extension Institute,

New York City, N. Y.

The purpose of our health examinations, and of our educational service is to furnish information that will assist you in both the detection and the prevention of disease.

It is designed not only to prolong your life, but make it more livable,—that is, happier and more useful.

Do not make the care of your health a fad or hobby. Acquire knowledge of healthful living habits, and adopt them normally and naturally. If you do this, right living,, in a physical sense, will become almost automatic and without conscious effort on your part.

It takes but a slight mental and physical effort to guard yourself against disease. Some of the most serious maladies are very easily avoided if you know how to do it. These health letters will help to guide you around these dangers, and also to keep you in step with the advance of knowledge in the science of disease prevention and of healthful living.

The periodic health examinations arranged for in our life extension service protect the individual against the insidious development of unsuspected disease, and they also eliminate needless worry over imaginary afflictions, and worry due to exaggerating the seriousness of some simple or local trouble.

While some people may fret themselves ill without cause, a far larger number are suffering because of their indifference to, or even defiance, of the simple laws of health.

A great deal of sickness and premature death is due to the erroneous idea that a person has a right to do as he sees fit with his own body and his own life, short of actually committing suicide by violence.

To gradually destroy the body by careless and unhealthful living, violates no man-made law, but it is suicide nevertheless.

Every sane person should realize that an obligation rests upon the occupant of the human body to keep it sound, clean and efficient -—to keep it a social asset, not a liability.

A mere miserly hoarding of health, a cowardly shrinking from disease and pain is not the proper attitude toward life.

The ideal which all should seek, is that pride in physical fitness which makes us anxious to render a good account of whatever is entrusted to our care, whether it be a human body or a business.

Probably most illness is preventable and most deaths post-

Digitized by v^ooQle
179

ponable. Measures for improving health and so preventing illness and postponing death consitute what is called Hygiene. There are two main branches of Hygiene: Public Hgyiene and Personal Hygiene.

Public Hygiene is protection by the State against disease, by providing clean streets, good sewers, pure water, pure foods, quarantine, etc. Personal Hygiene consists in the practice of healthful habits by the individual himself.

Public Hygiene is of chief importance in preventing the acute or infectious diseases—scarlet fever, typhoid fever, measles, diphtheria, whooping cough, yellow fever, small-pox. Personal Hygiene is of chief importance in preventing the chronic or degenerative diseases, such as heart disease, arterio-sclerosis, Bright’s disease, nervous prostration, insanity,—in short—diseases of nutrition and of the circulation.

Public Hygiene has made much progress during the last century and in consequence the acute or infectious diseases are, in general, under control and declining rapidly. Personal Hygiene, on the other hand, has been greatly neglected, especially in the United States, and in consequence the death-rates from the chronic or degenerative diseases are increasing rapidly.

. Personal Hygiene will not only prevent many forms of chronic or degenerative diseases, but will also increase the resistance of the body to infectious diseases.

Public Hygiene can only be of negative value in preventing disease, but Personal Hygiene can go further. It can accumulate vitality.

In fact, Personal Hygiene, thoroughly carried out, means restoring the noble ideas of the ancient Greeks for bodily health, efficiency, strength, endurance, symmetry and beauty. It enormously increases our capacity to work, to be happy, and to be useful.

In fact, any one of the following rules of hygiene, if followed out faithfully, is enough in many cases to make the difference between misery and well-being.

1.	Air-Hygiene.

a.	Let the fresh air in.

b.	Go out after it.

c.	Sleep out if you can.

d.	Breathe deeply.

2.	Food-Hygiene.

a.	Eat some crusty or resistant food, some bulky and some

raw foods at each meal.

b.	Eat slowly, chew and taste your food thoroughly.

c.	Eat at regular intervals but eat little when not hungry.

d.	Take no poisons or infections into your body.

3.	Activity-Hygiene.

a.	Secure daily thorough bowel movement.

b.	Exercise body and mind daily.

c.	Keep erect, standing and sitting.

d.	Play a little, have a hobby.

Digitized by Google
180

4.	Re«t-Hygiene.

a.	Vary your work.

b.	Stop sometimes and relax.

c.	Keep serene, be courageous.

d.	Enjoy sweet sleep and enough of it.

The neglect of one or more of these rules of personal hygiene is literally responsible for most of the ills to which flesh is heir. It was the neglect of such rules, Comaro said, which made him a dying -.man at 37 just as it was their observance which extended his life to 103. Again, tuberculosis, so common today, is a house disease due to disregarding the fact that originally man was an outdoor animal, that is, to the neglect of air hygiene. Chronic diseases of the Heart, Circulation and Kidneys, Gout, Chronic Rheumatism, Obesity, Diabetes, are largely due to neglect of activity-hygiene, food-hygiene and rest-hygiene. Most industrial diseases are due to wrong posture or unbalanced exercise of the body or mind or too long hours, or vitiated air or to prematurely putting children to work and so producing overstrain and depriving of play or to employment of women when physiologically unsuited to work. Neurasthenia, nervous prostration, melancholia, even insanity, may be caused by work, monotony, the neglect of the hygiene of rest, or of . activity-hygiene.

The rules of personal hygiene are for the most part as simple as the Biblical advice to bathe in the River Jordan. But the very amplicity and availability of personal hygiene is one reason for its terrible neglect and for the failure to realize the really wonderful benefits which accrue from a careful and continued following of these rules.

In order to secure these benefits the individual must possess four requisites:

Knowledge, Enthusiasm, Self-Control, Courage.

—From Health Letter No. 1, of the Life Extension Institute, New York City.

DISEASES OF ADULT LIFE AND MIDDLE AGE

Medical men and sanitarians derive more comfort from studying the death rates and vital statistics relating to infancy, adolescence, and early adult life, than from those showing the trend of mortality in middle life and old age. In the earlier periods of life, tremendous gains in vitality have been made in the past quarter century. Trench after trench has been taken from such malignant enemies of childhood and youth as diphtheria, diarrheal diseases, typhoid fever, tuberculosis and even pneumonia, long a stubborn fighter. The lines of these foes have been steadily pushed backward and their ultimate control seems probable.

From full maturity to old age, death is chiefly caused by the breaking down or wearing out of the vital organs. Heart disease, apoplexy, paralysis, Bright’s disease of the kidney, and cancer, are : the enemies of middle life and old age. It is well known that cancer

Digitized by

Google
181

is heavily on the increase, but not so well known that the death-rate from diseases of the heart, blood vessels and kidneys has-practically doubled in this country during the past thirty yeans,-while in Great Britain there has actually been a slightly reduced mortality from these causes. In 1913, between the ages of 30 and 60, there were 85,000 deaths in the United States Registration Area from these degenerative affections, exclusive of cancer. This means that for the country at large there is an annual loss of more than 130,000 citizens in the prime of life. That most of these deaths were premature and that 50 per cent of them could have been postponed many years by early warning and guidance is a conservative estimate.

Against this class of diseases, modern science has as yet waged no systematic and persistent waifare. The lines of attack are not so simple and direct as in the infectious and epidemic maladies. We cannot vaccinate an individual against heart disease, thickening of the blook vessels, or kidney trouble. To protect a man against these maladies we must study his personal needs, and perhaps remodel his whole existence.

Nevertheless distinct gains can be made in combating these maladies by following certain broad general principles.

■ General Principles

If a man asks you “How shall I live in order to avoid these chronic degenerative diseases,” the general answer is, “Temperance all along the line — in eating, drinlong, working, playing and even in resting.” It is possible to “rust out” on the one hand or to “wear out” on the other.

But what is temperance for one man may be excess for another. Hence the most important step, in protecting against degenerative maladies is to have a thorough physical examination at regular intervals — at least once a year — so that life may be regulated to one’s physical equipment.

Important Causes of Disease

The chief factors in developing these chronic maladies of the vital organs may be classified as follows:

1.	Improper living habits. Over-eating, especially of meat and of rich, highly seasoned foods.

Too little exercise.

Too much exercise, prolonged, exhausting manual labor- or athletic excess.

Abuse of alcohol and tobacco.

The disease of vice.

Hard work, in which one has an interest, not carried to the point of undue strain or interference with the normal sleep, exercise, diet, etc., is not in itself harmful. Overstimulation of any kind, excessive emotional excitement and prolonged mental strain may, however, cause the human mechanism to break down instead of running down.

“Lopsided” brain work and bad mental hygiene, i. e., too much work, too little play, or too much play, too little work are

Digitized by UjOOQle
182

important factors in bringing on premature disease. The brain worker needs some physical work and mental play. The manual laborer or mechanic needs some physical play and mental work.

2.	Chronic infection. Many of the-chronic degenerative diseases of adult life are due to persistent insidious infection by various forms of bacteria. These bacteria find lodgment in diseased gums and tooth sockets, nasal cavities, tonsils and other localities favorable for the development of germ life. From these localities they move out into the circulation and into the tissues, like submarines from a base of supply, attack various organs and often cause troubles in the heart, kidneys, blood vessels, stomach, gall bladder, appendix and joints. Sluggish, dammed-up bowels are also often a source of chronic infection and poisoning that gives rise to circulatory and kidney affections.

The remedies are, after all, simple; namely, periodic examination, to determine the physical condition, and any possible source of infection; removal of infection; and then regulation of living habits, so that the individual may, so far as possible, be adjusted to his life work, or his life work adjusted to his physical capacities. —Health News.

The economy of the food in the body is, in the first instance, a problem related to the need of energy and the metabolism of the offered nutrients. Even at complete rest the human organism requires energy for the performance of vital functions such as the activities of the heart and the work of the circulation and respiration, not to mention minor items of energy exchange which express themselves as tonus. Much more energy is (jailed for as soon as external work is being done. If the food intake is inadequate it is inevitable, therefore, that the body should give up some of its stored nutrients - glycogen, fats, and last of all proteins - to maintain the performances just outlined. There can be no compromise in the matter of energy. The laws of the conservation of energy are inevitable in their incidence.

'lwo competent German physiologists. Professor Loewy and Zuntz of Berlin, have related in a paper that has recently come to notice in this country, how the early German food proclamations worked. They observed as the result of the restricted war diet that the majority of the strong and healthy men lost from 6 to 8 kg. (10 to 12 per cent) of their earlier body weight. After the decrease a constant weight was established. The question is raised as to the cause of this decreased and then constant weight, and whether there is a relation to a lessened consumption of energy. With two people there was found a plainly evident reduction in metabolism and the decrease in consumption of energy was more marked than the accompanying loss of weight. An explanation of the low equilibrium given is that with the decrease in body weight there is a relatively greater decrease of the active cell substance.

Evidently, any procedure which lessens the quantity of metab-
183

olizing tissues in the body may decrease the amount of energy required. An emaciated individual who is in good health will invariably exhibit a diminished metabolism. Lust states that in starvation the fall in metabolism reaches greater proportions than does the fall in the mass of protoplasmic tissue. Thus there seems to be a specific reduction in metabolism coincident with undernutrition. But who will say that in final analysis the best measure of human performance is to be found in the most economical use of food? The newly organized Food Administration of the United States fortified by an advisory board on alimentation composed of recognized students of nutrition has not advocated that our people shall go without needed food. Indeed, we are urged to “eat wisely and well.”—From an editorial in “The Journ. A. M. A. Oct. 6, 1917.

FEEDING CHILDREN

Children’s complaints are caused mostly by their stomachs. The feeding of children is at fault, hardly anything else is needed to explain their sickness, and hardly anything else but a revised diet is needed to prevent their complaints or to cure them.

Too much milk is used sifter weaning, too much pasteurised milk, milk which is disturbed in its composition by scalding, producing chemical changes which increase the tendency of the milk to cause accidents or scorbutus, literally sour blood, which is common knowledge, yet not understood. Too much sugar and too many sweets, and too much pastry, pies, and cakes — things unnatural, also unwholesome. Children do not have enough fresh and ripe fruit of good quality, not enough oranges, apples, bananas, figs, dates, raisins, and plain boiled and unseasoned rice.

Nor do they have enough fresh cooked and uncooked vegetables at their meals. Any of the hard vegetables by steaming them till soft are wholesome, and children like them. They like potatoes, beets, lettuce and bread without being greased with butter, unless they are taught to use butter, and these articles of food are good for them.

Not enough attention is given to see that children have enough work or play to give them muscular exercise, to keep their systems free from clogging, and their bowels working freely and without omission. Many children do not drink as much water as they need. Children get too much butter, too many sweets, sugar, too many food combinations, and not enough simple food to be healthful.

They need things such as uncooked pears, bananas soft but firm, mellow apples, not baked and sugared; more things of the natural order and of good quality. Simple, plain bread, not cake or fancy tea biscuits, and plain water to drink.

Digitized by UaOOQle
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

ADVANCED MASS EXERCISES

Presented at the A. P. E. A. Convention, Philadelphia, by the Students of The Temple University Normal School of Physical Education.

General Explanations:

These exercises can only be effectively and beneficially taught to pupils who have had at least three consecutive years of systematic training and are sixteen years of age or over. Under other circumstances, the execution is liable to be inaccurate and worthless.

The movements should be precise and spirited. Although they have been arranged for exhibition, the aim to improve posture, coordination and precision was held uppermost.

The formation consisted of ranks of fours in open order. Ranks of six or eight may also be used.

Movements occurred only on the first of every four counts.

Music used: Groups I-II-III:	“Dance	of	the	Honey	Bees”

by Benjamin Richman; for Group IV: “The Last Long Mile”. The latter is popular, known by the pupils and the song may accompany the execution of the “Wheelbarrow” in the last group.

Group I.

Exercise 1.

a.	1-4 turn left, bend left knee, extend right leg backward and place hands on floor (arms between knees; spine is straight;

head up).............................................   1-4

b.	Extend the left leg	backward..............................  5-8

c.	Draw up both knees	to a squat position..................  9-12

d.	Straighten knees and face front (position)................13-16

e.	Repeat all to right,	left, right...........................17-64

Exercise 2.

a.	Lunge left sideward and bend arms for thrusting;

b.	1-4 turn left, close right foot to left foot, bend knees deep (squat)

and thrust forward;

c.	Straighten knees, stride backward with right foot and raise

arms upward;

d.	Face front closing left to right foot and lower the arms side-

downward ;

e.	Repeat all to right, left, right.

Exercise 3. (Divided Execution)

a.	Inside files perform exercise 1, beginning outward, Repeat in-

ward, outward, inward; while

b.	Outside files perform exercise 2, beginning inward, Repeat

outward, inward, outward.

Digitized by v^ooQle
185

Group 11

Exercise 1.

a.	1-4 turn left, lunge forward left and place hands on hips;

b.	Change the knee-bending and straighten the arms forward;

c.	Face front, straighten knees (weight on right foot) and move

the arms sideward;

d.	Close the left to the right foot and lower arms;

e.	Repeat all right, left, right.

Exercise 2.

a.	Bend the knees deep (squat) and place hands in rear of head

(trunk is erect, chest raised, chin drawn in);

b.	Straighten the left leg sideward, place the left hand on hip and

the right hand on floor beside right foot;

c.	Return the left leg to the squat position and raise the arms

sideward;

d.	Straighten knees and lower the arms;

e.	Repeat all right, left, right.

Exercise 3. (Divided Execution).

a.	Inside files perform Exercise 1, beginning outward;

Repeat inward, outward, inward; while

b.	Outside files perform Exercise 2, beginning inward;

Repeat outward, inward, outward.

Group III

Exercise 1.

a.	1-4 turn left, lunge forward left and raise the left arm obliquely

foreupward, the right arm opposite (obliquely backward downward);

b.	Kneel on the right knee and change the arm positions;

c.	Straighten knees, face front and place hands in front of shoul-

ders (palms down, elbows sideward);

d.	Close the left to the right foot, fling arms sideward and im-

mediately lower them to position;

e.	Repeat all right, left, right.

Exercise 2.

a.	Stride left sideward (weight even on both feet) and raise arms

sideward;

b.	1-2 turn left about, pivoting on the left foot, stride right side-

ward, arms remain sideward;

c.	Return to position (a), pivoting on left foot again but taking

a 1-2 turn backward;

d.	Close left to right foot and lower the arms;

e.	Repeat right, left, right.

Exercise 3. (Divided Execution)

a.	Inside files perform- Exercise 1, beginning outward,

Repeat inward, outward, inward; while

b.	Outside files perform Exercise 2, beginning inward,

Repeat outward, inward, outward.

Digitized by Google
186

Group IVi Companion Exercises

Note: Between this group and the preceding, a suitable intermission should be allowed. During this time the outer files take one step inward in order to secure better alignment for companion work. For ease in description and instruction, number the files:

1 2	12

T	T	T	T

T	T	T	T

The counts are given, as they vary with the different exercises. Again strength and precision are required to make the exercises valuable and presentable.

Music: “The Last Long Mile”.

Exercise 1. The Spanbend.

File:

1	a. Jump with a quarter turn right to a side stride position and

swing arms foreupward;......................... 1-2

b.	Bend the upper trunk backward and allow the body to

fall backward;................................. 3-4

c.	Raise and lower the heels twice, two counts to each move-

ment ........................................  5-12

d.	Straighten the trunk and with a jump face front....13-16

2	a. With a quarter turn right, stride right forward and raise

the arms forward;.............................. 1-2

b.	Support No. 1 at the shoulders......................3-12

c.	Face front to position.............................13-16

Repeat this exercise again in the same direction and then perform it twice in the opposite direction.

Note: Each file’s movements are given separately, but they are performed at the same time by both files according to the counts given at the right.

These and the following exercises are performed twice to one side and then twice to,the other.

Exercise 2. Trunk Bending Sideward.

File:

1	a. Lunge left sideward, turn trunk to the left and place fists

on hips;............................•.......... 1-2

b.	Grasp and hold firmly the ankle of No. 2 on your knee.... 3-4

c.	Continue to hold the ankle of No. 2.................5-14

d.	Release the ankle and face front into position.....15-16

2	a. Raise the right leg sideward and# swing arms sideupward

(over head)...................................  1-2

b.	Securely place the right foot on the upper part of No. l’s thigh (No. 1 grasps the ankle).......................... 3-4

Digitized by Google
187

c.	Bend the trunk sideward to the left and straighten twice,

two counts to each movement...................... 5-12

d.	Close right foot to the left (2 counts), face front, 13-16

Perform this exercise four times.

Exercise 3. Trunk Bending Backward.

File:

1	a. Face left, lunge forward left and place hands on hips.... 1-2

b.	Grasp and hold firmly the ankle or No. 2 on your knee;.. 3-4

c.	Continue to hold the ankle of No. 2................... 5-12

d.	Face front to position................................13-16

2	a. Face right and place hands in rear of head.............. 1-2

b.	Place the right foot on the left knee of No. 1;........ 3-4

c.	Bend the trunk backward and straighten twice, two counts

to each movement;..............................   5-12

d.	Close the right foot to the left (2 counts) and face front to

position.........................................13-16

Perform this exercise four times.

Exercise 4. The Wheelbarrow.

1	a. 1-4 turn right, bend knees deep (squat), and place hands

on the floor (arms between knees);................ 1-2

b.	Straighten the legs backward to support, straddling them

(feet about two feet apart);...................... 3-4

c.	Allow No. 2 to raise your feet at the ankles;.......... 5-6

d.	Walk forward four steps on your hands;................ 7-10

e.	Allow feet to be replaced on floor by No. 2;..........11-12

f.	Draw up both knees to a squat position;...............13-14

g.	Straighten knees and face front.......................15-16

This exercise is repeated again in the same direction, then No. 1 performs the movements of No. 2 described below, twice in the opposite direction.

2	a. Face right, stride right forward and raise arms sideward; 1-2

b.	Bend the knees, bend trunk forward and reach down grasp-

ing the ankles of No. 1;.........................  3-4

c.	Straighten the trunk to an erect position raising the body

of No. 1 (wheelbarrow pos.);.....................  5-6

d.	Walk forward four steps, guiding the “wheelbarrow” (care-

ful, so as not to push No. 1 over);.............  7-10

e.	Replace the feet of No. 1 on the floor (by bending forward,

not dropping them);............................  11-12

f.	Straighten the trunk and the knees, and raise aims side-

ward; .........................................  13-14

g.	Face front and lower the arms...................  ....15-16

Perform this exercise four times, twice to one side and then twice to the other.

Note: All the exercises of Group IV are described in one direction only. Remember in taking the exercise in the opposite direction that No. 1 performs the movements of No. 2 and vice versa.

At the conclusion, a suitable pyramid is built on count (or music), using one or more ranks for each pyramid.

Digitized by Google
188

MASS FREE EXERCISES

JOSEPH WEISSMUELLER, Los Angeles, Cal.

.-Mnsic, “The Whip”.....................  by	Abe	Holzmann

March and Two Step

Introduction — 8 measures.

Introduction exercise — 2 counts to a movement.

Raise right arm sideward____________________________ 1—2

Salute .............................................3—4

Return............................................... 5—8

Exercises are divided in two groups. The following exercises : are four counts to a movement. The exercises to be executed left and right twice. Repeat music as marked.

Group I

(1) Place left foot sideward and bend arms to strike over

Hold position........................................ 2—4

Layout left obliquely backinward and strike obliquely

sidedownward, turn head to the right............. 5

Hold position......................................... 6—8

Lunge left sideward and bend trunk right sideward and

swing arms sideupward (hands are now open)....... 9

Hold position........................—................ 10—12

To position..........................................  13

Hold position........................................ 14—16

Same to the right..........................   —...... 17—32

Repeat left and right................................33—64

(2) Place left foot backward and swing arms right sideward

turn and head to the right....................... 1

Hold position......................................... 2—4

Lunge left sideward 3-4 double arm circle left sideward

(beginning downward) looking upward—............. 5

Hold position........................................ 6—8

Close left foot to right lower trunk forward and 3-4

double arm circle inward......................... 9

Hold position........................................ 10—12

To position.......................................... 13

Hold position......................................... 14—16

Same right..........................................—	17—32

Repeat left and right................................ 33—64

0)	Lunge left sideward and swing arms sideupward looking upward................................................ 1

Hold position........................................ 2—4

Close left foot to right, bend knees and lower arms

sideward and carry forward....................... 5

Hold position........................................6—8

Straighten knees and place left foot backward, behd

Digitized by
189

upper trunk backward, swing arms foreupward and

lower sideward,	palms up..........................9

Hold position.......................................... 10—1ST

To position-.......................................... 13

Hold position......................................... 14—1<T

Same right............................................ 17—32

Repeat left and	right................................ 33—64J

(4)	Lunge left forward, place hands in front of shoulders.... 1

Hold position.........................................2—4

Close left foot to right, bend trunk left sideward,

straighten arms sideward.......................... 5

Hold position......................................... 6—8

Straighten trunk, place left foot sideward and bend

right knee and place hands	on floor............... 9

Hold position......................................... 10—12

To position........................................... 13

Hold position......................................... 14—16

Same right............................................ 17—32

Repeat left and right................................. 33—64

(5)	Facing 1-4 turn left and swing	arms sideupward........ 1

Hold position......................................... 2—4

Place left foot sideward, bend right knee and swing

arms sideward..................................... 5

Hold position......................................... 6—8

1-4 turn right, bend trunk forward and swing arms

sideupward and forward touching floor............. 9

Hold position......................................... 10—12

To position........................................... 13

Hold position......................................... 14—16

Same right............................................ 17—32

Repeat left and right................................. 33—64

Group II

(1)	Raise left leg sideward and bend	arms to thrust....... 1

Hold position......................................... 2—4

Lunge left sideward and thrust left arm upward and

right sideward, turn head	right............. 5

Hold position......................................... 6—8

Change knee bending, 3-4 arm circle left inward and place right hand in front of shoulder and turn

head to left......................................9

Hold position......................................... 10—12

To position........................................... 13

Hold position......................................... 14—16

Same right............................................ 17—32

Repeat left and right................................. 33—64

(2)	Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideupward (look-

ing upward)....................................... 1

Hold position......................................... 2—4^

Digitized by LaOOQle
190

•Change knee bending, bend trunk foredownward and swing arms foredownward (the right knee be-

tween the arms..................................... 5

Hold position......................................... 6—8

Lunge left forward and swing right arm foreupward and

left opposite.—.................................. 9

Hold position......................................... 10—12

To position........................................... 13

Hold position......................................... 14—16

Same right............................................ 17—32

Repeat left and right................................. 33—64

(3)	Layout left backward and swing arms foreupward........ 1

Hold position......................................... 2—4

Lunge left forward and swing arms foredownward

and backward..................................... 5

Hold position......................................... 6—8

Closing hand to fist (parry) place right hand in front

of head and kneel	right.......................... 9

Hold position......................................... 10—12

To position........................................... 13

Hold position......................................... 14—16

Same right............................................ 17—32

Repeat left and right................................. 33—64

(4)	Stride left sideward and swing arms sideupward------- 1

Hold position......................................... 2—4

Turn trunk left, and bend forward, the arms stay alongside of head.......................................... 5

Hold position......................................... 6—8

Raise trunk and turn forward. Place left foot obliquely backinward, bend right knee, place left hand in rear of neck and lower right arm sideward.... 9

Hold position......................................... 10—12

To position........................................... 13

Hold position......................................... 14—16

Same right............................................ 17—32

Repeat left and right................................. 33—64

(5)	Stride left forward, bend arms upward and straighten

upward........................................... 1

Hold position......................................... 2—4

1-2 turn right (on heels) and lower trunk forward

and arms sideward................................ 5

Hold position......................................... 6—8

Raise left leg backward and lower arms sidedown-

ward and swing	foreupward........................ 9

Hold position.........................................10—12

To position...........................................13

Hold position..................................... .__ 14—16

Same right.... ....................................... 17—32

Repeat left and right................................. 33—64

Digitized by LaOOQle
191

O	r	,.r,	■	n	■■ ■ —-	■ ■ ■ —— — ■ml,	O

I	ATHLETIC NOTES	I

O	—	■—	■■	■■	>■	■	>■ ■ ir i I ■■ n. ■ n. n. , r	■ «■ ■■ r	Q

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School, New York City.

The annual A. A. U. Gymnastic Competition was held April 27, in the West Side Y. M. C. A., New York City. There was an entry list of 53, one of the largest in recent years. Competition was exceedingly keen throughout and it was not until the last event was finished that the victor was known. It lay between Joseph Oszy of the West Side Y. M. C. A. and Curt Rottman of the Philadelphia Turn Gemeinde.

B.	Jorgensen, last year’s champion, held the lead up to the final event, when he was passed by Oszy, Rottman and Kriz. Jorgensen, however, managed to retain his championship on one apparatus, the parallel bars.

Ray W. Dutcher, at club swinging; Arthur W. Nugent, at tumbling, and Otto A. Pool, on the flying rings, were the only other contestants to keep their titles.

The summaries:

Long Horse — Won by Frank J. Kriz, Bohemian Gymnastic Association, with 84 1-2 points; second Fred Berg, Norwegian Turn and Athletic Club, with 83 1-2 points; third, V. E. Winsjansen, Norwegian T. and A. C., with 83 points. •

Horizontal Bar — won by Curt Rottman, Philadelphia Tum-gemeinde, with 82 points; second, B. Jorgensen, Norwegian Turn and A. C.; with 811-4 points; third Frank J. Kriz, Bohemian Gymnastic Association, with 73 1-4 points.

Rope Climb — Won by Louis Weissman, Ninety-second Street Y. M. C. A.; time, 8s.; second, E. B. Steinmetz, Philadelphia, Tumgemeinde; time, 9 2-5s.; third, John Kreyling, National Turn Verein, Time, 10 2-5s!

Parallel Bars — Won by B. Jorgensen, Norwegian Turn and

A.	C., with 84 3-4 points; second, tie between Joseph Oszy, West Side Y. M. C. A., and Curt Rottman, Philadelphia Tumgemeinde, with 82 1-4 points.

Indian Club Swinging — Won by R. W. Dutcher, unattached, with 26 1-4 points; second, Fred Summerhill, West Side Y. M. C.

A., with 26 points; third, W. W. Summerhill, unattached, with 25 points.

Side Horse — Won by Joseph Oszy, West Side Y. M. C. A., with 87 3-4 points; second, C. F. Zenker, Jr., New York Turn Verein, with 86 3-4 points; third, Curt Rottman, Philadelphia Tumgemeinde, with 80 1-2 points.

Tumbling — Won by Arthur W. Nugett, National Turn Verein, with 86 3-4 points; second, Oscar Tempanki, National Turn Verein, with 68 points; third, Fred Berg, Norwegian Turn and A. C., with 64 1-2 points.

Flying Rings — Won by Otto A. Pool, National Turn Verein, with 87 1-4 points; second, Henry Miller, National Turn Verein, with 80 1-2 points; third, August Pfeifer, National Turn Verein, with 79 3-4 points.

Digitized by CjOOQte
192

Out of almost 900 starters, 439 finished in the time limit of 2 hrs. 15 min. in the modified Marathon Race, 12 3-8 miles, recently held in New York City.

The winner, V. Kyronen, of the Millrose A. A. finished in 1.10.20. The feature of the race was the number of entries from distant cities and from the various army cantonments throughout the Ease, South and Middle West. While the race was on, air-oplanes followed up high and dropped three liberty bonds upon the spectators.

The national relay championships of America, the blue ribbon events of the University of Pennsylvania's annual carnival of sports, were well distributed around the country this year, Pittsburg Un-versity winning the one mile title, Massachusetts Institute of Technology the two mile race and Iowa State College the four mile run.

Johns Hopkins won the South Atlantic relay championship and Lafayette was the victor in the Middle Atlantic conference relay event.

Pennsylvania State College was the winner of the freshman championship; Hill School of Pottstown, Pa., won the Preparatory School national title, and the American championship for high schools went to Baltimore Polytechnic Institute.

For the first time in many years at a Pennsylvania relay meet no records were bettered, but there were close finishes in several events.

Wanted Swimming Instructor for Men’s Department, preferably beyond Draft Age. Write particulars covering age, education, experience, and minimum salary. PHILIP L. SEMAN, 1258 W. Taylor St., Chicago, Illinois.

Cornell University Summer School

Physical Education in College of Agriculture, Ithaca, N. Y.

July 8 to August 16

Four-year summer course for teachers, directors and supervisors of physical education, playground supervisors and recreational superintendents. Special courses are offered in rural physical training.

Certificate of attendance for those completing satisfactory work in any one summer. Summer school certificate in physical education issued to those completing the four summers work.

Tuition is free to admitted students who are residents of New York State.

Apply for an announcement of the summer session to the Secretary of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.

—	—	■■■ _.i..	.	Elf	i	i