Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM. STECHERj Secretary of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, 1830 Papin St., St. Louis, Mo. Hans BALLIN, managing Editor, southern Illinois State Normal University, CarbONDALE, III.

SCHOOL VENTILATION.

By CHARLES H. S. TRAILL.

NECESSITY for Ventilation. The mind does its work by means of an engine, the brain. This engine must be warmed by the burning of fuel, the oxidation of tissue. To do its work well the engine must have a good draught, the blood must bring to the brain plenty of oxygen. To make the flame of thought strong and clear, we must breath pure air.

The vital flame consumes the oxygen of the air and puts in its place carbon dioxide. This reduces the proportion of oxygen in the air, and lowers the vital flame, unless means are employed to remove the carbon dioxide and keep up the supply of oxygen, in other words, to remove foul air and bring in fresh air. Hence the necessity for school ventilation.

Temperature. Health also requires that the temperature of the schoolroom be kept between 60 and 65 degree Fahrenheit.

Principles. We sharil first consider the principles upon which the mefhod of heating and lighting the schoolroom must depend.

Light air tends to rise above heavy air and heavy air tends to sink below light air. Warm air is not so dense as cold air; hence it is lighter and tends to rise above it; while cold air tends to sink below warm air. If there is free communication between two bodies of air placed horizontally to each other, there will be a draught down the colder body and up the warmer body. The carbon dioxide of the breath is heavier than pure air of ordinary temperature ; hence, it goes to the floor, but carbon dioxide from burning gas is lighter than the air of the room, and so goes to the ceiling.

We shall consider the subject of ventilation : first, when artificial heating is not required ; second, when it is required.

Ventilation when artificial heat is not required. The fresh air coming in



Digitized by LaOOQle
—82—

from the outside is sometimes warmer than the air of the room. If we open the window from above, the incoming air being warmer and consequently lighter than the air of the room, will flow above it and the mixing of the warm fresh air with the air previously in the room and which is actually breathed, takes place very slowly. If we open the windows from below, on the other hand, the fresh air being warmer and consequently lighter, will rise and in rising diffuse itself through the room. The window, therefore, when the fresh air is warmer than the air of the room, should be opened from below.

But the fresh air introduced is generally cooler than the air of the room. If we open the window from below, the fresh air being cooler and consequently heavier than the air of the room, will fall directly to the floor without mixing with it. The diffusion of fresh air into the air above it that is actually breathed will take place very slowly.

If on the other hand it be introduced from above, in falling from the floor, it must mix to some extent with the air of the room.

When the fresh air is cooler than the air of the room it is best to lower the windows from the top.

Prevention of draughts. It is too often the case that there is a strong cold draught near the window and not sufficient diffusion of fresh air into other parts of the room. The current of cold air must be prevented from going directly downward. One way of doing this is to lower opposite windows from the top. The draught will be from the one to the other, in other words, horizontal. Another way is to raise the lower sash about six inches and close the opening below the lower sash by means of a board. The cold air is made to pass between the two sashes. This gives it an upward movement.

Another plan is to divert the draught to the ceiling by means of a screen with its lower part fastened to the window frame and its upper part fastened with cords, so as to allow it to swing from the window.

Outlet for foul air. The carbon dioxide being heavier than the rest ot the air falls to the floor; hence the outlet for foul air should be at the foot of the wall. Th's should communicate with a vertical shaft. If there are many pupils the vertical foul air shaft should be heated. This will cause a strong draught from the room up the shaft which will draw the foul air out of the room and cause pure air to enter to supply its place.

Ventilation when the school must be warmed by artificial heat. The fresh air coming in from outdoors is too cold to be breathed. Shall we warm it before or after it mixes with the air already in the room ? The difference between the temperature of the incoming air and the air already, in the room is so great when artificial heat is required as to cause the former to fall to the floor so rapidly as to produce severe draughts, which are quite dangerous. This fact often prevents people from letting it in at all. Before being warm enough to breathe, the fresh air mixes with the foul air which from its weight has fallen to the floor. We conclude, therefore, that the fresh air must become warm before being mixed with the air of the room.

Now shall this warm air be diffused from the upper or lower part of the room ?

If diffused from the upper part of the room, on account of its heat, it is lighter than the rest of the air and will flow above it. The mixing of the fresh air with the rest af the air will take place very slowly. If there is an opening to the outside in the upper part of the room the warm air of the room will escape. This is a waste of heat.



Digitized by Google
-83-

If fresh air is diffused from below, its warmth makes it light and its lightness makes it ascend.

In doing so it must mix with the air of the room which is thus warmed and purified rapidly.

Method of warming. The next question is, how it shall be warmed. Shall it be warmed by a hot air furnace, stone grate or open fire place, or steam rad-ator. Our bodies are warmed in two ways: by rays of heat radiating in all directions from a hot body; and by direct contact with a hot body, as the air. If a house is heated by a hot air furnace we get little heat by radiation. VVe will feel cold unless the air is kept very warm. But, to breathe warm air is very enervating. On the other hand, if we get radiant heat we do not need to get so much heat by contact with the air. The air, therefore, need not be any hotter than it is healthy to breathe.

Shall we get radiant heat from a grate or open fire-place, a stove or a steam radiator ?

Grates and open fire-places are too expensive on account of the amount of fuel used. Steam radiators are the cheapest means of heating a large building. They do much harm, however, when not accompanied by means of ventilation, because they do nothing themselves to bring in fresh air, whereas there is always a draught to a fire to support combustion. The fire brings in fresh air and removes foul air. Fresh air is drawn in from outside to supply the place of what goes up the chimney. There is a great difference in the draught of fires. The grate or open fire-place has a very strong draught and is therefore very useful as a ventilator, while the coal stove has not much draught and is not of much use as a ventilator.

It is important that the heat radiated be distributed as evenly as possible throughout the room. This is secured by placing the stove or steam radiator in the centre of the room.

Moisture. The warmer the air becomes the more vapor it can hold. When it has not all the moisture it can hold it tends to absorb moisture from the plants and animals that it touches. This gives rise to the sensation of dryness and is not conducive to health Whenever we heat air, therefore, we should supply it with sufficient water to supply the need of more moisture. Place a pan of water on the stove or steam radiator.

Application. A fresh air pipe should lead from some point out of doors in the sunlight and free of all refuse underneath the floor and then up beside the stove or steam radiator, allowing the cold fresh air to flow a point just above the heating surface. The heat will make the fresh air go up and mix with the air of the room. If the fresh air be let in below the heating surface it will fall directly to the floor. A convenient mode of heating and admitting fresh air to a room is to place the heating surface beside a window which is opened at the level of the heating surface There should be a foul air outlet at the base of one of the walls. This should communicate with a vertical shaft. This shaft should be warmed by passing stove pipes through them or by a steam radiator. This provision for drawing the foul air out of the room appears to me more important than those for bringing the fresh air in; because, if the foul air be drawn out, fresh air must come in to supply its place. We could not prevent it from coming in.

Testing Air. The best way to test the purity of the air in a room is to go to a door or window, breathe outside air and compare it with the air of the room.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—84—

Manual Training in its Physiological Importance.

By F. A. SCHMIDT, M. D„ Bonn. Translated from the German by MAGDALENE BOPPE.

WHEN we review the numerous specimens in our public collections, which have been transmitted to us from that gray dawn of past ages, when man lived with the mammoth, rhinoceros, cave-hyena, musk-ox, reindeer, etc., in the woods and wilds of our country; when we examine the knives, spear-heads, hatchets and saws made of flint, we think with compassion of the miserable existence which was gained and insured by these crude implements. And yet—if we should take a lump of flint, try to chip off sharp knife-blades and spear-heads, bring them into shape and use them, as did the Fuegians who visited us and who are still living as their forefathers of the stone era lived, how entirely helpless we should be ! And even if a tinder-box which was used by the Romans to obtain fire in the time of Julius Caesar and Augustus, and which is still in use with a great number of uncivilized races, were handed to us, what dexterity and skill is necessary to entice the Promethian spark with the aid of wood and dry moss as tinder !

When we were boys we took the greatest interest in the story of Robinson Crusoe, forced as he was to gain a livelihood alone on a destitute island. Here in a measure we lived over the whole struggle for existence, which our ancestors of the diluvial period were obliged to undergo ; it fs this short romantic narrative of the historical development of the race, as experienced and told by a son of our later age, which makes Robinson Crusoe one of the best read books.

If one of us here, a product of our civilized 19th century, were landed naked and destitute on a desolate island, I am afraid he would fare ill and would hardly acquit himself of the task as creditably as did Defoe’s Robinson Crusoe !

Our civilization to-day not only enables us to easily enjoy and apply the vast amount of knowledge, which human labor and ingenuity have accumulated for thousands of years in manufacturing tools for gaining and utilizing the materials in nature and distributing them throughout man’s habitations on the globe, it has also caused the most extensive division of labor in the production of the goods of this life.

Not alone that ! This division of labor has created specific and quite divergent regulations as to the valuation of individual fields of work. It cannot be said, however, that a higher or lower rank, which this or that kind of human activity takes, as opposed to other modes of employment, is consonant in each particular case, with the greater or less advantage to human prosperity and civilization. At any rate it has come to this—that like upstarts, and parvenues, who do not like to be reminded of the condition of their parents and grandparents, those vocations, which are intellectual to a certain degree, despise all physical labor and skill, which nevertheless have laid the necessary foundations for human existence and with which every man in the primitive state of mankind was familiar.

It is gratifying to observe that the times are passing, when the learned man is allowed to be physically weak and helpless and incapable in all practical things of life. The awkward German teacher

Digitized by CjOOQle
—85—

and professor, who is entirely absorbed in intellectual work and is as helpless as a child in practical things, has been the typical comic person in romance and comedy long enough. But this ridiculous person is vanishing more and more.

The extraordinarily flourishing condition of the natural sciences in our century and the unforeseen development of technics caused by it, has elevated the occupation with matter, energy and forms of life in nature, simple perceptions and observations, analyses and studied experiment,—not only to a species of investigation, but rather to a means of teaching and learning as opposed to mere book-knowledge. A large and important part of scientific perception and learning now demands certain manual skill and corresponding development of the senses as an indispensable means of education.

But-besides a rise in natural philosophy, our century has brought a renovation (at least to us) in education : namely, the attempts to give to physical education and development due, if not equal position and influence with the purely intellectual culture in our schools. Though thankful what has been attained up to the present time, we are still engaged in the struggle to accomplish our purpose.

When it was decided to introduce physical education by means of bodily exercise into our schools, there were various methods to be followed. By the one method physical performances and motions as they occur in every day life, such as walking, running, jumping, climbing, lifting, pulling, carrying, throwing, etc., could be taken up and practiced in a definite order, advancing from the simple to the more complex exercise. Such useful every day practices could be the means of developing and perfecting physical abilities and powers.

The other method was to exercise the manifold, indeed, inexhaustible facilities of motion offered by the numerous movable joints connecting the various parts of the members and trunk of the human skeleton, regardless of the utility of these motions in life. This latter method, which was finally generally adopted in preference to the other, led to a refusal to admit that there was any object whatever to be gained by the motions for human existence and its forms, and every possible exercise was declared justifiable.

The fruits of this despoiled system were calisthenics and exercises on the apparatus, as seen in our school gymnastics. Here I wish to remark briefly, that those useful daily exercises above mentioned, as opposed to this purely formal system, are now more strongly emphasized and demanded on account of their gymnastic value.

Suffice it to say, that in this system of what we might call corporeal education, a number of motions are important, which we call exercises of skill, and whose extremely manifold variations aim to make the body subservient to the will in all possible prescribed forms of movement. Our calisthenics and especially the exercises on the apparatus have developed this side of corporeal education to its utmost perfection.

But there is one great omission. That member of our body, which offers the greatest possibility of motion and has the most need of it, the hand, receives very little consideration in our gymnastics. Quite the contrary, in exercises in the rest on the horizontal bar, parallel bars,

Digitized by V-ooQle
-86-

ladder, etc., the hand is obliged to do mere mechanical work, which not only is of little practical value in life, but which is anything but calculated to increase the utility of the hand or perfect the mobility of its more delicate joints. Emphasis upon games in connection with, or rather as indispensable and supplementary to gymnastics is of particular importance, as, in playing ball at least the hands receive incomparable practice in grasping.

There is a well-known story, that a student of medicine, when asked in an examination what muscles were brought into play in making an obeisance to the professor, promptly remarked : All of them, more or less. Thus in every gymnastic exercise remote groups of muscles are brought into play, some as direct motor agents, others restricting and still others keeping the body in poise at all the important joints. This transaction, the co-ordination of numerous groups of muscles of the body, uniting in a single, neatly finished, definite movement,* is in a physiological sense the essence of every gymnastic exercise. Besides these, I might say coarser movements, which cause muscular action throughout widely distributed groups of muscles, there are others whose greatest importance lies in accurate co-work, co-ordination of muscular groups in close proximity. In point of nerve exercise, that is, control of the intellect over the body, these more delicate forms of movement are by far the most capable of cultivation.

The human voice in speech and song ultimately owes its origin to the joint exercise of the muscles of the larynx, palate and mouth. And what a degree of culture these muscles are capable of acquiring !

An actor’s power of imitating manifold emotions by facial expression is the result of the control he has acquired over the small subcutaneous muscles of the face.

But the hand, what a number of most delicately balanced muscular movements it is capable of, with its great apparatus of muscles, its profusely articulated skeleton ! What a marvellous subtlety of the intellect controlling this mechanism of muscles and joints do we perceive, when we recall the first unsteady attempts at grasping, which the child makes trying to encircle an object before it with its tiny fingers, and the perfect assurance, with which the violinist executes sublime creations of music and transports us to loftier realms of sensation by the most delicately graduated pressure upon and the steady drawing of the bow over the vibrating violin chords.

Now speech and song are given another place in instruction, mimicry is restricted to the histrionic art. But relative to the cultivation of the hand, I think, if we admit the control of the intellect over the body to be an aim in education, and if we consider the co-ordination of large groups of muscles by means of the formal gymnastic school of motion a necessary means of educating our youth, then it would indeed he an unparalleled inconsistancy, if the hand, the member most capable of culture^ were left out of consideration in education !

From this the demand might arise for a formal system of movements for the hand to be inserted in gymnastic instruction. In fact there are directions for gymnastics of the hand, and in our schools of music, special gymnastic exercises for the fingers are practiced by beginning piano players.

\

Digitized by Cjoogle
-87-

According to the Prussian manual for school gymnastics, calisthenics are to be conducted so as to gradually take in all the members of the body, beginning at the head. We should begin with the head exercises, which in my opinion are superfluous, then follow the arm exercises; then turning of the hands with outstretched arms. Now imagine us following up this exercise to the fingers, spreading and closing them, bending and stretching each finger individually, moving it in a circle, etc., how dull this gymnastics would be ! Our boys would almost be forced to death.

No, let us have no such sight !

The hand is a tool so eminently built for practical work, that its greatest skilfulness can best be developed by practical application to the useful arts. The activity of the hand in manual training as carried on to-day is so varied and extremely multifarious that even the best conceived abstract gymnastic exercises could not exhaust its multifariousness ; even if we do not consider that such exercises would be of little interest while manual work affords a large number of psychic impulses which culminate in pleasure in work. I must deny myself a further detailing of this important side of our subject.

Very well, if the development of the hand, as in a mechanical sense the most important member of the body, undoubtedly is a part of physical culture, /. e., it is a branch of gymnastics in a broader sense, nevertheless this development does not properly belong to gymnastic instruction, but to manual training which is quite different from it.

It is true, that certain manual abilities are cultivated in school anyhow. These are writing in the first place and furthermore drawing. In connection with the latter the training of the sense of sight is essential. It is a peculiar exercise to correctly perceive definite straight and curved lines and then cause the hand to make an exact reproduction of them on paper. It is a more difficult task to draw a picture of a body upon the white surface of paper, so that the perspective position of the outlines, the light and shade indicated in the drawing on a flat surface, will call forth the idea of corporality perfectly. Now although good drawing instruction accomplishes a great deal in training the eye and sensual perception and estimation, still it can be easily understood that this sense-activity will be greatly augmented, if definite objects can be rendered perceptible, not only by a drawing with the pencil on paper, but by directly reproducing them in form and material by means of proper tools. Here training of the eye, its power of correct judgment, is concomitant with training of the sense of touch—our hand being the most prominent organ of touch in the body—and training of the delicate muscular sense of the hand. In this respect therefore manual training covers a wider field than drawing, which is merely indicative and symbolic reproduction upon paper, whereas the former enters the field of corporeal presentation and creation.

In one respect therefore manual training as gymnastics of the hand occupies an undoubtedly important, not sufficiently cultivated field of physical exercise; in another respect, relative to the development of the, properly speaking, mathematical senses of sight and touch, it is a means of greatly broadening and perfecting instruction in drawing.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
—88—

Finally, I may briefly direct your attention to the fact that manual training is of preeminently physiological importance. This is based upon the idea that alternating purely intellectual instruction with an entirely different practical field of thought, labor and production not only a diversion, it is a true kind of recreation, in fact it affords a healthful counterpoise to intellectual overwork.

You all know how quickly the faculty of conception and mental activity become blunted when the attention is concentrated upon one object for any length of time. We take this into consideration by alternating the various purely intellectual branches of study during school days and hours. Manual training is so diverse from all intellectual branches of study, that it affords rest to entire fields of mental activity, or, speaking physiologically, whole sections of the brain are allowed to rest and recover new energy.

Another field of healthy activity is the muscular work which manual training demands. Naturally the different branches of manual work are variously effective and variously important. While work at the carpenter’s table demands powerful, even violent muscular activity, paste work calls for very little, and no mention can be made of stimulating influences upon important organic functions. Upon the whole, gymnastics and games do justice to this department of physical development in such a high degree, that it need not be very strongly emphasized here in manual training.

But this subject, considered from a physiological standpoint, also has its adverse side. In its practical attainment manual skill may result in unhealthy conditions, which must be obviated by taking the necessary precautions.

After the sedentary work at school, recreation and strength of body is best gained by plenty of exercise in gymnastics and games ; as much as possible in the open air. This can by no means be supplanted by manual training. Nor should it be so. If indeed a distrust has been harbored respecting this, I need only allude to the fact, that so illustrious an advocate of the cause of manual training, a man so actively engaged in its propaganda all over our country as Herr v. Schenckendorff, is also chairman of the national games in Germany. Exercise in the open air shall by no means take the place of manual training or the time allotted to it.

But manual work confined to a close room easily causes noxious deterioration of the air. The saw-dust formed in sawing and planing— work at the compass-saw I consider absolutely harmful on account of the fine wood-dust developed close to the mouth !—the odor of boiling glue or paste, the fumes developed in working with the soldering-stick do not indeed tend to improve the air for breathing. These conditions must be obviated by scrupulous cleanliness and energetic airing of the work-room.

Some work not only affords little exercise, but even easily promotes a bad carriage, for instance wood-carving known as “Kerbschnitzen.” In such work care must be taken to have it performed in a standing position, there must be change in the work, and above all, the worktable must be of the correct height and placed in good light, so that the young student may not acquire injurious habits of carriage.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-89—

I have mentioned these evil results only for the sake of completeness. It is not because they are unknown or unheeded. On the contrary, they conceive a most excellent presentation in the booklet entitled “Hygiene of Manual Work for Boys” by Otto Janke.

In closing I do not wish to neglect to emphasize, that it was my chief intention to throw light upon certain sides of manual training from a physiological standpoint. I could not even touch upon the educational, social and moral points, which speak for our cause and whose importance in my estimation is at least as great. I must leave that to a more eloquent tongue. May we all take with us the knowledge, that we are serving a good patriotic cause, if we aid in gaining a stronger foothold and a wider field for boys’ manual work.

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

Cook County Normal School.

VIII.

SLANT RUNNING BOARD. JUMPING EXERCISES.

GERMAN “STURMBRETT.”

Apparatus.—Four slant boards; high ends resting on adjustable horizontal bars. Height, from 2 to 5 feet. Boards are from 6 to 10 feet long and about 2 feet wide. Strong iron hooks are fastened under the upper edges of the board, for bar adjustment. (Hooks, as well as lower edges of boards should be leather or rubber-covered.) Four mats, placed lengthwise on the ‘off-side’ of the boards.

Class Formation.—Four files of pupils in front order (pupils next each other) at a distance from the boards, facing the ‘starting lines.’

Marching Order.—Pupils leave farthest end of the files to take positions on the starting places, ana resume places end of line, without crossing the path of the next pupils in order. Commands : ‘Next!’ ‘March !’ ‘Rim.’

I.

Skip to jump.—(See ‘Skipping Exercises.’)

Walk up and down the board, turning about [r., 1.,] on high edge without stopping.—Repeat, running.

Run and skip left [r.] to deep knee-bending pos. centre of board; stretch and skip sideward left [r.] to standing pos. next board.

(To alight, place nearest hand on board, lowering arm again to stretch-stand position.)

Run and skip left [r.] with a quarter turn right [1.] to deep knee-bending pos. centre of board ; stretch and skip forward to standing position [back to board.]

Repeat, but skip backward to standing pos. [facing the board, hands on board to alight].—Repeat exercises, adding facings.

Run to skip sideward left [r.] off centre of board.—Repeat exercises with inward and outward facings, left and right.

(Jump from one foot, swinging leg indicated outward.)

Run to skip sideward oft centre of board with opposite leg.

(Skip left to jump off sideward right, etc.)

Digitized by Google
—90-

;

Run to skip off high edge of board, [left, right].—Repeat, swinging arms forward, outward, upward.

II.

Jumping.—(Both feet leave the board simultaneously.)

Run to jump off highest edge of board. [Swing arms forward, outward, upward.]

Same, with leg ex. [Side- and cross-striding ; touching one or both feet by raising knees forward, or by bending legs backward—stretching the body fully to alight—legs, feet together.]

High jumping, sideward.—(Place jumping standards on both sides of boards.)

Skip, or jump sideward left, [r.,] raising ropes with each repitition, until height-limit of pupils is reached.

Repeat ex., adding quarter and half-facings, leg exercises, etc.

III.

High jumping, forward.—(Place jumping standards on ‘off-side’ of boards.)

Skip, or jump forward, increasing height with each repetition ; ditto, distance between standards and board. Add leg and arm exercises, quarter, half, and three-quarter facings. Increase height and distance simultaneously.

Leaping.—(Place ropes 2 feet high above or near the lower edges of the boards.)

Jump and leap to front stem-support position [hands and feet on the board—body fully extended]; vault ‘off’ sideward left [r].

Repeat, leaping over ropes to standing pos. next boards [hand-support on board].

Repeat, increasing height of rope ; ditto, distance from edge of board.

Repeat ‘face,’ ‘back’ and ‘flank’ vaults, from side-starts. Ditto, from high edge of board, including stride-vaults. Add facings.

ROUND SWING.

GERMAN “RUNDLAUF.”

Apparatus.—Eight rope ladders (see Manufacturers’ catalogues) 10—20 feet high, suspended from the centre plate (turn-plate).

Class Formation and Marching Order.—Eight files of six or ten pupils each, arranged in a single circle in front order (next each other,) at a proper distance from the circuit line.—Pupils approach the apparatus in successive order, beginning at the right flank of each file, and resume places in line by passing rear of files.	_________________

Marching, Hopping and Running.—[Pupils face centre plate, grasping vertical sides of rope ladders, or rounds (with both hands), shoulder-height.]

(The ladder is drawn taut, body leaning backward.)

March sideward left, [right,] closing feet with each step.—Same, gliding sideward [bending stand-leg] with each step.—Same, cross-stepping in front, rear, and alternately in front and rear.

Galop-step sideward left [r.].—Same, striking heels together each step.

Pupils turn left (right) flanks toward centre and grasp high round with over-grasp, and lower round below in front with under grasp—arms outstretched, (inner arm hang-support, outer arm stem-support).



Digitized by tjOOQle
March forward, leaning body outward. Ditto, backward.

Galop-step, forward left. Ditto, forward right. Ditto, forward left and right alternately.—Same, backward.

Run forward. Ditto, backwark.—Same, with ‘bounding step’ [vigorously pushing off with each foot alternately—to increase length of step.]

Same, with legs perfectly straight—‘giant stride.’

Repeat ex. with outer [lower] arm bent [under-grasp, height of chest] and inner [upper] arm bent over the round—[hang-support].— Ditto, with single hand-hang, or arm-hang support [outer hand placed on hip, etc.]

Repeat above ex. with rope ladder on back [inner hand grasping high, lower arm stretched downward, hand stemmed against end-piece of K rope ladder.]

The exercises sideward can be executed by closing (connecting, linking) the circle of pupils, i. e., pupils stand between ladders to grasp vertical sides of two ladders.

Round Swinging.—Preceded by ‘starts.’

Galop-step, [sideward, forward,—a given number of steps,] and jump to hanging position [swinging around the circuit line with body suspended, straight—not in contact with the floor].—Sideward [same] in linked order, as above—‘bell.’

Most of the above exefcises can be executed in either hang- or stem-support on two ladders (arms over or between rounds of two ladders—ladders between arms and sides of body).—Two pupils can also exercise on one ladder, (alternating positions,) one pupil in standing position on’the lower round of a ladder with back to centre, the other pupil grasping the ladder from the circuit line and running forward, etc.

BALANCING PLANKS.

GERMAN “SCHWEBEBRETT.”

Four to eight balancing planks (see Manufacturers’ catalogues) placed next each other. Class : 8—12 ranks (as many pupils to each rank as boards on hand. Exercises can be executed in ‘linked order,’ or otherwise in close order, at half or full distance. (In ‘linking,’ pupils grasp hands with arms bent or extended, (arms crossed over and under next pupil’s arms, front or rear,) with one or both hands on next shoulders, etc.) ‘Starting position’ is taken by placing the left or right foot on plank-end.

March forward, [slow rhythm—erect, head and chest up]; ‘skip’ off plank-end. [Form opposite class-facing about.]—Same, backward. Same, gliding forward [bending stand-leg to each step—describing semi-circle outward, or swinging legs forward along sides of planks.

March sidevrard left, right, [hands on front shoulders, etc.].

Galop-step forward left, right, and 1. and r. alternately.—Backward and sideward, same.

Change-step forward [backward, sideward,] incl. leg exercise [first movement].

Change-hopping-step, same.

[The full class may stand on the planks and execute leg ex., etc., as ‘balancing exercise.’]

The planks may also be used for ‘stem-support’ exercises—several ranks exercising at one time.

Digitized by IjOOQle
MILITARY DRILLS IN SCHOOLS.

IN competition with papers for the commencement exercises at the East

Side High School, Milwaukee, Wis.. Miss Louise E. Leedom was

awarded the highest honor for the treatise which we print in full below.

Though this subject has been treated in several issues of “Mind and

Body”, it is of most vital importance at the present time, when in

many places persons, like Sup. Morgan of the Cincinnati public schools,

without any pedagogical training whatever, endeavor to bring about

the introduction of military drills. We therefore welcome such an able

handling of the subject and feel assured that Miss Leedom will always

be found on the side of good pedagogical reasoning.

* *

*

In a late report to the war department, Gen. Schofield recommended military drill in the public schools. Congress received the report with the wisdom which all congressmen have and hatched a plan. Army officers were to be detailed at the public expense to instruct school children all over the country in the science of war—to the end, as our forefathers said, “that good learning may not perish out of the land.” Constant allusions to the matter are made in the newspapers, showing that some persons are manufacturing public sentiment. The tender public mind is being educated to shoot, so that when the movement is ready to be thrust upon the people, the downward step will not appear so great as it otherwise would.

It is difficult to discern the motive which prompts this plan. It is advocated by the G. A. R. because their ideas of government are connected with their war experiences. Some are not slow to assert that it is in the interest of the ever increasing number of officers graduated at West Point, for whom no other places can be found. Others quote as their authority the proverb “In time of peace, prepare for war.” But this maxim is “transmitted from distant ages when brute force was the law. It is the terrible inheritance which painfully reminds present generations of their connection with the past. It belongs to the dogmas of barbarism. It is the companion of harsh tyrannical rule, by which the happiness of the many is sacrificed to that of the few. It is the child of suspicion and the forerunner of violence.”

The pernicious military rule of France and Germany burdens the people with the support of two million of soldiers. This, instead of provoking abhorence, creates a longing in the minds of the advocates of the measure for a more military feeling among the masses than seems consistent with the idea of a government of the people !

The question ought to be examined fairly and if sufficient merit be found the drilling should become a part of our school studies at once. If found reprehensible, it should be unequivocally condemned and buried out of sight ! One thing is certain. Unless science finds some way of prolonging the days of youth, the line will have to be drawn soon. The schools cannot teach everything. Methusalem might have taken a full course in the modern public school, for he did not have to begin until he

Digitized by LjOOQle
—9B—

was 300 years old—-but time is precious to the man for whom eternity begins at three score and ten.*

Peace is civilization and war is barbarism ! In time of war, the practice of virtue and honor is suspended and crime and misery take their places. The great aim of education and civilization is the cultivation of habits of peace and virtue ! The angels heralded the birth of Christ with the song Peace on Earth, Good Will Towards Men, and He himself preached Do Unto Others as You Would They Do Unto You. Our schools	should teach children high thoughts and noble

principles, and not the art of scientific destruction. The glory of a nation lies in its noble citizens, its high moral aim, its grand intellectual "achievements, in what it builds up, not in what it destroys—for it is the glory of a vandal to destroy what others have made.

Although in a republic men are equal before the law, no law can prescribe social equality ! That depends on individual choice. But introduce military life and inequality commences.

Corporals, captains, colonels, generals, each one claiming by right and virtue of his office not mere obedience, but almost servility from all in rank below him ! It is idle to say obedience is demanded in other walks of life, fdr that obedience is paid for and exists only in lines of service for which payment is made and only during working hours—but a private soldier is a menial, morning, noon and night, as long as his service lasts !

This inequality produces a condition of mind that is inconsistent with the dignity of man.

‘What is instilled into the minds of the pupils will appear in the life of the nation.’ A child who has been trained in his imagination to kill his fellowmen, who is imbued with the military spirit and thinks it the right and proper way to settle disputes and quarrels, will when a man be only too willing to give his voice and hand to that method. Train up a child in the way he should not go and he will not be likely to depart from it.

A child’s imagination is aroused and his senses impressed when he learns of the artillery, the charm of the music and the display of weapons! Then he will be more likely to become a soldier than a civilian ! All good citizens are working for the suppression of war and are establishing peace societies. America leads in this noble work, or ought to lead in it, and the schools should lead America.

Every argument against the morality of war is equally good against military drilling in our schools! Our nation would be better if it dreaded war more. What we need to teach in our schools is a rational love of country, a desire to make it a better and happier place to live, not a place to fight about. The nation that desires to do right is seldom compelled to fight for the chance.

Nor should military drill be forced on children because they attend

* There is time for all good things which properly belong to the education of the child in our public schools. Instead of military drills sound physical training should have a place in the curriculum. But no Delsarte mimicry ! —'Edit.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—94—

the public schools. They are sent to learn the ‘three R’s’ and history,* which should teach them what a terrible thing war is. How it always lays waste the country and impoverishes the people ! They are taught that the fall of Rome began with the rise of military rule ; then why drill them in this art ?

Certainly not to benefit their physical condition, for it has been stated by the best medical authorities that the drill does the very opposite. But even if it did benefit the health, the blunting of his moral sensibilities would counterbalance that good many times. His mind would be filled with evil dreams of fame, based on the low and savage in his nature.

Nor does it make him graceful, for the soldier is taught square corners, straight lines and angular movements, and the graceful pose of the national cadet is all due to the two hours a day with a dancing master**

SPORTS IN THE ENGLISH COLLEGE AT ETON.

Translated from the German of JARO PAWEL (Professor at the University of Vienna) by VV. C. SCHAEFER.

(Continued.)

CONCERNING the nature of the game we learn from the description given us the following. Let us suppose it to be St. Andrews day, on which day the Eton students annually meet those from the city in a game at Eton. The former number 70, the latter 930. This seems very unequal, yet it is not so much so when we consider that the Eton students have played the game as long as they have been at Eton, whereas the city students have played it only a year or two.

To keep the play-ground open, stakes are driven and wires stretched at a distance of about forty yards from the wall. The Eton players are gathered close to the good side of the grounds, “good calx/’ their opponents, farther down. A number of spectators line the top of the wall. The space between the furrow and the wall is thickly covered with sawdust. The Eton students have won the first throw and now place themselves in the violet and white colors, against the bad side, “bad calx.’’ Their opponents in red and yellow colors play at first against “good calx.” Within the wire stand three judges, the “referee,” and the twelfth man of each side. The attack and meeting of the parties is as follows. The three “walls,” usually the strongest of the players, stand closest to the wall. They stand half turned toward the wall, behind each other. Their work is to throw the ball as far as possible along the wall, to drive it away from there, or to hold it fast, as the leader of the game may direct. Next to them, but somewhat farther from the wall, are the “seconds,” who support the “walls” in their work. These five players constitute the “bully.” Outside of the “bully,” the “thirds” have their

* We hope this is not to be taken literally, for we teach more than the “three R’s,” to be sure, in the high schools (grammar schools also), and they are a pa*rt of our school system and all children of the country schould ultimately find access to them. We hope the high schools are not considered schools for the aristocracy.—Edit.

** The cadet has physical training at West Point and Annapolis. — Edit.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-95-

positions. Their work is to be after the ball as soon as it gets outside the domain of the “bully,” go straight past the opposing “third,” attack the opposing “flying man,” and protect its own “flying man,” in that they seek to hold back the opposing “outside” and drive out the ball. An “outside” can make no greater mistake than to knock the ball so that it reaches “cool” one of the opposing “behinds.” The ball thus comes on the opposite side of the place, where it remained, was moved, or crossed the wire. The duties of the “fourth” and “line” are the same as those of the “third,” yet the latter must also run and attempt to move the ball, as soon as it is kicked out by an opponent. The “behinds” alone remain passive, their only work being to kick the ball out as far as possible.

The “flying man,” who stands just behind the “bully,” often has to stop a dangerous kick of the opposing party. He must be able to work in every position and to kick up the ball as quickly as possible, for when he plays toward “good calx” he generally uses the right foot. His position and work are perhaps the most important in the whole game.

The foregoing description gives briefly the duties of the different players before the ball gets into one of the “calx.”

Sometimes a goal is reached directly, but that seldom happens. The course of the game is usually somewhat as follows.

The position of the “bully” is taken as before described. The ball is now thrown in by one of the judges. It must touch the wall, as at every opportunity, before going out. It shows the wisdom and forethought of the party playing against “good calx,” in this case the city students to throw the ball out and give the “outsiders” the hope of driving the ball forward. This occurs two or three times. In this, however, there is little gained or lost, since the “outsides” are nearly equal to one another. Before long an “outside,” of the college party, sends a “cool runner” past the “flying man” of the city party, past to the “long behind,” who with a powerful move sends the ball nearly half the length of the wall, whereupon the next throw is made, about eight yards from “good calx.” For the spectator the play now becomes simple, for the “walls” and “seconds” of the college party have the order to hold the ball as long as possible.

For some time the victory wavers between the two. Suddenly the college men are pressed back and the wall is free. But a “second” of the college party already has the ball and, supported by his companions and the “walls” of his party, offers stubborn resistance. In this way he gains one or two yards for his party. This, however, does not last long. He too is pushed away from the ball and the city party is now free to send the ball to “calx.” This effort succeeds, after brief resistance, by the college party. The task of the opposing party now is to kick the ball from the ground, where it now is, to the wall and to strike it without once turning the face toward the goal to be finally reached. The ball must not touch the ground, but must be sent to the wall with a single kick. The task of the defenders is to prevent the ball from being kicked, but if this fails they must risk everything to drive the ball out of the “calx.”

The followingis observed in the game. The attacking party appoints

Digitized by C^ooQle
—ye>—

a “getter,” who puts his foot under the ball and seeks to kick it to the wall ; also a “second,” who catches the ball and throws it further, thus keeping the ball on his side and seeks to keep away the opponents ; also a “furker,” who turns his back to the “bully,” and stands ready with bent knee, in a lunging position, to forward the ball along the wall to his goal the instant it reaches him ; also a “toucher,” whose duty is to support the “furker.” All others must assist the “getter” and “second” or play “outside” or “behind.” But the defenders have definite rules too. They have a “stopper,” who must stand on the ball and prevent its being kicked ; and likewise a “second” and “furker” with a similar object in the game ; also a “kicker-out,” who stands waiting in the angle of the wall, ready to drive the ball out as soon as the “furker” gives him an opportunity.

Perpendicular to the wall, at intervals of about six inches, three furrow lines are drawn, within which the game begins. The umpire rolls the ball over the middle line after satisfying himself that neither “getter” nor “stopper” nor “furker” stands closer to this line than six inches, and that the “stopper’s” knee does not cross the middle line. Then he bends down, with the call: “Are you ready ?—Coming !” and rolls the ball so that it strikes the wall.

As soon as the ball touches the wall, the “getter” seeks to raise it, the “stopper” to stand on it, the “furker” to drive it out, each according to his appointed manner.

The “seconds” also add their work. The college party usually shows greater skill and experience. However, in the game here described the city party has an excellent “furker,” who gradually brings the ball to his side, then turns quicklv, takes it up with his foot and shouts “got it.”

The second judge or umpire, who looks along the wall, decides ,,fair shy,” and the “outsiders” run up to defend the goal. The “furker” throws the ball toward the door, but strikes neither the door nor his associates, who might catch the ball and throw it against the door. Meanwhile the clock strikes one and the two parties change ; the city players have one “shy” ahead. Now they must seek to hold the ball, the college men, on the contrary, to drive it out of the crowd. The latter finally succeed in this. The “flying man” of the college party throws the ball toward the “calx.”

Now follows the same course as before. But the “furker” of the city party has not as much skill with his right leg as with his left and is not able to drive out the ball. In a short time the college party has two “shies” and the game seems to be won. Now the “getter” suddenly lets the ball escape him, it reaches the “bully” of the opposing party, from him goes to the “kicker-out,” who sends it safely along the wall.

Besides the “bully,” the “outsides” of the city party also run down the wall, run right through the “behinds” of the college party, and seem to have one “sh}'” already in their favor in “bad calx,” but they throw the ball much too far, it touches the college goal and is thrown back. By mistake, however, the ball is thrown along the wall and returns to “bad calx.” The city party has one “shy.” The time has now expired and each party has two “shies.”	(To	be concluded.)

Digitized by CjOOQle
—97—

MIND I AND f BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

lwdCll-wra.-u.lcee,	"WlscoiisirL.

Subscription Price, s =	$	1.00 per Year.

4®“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

The Sokol societies have a mem-, bership of 36,800, of whom 11,520 are active gymnasts.

The first teacher of physical training was Johann Friedrich Simon who taught gymnastics in the Philantropin of Dessau in 1776.

The Summer School for Physical Training, Director Carl Betz, opened July 1st, at Milwaukee, Wis., with a fair attendance. This is the first course under the auspices of the North American Gymnastic Union.

The August number of “Mind and Body” will be of special interest. Carl Betz will treat the subject of “Music and its Relationship to Physical Training.” We shall also begin a series of articles on “Gymnastic Themes.” 1

The circuit festivals of the Atlantic, Lake Erie, Pacific, and the district tournaments of Chicago and Nebraska, have proved that the societies of the North American Gymnastic Union are as active and progressive, as ever before. At Paterson 1,260 gymnasts and 447

lady-gymnasts took an active part; more than 300 aseembled at Columbus, 0., and more than 500 at Elgin, 111. We are hopeful to see more than 4000 gymnasts at the National Turnfest at St. Louis, Mo., in 1897. Roughly estimated, there must have been more than 2500 gymnasts in the field this year.

We are in receipt of the official report of the North American Gymnastic Union. Some very interesting figures may be gathered from the statistical charts:

Membership 39870.

Active gymnasts 7647.

Active gymnasts older than 35 years 1803.

Lady-gymnasts 3700, an increase of 604 over 1894.

Singers 2697.

Fencers 1038.

Girls and boys 28861, an increase of 1688 over 1894.

In all 43049 participated in gymnastic instruction.

Professional teachers in the employ of the Union 180, who also instruct in 106 other institutions of learning.

Members ofjuvenile Societies 1267.

Members of Ladies’ Societies 5023, an increase of 400 over 1894.

Worth of property (halls, real estate, library, furniture, etc.) $5,289,008.00.

Volumes in libraries 63852, an increase of 8067 over 1894.

Literary entertainments 10046.

The director of a turning institution assumes a high duty and should ask himself thoroughly whether or not he is competent for so important an office. He must cherish and protect the simplicity of the young that it may not be injured by undue precocity. The youthful hearts will be more open to him

Digitized by G-OOQle
than to any one else. He will see, without concealment, their wishes and tendencies, their impulses and passions, all the morning dreams of youthful life. He stands nearest to the young and, therefore, should be their guardian and counselor, their protection and support, and their advisor for future life. Future men are entrusted to his care ; future pillars of the state, ornaments of the fatherland. He must be subservient to no temporary spirit of the age, nor of the great world, so often plunged in error. He who is not thoroughly imbued with a childlike spirit and patriotic feeling should never take charge of a turning institution. It is a holy work and profession.—Friedrich Ludwig Jahn.

“Das gesammte deutsche Turn-wesen. Ein Lesebuch fuer deutsche Turner. By Georg Hirth.”—A new edition of this excellent work which appeared in 1864, is just completed under the supervision of’ Dr. F. Rudolf Gasch. The three volumes contain many articles by great writers on the subject of physical training and is doubtless a source of valuable information and instruction. The first volume contains 46 articles. They treat the Gymnastics of the Greeks and Romans; Gymnastics during the Middle Ages; Gymnastics in Modern Times before Jahn ; The Theory of Gymnastics (Jahn and his contemporaries). The second volume contains 50 articles which treat the Theory and Principles of Modern Gymnastics; Separate Branches of Gymnastics; Gymnastics for Girls ; G}rmnastics as a Means for the Preparation for War. The third volume contains 86 articles which treat Gymnastic Festivals and Speeches in Favor of Physical Training; Gymnastics in the Societies; Orthopedics; Sport. There are

twenty portraits of persons well known in the history of gymnastics to be found in the work. Price $7.50.

The Ohio Physical Education Association. The first annual meeting of the Ohio Physical Education Association was held at Sandusky on July 3rd, in connection with the Ohio State Teachers’ Association. In the morning at the general session of the latter body Dr. Karl Zapp, of Cleveland, delivered an address on The Mental and Moral Influence of Phyisical Training, and Mr. Leibold, of Columbus, read a paper on Physical Education before the Ohio German Teachers’ Association.

The special session in the afternoon was well attended. After a brief introductory sketch of the history and organization of the Association by the President, Dr. Leonard, Miss Minnie B. Snow, of Mansfield, read a paper on Physical Training as a Branch of Public School Work. This was discussed by Carl Ziegler of Cincinnati, Miss Hughes of Lima, and Miss Foster of Sandusky. Dr. F. E. Leonard, of Oberlin College, followed with a paper on the Place of Physical Training in Education, which was discussed by Superintendent Ward of Lorain, Alley of Ripley, and Knott of Mansfield. The program closed with an exhibition by pupils in the Sandusky Public Schools, led by their teacher, Miss Jessie Foster.

At a business meeting later in the day six new ir embers were voted in, and it was decided to hold the next meeting of the Association at Cleveland, on the Friday and Saturday following Thanksgiving Day, providing at the same time for representation on the program of the general sessions of the Ohio State Teachers’ Association at their gathering next summer.

“V

Digitized by LiOOQLe
—99—

ftGAMES HJ^D PLAYS.fi

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Nos. 41—46.

Reprinted from C. J. Kroh’s Program of Exercises and Description of Games, Cincinnati, 1887.

Wrestling: Rings.

Eight to sixteen boys form a circle and firmly grasp hands or lock arms. A light Indian club has been placed upright on the floor in the centre of the ring. The boys now endeavor to bring each other in contact with the club by pulling and pushing, either maintaining a firm stand in their effort, or walking, hopping or running forward, backward or sideward. The play should be around the club only (or some other object, as a large ball, or one ball upon another, —in short, anything which is easily displaced upon the slightest contact.) Whoever upsets the club steps out and looks on until the final test between the remaining two players (who face each other with hands grasped over the club) determines who is the victor. The large hand-ball is to be preferred to the club in this game. Care should be taken that the pupils are equally matched and that they prevent any falling by firmly retaining their grasps.

Out-Hopping Game.

Five players stand within a circle formed by from twenty to thirty boys. Four of the players attempt by hopping on either the left or right foot to oust the remaining player from the circle, who seeks to evade all attacks and thrusts by running and dodging. Upon being‘hopped out,’ the next five players in order enter the circle, and so on, until all players in turn have been in the ring. The ‘hoppers’ must keep their arms folded over their chests and at no time use their hands,—simply pushing with their shoulders.

Wand Push.

Two boys (or girls) stand face to face in a full stride position forward, each with the end of an iron wand under one shoulder. The wand must be firmly grasped with both hands and as firmly ressed to the side. Upon a given signal oth players attempt to push each other to the limits of the play-ground, which

may be defined by the line of a circle. It is advisable in this exercise at no time to give up the position of the arms— certainly not in slipping or falling.

The exercise should be practices left as well as right. When the wand is placed under the right shoulder the lunging position forward is taken with the left leg ; when pushing with the wand under the left shoulder the right leg is advanced.

The pushing can also be practiced with two wands, one under each shoulder, the same rules governing.

Instead of pushing, the players may pull in nearly the same position taken for pushing with the difference that the other (rear) leg is bent. Players can also stand sideways, or back to back, to pull.	_______

Foot-in-the-Ring.

A circle is formed around a plainly marked chalk-ring of about 12—24 inches in diameter. The players may stand, sit or lie down to watch the game. Two players are now selected, one of which takes a lunging position forward left or right, the forward foot placed in the ring, arms folded in front. The other player now begins his maneuvers hopping on one foot, also with arms crossed abreast, and attempts by adroit attacks (feinting and pushing) to displace the other player. The other player must avoid all attacks and befend himself as best he can. Or, he may evade all attacks by moving out of reach, dodging, bending, jumping, facing about etc. without resenting any attacks by parrying and thrusting with the shoulaers. Both may use all fair artifices to defeat each other. Kicking and tripping should debar a player from playing. The player in the ring loses when displaced; the other player upon touching the floor with both feet simultaneously at any one time. Good players may defy two parties attacking from different directions.

Pulling with the Strap-Handles.

Two players face each other in full stride position forward left, hands grasping the handles of the strap-handle. Upon the command ‘Read}'!’ both players sink low by bending the rear leg, lean back, and upon the word ‘Pull!’ try steadily to pull each other toward the designated goal. The game should be practiced left as well as right.

4

Digitized by L.ooQle
—100-

Pole Pushing*

Four or more boys, two on either side, or one on each side of the two ends of a pole six to ten or twelve feet long, push with arms extended forward, downward or upward, or with arms bent and the pole under or over the shoulder, toward the limits of the plav-ground.

The players may also pull intead of push. In pushing the players face each other and push against the centre ; in pulling they stand with backs toward each other and pull away from the centre.

ATHLETICS i AND * SPORTS.

The Breslau Swimming Association will hold, in July, on the River Oder, a championship race, open to all nations. The distance is one German mile (over 4y2 English miles).

The Exhibition for Sports, Games, and Gymnastics, now being held in Berlin, although not quite complete yet, may be described as a distinct success, notwithstanding the many difficulties put in its way at the start. The catalogue of 60 pages contains, in addition to the names of 56 exhibitors (which number is, however, constantly increasing), several very good articles written by well-known sportsmen, athletes, and gymnasts. A Gymnastic and Fencing Display is to be held in the hall at the end of August. During June lawn tennis matches and cycle races took place.

The Wrestling Contests at the Alhambra are exciting universal interest, and Mr. Moule, the managing director, has brought before the public a varied assortment of talent. The troupe comprises two Turkish professors of the art, Adalli Memet, and Jassar Ismail, who have had the honor of performing before the Sultan, besides five other champions, viz : — Petroff (Bulgar), Masson (Paris), Bo}Ter (Marseilles), Mastock (Bordeaux), and Antonio Pierri (“The Terrible Greek”)—the last-named being well known in the wrestling world. The Turks, lithe and sinewy fellows, both wrestle in the Graeco-Roman style, and on Saturday afternoon, after a prolonged struggle, victory rested with Ismail. In the last bout, Ismail wrestled with Petroff (catch-as-catch-can style), and after a stiff bout of

ten minutes, a draw was declared, neither being able to bring about a fall.

A decade has now elapsed since Mr. Rudolph Oberholzer made his first appearance in England as an instructor at the German Gymnasium. This fact, and the desire to pay a tribute to the talented gymnast, may have induced many to forsake their tennis-courts and garden parties to go and swell the crowd which was seen early streaming into the old hall at King’s Cross on May 2nd, eager to witness what proved another wrorthy addition to the long list of successful displays promoted by this Society. Certain it is that we have on few occasions seen a more enthusiastic audience; one more ready to acknowledge triumphs and to forgive faults.

The 21st International Gymnastic Festival, which was held at Perigueux on June 1st to 3rd, and which was favored by the presence of the President of the Republic, M. Felix Faure, who also presented a handsome prize, was unfortunately greatly marred by an almost incessant downpour of rain, the festival, as is usual on the Continent, being held in the open air. Seventy-one societies, represented by about 2,000 gymnasts, took part in this meeting, which was fairly satisfactory, considering that on the same dates competions were held by clubs of the Havre district (numbering 95 societies), at Calais (with 22 societies), and Clarmont (with 80 societies). The principal clubs represented were those from Bordeaux, Paris, Lyons, Toulouse, Marseilles, Oran, Tours, Limoges, Villeneuve, Chateauroux, Angou-leme, and St. Etienne. The foremost prize winners for solo gymnastics were: —In Group A—M. Buttin, Lyons, 1st ; Weeckeder, Bordeaux, 2nd; Pratviel, Bordeaux, 3rd, who tied with G. Duffant, Bordeaux. In Group B—Leleu, Paris, 1st; Paret, St. Etienne, 2nd. A squad of Bohemian gymnasts (Sokols) also took part in the festival, the reception accorded them being such an enthusiastic one as can only be given by Frenchmen, the ladies of Perigueux presenting them with a beautiful embroidered banner in exchange for wich the Sokols handed their French “brethren” a fine wreath of silver. The speeches made by the Czechs were of a remarkably cordial nature, and very pointedly testified to the good friendship, political and otherwise, existing between the two nations.

Digitized by

Google