MINI) AND BODY

JUNE, 1915.

Vol. 22.

No 240

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Education Director, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah.

EMIL RATH. Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH. M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil , Pa All Business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee. Entered at lhe Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

The follozving clipping from a Philadelphia paper so admirably expresses the thought underlying modern welfare work that we reprint it in the hope that it may be of use to some of our readers in their endeavors to secure more liberal appropriations for playgrounds, gymnasiums, swimming pools, club rooms, and like devices which will supplant the streets and give the modern child a chance to grow up as a decent citizen.

“Making Dopey Bennies.—The confession of Dopey Benny, a leader in a gang of New York gunmen, resembles a passage from the life of one of Cesare Borgia's bravi. But even if every notorious gunman in the city should be sent to the electric chair as a result of the present round-up, New York still will have her gangs and gang murders until she changes the living conditions in the East Side gunman factory. Dopey Benny's pals must be treated with the full severitv of the law, just as Gvp the Blood and Leftie Louie were treated, in spite of the fact that the man who was most master of his fate and captain of his soul would have difficulty in finding a single chance to live decently in the lives of these children of the East Side. Dopey Benny began his career as a package thief when he was ten years old, and he was instructed speedily by his only friends in the arts of picking pockets, general thievery and gunman work. The ordinary child of the East Side and of certain portions of Philadelphia is born into a home where want and worry make a joyful living impossible. He inherits a nervous muscular organism that is overstrained or under par in a-dozen ways. His parents are too bad tempered and tired to bother much about him. The pleasures of the older boys to whom he looks up are cigarettes, the Saturday night drunk and sexual excesses. After he and his friends have

Digitized by Google
— 666

been chased off the street corner every evening for a few weeks by a policeman he begins to hate the law through its representative and develops an all-absorbing loyalty to the gang. His course is then direct from the first petty robbery to detective shooting, as in the case of Doggie Miller, or gunman work, as in the case of Dopey Benny and Gyp the Blood.

The same instinct of devotion to your group which we applaud in Decatur’s “My country, right or wrong,” and laugh at in Chesterton’s “My mother, drunk or sober,” comes out in a forlornly perverted form in this gang loyalty. Assistant District Attorney Breckinridge described Dopey Benny thus: “Dopey believed that the work he was doing was justified so long as he did it for the interests of the laboring man. He was a friend of the under dog, was Benny, and no inducements by the employers could make him turn against the union men.” How to educate and use for the highest ends the boy’s spirit of devotion to a group and a cause is one of the greatest problems of the modern city. Today the boys become gunmen because they have no real chance to become anything else.

When the Rosenthal murder amazed New York the cry became popular that the real persons to blame for the murder were the upper classes, who fixed the conditions under which the young murderers had to be developed. This was essentially untrue, because the upper classes neither make the conditions nor have the children who develop into gunmen. But it is true that the majority of those who could have changed the East Side conditions had done nothing to change thern. .Their shortcoming was not misfeasance but nonfeasance. To be sure several organizations to take care of the boy’s spirit of loyalty have developed in the past few years, such as the Boy Scouts, but hundreds of playgrounds and clubhouses, where the boys can spend the evenings, are still needed. Moreover, if the children are to have a decent chance to develop into thinking Americans there must he an end of unemployment and underpayment, so that the home in which the boy lives may not be an unbearable jangle of undernourished and overstrained nerves.

If half the men who talk about electrocuting the enemies of society would take the trouble to do their bit to improve the living conditions in congested districts which produce the Dopeys and Doggie Millers the whole tribe of gunmen would disappear.

Extensive Ventilation Experiments Arranged by New York Ventilation Commission.—An elaborate series of tests extending over a period of two years will shortly be undertaken upon 60 or more school children of the Bronx, New York, by the New York State Commission on Ventilation, with a view of solving the problem of efficient ventilation for the city’s schools.

Preliminary experiments have been going on for the last nine
— 667 —

months in a specially-constructed experimental chamber at the City College. Five volunteer students from the college have been subjected daily to varying temperatures and states of humidity, as well as to different methods of ventilation, and the work that they were able to accomplish under these conditions has been carefully noted. With the knowledge gained in this way the commission is now ready to transfer its investigations to the school children.

The tests will be made in Public School 51, soon to be opened in the. Bronx. The new building, one of the finest in the city, will contain two classrooms fitted with every conceivable ventilating appliance as well as an elaborate plant for furnishing whatever changes in temperature and air the investigators may desire. Each room will have double ceilings, walls, and floors, in order to provide inlets and outlets for air at any point, but aside from this special mechanical equipment, the rooms will differ in no way from the other classrooms in the building. There will be seats for about thirty children in each, and the youngsters will be kept at their regular classroom work without disturbance. Probably they will not even be aware that they are being made the subjects of scientific tests, although there will not be a minute of the day they will not be under observation.

Members of the commission will make periodic visits to the school, and regular physical examinations will be made to determine the effect of the tests upon the children's health. Psychological tests will also be made to determine the mental efficiency of the youngsters, and the teachers will also be expected to note what effects the tests have upon the class work.

The commission will keep one representative in constant charge of the school plant. This part of the work will be left to Butler P. Crittenden, assistant engineer in charge of the experiments at City College. The members of the commission, all of whom serve without pay, are Prof. C. E. A. Winslow, College of the City of New York, chairman; Prof. E. L. Thorndyke, psychologist of Teachers' College ; Dr. Frederick S. Lee, physiologist of the College of Physicians and Surgeons; D. D. Kimball, engineer; Dr. James Alexander Miller, a physician, and Prof. E. B. Phelps, chemist in the Hygiene Laboratory of the Government Health Service, Washington, D. C.

In discussing the forthcoming tests, Prof. Winslow said:

“Our tests at Public School 51 will put into practice some of the lessons we have learned from the tests at City College. There are those who contend that it is a waste of time and money to install ventilating systems at all, and that the best way to get fresh air is to throw open the window. One of the largest private schools in the city has been built on this principle, upon the advice of a prominent physician.

“Then there are those who believe in putting cloth frames in

Digitized by 0.ooQle
the windows and letting the air filter in that way. Others would have the air let in at the top of the room and taken out at the bottom, and still others argue that it should be just the other way around —let in at the bottom and drawn off at the top. There are so many theories that the only way to settle the question is to put them all to the test.

"That is just what we intend to do, and by observing closely how the children get along in their studies and in their health we "hope to arrive at the best method of supolving fresh air in the public schools.’’

A Correction. Our attention is called to the fact that in our April issue we speak of Lieut. Van Blijenburg as a Swede, who now is living in Holland. We are told that he is Dutch. We further are told that our information to the effect that the paper referred to was read at the N. E. A. convention at Salt Lake City is incorrect, as it was read at the N. E. A. meeting at St. Paul, Minnesota. We are sorry that our information as to these details was incorrect. It appears that so far as the rest of the article is concerned we are not at fault, if the numerous letters we have received are to be taken as a criterion.

NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, LA CROSSE, WIS.

An event which is to be classed as one of the big undertakings of the school was the inter-state oratorical contest held in the Normal Auditorium on April 30th. The winners of the several state contests met to decide the title of the champion orator. Illinois,. Iowa, Kansas, Missouri and Wisconsin were represented by their respective orators. Iowa carried off the honors with the Wisconsin orator taking second place. It was an interesting contest in which orators of no mean ability participated.

The annual school picnic was another of the most enjoyable functions of the year. School was dismissed and the entire student body and faculty joined in a real, spirited good time at Myrick Park. Various games furnished part of the day’s amusements. The Athletic Association gave its fourth annual ball on May 8th. It was the most elaborate and successful of any given by the Normal for many years.

The Physical Education Club held its final formal meeting of the year on the last Thursday of April. The most interesting number was an address by Dr. Carl B. Sputh, 'Head of the School of Physical Education. It was decided to hold the annual class picnic during May, at which time a festival is planned for the last reunion of the senior and junior classes before commencement.

The track squad is developing rapidly and gives promise of carrying off the honors in the big Inter-State Normal Track Meet

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 669 —

at Whitewater May 22d. The baseball team defeated the nine from the River Falls Normal in the opening game of the season.

Marcus G. Byers, Reporter.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, MINOT, N. D.

The meeting of the Northwestern Educational Association of North Dakota, held on April 29-30 at the State Normal School, was by far the best in its history both in point of numbers and in the quality of program. At this meeting the enrollment reached 315, against 186 for last year. The addresses, especially those of Judge Marcus Kavanaugh of the Superior Court, Chicago, and Miss Maria Sanford, Professor Emeritus, University of Minnesota, were highly instructive, entertaining and inspirational. The attendance at the sessions was good, averaging about 500 at the general and 200 at the sectional meetings.

Throughout the meetings much interest was shown in physical education, by reason of the emphasis given it in several addresses, in the establishment of a physical education section and in the demonstrations by the model school pupils.

In the physical education section two papers were presented: “Organized Play/’ by George Altmann of the Normal School, and “Conserving the Health of the Pupil,” by Superintendent A. C. Berg of Towner, both of which were much appreciated.

The demonstrations by the model school pupils were conducted by the cadet teachers and were received with enthusiasm. They included an action story and a game by the 3rd and 4th grades and a free exercise drill and a folk dance by the 7th and 8th grades.

On May 1 the Normal School held a field and track meet for the high schools of the district. Despite the unpleasant weather a fair-sized and enthusiastic crowd was present. Although this was the first meet of its kind held by the Normal School, six schools were represented, several good marks were set and much interest was shown.

The meet of May 1 increased the already high interest in the athletic contests to be held for the boys, of the model and normal school on May 14, and for the girls on May 21. These contests will be in the form of combined individual and group contests. The boys’ events are 60 yd., 100 yd. and 220 yd. dashes; standing broad and running high jumps and chinning. The girls’ events are 50 yd. dash; throwing basket ball; and potato race.	,

The spring weather has caused a revival in outdoor student activities, not only in games and sports but also in hikes, boat rides, and picnic lunches, in which all classes have participated.

George Altmann.
-670-

NORMAL COLLEGE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

After spring vacation, the second term of the second semester began April 12th, with various changes in the schedule. The track and field work was resumed at Butler Field, and Monday and Thursday mornings are devoted to the outdoor activities.

On May 2nd, the students of the Normal College gave a demonstration at the South Side Turner Hall, where the convention of the Indiana district of the North American Gymnastic Union was held, many of the delegates being interested in the Normal College. The program lasted for about an hour and consisted of tactics, gymnastic dancing, free exercises, apparatus work in squads, and two aesthetic dances, “Allegretto” danced by the juniors, and “Silver Star” by the seniors.

In the evening of the same date the South Side Turnverein gave an exhibition at which the Normal College students gave two numbers, one an aesthetic dance “Espanita” by eight women of the senior class, and the other consisting of exercises on the parallel bars by the men.

The Normal College was prepared to assist with several numbers at the annual Field Day of the Indianapolis public schools, which was to be held May 8 at the Federal League ball park, but on account of the weather the exhibition had to be postponed. The program as arranged consisted of the “Norwegian Mountain March,” “Ritka,” and “How do you do,” by all classes, a^aratus work by the men, two games, “Dodge Ball” and “Three Deep” by the women, track and field events by both women and men in squads, and an aesthetic dance by each class.

Social affairs have not been numerous recently; one of the best dances of the year, however, was given by the Students' Alliance on March 27th, just before spring vacation.

A party given by the senior men to the senior women on April 1st, was a decided success and a pleasure long to be remembered by all.

On April 26th, the Normal College students were invited to attend the last concert and dance of the season by the Musikverein at the German House.

“The Gymnast” has gone to print and will be out about the first of June. It promises to be the best annual so far produced by the Normal College students.

Helen E. Homan, Recorder.
— 671 —

SOME CURRENT FALLACIES ABOUT COLLEGE ATHLETICS.

By GEO. W. BHLER, Prof, and Director of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.

“The football man as a rule is a joke as a student.” This statement is a fair sample of the kind of “stuff” that certain promoters and defenders of professional athletics are peddling to newspapers and magazines. The apparent motive is to bring the amateur athlete into contempt and disrepute and so to “boost” the interests of commercialized sport that greed and cupidity and dishonesty have made so notorious.

To those who are acquainted with the facts, the statement quoted above is known to be entirely incorrect and an insult to thousands of America’s finest young manhood. Yet it is given currency over the signature of a writer of national repute and prominence and one supposed to know the facts about which he writes. Were it not for the standing of the author of this and other similar “facts,” such statements could be safely ignored, but their repetition and widespread publicity in reputable organs makes it important that they be vigorously denied and disproved, otherwise amateur athletics, the only means for developing and maintaining vigor and virility and virtue that American boys and young men have any interest in, will fail of its rightful place and function in the educational systems of the state and nation.

In connection with the quoted remark the gifted writer adds:— “Fully 50 per cent of the men who played football on our larger college teams last fall were not in college to gain educations but to play football.” “Every undergraduate knows it, and in every college it is common talk.” This is not merely vapid hyperbole. It is plain misrepresentation with a bad motive.

The conditions at the University of Wisconsin are no different from Chicago, or Illinois, or Minnesota, or any of the other institutions of similar grade. What are the facts?

The “Varsity” football squad at Wisconsin in 1914 consisted of 40 eligible students. Each of these men (1) had to be a bona fide student (registered and all fees paid), (2) have fulfilled all entrance requirements (be a graduate of an accredited four-year high school with 14 or more units or courses, each carried successfully for one year and requiring recitations five times a week), (3) have been in residence in the University for one full college year (40 weeks),

(4)	have satisfactorily completed all courses taken since he entered the University (i. e. have no grade less than 70 per cent), (cA have a “weighted average” of not less than 77 per cent for the preceeding semester (a five hour subject counts five times as much as a one hour course), (6) be carrying full work in courses leading to a de-

Digitized by ejooQie
gree (fifteen or more credit hours per week requiring 20 hours or more actual time in recitation, lecture, quizz or laboratory besides the time needed for reading, studying and writing}, and (7) not have played more than two previous seasons.

Of the 40 students 12 were Sophomores, 2nd year in the University; 18 were Juniors, 3rd year; 10 were Seniors, 4th year.

In other words the students who were successful in making the squad were all men who had satisfied every scholastic requirement and were carrying grades that would earn them their academic degrees. Whether they were in college only to play football or not, they were certainly gaining educations or very wondrously fooling an astute body of men who are experts at weeding out the unfit and lazy, and insincere, and dishonest.

Of equal dignity and truth with this “joke as a student” canard is the statement by the same author that students go to college to play on the various teams as a money-making plan. Inasmuch as “our larger college teams” in the middle west are in the Intercollegiate Conference which requires that all athletic funds be received and disbursed by faculty officers, it is apparent that no student can receive money from the athletic treasury without the connivance of such officers. Such wholesale indictment of these men as is made in the statement quoted at the beginning of this paragraph is palpably untrue and ridiculous.

“Competition between colleges (is) chiefly for the gate receipts.” With the exception of football nearly every other intercollegiate sport is conducted at a loss. It is the surplus of receipts over the expenses of the football squad that makes possible three-fourths of the inter-collegiate games. If the quoted statement were a fact, only the paying sports would be conducted. As a matter of fact inter-collegiate contests are but the natural expression of certain innate tendencies, characteristic of English and American youth and those of other nationalities who have come under their influence. It is the tendency to match one’s strength and skill against that of another. It is the same fundamental factor that accounts for all English and American sport both amateur and professional and is the cause of the Athletic Union, the Amateur Athletic Federation, The National Golf Association, The National Amateur Baseball Association, The Public Schools’ Athletic Leagues, Y. M. C. A. League, Young Men’s Catholic Athletic Association, The American, National and Federal Baseball Leagues and the innumerable sectional, state and city leagues and associations of every sort — tennis, swimming, rowing, skating, bicvcling, horse racing, yachting, canoeing, etc., etc., and greatest of all. the World’s Olympic Games.

Whenever a group of boys or young men associate together long enough to discover that certain of them combined in a team are better than any other combination in the group, they become eager

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 673 —

to try out their team against the team of some other group and thus, vicariously, the whole group pits itself against its neighbors, and the circle once started continues in ever widening arcs, reaching from the match between the teams of two neighboring street gangs to the great international contests between teams representing the nations of the whole world as at Athens and Paris and St. Louis and London' and Stockholm. Inter-collegiate athletics is but one great phase of this universal instinct and tradition which is seen in its worst phase in the great European war. Organized and directed with educational, social and moral ends in view, athletics—inter-club, inter-school, inter-collegiate, inter-city, inter-state, inter-sectional, inter-national—constitute the moral equivalent of war in its constructive side and make for the development of loyalty and patriotism and altruism.

“Gate receipts” are not the object of inter-collegiate athletics. They are essential, for without them there would be no inter-collegiate athletics. In this they do not differ from any other type of organized inter-institutional sports.

Another fallacy is that “intramural” sports (sports for all students) will flourish if inter-collegiate sports are cut out. This is founded on two ideas, both of which are fallacious; the first that the money saved by the elimination of the inter-collegiate expense could then be devoted to “sports for all the students”; the other that intramural and inter-collegiate activities are antagonistic and cannot both be successfully conducted in the same institution.

The elimination of inter-collegiate sports will automatically cut off the income from those sports and there will be no funds therefore to devote to intramural sports except as students are taxed, or the college appropriates cash from its regular funds, or endowment is provided by generous alumni or others.

That inter-collegiate and intramural athletics are not mutually exclusive of each other is shown by the fact that sports for all students are most highly developed in those colleges and universities where there is the broadest development of inter-collegiate sport— notably Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Michigan, Wisconsin and others.

At Wisconsin two-thirds of all undergraduate students, both men and women in equal proportions, are engaged in some form of physical exercise adapted to their needs or desires. Moreover the intramural activities are under the coaching and direction of the same coaches and instructors as handle the inter-collegiate teams. Further development of outdoor sport waits on increased facilities for which there is a proposition now before the legislature. The surplus from inter-collegiate receipts will eventually repay every cent the state may advance for this purpose.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 674 —

ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUQ, DeWItt Clinton High School Now York Olty.

PAY FOR COLLEGE ATHLETES.

Athletes in Southern California colleges who take money in one sport are barred from college teams only in that branch of athletics; they are still eligible to any other of the college teams. This was the rule adopted by the Executive Committee of the Southern California Intercollegiate Conference.

The summer basebal problem is thus solved for Southern California collegians, as the athlete playing professional baseball in summer is only disqualified from the varsity baseball squad. He can still play football or appear on the track.

Secretary-Treasurer I. N. Rubien of the A. A. U. has made public the following amended and athletic rules prepared by the special committee appointed at the annual meeting of the A. A. U. last November:—

(1)	General Rule IV.—The per diem for traveling expenses has been reduced to five dollars to harmonize with the Federation rule.

(2)	General Rule VI.—The program for the indoor championship meeting has been changed.

(3)	The Decathlon has been substituted for the individual all-around in accordance with the action taken at the annual meeting.

(4)	The eligibility to the Junior Association Championships in Swimming has been changed so that winners of second and third places in a Senior Association swimming championship shall nevertheless be eligible for the Junior Association swimming championships.

(5)	General Rule VII.—Records are only allowed in the weight events, discus and javelin when the implements have been officially stamped. This is in accordance with the rules adopted by the International Amateur Athletic Federation and is in the interest of standardization. No just criticism can be made of this provision because any individual or manufacturer is entitled to have the stamp placed upon the implement if it complies absolutely with the specifications. The adoption of this will undoubtedly eliminate many of the difficulties that have arisen in the past from short-weight shots, hammers, etc., and will prevent the attempted use of javelins and discusses which do not comply with the rules.

(6)	General Rule X.—Winners of survivor prizes are not taken out of the novice class.

(7)	General Rule XIV.—Trunks are required to reach within

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 675 —

four inches of the knee and the style of apparel must not make an indecent display of the competitor's person.

(8)	Athletic Rule I.—Certain additional officials are provided, whose duties are defined in the succeeding rules.

(9)	Rule XVIII.—Competing to lose or coach, disqualifies.

(10)	Rule XXIII—In weight events except in throwing the heavy weight for height, competitors are no longer allowed to leave the circle by the rear half. A competitor must remain in the circle until his attempt is marked (not measured) by the officials.

(11)	Athletic Rule XXIV.—The rule for the finish has been taken from the Federation rules, which in turn was,taken from the rules of the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America.

(12)	Athletic Rule XXIX.—In handicap events, both track and field, the competitor who received the least allowance is given the place.

(13)	Athletic Rule XXX.—In jumping and pole vaulting, “balk” lines are provided for and two successive “balks” are counted as a trial.

(14)	Running high jump.—The uprights are not allowed to be moved during the competition.

(15)	Rule XXXII.—Provision is made for sprinkling the ground just beyond the take-off to make the fouls more easily dis-cernable. This follows the Federation rule.

(16)	Rule XXXVI.—Discus. The circle is 8 feet 8^2 inches in diameter instead of 7 feet.

(18)	Rule XLIV.—Relay Racing. The rule has been modified in accordance with the Federation rule creating a zone of twenty yards—ten yards on either side of the starting line—within which the baton must be passed.

(19)	Rule XLVIII.—A definition of walking has been inserted, corresponding with the definition prepared by Mr. Richard Coombes of Australia, but the disqualification without warning is only provided for in the last 220 yards instead of 440 yards as prevalent in Australia. (See Athletic Rule VIII.)

(20)	Athletic Rule XXV.—Tracks are to be measured twelve inches from the curb instead of eighteen inches.

Gymnastic Rules.—Flying Rings have been added to the all-around competition.

Potato Racing.—A new rule has been prepared.

Yours very truly,

Barton S. Weeks,

Chairman Committee on General and Athletic Rules.

Urban Faber, of the Chicago Americans, established a new worlds record for baseball pitchers. Faber pitched only sixty-seven
— 676 —

balls during the nine innings.	This was five less than Christy

Mathewson’s record established several years ago. In the third and fourth innings Faber retired six men on six pitched balls, each batter hitting the first ball for an out.

NEW SWIMMING RECORDS.

It is significant of the wonderful strides made by American swimmers that during the indoor season just closed they shattered more records than did together all athletes engaged in other branches of sport. Twenty-two new marks went to their credit, and this brilliant showing is extraordinary when it is considered that many of the broken standards were created only a year ago.

Duke Kahanamoku, the speedy Hawaiian now wearing the colors of the Los Angeles A. C., made the best performance of the season when he covered ico yards straightaway in 53 3-5 seconds in Australia, clipping by one-fifth his own international figures. But Harrv Hebner, of the Illinois A. C., Chicago, proved the heaviest He swept twelve records off the board at 330, 400, 450, 600, 65°, 750, 800, 850 and 880 yards.

Following is the list of new figures made at the recognized distance :

40 yards—18 4-5C., 1 turn; Arthur Raithel, Illinois A. C.

100 yards—53 3-5S., straightwav; Duke Kahanamoku, Los Angeles

A.	C.

100 yards—54 3-5S., 4 turns; Arthur Raithel, Illinois A. C.

300 yards—3m. 26 1-5S., 14 turns; Perrv McGillivray, Illinois A. C. 400 yards—4m. 52 2-5S., 19 turns; Harry Hebner, Illinois A. C.

600 yards—7m. 31s., 29 turns; Harrv Hebner, Illinois A. C.

700 yards—8m. 51 3-5S., 34 turns; Harry Hebner, Illinois A. C.

800 yards—10m. 11 3-5S., 30 turns; Harry Hebner, Illinois A. C. 880 yards—urn. 14 1-5S., 43 turns; Harry Hebner, Illinois A. C.

RELAY RACING.

200 yards (four men)—im. 43 i-.qs., 75-foot pool; Handy, Hitchcock, Prendergast, Dean, Brookline G. A. A.

300 yards (six men)—2m. .37 1-5S.,	pool;	Ramme,	Vollmcr,

Nerich, O’Sullivan, Bennett, Reilly, New York A. C.

400 yards (four men)—3m. 45 3-ss., 6c-foot pool; Raithel, Hebner, McGillivray, Vosburgh, Illinois A. C.

One mile (eighteen men)—18m. iq 4-qs., 75-foot nool; Wheatlev, Vollmer, Ramme, Nerich, H. O’Sullivan, W. O’Sullivan, Reillv. Bennett, Zimnoch, Smith, Cann., Curren, South, Ash, Russell, Pallmer, McCarthy, Trubenbach, New York A. C.

BREAST STROKE SWIMMING.

100 yards—im. 13 2-5S., 4 turns, Michael McDermott, Illinois A. C. 200 yards—2m. 38 2-5S., 9 turns, Michael McDermott, Illinois A. C.

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 677 —

ATHLETIC TRACKS MUST CONFORM TO FEDERATION RULES.

Owing to the many inquiries received in regard to re-building athletic tracks both indoor and outdoor to conform with the new International Amateur Athletic Federation rules which were adopted by the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States, Frederick W. Rubien, Secretary-Treasurer of the A. A. U., who is a civil engineer and a recognized authority on the construction of athletic tracks, issued figures which should prove of great aid to those who will be called upon to rebuild their tracks. Under the old Amateur Athletic Union rules the tracks were measured on a line eighteen inches outside of the curb line. As a matter of fact athletes run on a line about twelve inches from the curb line and as this has been the recognized line of measuring tracks in England and in several other continental countries it was decided that in order to have records allowed by the International Amateur Athletic Federation and the A. A. U., that hereafter all records must be made on tracks measured on the 12-inch line. This difference amounts to 3 feet 1H in. per lan on a track no matter how many laps there are to the mile. To find the difference per mile between the two methods of measuring, multiply the number of laps by 3 feet iH inches. This in a 4-lap track equals 12 feet 6 7-8 inches; 5-lap track, 15 feet 8J2 inches; 6-lap track, 18 feet ioJA inches; 7-lap track, 21 feet 11 7-8 inches; 8-lap track, 25 feet 1H inches; 9-lap track, 28 feet 3V4 inches; 10-lap track, 31 feet 5 inches;

11-lap track, 34 feet 6% inches; 12-lap track, 37 feet 8j6 inches; 13-lap track, 40 feet 10A inches; 14-lap track, 43 feet 11H inches; 15-lap track, 47 feet iA inches.

The simplest way to provide for the change will be to have marks on the track 3 feet 1 A inches apart, and for every lap run, that distance will have to be added. It will be much better to correct one curve of the track and this can be done by increasing the tangent or straight portion of the track a distance of 1 foot 6A inches thereby shifting the center point of one of the curves to that extent. This is far more advisable for armories and indoor tracks where the curb is painted on the floor, and will greatly reduce the confusion that will follow where the added 3 feet 1 Y\ inches to each lap is apt to cause complications as to the start and finish of odd distances. Judging from the number of requests for information from organizations desiring to change their tracks, it seems likely that before many months the 12-inch line will be firmly established.

Digitized by UooQle
— C78 —

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

tRMIN 8TECHER, University of Ponnoylvanla, Philadelphia.

APPARATUS EXERCISES FOR MEN.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis.

(Continued.)

SIDE HORSE---LOWER GRADE.

IX.

Topic: Development of Scissors.

Use front and rear vault mount and dismount.

1.	Riding-seat on end, scissors backward. (Developed from sup-

port-lying from seat, 34, 34 turns.)

2.	As i, but forward.

3.	Review front and flank vault.

4.	Review knee jumps forward and backward.

5.	Review sheep vault.

6.	Review leg-swing dismount with turns.

X.

Topic: Squatting leading to development of squat vault.

1.	Single and double squat mount to squat stand (saddle).

2.	Repeat with intermediate jump.

3.	Single squat stand and simultaneous change of leg positions.

4.	Squat to stride-support; follow to rearways.

5.	Squat to stride support and return.

, 6.	Squat to support rearways;	squat	backward	successively.

7.	Squat to support rearways;	squat	backward	with	both.

8.	Squat to stride support; simultaneous squatting backward and

forward, 34 turn dismount.

9.	Double squat stand with immediate straightening to straight

stand; jump off.

10.	Squat vault with releasing grip. (Emphasize forceful thrust

from pommels.)	,

XI.

Topic ;Development of squat vault.

1.	Repeat scissors backward from riding-seat on end.

2.	Repeat scissors forward from riding-seat on end.

3.	Squat to support rearways and

a)	Squat backward singly;

b)	Squat backward with both.

4.	Stride support: simultaneous squatting, 34 turn dismount.

Digitized by VjOOQLe
— 679 —

5.	Single and double squat mount to straight stand.

6.	Squat vault.

7.	Squat vault for distance (over wand held horse high). Emphasize: forceful thrust from pommels.

XII.

Topic: Development of wolf vault.

1.	Frontways: leg-swing outward forward (under hand) and re-

turn executed left and right with

a)	intermediate jump;

b)	intermediate swing. (Review.)

2.	Single knee mount with leg-swing sideward (free).

3.	Single squat stand with leg-swing sideward on horse.

4.	Single squat stand with leg-swing sideward (free).

5.	Single knee mount with leg-swing sideward; change positions.

6.	Single squat stand with leg-swing sideward; change positions.

7.	Single squat stand with leg-swing outward forward.

8.	Wolf (squat-straddle) vault.

XIII.

Topic: The inward and forward leg-swing (i. e., under opposite hand) and return.

1.	Stand to stand: leg-swing inward and forward (under opposite

hand) and return.

2.	As 1, intermediate jump and repeat.

3.	As 1, from support to support.

4.	As 2, but intermediate swing. (Aim.)

5.	Review:

a)	flank vault

b)	front vault

c)	rear vault	for strength and form

d)	squat vault by raising apparatus.

e)	sheep vault.

XIV.

Topic: Development of straddle vault. Variations of rear and flank vault.

1.	Rearways: review leg-swing outward backward (under same

hand) and return.

2.	Jump to straddle stand; intermediate jump and repeat (three to

four times.)

3.	Jump to straddle stand; straighten immediately.

4.	Run, straddle vault forward. (Assistance.) Repeat for

strength and form.

5.	Review rear vault with J4 turn toward apparatus.

Digitized by
— 680 —

6.	Review flank vault with T4 turn from apparatus. (Flank to

front vault.)

7.	Review wolf vault for strength and form.

PARALLEL BARS----LOWER GRADE.

IX.

Topic:Development of forearm swing-stem (rise); preparatory exercises for vaults from support on end, facing outward, over one and both bars.

1.	Forearm support (alternate and) simultaneous arm stem (rise)

to support. Rear and front vault.

2.	Swing in forearm support and swing-stem (rise) to straddle seat

(and other seats) in rear (front) of hands. Front and rear vault.

3.	From forearm support, swing-stem (rise) backward to support;

intermediate swing and front vault. (Care.)

4.	As 3, but swing-stem (rise) forward and rear vault. (Care.)

5.	Cross support lying, end of bar. facing outward:

a)	leg-swing forward under left hand with J4 turn right to a stand;

b)	straddle vault forward (lean well forward). (Assistance, grasp upper arm.)

c)	flank vault forward left.

X.

Topic :Vaults forward from support-swinging on end of bar; bent support exercises.

1.	Support-swing on end of bar facing outward and

a)	leg-swing left forward under left hand with 34 turn right;

b)	straddle-vault;

c)	flank vault.

(Assistance by grasping upper arm; also with placing hand on chest; insist on leaning well forward and on vigorous thrust from hands. Repeat frequently, 1) to acquire confidence, i. e., courage; b) for form. Preparatory: straddle vault over buck from run and support, over long horse from support-lying.)

2.	Support, sink to bent support; jump off backward.

3.	As 2 with knee raising, leg straddling sideward.

4.	As 2, then 34 turn to single forearm support.

5.	Support, hand jump forward to bent support, straighten to sup-

port and repeat.

6.	Dipping, unlimited.

Digitized by Google
— 681 —

XI. (side parallel bars.)

Topic :Leg-swing from side support-lying.

1.	Jump to side support-lying. Double take-off. with hands mov-

ing from near to far bar during the jump.

2.	As i, with grip on far bar.

3.	As 2, then single and alternate leg-swing outward forward and

return over far bar.

4.	As 2, then singfe and alternate leg-swing outward forward and

return between bars.

5.	As 4, with 34 turn to outer cross (oblique) seat in front and

rear of hands and rear and front vault dismount.

6.	As 5, but return to support-lying (leg-circle) instead of cross-

seat.

7.	As 3, but to a straddle-seat iti rear of hands, front vault.

XII.

Topics:Preparatory exercises for the dip-swing; flank and front vault forward from support-swinging on end, facing outward.

1.	Supj>ort-swing, end of bar, facing outward and

a)	flank vault forward ;

b)	front vault forward (34 turn). Assistance by grasping the supporting arm. Emphasize hip straightening.

2.	Swinging (moderate) m bent support (four times), end, facing

inward. .

3.	As 2, jump off backward, straightening arms.

4.	Support-lying frontways, bend arms and then swing forward and

backward to support-lying frontways; straighten arms; repeat.

5.	As 4. from straddle seat rear of hands; begin by bending arms

and pushing body backward. (Also straddle seat changing forward through bent support.

XIII.

T0/>/c:Straighten arms from bent support with flexed and extended leg elevations.

1.	Review: swing-stem forward and backward from forearm-sup-

port to

a)	various seats and then dismounts;

b)	support and various dismounts.

Various terminating exercises are added to the initial exercise. Practice for form.

2.	Jump to bent support; straighten to support with

a)	single and double knee-raising forward;

b)	leg-straddling sideward;

c)	single and double leg-raising forward.

Digitized by Google
00 V|

— 682 —

..	XIV..	(.SIDE PARALLEL BARS.)

Topic: Flank and front vault to inner stand (preparatory to vaulting over bar).

1.	Review: Side support-lying, leg-swing outward and forward

between bars with >4 turn to outer cross (oblique) seat and various dismounts. Also return to support-lying. Review them by adding to 3 and 5 as suggested under 3.

2.	Flank vault to inner side stand. Preparatory: flank vault over

side horse and horizontal bar.

3.	As 2, then jump to support with leg-swing left, then right, back-

outward to side support-lying and add exercises under 1.

4.	Oblique run and front vault left, divided grip, left hand on far,

right on near bar, to inner cross (a) stand; (b) support.

5.	As 4 from perpendicular run; add exercises.

Progression in combinations (sequences) by adding exercises to the starting exercise.

HORIZONTAL BAR-----LOWER GRADE.

IX.

Topic: Turns in hang frontways about reverse under grip and turns in hang rearways.

Jump high.

1.	Hang, one hand reverse under grip, and whole turn about this

arm; return.

2.	As 1, but regrasp with free hand with reverse under grip and

repeat; continue.

3.	Bend arms to bent hang.

4.	As 3, with single and double leg-raising forward.

3.	Bend arms, turn over backward to inverted squat hang.

6.	As 5 to hang rearways; return through balance-hang.

. As 5 to hang rearways, then whole turn and regrasp.

. Try 7 with keeping arms and legs straight (aim) during the turn to balance-hang.

Note:—If 5-8 are too difficult from still hang, permit execution from jump to bent hang, etc. Suggest the value of execution from still hang.

X.

Topic: Knee-swingup and circles.

Head high.

1.	Inverted balance-hang, leg-swing to outer knee-hang, return.

2.	As 1, with immediate outer knee-swingup; knee-swingoff

through balance-hang. Swing free leg vigorously.

3.	As 2, but inner knee-swingup; drop to knee-hang and repeat.

Emphasize straight arms during dropping.

4.	As 3, then knee-circle backward.

5.	As 4, but forward, under grip.

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 683 —

Emphasize the need of straight arms when dropping from seat on thigh and the importance of sudden (backward circle) catching in the knee joint; bent arms break the swing. Progression by raising bar.

Waist (to shoulder) high.

6.	Review: Flank, front, and rear vault from run and stand.

Emphasize form on low height, practice for strength on higher bar. . Progression by raising bar.

XI.

Topic .Outer knee-swingup and hang-turn from swinging; progression of hip-swingup.

Jump high.

1.	Running jump to hang-swinging; review

a)	hand-jumping sideward left and right.

b)	hand-jumping in place with hand-clapping;

c)	balance-hang; and add

d)	outer knee-swingup; knee-swingoff to hang;

e)	hang-turn ('/>) about arm retaining grip.

Head to reach high.

2.	Hip-swingup, various grips (under to unoer) ; jump off back-

ward.

Jump high.

3.	As 2, but from jump to bent-hang; lower forward through bal-

ance-hang.

4.	As 3, but hip-swingoff forward.

Note:—The strength of the class may be tested on the hip-swingup on jump high bar and if equal to it, exercises 2-4 taken through; if not, begin on head high bar. Repeat at future time.

XII

Topic: Under-swing from stand and support.

Chin high.

1.	Under-swing from side stand frontways, upper grip, over rope

about 30 inches distant; raise after each under-swing. (As the rope approaches height of bar, raise the bar to head or reach high.) Emphasize balance-hang and forceful extension of hips as you swing forward.

Head high (later reach and jump high).

2.	Under-swing from support. Emphasize dropping without tak-

ing extra swing, and with straight arms, so that the hip-bending does not occur too soon; during the momentary balance-hang the shins or knees are brought near the bar; then follows the forward swing of the legs and hip extension.

3.	Review: Outer knee- and hip-swingup.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 884 —

XIII.

Topic: knee-iswihgups (and swingoffs) from hang-swinging. Jump high.

1.	Running jump to hang-swinging and outer knee-swingup; knee-

swingoff.

2.	As t, but inner knee-swingup.

3.	keview; hip-pullup; lower forward to balance-hang.

4.	As 1, legrswing to support and under-swing. (Review.)

5.	As 2, leg-swing to support and under-swing.

Emphasize correct form during swinging and under-swing; prevent falling forward after under-swing from jump high bar.

XIV.

Topic: Knee- and hip-swingups followed by knee-circles forward and backward and crotch-circles forward.

Head high.

1.	Inner knee-swingup, upper grip; crotch-circle forward, under

grip; knee-swingoff forward to bent-hang. Emphasize: straight arms during crotch-circle; raise body slightly before beginning the crotch-circle.

2.	Inner knee-swingup forward and three knee-circles backward;

knee-swingoff backward.

3.	As 2, but knee-circles and swingoff forward, under grip. Em-

phasize form in 2 and 3 as they are reviewed.

4.	Hip swingup and outer knee-circles backward; leg-swing to sup-

port and under-swing.

5.	As 4, but crotch-circles forward.

BUCK AND LONG HORSE—LOWEk GRADE.

IX. LONG HORSE.

Topic: Long vault to support-lying; fencer's flank and front vault.

1.	Long vault with hand-jump from croup to neck, to support-

lying front-ways; straddle vault.

2.	As 1, with grip on neck immediately.

kepeat 1 and 2 frequently to acnuire strength and good form. Emphasize the high vault, similar to a dive.

3.	Fencer's rear vault (review).

4. Fencer's flank vault left and Vs turn right.

5. Fencer's front vault left and V* turn right.

The foot opposite to the one used in the rear vault takes off. Emphasize vigorous swing of the free leg and arm.

Exercises 4 and 5 may first be executed to side support-lying sideways and cross support-lying frontways respectively as preparatory.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-«5-

X. BUCK.

Topic: Straddle vault for distance over a constantly moved rope on floor; straddle to squat vault on long buck.

Long buck, shoulder high.

1.	Straddle vault over low rope for distance. The rope should be

moved after each vault.

2.	Straddle vault to stand on buck. Reneat frequently in raoid

succession.

3.	Straddle-squat vault (cat-jump) over buck. Repeat frequently.

4.	Review straddle vaults with 1.4 and Y* turns before alighting.

5.	Review the knee-jump (single and double) forward.

6.	Review front vault by swing along side of buck with r4 turn to

the vault.

XT. LONG HORSE.

Topic rDevelopment of rear vault from cross-stand.

1.	Double take-off and jump to oblique seat on left side; jump off

left sideward (right hand grasps forward). In coming to the seat the left hand is lifted and replaced behind the body.

2.	As 1 to closed cross-seat.

3.	- As 1 over horse (rear vault mount right) to oblique seat on

right side.

4.	Rear vault right from cross-stand over long horse. The left

hand is lifted and replaced, as begun in exercise 1, and the weight is on both, on right, on left hand as the vault is completed.

Emphasize vigorous swing of straight legs.

5.	Review front vault from oblique run with Yi turn outward, grip

on neck.

6.	Review fencer's rear, flank and front vault.

XII. BUCK.

Topic: Play forms of the straddle vault.

Side buck. Raise the buck gradually to suit exercises (progression).

1.	Straddle vault to support rearwavs. Repeat frequently.

2.	Straddle vault, clapping hands,

a)	after supporting;

b)	before supporting;

c)	both before and after supporting.

3.	Straddle vault, support of one hand.

4.	Straddle vault over oblique buck.

5.	Straddle vault over side buck, but suooort on shoulder of gym-

nast standing in rear of buck.

XIII. LONG HORSJ5.

Topic: Rear vault over long horse with Ya and turns inward; rear vault over long horse with Y\ turn and add other exercises.

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 686 —

1.	Rear vault. (Review.)

2.	Rear vault with 34 turn toward apparatus.

3.	Rear vault with 34 turn toward apparatus. (Turn-rear vault.)

4.	As 2, then knee-mount and knee-jump.

5.	As 2, then leg-swing mount, scissors, front-vault dismount.

6.	As 2, then front vault mount, scissors, front vault dismount.

7.	As 2, then rear vault mount, scissors, front vault dismount.

8.	Review long vault, support on neck, to support-lying.

9.	As 2, then flank, front and rear vault (if time permits). Emphasize high swinging of extended legs in the rear vault.

XIV. SIDE BUCK.

Topic: Development of squat vault over side buck.

1.	Double squat stand, jump off backward.

2.	Single squat stand, jump off backward.

3.	Single squat stand, simultaneous changing three times.

5.	Squat mount to straight stand; jump off forward.

5.	As 4 without perceptible pause and jump off forward (with 34

and 34 turns).

6.	Squat vault.

Emphasize forceful thrust from hands against the buck.

Repeat frequently in rapid succession for strength, and later for form.

7.	Review, flank, front, rear vault.

MAT EXERCISES, ELEMENTARY INDIVIDUAL AND TEAM TUMBLING.

By H. DARNELL, BRITTIN, Lorain, Ohio.

(Continued.)

MISCELLANEOUS GROUP FIGURES FOR CLASS WORK AND . EXHIBITION PURPOSES.

1	Class in single file, hands on hips. Command: “Knees bend.”

Push first boy backward.

2	Class in line with side stride position so that outside of foot

touches foot of next boy. Command: “Arms forward raise”—“Arms sideward'spread.” (Suitable at end of day’s order just before dismissal.)

3	The Squash. Class divided into groups of ten. The heaviest

four kneel (hands and knees) on mat. The next heaviest three kneel in same position on backs of the four. The next two, same position on the three and the last one, on the two. All extend arms and legs. (Suitable just before dismissal.)

4	The Snake. (Long row of mats in centre.) Twelve boys (or A. more) in single file, all facing same direction about five feet

Digitized by
— 687 —

1

apart. (Number i at head of line—smallest boy.) Number i fall backward keeping body stiff and head back, number 2 break fall by grasping number i’s peck and bringing him slowly to mat. Number 2 fall backward, number 3 breaking fall (Fig. 26). Number 3 fall backward, etc., until number

12	is left standing. Number 12 pick up number 11 by grasping back of neck, number 11 keeping body stiff. Number 11 pick up number 10, etc., until all are in original position.

B.	All walk forward (keeping in line) until number 12 arrives at end of mat. All jump to a side stride position, placing left hand between legs and grasping the left hand of boy in front with right hand. Number 12 fall back slowly (bending at waist) to supine position, the* rest walking backward

slowly in side stride position. Number 11 fall back slowly, etc,, (Fig. 27) until all are supine on mats. Number 1 rise to feet still grasping number 2*s hand and walk forward in
— 688 —

side stride position. Number 2 rise to feet, etc., until all are in starting position.

C.	All walk forward (number 1 in lead) and number 1 counter

march when number 12 has reached end of mat. Number 1 half forward roll to mat (supine with legs spread). Number 2 half forward roll over number 1 to mat, number 1 bringing legs to sides of number 2 (Fig. 28). Number 2 half forward roll over number 2, etc., until all are lying on mat. Number 12 half backward roll over number 11 to standing position, number 11 half backward roll over number 10 to standing position, number 10 half backward roll, etc.,

until all are in standing position. Release hands, jump to stand, place left hand on shoulder of boy in front and the Lock Step march ofif.

5	Porpoise Roll (3 boys). Lying prone across mat, (Fig. 29-a) boy in centre start with a sideward roll right, boy on right jump over him landing on “all fours” and immediately perform a sideward roll left, boy on left jump over him landing on “all fours” (Fig. 29-b) and immediately perform a side-

Digitized by o.ooQle
ward roll right, boy on right jump over him, etc. Repeat several times.

6	Jump and Roll (3 boys)’. Standing as in (Fig. 30-a) boy in

centre describe a forward roll and boy on left jump over him (Fig. 30-b) and then describe a forward roll with boy on right jumping over him. The same progression is used as in the “Porpoise Roll/’

Note:—In the forward rolls the legs should be together, and in jumping, spread.

7	Dive and Roll (3 boys). Standing as in No. 6, boy on left

describe a forward roll and boy in centre dive over him. Boy on right describe a forward roll, etc. The same progression is used as in the “Jump and Roll.”

Note:—In figures 5, 6, and 7 each boy will alternately roll and jump.

8	Acrobatic Maxixe. Class in double circle formation (number 1 inside, number 2 outside) facing each other. Number

Digitized by o.ooQle
— 690

2	place hands on number Ts feet and spring to a hand balance, number I grasping number 2%s ankles. At signal, pianist play some popular dance music and number I alternately lift right and left foot, at the same time turning to the left.

THE RISE AND DECLINE OF SPORT.*

By WILLIAM A. STEOHER.

If one inquires into the origin of sport or athletics, one finds that the physical activities embraced under this head are fundamental movements like running, jumping, climbing, swimming, throwing, etc., movements which under primitive conditions are necessary for the preservation and prolongation of life.

With increasing culture and wealth the necessity for using these activities to obtain a livelihood becomes less pronounced. In fact under modern economic conditions one finds many people who never use them. These fundamental activities, however, are necessary if we wish to remain healthy, if we hope to maintain or increase our strength or endurance. In fact, if they are not indulged in deterioration begins:	Modern	conditions,	especially	in large cities, do

not allow an adequate practice in these forms of lx)dv-building movements. Artificial forms of exercise, usually designated gymnastics, must therefore be resorted to. Combined with these artificial forms of exercise the racially old fundamental forms of movement are also used. The reason for their use, however, now is a different one. Under modern conditions they are not practiced to gain the necessities of life, the means for existence, but they are used for physical training purposes, for strengthening the body, for muscular development. Used in this manner they represent the beginning of sport, of athletics. In order to increase their effect and to give increased joy to those participating several of these fundamental exercises are often combined in the form of games.

With increasing skill the jov of accomplishment also increases. The means used for phvsical training now, gradually, are becoming an end in themselves. The individual sports or groups of them are indulged in with the predominant aim of becoming most skillful in them. Educational ends also appear, and the use of sports for mental development gradually becomes more pronounced. The training of the will-power bv means of athletics is another great advance. Following this development we soon reach the climax, that is, competitive sports and games. Group competition in the form of team work presents the climax of the use of sports for educational aims.

This climax bears within itself the seeds of degeneracy. This is ambition. Good at first, the effects are bad as soon as ambition

* Based upon an article in “Koerper und Gelst.”

Digitized by 0.ooQLe
— 691 —

becomes too strong to be curbed. When no longer influenced and guided by common sense, it forces individuals to ignore the fact that nature has set a limit to all bodily endeavors. This limit not only varies with each individual, but it also is strongly influenced by age and by sex.

Laudable ambition, also, often is influenced adversely by vanity. In some instances it leads to arrogance and to an over-estimation of the value of sports. To every sane person sport should be a fountain a joy, a recreation, a preparation for his vocation. With unbalanced persons sport often becomes the aim of life itself, completely dominating every thought and recognizing no other duties than the gratification of its selfish desires.

This condition also leads to professionalism. Under this influence sport activities again return to their origin, and are pursued as a means of livelihood. There is, however, a great difference, for in this latter case these activities become an exhibition of one’s skill for pay.

With the amateur the ideal reward for athletic activities is the joy of victory. Athletics indulged in under such conditions arouse spectators to a most profound enthusiasm, born by witnessing a manful, unselfish struggle for victory. The result is an increase in self-confidence, in manhood.

To the professional athlete a victory means an increase in money-value. This road- easily leads to gladiatorial combats, to spectacles presented to large paying multitudes, to nerve-stimulating exhibitions for passive spectators.

Sport, athletics, is necessary under modern economic conditions. Its aim, however, must be educational. To be this it must not be allowed to degenerate into a spectacle. Tt must be such that every able-bodied person can participate in it.

EXAMINATION FOR POSITION AS PLAYGROUND TEACHER IN THE PLAYGROUNDS CONDUCTED BY THE BOARD OF PUBLIC EDUCATION, PHILADELPHIA.

I. METHODS OF TEACHING AND MANAGEMENT.

(The time on this paper must not exceed one hour.)

1.	Is the work of the classroom teacher made better, or worse by

her participation in the playground service? Explain and illustrate.

2.	A boy breaks a window pane. Discuss your method of pro-

cedure, (a) If he denies it; (b) If he admits it; (c) If he runs away.

Digitized by C.ooQle
~<W-

Djscuss the influence of play upop the mqral anfl qpqn the aesthetic development of the child.

4.	What traits of character do you think could be observed whije children are using the swings? Tefl how you would correct the bad traits that you have mentioned.

II. THEORY AND PRACTICE QF PLAY AND RECREATION.

(The time on this paper must not exceed two and a half hours).

1.	How does play help to develop individuality? Discuss fully.

2.	What do you understand by self-government on a playground?

How would you introduce and conduct such procedure?

3.	Outline a list of Song Games you would nlav with children be-

tween six and nine years in following one oeriod of a half hour on your day’s program. Describe two of these games with both words4.and diagrams.

4.	Outline one lesson in raffia, reed, raffia and reed or crepe paper

rope basketry .for children lietween eight and twelve years of age.

5.	Name six dances you would teach in your playground, giving

the reasons for your selection and for this sequence.

6.	Tabulate three different school-yard playground games, suited

and interesting to a moderate number of children, for each of the following groups:—(a) Girls 14 years old; (b) Girls 8 years old; (c) Boys 14 years old; (d) Boys 10 years old.

7.	Mention five varieties of Dodgeball in order of progressive dif-

ficulty.

8.	If a boy had fallen from the ffiant stride and was unconscious,

mention in order the measures you would pursue.

9.	How would you organize the children of your playground for

a track and field meet? What events would you select? Why?

10.	(a)	Name three points of interest in a story suitable for telling

in a playground.

(b)	Mention five stories which possess these points of interest.

11.	Give your plan for teaching rhythms. Suggest five that are

.suitable for playground use.

12.	Show by diagram the points of friction on the Giant Stride and

on the Swings.

Digitized by
— cbS —

AN EXTENSION COURSE FOR PHILADELPHIA’S PLAYGROUND TEACHERS.

(Continued.)

FREE EXERCISES.

Compiled by ARLINGTON EVANS, Principal of Sherwood Recreation Center,

Philadelphia, Pa.

I. Commands:

1	Activity ......................................... Bend

2	Part of body.................................... Trunk

3	Side (left or	right)..............................Left

4	Direction ................................... Sideward

5	Repeat activity	(verb always).....................Bend

II.	Commands for complex Exercises

Begin with turn if any, then foot movement, trunk or head, arms e. g. lunge left sideways, bend trunk left, artd raise arms forward upward.

Turn head left, raise heels, arms sideward. Tufn or—1.

III.	Movements

Two movement exercises of one part of the body.

1	Head.

A.	Lowering backward and forward, left or right.

B.	Turning left or right.

2	Arm.

A.	Raising forward, sideward, fore-upward. Side-upward, oblique, fore-downward, side-downward, fore-upward, side-upward.

B.	Lowering.

C.	Moving from sideward to forward or backward, vice versa.

D.	Swinging from sideward to forward or backward, ”	” .

E.	Circling 1-4, 1-2, 3-4, 1-1, left, right, forward, backward, outward, inward.

F.	Bending, to thrust, striking from shoulders or head, hands front of shoulders, hands rear of neck.

3	Trunk and Upper Trunk.

A.	Bending, straightening, backward. (Upper Trunk.)

B.	Bending, straightening trunk, sideward, forward, backward.

C.	Lowering, raising trunk, '/> forward, forward, fore-downward.

D.	Turning, returning trunk, sideward left or right.

4	Legs and Feet.

. A. Raising, lowering, straight leg, forward, sideward, backward.

B.	Raising lowering bent leg, foot backward, knee forward, fore-upward, sideward.

Digitized by
— 694 —

C.	Bending, straightening knees.

D.	Raising lowering heels and toes.

E.	Placing, replacing foot, forward, sideward, backward, fore-inward and outward.

F.	Striding and returning, forward,	sideward,	backward,	etc.

G.	Stepping and returning, forward,	sideward,	backward,	etc.

H.	Lunging and returning forward,	sideward,	backward,	etc.

I.	Jumping in place, to side stride, in or from place.

J.	Hopping, (as in jumping.)

IV.	Order of Exercises.

1	Arm and leg.

2	Head and upper trunk with or without arm and leg exercises.

3	Balancing exercises with or without arm, leg, trunk and head exercises.

4	Anterio-posterior trunk exercises.

5	Same as I and 3, but using more difficult exercises.

6	Lateral trunk exercises with or without arm or leg movements.

7	Jumping exercises with or without arm, leg, trunk and head exercises.

8	Breathing exercises.

V.	Types of Exercises arranged in progression for age groups.

Age 5-7 Years.

1	Two movement exercises of one part of the body (simple exercises) e. g. Raise arms sideward—1; lower—2.

2	Two movement exercises of one part of the body in alternation with another two movement exercise of the same or another part of the body, e. g. Raise arms sideward—1; lower—2 ; raise heels—3; lower—4.

Age 8-9 Years.

3	Two movement (simple) exercises of one part executed in succession, e. g. Raise arms forward—1; lower—2; raise sideward—3; lower—4; raise forward-upward—5; lower 6; raise sideward-upward—7; lower—8.

Age 10-11 Years.

4	Two movement exercises of two parts of the body, e. g. Raise heels and arms sideward—1; lower—2.

5	Two movement exercises of two parts of the body in alter-, nation with another two movement exercise of two parts of the body,, e. g. Raise heels and arms sideward—1; lower—2 ; bend knees and arms to thrust—3; straighten—4.

Digitized by Google
— 695 —

Age 12-13 Years.

6	Two movement exercises of three parts of the body, e. g. Raise heels, raise arms sideward and turn head right—1; return—2.

7	Two movement exercises of three parts of the body in alternation with another two movement exercise of three parts.

8	Two movement exercises of two parts as a four movement sequence, e. g. Raise arms sideward—1; raise heels—2; lower heels—3; lower arms—4.

9	Two movement exercises of three parts as a four movement sequence, e. g. Stride left sideward and raise arms sideward—a ; bend upper trunk backward—2; reverse and return—3-4.

10	Four movement sequence of one part of the body, e. g. Raise arms sideward—1; move forward—2; return—3-4; Raise heels—1; bend knees—2; return—3-4.

11	Four movement sequence of one oart of the body with a two movement exercise of a second and third, e. g. Raise arms sideward—I; move arms forward and raise heels—2 ; reverse and return—3-4; Stride left sideward and bend arms to strike—1; strike sideward—2; reverse and return —3-4*

12	Four movement sequence of two parts of the body, e. g. Place left foot sideward and bend arms to thrust—1; lunge left sideward and thrust arms sideward—2; reverse and return—3-4.

Age 14 Years And Over.

13	Four movement sequence of two parts of the body with a two movement exercise of a third, usually head or trunk, e. g. Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward—1; change knee bending, raise arms upward and bend trunk left—2 ; reverse and return—3-4.

14	Four movement sequences—irregularly arranged—

A.	Of one part of the body, e. g. Bend arms to thrust—1; thrust sideward—2 ; move forward—3 ; lower—4.

B.	Of one part with a two movement exercise of a second, e. g. Stride left forward and bend arms to strike—1; strike arms sideward—2; move arms forward—3; replace foot and lower arms—4.

C.	Of two parts of the body, e. g. Place left foot sideward and bend arms to strike—1; lunge left sideward and strike arms sideward—2; place left foot forward and move arms forward—3; replace foot and lower arms —4.

D.	Of two parts with a two movement exercise of a third, e. g. Place left foot backward inward and bend arms to

Digitized by Google
—m—

thrust—i; lunge left forward outward, thrust left arm forward upward outward, rfoht arm backward downward outward—2; bend knees and arms to Strike—3; position—4.

15	Six and eight movement sequences.

A.	Four movement exercises of one part with a two movement exercise of another, e. g. Six movement, bend arms and place hands front of shoulders—1; straighten arms sideward—2 ; turn trunk left—3; turn forward —4; return arms—5-6. Eight movement same way, only repeat trunk turning—5-6; return—7-8.

B.	Four movement sequence of one part with a two movement exercise of a second and third, e. g. Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward—1; raise arms upward—2; bend trunk right and straighten—3-4; repeat —5-6; return to position—7-8.

C.	Four movement sequence of two parts with two movement exercises of a third, e. g. Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward—1; chr~~ - knee bending and raise arms upward—2 ; bend trunk left—3 ; return—4-6.

For eight movement sequences repeat trunk movement.

16	Six or eight movement sequences of one part.

A.	Six movement using different positions, e. g. Raise arms forward—1; move sideward—2; raise upward—3 ; return—4-5-6

B.	Eight movement using different positions, e. g. Raise left knee forward—1; straighten forward—2; place sideward—3; place backward inward and bend right knee—4; return—5-8.

C.	Eight movement repeating part of the movements, e. g. Bend arms to strike—1; strike sideward and bend—

2-3; repeat—4-7; lower arms—8.

D.	All positions different, e. g. Bend arms to strike—1: strike sideward—2 ; move forward—3 ; raise upward— 4; place rear of neck—5 ; position—6

17	As (16) with two movement exercises of leg or trunk.

18	As (16) with four movement sequence of 2nd and two

movement exercises of 3rd part.

VI.	Free exercises of the 2nd order consists of exercises while in

kneeling, sitting, lying, sut^nrt lying positions and exercises in which another person assists.

VII.	Free exercises in walking.

(To be continued.)
— 697 —

SHADOW DANCE.

By DOROTHY JESSUP, Springfield, Mo.

Music:—“Shadow Dance,” by Edw. McDowell.

This dance is for any number of couples, which should be . grouped in column formation in two or more columns according to the size of room or stage. The description is written for the left hand partner throughout, unless otherwise stated, as in Step II. Partners may enter from opposite sides, meeting and facing front.

MEASURES

Entrance Step—Beginning right foot, 4 running Polka steps (step right, left, hop on right and extend left) and

face front..............................................       2

part I.

(a)	Four high Polka steps diagonally backward, half facing

front, beginning left foot. . . ..........................	4

(b)	Four high Polka steps diagonally forward, beginning left foot, and turn towards front and face partner, who would

be separated at a distance of about 12 feet................... 4

(c)	Take 12 running steps, beginning right foot, passing partner; Pirouette right......................................  4

(d)	Repeat 12 running steps beginning left foot and Pirouette

left; end facing front........................................ 4

(e)	One Polka step in place, beginning left foot, and look over

left shoulder . . . .............	.	.......................... 2

One Polka step beginning right foot and look over right shoulder ................................................. 2

( f) Jump toward partner, landing high on toes and hold arms

raised high over head......................................... 2

'	PART	11.

(a)	Beginning right foot, skip diagonally forward to right

toward partner, and passing partner follow out a figure eight ...................................................:	8

(b)	Form a second figure eight over the same distance, chasing

partner. The left hand partner continues in the-same direction as before, but the right hand partner changes her direc1 tion and follows the left hand partner through the	figure.	.	8

(c)	End facing	front in original position,	four	skips	forward.	.	2

(d)	Four skips	backward.................................... 2

(e)	Begin left foot, and take 32 little side steps on toes describ1

ing a circle and meet partners back to back..................  4

PART in.

(a)	Four Polka steps around partner, back to back; end facing

front ......................................................   4

(b)	One Polka	step beginning left foot................... 1
One Polka step beginning right foot......................... I

(c)	Arabesque Saute (hop forward on left foot 3 times, repeat

right, left, right, left)................................... 5

Face partner and hold hands................................. 1

(d)	Whirl partner, holding hands............................... 8

(e)	One Polka step in place, beginning left foot, and look over

left shoulder............................................... 2

One Polka step, beginning right foot and look over right

shoulder . ................................................. 2

( f) Jump toward partner, high on toes, arms raised high, and

look down................................................... 2

Turn to left and run off with 12 running steps.............. 2

FREE EXERCISES.

By OTTO WURL, Quincy, 111.

Music:—“The Royal Trumpeter’s March, by F. R. Seltzer. Formation:—Column of front ranks of fours, in open order. Introduction—12 measures.

group 1.

Music, Part I—32 measures—64 counts. A movement is executed on each count.

COUNTS

1.	Ex. Raise arms forward—1, raise arms upward—2, re-

verse—3, return—4; repeat seven times 5-32.... 32

2.	Ex. Raise arms sideward—1, raise arms upward—2, re-

verse—3, return—4; repeat seven times 5-32...  32

In all

64

TACTICS I.

Music, Part II—32 measures—64 counts.

a)	March in place (mark time) 1-4, close ranks by marching

forward (face and step toward the center with left leg on 5, close heels and face front on 8)..................

b)	A whole wheel left, closing heels on every fourth count—

thereby completing each quarter wheel................

c)	Repeat (b), wheeling right...........................

d)	Open ranks outward by marching forward (outer ones face

outward and step forward with left leg on 1, take two additional steps then close heels and face front on 4; inner ones face outward and march in place two steps beginning left, step forward on 3, close heels and face front on 4; march in place four steps 5-8..............................

e)	Rest.................................................

8

16

16

8

16

In all

64

Digitized by ^.ooQle
— 699 —

GROUP II.

Music, Part III and IV—64 measures—128 counts.

The movements are executed on the first beat of each measure.

1.	Ex. Raise arms fore-upward 1-2, place hands on shoulders and lower trunk forward, horizontal with the floor, head slightly back 3-4, reverse 5-6, return 7-8; repeat

three times 9-32........................................ 32

2.	Ex. Turn trunk left and raise arms sideward 1-2, bend

trunk left and place hands behind neck 3-4, reverse 5-6, return 7-8; repeat once left and twice right 9-32....... 32

3.	Ex. Place left foot obliquely left forward, raise arms

obliquely left fore-upward with hands clinched and lower head obliquely right backward, looking at hands

1-2, lunge left obliquely left forward, swing arms downward, bending left across chest with hand in front of right shoulder, raising right obliquely right backward, parallel with right leg and raise head 3-4, reverse 5-6, return 7-8; repeat once left and twice

right 9-32............................................... 32

4. Ex. Place left foot and raise arms sideward 1-2, lunge left sideward, turn trunk left and place hands behind neck 3-4, reverse 5-6, return 7-8; repeat once left and twice right 9-32. ................................................. 32

In all.............................................................. 128

TACTICS II.

Music, Parts I and II omitting the introduction—64 measures— 128 counts.

a)	Close ranks inward by marching forward as in tactics I,

1-8, face left about in four, steps then march in place four steps 9-16............................................. 16

b)	March, one quarter wheel left forward 1-4, three steps

forward and close heels 5-8, face left about in four steps

9-12, four steps in place 13-16; repeat three times 17-64 (in repeating the exercise the third time omit the left about face but march in place eight steps....:..............  64

c)	Grouping: Pupils are numbered from right to left 1234.

Girls: No. 1 steps in front of, and No. 4 steps behind the

center of the couple numbers 2 and 3—counts 1-8;

Nos. 2 and 3 lunge outward, raise arms diagonally, inner arm obliquely side-upward, outer arm obliquely side-downward and turn head inward, looking at inner hand—No. 1 kneels right a little behind left foot and raises arms sideward—No. 4 raises arms obliquely side-upward (outward), palms turned

Digitized by
— 700 —

obliquely inward-upward, and lowers head backward slightly—9-16; return to the fundamental position in the closed front rank, 17-24............. 24

Boys: No. 1 steps behind the center of, and places hands on the inner shoulders of the couple Nos. 2 and 3—

No. 4 steps behind No. 1, kneels right beside the left foot and grasps the ankles of No. 1—Nos. 2 and 3 place outer foot sideward with bending inner knee, grasp partner’s inner upper arm near shoulder with inner, hand and place outer hand on hip 1-8;

No. 1 jumps into the front support, No. 4 assists No. 1 into the front support by rising, then raises the legs of No. 1 backward by bending arms in front of chest 9-16 ; No. 4 releases grasp on the ankles of No. 1 who jumps down, then all return to the fundamental position in the closed front rank 17-24.

d)	Open ranks outward as in Tactics 1......................... 8

e)	Rest.........................................  '.	........	16

In all

128

GROUP III.

Music, Parts III and IV—64 measures—128 counts. (Hands clinched).

1.	Ex. Lunge left forward and bend arms for thrust 1-2,

bend trunk backward and thrust arms upward 3-4, reverse 5-6, return 7-8; repeat once left and twice right 9"32.............................    :..........  32

2.	Ex. Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward 1-2,

bend trunk left, and swing arms, left downward bending it at right angles across back, right upward bending it at right angles over head 3-4, reverse 5-6, return 7-8; repeat once left and twice right 9-32.. 32

3.	Ex. Lunge left forward and swing arms fore-upward 1-2,

lower trunk forward horizontal with floor, head slightly back, and lower arms forward (downward), hands height of ankles 3-4, reverse 5-6, return 7-8; repeat once left and twice right 9-32.................   32

4.	Ex. Lunge left sideward and swing arms sideward-up-

ward 1-2, one quarter turn left on heels, lower trunk forward horizontal with floor, head slightly back, and place hands on hips 3-4, reverse 5-6, return 7-8; re-

peat once left and twice right 9-32. .......................... 32

In all.................................................. 128

Digitized by

Google
— 701 —

“TWINING OF THE GARLANDS.”

By BERNICE VEITCH, Warrensburgf, Mo.

Music:—“Snow Queen,” by Gustave Salzer. Published by M. Witwark and Love.

The performers should be an even number of girls arranged in double file facing the audience.

Costume:—White dress. Each girl carries a gymnasium reed which is decorated with bright-colored paper flowers.

Omit the introduction and interlude of the music.

Letter the parts of the music A, B, C, D, E, F, and G^

The movements of the file on the left will be described. The file on the right executes the same movement in the opposite direction.

ENTRANCE:—Music A. All come to places by taking two step-hops (or swing-hops) forward to each measure. Raise the free foot well forward. When not otherwise specified this step will be used throughout the drill. The wreath or reed is held so as to form an arch over the head..

STEP ONE:—Music A. is repeated.

Measure 1-2. Place right foot forward, swing reed forward and back twice, body swaying in the same direction.

Measure 3-4. Partners face each other and change places with four step-hops, wreath held over head. Girls on the left start with the right foot, others with the left.

Measure 5-6. Same as 1-2, facing the audience.

Measure 7-8. Same as 3-4.

Measure 9-16. Same as 1-8.

STEP TWO:—Music B. Same as step one only partners face each other instead of the audience. At the end of four step-hops the girls originally on the left must turn right about, those on the right turn left about.

STEP THREE:—Music B. is repeated.

Measure 1. With a half turn right stride right sideward, straighten right arm forward and place left hand at right armpit.

Measure 2. With a half turn left stride left sideward, straighten left arm forward, and place right hand at left armpit.

Measure 3. Same as Measure 1.

Measure 4. Same as Measure 2.

Measures 5, 6, 7, 8. Files step-hop away from each other.

Measures 9-12. Same as Measures 1-4.

Measures 13-16. All return to places.

STEP FOUR:—Music C.

Measure 1-2. Face audience, kneel on left knee, and sway body and wreath to the right, then to the left twice.

Digitized by o.ooQle
— 702 — ,

Measures 3-4. Sway forward and back twice.

Measures 5-6. Standing, same as measure 1-2.

Measures 7-8. Partners change places.

Measures 9-16. Same as measures 1-8.

STEP FIVE:—Music D.

‘Measure 1-4. Pivot turn twice. (That is point right foot sideward, then keeping the left foot in place turn around to the right by pushing with the right).

Measures 5-8. Files step-hop away from each other.

Measures 9-12. Same as Measures 1-4.

Measures 13-16. Return to places.

STEP SIXMusic D.

Measures 1-4. Pivot turn twice as in step five.

Measures 5-6. Step-hop to partner.

Measure 7-8. Cross reeds and circle around partner.

Measure 9-10. Turn around, cross reeds again, and circle around the partner with four step-hops.

Measures n-12. Return to places.

Measures 13-16. Pivot turn twice.

STEP SEVEN:—Music E.

Each line follow the leader of that line down the outside of the line and back to place.

STEP EIGHT:—Music F.

Measure I. Swing wreath down on right side of body and up again.

Measure 2. Swing wreath down on the left side of the body and up.

Measure 3-4. Partners change places.

Measure 5-6. Same as measure 1-2.

Measure 7-8. All return to places.

Measures 9-16. Same as measures 1-8.

STEP NINE:—Music G.

Turn and leave stage with step-hop, holding wreath over the head.

WIGGLE-THROUGH. RELAY RACE.

By CHARLES WED ELL, Director Seventh Street Playgrounds, Buffa’o, N. Y.

This is a lively relay for playgrounds and gymnasiums.

Place a number of hoops on the floor 8 feet apart, say 6 hoops for team A and 6 hoops for team B. First hoop 10 feet from starting line and last hoop 10 feet from turning point. Place a large X with chalk in center of hoop on the floor. Line up teams A and B parallel behind starting line. At the word “Go” the first one from

Digitized by
— 703 —

each team will run forward and pick up hoop, wiggle through, replace hoop on the floor over the X mark, run to the next one, repeat same to the 5 other hoops as number one, run around turning point, back and touch your next runner on your team, the team finishing, first wins race. You can vary this by going through hoop going and returning, also by executing a somersault, or hurdling at the beginning or end of each relay.

I have tried this race in my gymnasium this winter with great success. Hoops can be made from reeds 7 feet long and put together with tape. They are more substantial than the ordinary barrel hoops and have no sharp edges.

DANCING.

With the advent of summer those playgrounds which have space and equipment to enable them to teach dancing, will undoubtedly take advantage of their opportunity. Until this year, there had been no real set of dance steps.

In the larger recreation centers in Philadelphia, the steps have been collected and have been distributed among the teachers. The following is the synopsis of the more important steps that have been taught this past winter and spring. These steps have been collected and compiled by Mr. Arlington Evans, Principal Sherwood Recreation Center, Philadelphia, Pa.

SOCIAL DANCES.

Gentleman always begins with his left foot, and lady with her right foot.

Position:—Same as waltz but hold the extended arm slightly curved and level with the shoulder, the gentleman’s palm facing upward. The gentleman’s right arm as far up under the ladies’ arm as possible. Ten inches between the bodies.

beginners’ steps.

One Step.

1	Walk, gentleman forward, lady backward, around the room until free from faults.

2	As (1) but the lady going forward and gentleman backward.

3	Walk, gentleman forward, lady backward, for eight counts. Reverse and continue.

4	As (3) but with Yz turns right every eight counts.

5	As (4) but turning every four counts.

6	As (4) but with 3^2 turns left every eight counts.

advanced steps.

Draw Step Variations.

1 Walk, gentleman forward, lady backward, 1-7 counts. Draw,

Digitized by
— 704 —

gentleman in rear of his left foot, lady in front of her right on count 8. (Count i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, draw, 8).

2	As (1) but add Yz turn left on counts 1 and 2. Walk, gentleman backward, 3-6 counts, 34 turn left on counts 7 and 8. Repeat.

3	As (1) but add 1-1 turn walking, turn left 1-4 using the draw step on count 4. Walk, gentleman forward, 5-8. Repeat.

DRAW CATCH STEP.

(Single Line Lesson—Front Rank.)

Gentleman—

1	Gentleman walks forward four steps 1-4. Walks backward 5-8. On 8 draw the right foot past the left and step forward left on count 1. Continue.

2	As (1) but add a rising on the left foot, as the right foot is drawn past the left (no change of counts).

3	As (2) but on a square- making T4 turn right on counts 4 and 8. Lady—

1	Walk backward 1-4, walk forward 5-8. On 8 draw the left foot past the right and step backward right on count 1. Continue.

2	As (1) but take an extra long step on 1-1, bending the left knee slightly at the time time.

3	As (2) but taken on a square and making 34 turn right on counts 4 and 8.

4	Repeat the step in couples.

WAVERLY STEPS.

1	Step out. Gentleman walking forward, lady backward. Gentleman steps out to right side of lady 1-2. Return front of lady

3-4. Continue.

2	As (1) but add a draw step on 3-4 and (1-1) walking turn left

5-8. Walk 8 steps and repeat.

3	Wavcrly Turn. Gentleman steps out to right side of lady 1-2. Both turn right in two walking steps, the gentleman finishing at the left side of lady 3-4. Walk, the gentleman returning in front of lady 5-8. Repeat lA turn at first, then 1-1 turn.

(Hesitation (H time, fairly fast).

CANTER OR WALK WALTZ.

Repeat all steps of the One Step, but counting 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and, in place of t, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc.

DROP WALTZ.

(Line Lesson—Flank Rank.)

Gentleman—

1	(a) Step forward left, right, left and close the right to the left

foot. (Use no music).

Digitized by o.ooQle
— 705 —

(b) As (i) only hold the first step for three counts (i, 2, 3) then step right, left, and close 4, 5, 6. To count combine the 1, 2, 3 into one long 1—1, 2, 3, etc. The movement should be smooth and continuous.

Lady—

2	Same as gentleman only starting with the right foot.

3	Repeat (b of 1) in couples in promenade position, both facing front.

Variations.

4	Gentleman forward, lady backward, lady does step backward. Repeat.

5	Gentleman backward, lady forward, man does step backward.

6	Take a position, lady with back toward wall'; man facing wall. Drop waltz, gentleman forward 1-6. Drop waltz backward 1-6.

7	As (6) but zig-zag around room.

8	Butterfly:	Gentleman	side	position on right side of lady. Both

turn Yi\ right in place. Gentleman will now has his left side toward lady. Return. Repeat until they get the idea of the change, then repeat using the Drop Waltz; gentleman starting forward, lady backward. Change positions during waltz step.

COMBINE THE WALK WITH DROP WALTZ.

i Walk 8 measures or 16 steps counting 1 and, 2 and, 3 and, 4 and, 5 and, 6 and, 7 and, 8, then turn so both are facing forward in the promenade position and hesitate 1, waltz 1, 2, 3, repeat three times and then change back to walk. Repeat until change is well known.

fox trot (2-4, 4-4 Slow Running Rhythm.)

1	Walk, gentleman forward, lady backward, four slow steps 1-4. Run 8 steps, 5 and 6 and 7 and 8 or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.

2	As (1) but add two slow two-steps with whole turn right 1-4, and four glides toward gentleman’s left, 5-8.

3	Glide, gentleman left, lady right 1-4, Yi turn and glide, gentleman right, lady left 5-8. Count 1, 2, 3, 4 and, 5, 6, 7, 8 and, etc.

4	Haberdana Step:

(a)	Two-step. Gentleman forward, lady backward. Count 1 and 2, 3 and 4. Repeat.

(b)	As (a) but do not close in the two-step, but use only a slight drawing step, the lady swinging slightly from side to side.

5	Polka Turns

(a)	Two-step turning right 1 and 2.

(b)	As (a) only add hop after count 2.	1	and	2	hop, 3 and 4

hop, etc.

6	Polka Forward:

Gentleman forward, lady backward. Repeat (5) without a turn.
— 706 —

7	Glide Polka:

(a)	Repeat (3).

(b)	As (a) only add hop at the end of the fourth glide. Count* 1, 2, 3, 4, hop, etc.

8	Tzvo-stcp. Slow, turning lady and looking at the hand in the direction of the step.

FREE EXERCISE DRILL.

By ADOUPH PICKER, Baltimore, Md.

Music:—“Four Jacks/’ by Abe Losch.

group 1.

1. Bend arms inward................................... 1— 2

Stretch arms sideward............................ 3— 4

Return movements................................. 5— 8

Repeat three times............................... 9—32

2. Raise arms sideward................................ 1— 2

Bend arms upward................................. 3— 4

Return movements................................. 5— 8

Repeat three times............................... 9—32

3. Bend arms upward................................... 1— 2

Stretch arms upward.............................. 3— 4

Return movements................................. 5— 8

Repeat three times............................... 9—32

4.	Side stride jump.................................. I— 4

Triple step—hop turn left....................... 5— 8

Repeat three times, turning right, left, right... 9—32

GROUP II.

Repeat exercises 1, 2 and 3 of Group I, with lunging forward, sideward and backward. Ex. 4—As in Group I.

GROUP in.

Repeat exercises of Group II and add trunk movement forward, sideward and backward.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 707

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

THE SANITATION OF SWIMMING POOLS.

The instinctive desire for cleanliness, says Lotze, marks the beginnings of culture; at any rate it indicates a fortunate tendency in that direction. Filth is unendurable in the eyes of those civilized peoples alone who prize in the case of their bodies the same degree of purity which they impart to their enterprises and their personal environment. The care of the skin through the installation of public baths is by no means a modern procedure. Ancient Rome abounded in them, and their maintenance became an important problem of the state. The baths of Diocletian accommodated hundreds. Wherever Roman civilization proceeded it was attended by a respect for personal cleanliness. Today the home of the ordinary citizen affords abundant opportunity to enjoy the advantages of the bath not only as a means of cleansing the body but also as a tonic and the promoter of a healthy skin—“the best undergarment ever invented.” For the less opulent among our people the institution of public baths is coming to be looked on almost as a necessity rather than a luxury. Indeed, with many the bath is included with the other recognized factors for maintaining perfect health and vigor, namely, an abundance of food, fresh air, and muscular work or bodily exercise.

At first thought it may seem like an incon°ruitv to sneak of the hygienic dangers lurking in an institution so hygienically approved as is the public bath. It requires little consideration on the part of the trained sanitarian, however, to discover the evidences of possible shortcomings. The growing popularity of swimming pools, for example, has lead to an increased interest in the sanitarv conditions which prevail in them. There is no longer anv doubt that thev can actually transmit disease. When, therefore, the use of swimming pools is made compulsorv, as it is in the case of pupils of secondary schools in some parts of the country, a serious duty of sanitary supervision and responsibility arises.

The diseases commonly communicable from swimming pools have been classed as (i) intestinal, (2) eye and ear. and (3) venereal.1 Most important are those which affect the intestinal canal. Typhoid fever and diarrheal conditions have been traced on reasonably reliable evidence to swimming pools such as one finds installed today by private individuals, colleges and universities, secondary and elementary schools, gymnasiums, clubs, steamships, and special bath-

1. Atkin: Proc. Illinois Water Supply Assn., 1911? iii, 73.

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 708 —

ing establishments. The examination of the swimming-pool water for colon bacilli as an index of pollution, therefore, becomes as logical a method of control as it is in the case of drinking water.

Tlie conditions actually prevailing in respect to the sanitary management of a large variety of swimming pools in the city of New York l ave been investigated by Manheimer2 in the bacteriologic laboratories at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University. From this report it appears that the collegiate pools in New York are in very good condition, as a result of the careful supervision by the authorities in charge, the knowledge of sanitation possessed by its patrons, and because of the enforcement of the sanitary regulations by swimming teachers. The bacteriologic condition of the water in one collegiate pool closely approximated that of drinking water, which is the standard that has been urged for all swimming pools. Such hygienic perfection is accomplished in part by suitable administration of the plant, including the supervision of the working force, the inspection and ablution of the bathers before they enter the water, and their instruction in pool sanitation. To these agencies for keeping the bacterial count low, other procedures are added. The source of the water should be pure. Frequent refilling and dilution are efficient, though expensive. Refiltration of pool water is another useful and economical scheme; and it is particularly efficient when combined with the most efficient of all agencies, the chemical disinfection of the water.

The pools open to the public with no admission fee and no restriction are attended generally bv a fairly good class of people and are elaborately equipped and generously operated. The authorities, however, merely open them and try to keep them clean. Manheimer contends that because of their large and promiscuous attendance, faulty technic and improper organization, they are possible sources for the spread of disease. A reorganization of the plants and the introduction of all the sanitary procedures already referred to would greatly improve them. Association pools, which secure a higher and cleaner class of patrons than the public pools, because they charge an admission fee, show a varying sanitary condition depending on the attendance, preliminary baths taken by the bathers, the extent of chemical disinfection, etc. The examination of the free floating baths stationed during the summer at docks in New York City as far away from sever outlets as possible showed a sanitary condition so bad as to warrant their abolition or immediate remodeling.

It is obvious, therefore, that public baths, pools and plunges, wherever they are located, should be under the supervision of competent sanitarians. The investigations of Manheimer have elucidat-

2. Manheimer, W. A.: Studies on the Sanitation of Swimming Pools, Jour. Infect. Dis., 1914, xv, 159.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 709 —

ed the factors which contribute to the good and bad features of the swimming pool. Aside from the ideals of construction, equipment, water source and supply and personal hygiene to be aimed at, it should be noted that refiltration is an efficient and economical method of keeping water clear during protracted use. Above all, however, chemical disinfection, as with calcium hypochlorite used in suitable amounts, has actually been shown to be efficient for the disinfection of swimming-pool water. Its application to the water, in conjunction with refiltration, is urged as an efifective method of pool sanitation.

Norsk Magagin for Laegevidenskaben, Christiania, January, LXXVI, No. i, pp. 1-144: Injury from Competitive Athletics; Seven Cases. (Varig skade paa helbreden forvoldt ved idraetsovelse.) P. Torgersen.

Torgersen comments on his experience that patients seldom or never connect any morbid manifestations later in life with athletic strain during their younger days, and the physician rarely inquires in regard to such antecedents. This is his explanation of the scanty literature in the Scandinavian countries on permanent injury from over-strenuous exercise. In the previously healthy the injury soon rights itself, as a rule, but that this is not always the case he shows by seven instances which he cites from a much larger experience, and is convinced that if physicians will bear this possibility in mind, many more such cases will be encountered.

He emphasizes anew the imperative importance of medical control of gymnasium work and athletic sports in general, and urges that physicians should train themselves for this task so that sports and athletics may do the greatest good to the greatest number without danger of overstrain. In the first of the cases cited a previously healhy youth of 16 in training for a rowing race collapsed in a neurasthenic condition just before the race. The neurasthenia lasted for some time and ten years later he developed a psychosis. It is possible that medical control of the “training” might have spared the nervous system all this derangement. Another exceptionally strong and robust man of 20 after one week of training took part in a rowing match and was exhausted at the close, pale, trembling and vomiting, and for years afterward complained of recurring pains in the heart region and difficulty in breathing even after slight exertion. The trainer was a good executive and instructor but he lacked the fundamental knowledge of physiology which would have prevented his consenting to a man’s entering the race with only one week’s training. In some of the other cases also the training was crowded into a few days and the man afterward proved unfit for military service; one developed chronic neurasthenia, blasting his career. Another young man after a good course of training had slight tonsillitis the morning of the big race, but felt well, and temperature and

' gitized by c.ooQle
— 710 —

pulse were normal. He collapsed within 300 feet of the goal with signs of heart weakness and during the years since then he often complains of shortness of breath and a sensation of oppression. Valvular disease developed in three others after training for ski work or for all-round athletics; one student of 20 collapsed during a race, the others collapsed while keeping up vigorous gymnasium exercise and working at a fatiguing business during the day.

One Minute Biographs.—The subject of to-day's sketch is claimed equally by chemistry, biology, medicine, industry, agriculture and economics, and all are deeply indebted to him for substantial scientific contributions. Chemistry is his debtor for throwing a flood of light on the nature of isomerism, and thereby laying a secure foundation for our present conceptions of structural chemistry. Biology is his debtor for effectively disposing of the theory of spontaneous generation and for demonstrating fermentation as a vital phenomenon. Medicine is his debtor for establishing the relation of bacteria to disease, and for fundamental contributions to the science and practice of immunity. Agriculture is his debtor for his brilliant work in devising a protective vaccine against anthrax, a dread scourge of cattle and sheep. Industry is his debtor for epoch-making discoveries in fermentation which provided a sorely needed scientific foundation for the wine industry, and for his work in discovering the cause of the silkworm blight whose control saved the silk industry in France from destruction. Economics is his debtor for the knowledge which made possible the introduction of canned foods, a step which has wrought profound economic changes throughout the world. With all the world so largely his debtor, let us re: vere the name of Louis Pasteur, benefactor of mankind.—Weekly Bull. Dept. Health, New York City.

BOOK REVIEW.

Ten Sex Talks to Girls, 14 years and older, by Irving David Steinhardt, M. D. Published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia. 193 pages 5 by jYi inches; 6 illustrations. Price $1.00 net.

In speaking of this book Rachelle S. Yarros, M. D., Chairman of Social Hygiene of General Federation of Women’s Clubs says: “In heartily recommending this book to young people for its sincerity, simplicity, directness, as well as its scientific accuracy, I take the opportunity afforded me by the publishers to present a short statement of my reasons why girls should be deeply interested in these talks on sex hygiene. No one who stops to think will fail to see that it is radically wrong to remain ignorant on matters that concern us vitally and involve our physical and moral development. The idea

Digitized by C,ooQle
— 711 —

that ignorance is essential to innocence is happily being exploded, and we physicians are in a better position than the laity to speak of the wreckage and disaster that result from ignorance and neglect of proper instruction on sex hygiene.” We feel, however, that there will be a division of opinion on the propriety of several of the illustrations used in the book.

Una Mary, by Una Hunt. Published by Charles Scribners Sons, New York. 268 pages 5^ by 7^ inches. Price $1.25 net.

The success of every teacher depends upon his ability to understand the child, and then to adapt his educational procedures to the needs of the child. Few books have been written which give one as deep an insight into the inner self of a girl as does Una Mary. It is highly recommended to all teachers—and parents—who wish to understand the mental unfolding of a girl.

Profitable Vocations for Boys, by E. W. Weaver, Pd. M. and J. Frank Byler, Ph. D.; 282 pages 5 by 7 inches. Published by the A. S. Barnes Company, New York. Price $1.00 net. A survey of 34 occupations and the chances they offer to a boy for profitable employment.

Rational Athletics for Boys, by Frederick J. Reilly, Principal Public School 33, New York City; 125 pages, 4^ by 6>2 inches. Published by D. C. Heath Company, Boston. Price 90 cents.

In this little handbook Mr. Reilly shows how he conducts the athletics in his large school so that 80 per cent of the boys really take part. The scheme consists in having every boy take part in a group of activities consisting of chinning, broad jumping, hop, step and jump, shot put, a combination dip, trunk raising and breathing. There are minimum requirements, and based upon these a system of points has been devised. Teachers who do not know how to conduct such grouped activities are strongly advised to get the book.

Folk Dances of Finland, collected and described by Elizabeth Burchenal; 87 pages, by 12 inches. Published by G. Schirmer, New York. Price, in paper $1.50, in cloth binding $2.50 net.

In each book Miss Burchenal has given us the folk dances of the northern people. The descriptions are clear and easily understood by anyone acquainted with folk dancing. The music accompanies each dance.

Ambidexterity and Mental Culture, by H. MacNaughton Jones; 102 pages, 4J4 by 6l/> inches. Published bv Rebman Company, Herald Square Building, New York. Price 75 cents. The booklet is an exposition of the advantages gained from bi-manual training.

Digitized by
CHICAGO SCHOOL tion and Expression FOR WOM

SSESSIOIT: X-aja.e 2© to .^cigrujst 1, 133.5 Swedish Gymnastics, Aesthetic and Folk Dancing, Games, Theory Work

SPECIAL LECTURES

Two year Normal course gives thorough and practical training in all branches Fall term opens September 16, 1015.	For catalog: address

Mrs. Robert L. Parsons, 430 So. Wabash Ave., CHICAGO, ILL.

Statement of the Ownership, Management, Circulation, Etc.

of the “MIND AND BODY”, published monthly, at Milwaukee, Wis., required bv the Act of August 24*, 1912.

NAME.	POST-OFFICE	ADDRESS.

Editor, William A. Stecher, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Easiness Manager,

Theo. Fritz, Publisher,	Milwaukee, Wis.
Freidenker Publishing Co.,	Milwaukee, Wis
OWNERS:	
Theo. Fritz	Milwaukee, Wis.
Carl Doerflinger Estate	Milwaukee, Wis.
Emily Schroeter	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. M. Boppe-Podrasnik,	Upland. Calif.
Hy. Harnischfeger	Milwaukee, Wis.
G. Bossert	Milwaukee, Wis.
Chr. Preusser, deceased	Milwaukee, Wis.
Carl F. Ringer	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. E. H. Neymann	New York City.
C. Vonnegut	Indianapolis, Ind.
Ch. Spiehr	Sauk City, Wis.
Otto Bodemer	Unknown.
Stephan Marx	Detroit, Mich.
A. Walther	New York City.
F. Hemker	West Salem, Wis.
H. Sander	West Salem, Wis.
A. Scheffer	Unknown.
D. Sandmann	Unknown.
Mrs. M. Joerger	Santa Clara, Calif
E. Edelheim	Unknown.
S. R. Urbino	Unknown.
Mrs. Wm. Frankfurt	Milwaukee, Wis.
Mrs. Karl F. Heinzen	Boston, Mass.
Mrs. D. Prang	Boston, Mass.
Dr. R. C. Teschan	Milwaukee, Wis.

Known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders, holding 1 per cent, or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or othei securities:

Magd. Boppe-Podrasnik,	Upland, Calif.

Mary Harnischfeger,	Milwaukee, Wis.

THEO. FRITZ, Seer, and Treas. Sworn to and subscribed before me this 1st day of April, 1915

Martin L. D. Bunge, Notary Public.

, (SEAL)	County	Milwaukee, State of Wisconsin.

Digitized by Google