” ; LIBRARY University of Montana.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 2S	MARCH 1920	No.	2M

MOM By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ula, Miaa.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE VM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.,

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, PUL, Pa.

MMtosial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phils. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ubn, Minnesota.

Ertitrcd <u ttccmd-datt matter October 14,1916, at tAc poatoffict at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Ac o' March 8, 1879.

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

THE POSTURAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE PUBESCENT AND ADOLESCENT AGES.

By Emil S. Gollubier B. S., Chicago Hebrew Institute, and Morris Berk, Sinai Social Center, Chicago.

Children are thought to be the same as adults in development. This notion, however, is wrong for they are not, except in general ways, alike. Only in the very lowest forms of animal life are they the same. People have the habit of looking upon the child as a man, small, and upon a man as a strengthened child. As a matter of fact, it is hard to find many similar factors beyond the most fundamental laws in which the infant and the adult exactly resemble each other. To say that a child is a small man is just as wrong as to say that the bony skeleton is the foundationjand the framework upon which are laid the softer parts which it ultimately supports. If we multiply the proportions of the infant,}we will have a being whose large head and dwarfed lower face, whose short arms and legs give a grotesque appearance.

The bones which make up the skeleton are divided into four classes, long, short, flat, and irregular. The bones are first laid down in cartilages, a substance made up of many cells, which differs from bones in that it lacks the salts. Bones are continually changing and show material differences between their infantile and adult

Digitized by Google
484

conditions. Bone may be regarded as composed of (l)'an internal, thick cylinder of vascular medulla; (2) an external hollow, thin, cylindrical sheath of vascular periostium, completed at each end by a plate of articular cartilage; (3) of a fine, regular, long-meshed vascular network which connects the sides of the medullary cylinders with the periosteal sheath of the shaft; (4) of a coarse, irregular vascular network occupying at each end the space between the medullary cylinder and the plate of articular cartilage, and connected with the periostium of the lateral parts of the articular end; (5) of the hard, perfect osseous tissue which fills the meshes of these two networks. Such is the general structure of all bones with cartilaginous ends but which are simply cancellated in the interior. In some very small bones even the caucelli are wanting and there are many bones which have no connection with cartilage.atlall.

Analysis of the Tibia.

2 Mob. 9 Mos. 8 Yrs. 19 Yrs. 25 Yrs

Phosphate cf Calcium .............. 67.54	49.66	69.74	64.84	57.18

Carbonate of Calcium ............... 6.02	6.79	6.00	10.82	8.95

Phosphate of Magnesium ............. 1.03	1.00	1.84	1.26	1.7

Chloride of Sodium.................. 0.73	1.24	0.63	0.76	.6

Cartilaginous Substance........... 33.861	41.6	31.34	31.37	29.54

Patty Matter ....................... 0.82	1.92	. 96	. 92	1.84

Organic Matter..................... 34.68	43.42	32.29	32.29	31.86

Inorganic Matter........................... 65.82	66.36	67.71	67.71	68.42

The bones of a strong, active, muscular man are thicker and heavier than those of a fat and flabby or weak and anaemic individual. The ridges, crests and spines are more prominent in the former than in the latter.

If the shaft of a bone is broken across it will be found to contain a spacious medullary cavity filled by a reddish, highly vascular mass of connective tissue, abounding in fat cells, called the medulla or marrow, and a longitudinal section shows that this medullary cavity extends through the shaft but in the articular ends becomes subdivided by bony partitions and breaks up into smaller cavities like aeolae of connective tissue. These cavities are termed cancelli and the ends of the bone are said to have a cancellated structure.

The walls of the medullary in the shaft are very dense and exhibit no cancelli and appear at first to be solid throughout. The long dimensions of the meshes lie parallel with the axis of the shaft. These are haverisian canals. At one part of the shaft there is a larger canal through which the vessels which supply the medulla pass. This is the so-called nutritive foramen of the bone.

The following regions are equal in length, while in man they bear the relation of two to three. In later childhood the lumbar part grows more rapidly than the cervical until a short time after puberty when the adult proportions begin to be seen. The coccyx is late in its development for it does not begin to ossify until puberty and then slowly progresses; as a result, the third piece is not hard

Digitized by v^ooQle
486

until after the sixteenth year and the fourth piece until after the eighteenth year.

The pectoral arch or girdle consists on each side of a collar bone clovich and a shoulder blade or scapular. The scapula is a flat triangular bone lying on the back of the chest outside the ribs. The caracoid process joins the body of the scapula and epyphyses appear from fourteen to sixteen years, coalesce and join the spine six or seven years later. This caracoid process assists the clavicle in rotating the arms outward farther from the trunk and in giving them greater freedom of motion. The clavicle is a slender curved bone like an italic / in form. Its outer end is attached to the scapula and its inner end to the top of the sternum. It is horizontal in the very young and inclined upward in adults. The epiphipes of the clavicle appear about the eighteenth year and join the shaft about the twenty-fifth year.

The ribs are twenty-four in number, twelve on each side. They are slender, curved bones which embrace the side of the chest and are attached at the dorsal end to the dorsal vertibrae. The ribs are less cooped, less oblique and flatter in early life than they are in adult age. After puberty two small epiphyses appear, both in the head and tubercle of the ribs and join the main bone by the twenty-fifth year. The ribs are united at the front to the sternum. The sternum is placed higher in the infant than in the adult and it is relatively much smaller, especially those of males. The sternum ossifies progressively, beginning with the complete union of the third and fourth members of the body, leaving the cartilage below the maniburm to be ossified soon after puberty.

During the whole course of growth there are the constant factors of variation. An example of this is the method of development which may be seen in the long bones. In the bones of the forearm and upper arms the ends removed from the elbow show more growth than those which form the joint, while in the lower extremities those parts removed from the knee grow least. The epiphyses of the humerus join the shaft at about twenty. The superior epiphyses of the tibia join the shaft at seventeen or eighteen and the inferior epiphyses at eighteen. The metacarpal bones and phlange have epiphyses which join about twenty. At birth the foot is oblique so that only the outer edge touches the floor; it is drawn up from its angular position so that the heel would first touch, and is very flat.

The statures of children of both sexes up to about twelve years of age seems to be about equal. At twleve years, there is a sudden change and we find that the stature of the girls exceeds that of boys by nearly two inches. The ratio of growth is not sustained, the girls dropping back to the normal annual rate of increase in the next year while the boys in their turn shoot rapidly up, with the result that at fourteen they are again taller. By eighteen girls as a rule seem to have completed their development so far as concerns increase in stature, but boys continue to grow for some years, perhaps ten or fifteen years longer. Throughout the whole period of growth, the trunk grows more rapidly in proportion to stature among girls

Digitized by v^ooQle
436

than among boys. At all times, the head and trunk make up fifty per cent of the stature.

The parts of the body do not grow in equal ratio. If it did, we would have an enormous head, legs, arms too short, body too thick and trunk too long. It may be interesting to note that the skeleton increases twenty-six fold from birth to maturity. Not only do different parts reach their maximal size at different ages but some continue to grow well into old age. Each organ seems to have its youth, maturity and old age and these a tot coi cide with each other. Moon concludes that at fifteen the limbs are relatively longer in proportion to the body than those of an adult or of a boy of eleven years. The legs tend to grow more rapidly during early youth but afterwards increase more slowly; while the sitting height increases more rapidly. Women appear to be relatively longer in body and shorter in legs than men.

Dr. West derived from the measurements of 3,250 Worcester school children that girls’ sitting height began to rise rapidly at twelve, before which age it 1 ad been very slight, and rose for two years. Porter concluded from measurements of 33,500 children that the sitting height in girls attained its fastest rate of growth at thirteen and in boys at fifteen.

Up to twelve years in girls and to the fifteenth year in boys, a large part of the growth in statue is made up in the lower limbs, while after these ages it is made up largely in the trunk. During the period from five to eighteen the limbs of boys grow more rapidly than the trunk while with girls, the period of comparative growth is divided about equally between the extremities ana the trunk. The trunk is longer in girls than in boys except from seven to ten years while after thirteen years, girls' bodies are still longer. The greatest length of the lower limbs is attained in both sexes from thirteen to sixteen years and thereafter the body gains slightly in the limbs.

In bone girths at the instep, elbow, and wrist, boys from thirteen to sixteen exceed girls. The length of the upper arm of girls from thirteen to sixteen is one-fifth of an inch less than that of boys while the forearm and hand is three-fifths of an inch shorter. In length from shoulder to elbow, the rate of growth appears to increase after the age of twelve while in length from elbow to tip there is little variation till the age of fourteen when growth is relatively quickened. In the legs the femur has the greatest growth both relatively and absolutely. The epiphyses join the shaft in the inverse order of their appearance. The small trachanter joins at seventeen, the great at eighteen, the head at nineteen, and those of the lower extremity are solidified at twenty. In the tibia, the lower epiphyses join the shaft at eighteen or nineteen and the upper about three years later. In the fibula the same process takes place at the lower and later at the upper end of the shaft, but two or three years after the corresponding processes in the tibia. The cartilage of the patella is fully ossified only at puberty. The growth in the height of the knee is retarded from eleven to sixteen while the length of the body was increasing.

—

Google -
Landsberger found that from six to twelve the length of the leg increased from sixty to eighty and six-tenths centimeters. The mean girth of the knee is the same in both sexes but the girth of the calf is two-thirds of an inch greater in girls. From fourteen to eighteen joint girth increased faster than bone lengths. From ten to sixteen boys have the advantage of girls in length of foot by one-half of an inch and in the stretch of arms by two inches.

There is little increase in the chest circumference from ten to twelve, then a development reaching maximum rate at fifteen but continuing to nineteen. Porter found chest girths nearly equal from thirteen on for two or three years but that boys excelled girls at all years in chest expansion.

Sargent found that the girth of the hips from thirteen to sixteen is one and three-quarter inches larger in girls than in boys and that they were two inches larger in the girth of the thighs. The pelvic region in females undergoes important pubertal changes.

The bones of children are tougher, more pliable and not so easily broken. The bones of a young child are tolerably flexible and are capable of being distorted by a long continued severe strain. The body is built and operates according to definite laws and discord of the normal physiology can be traced to some disobedience of these laws.

The physiological curves are formed early. As soon as the body assumes an upright position the curves shape themselves. When a child begins to walk the general direction of the infantile spine is changed and the three normal forward and backward curves soon develop. These curves give elasticity in walking but in a position of rest these curves are kept in a normal position by the antagonistic muscles. Any deviation from the normal position will cause a strain in the muscles, the curve will yield, and a defect in the posture is the result. Many postural defects, though thought little of at first have developed into gross deformities and disease through negligence and improper care. It is an actual fact that consumption and other dangerous ailments can be traced directly to spinal trouble.

Faulty attitudes are divided into: (1) round back, showing a general curve backward with little lordosis; (2) round hollow back, with backward projection greatest in the mid-dorsal region and with pronounced lordosis; (3) forward displacement of the shoulders, the scapulae and clavicles being displaced independently of the condition of the spine.

During the years of growth posture will usually take care of itself if constant change be allowed, for change is instructive and automatic in the child and his various activities may be trusted to lead him along normal lines.

Investigations of Julius Wolff have shown that the bone adapts itself to any change in the pulling and pressing forces in such a way that the greatest possible firmess is obtained with the least amount of bony material. Wolff’s law: “Every change in the formation and function of the bones, or their function alone, is followed by certain definite changes in their internal architecture and equally
438

definite secondary alteration of their external confirmation in accordance with mathematical laws.”

If from inherent weakness or confinement of school life without the relief of games and play this normal development be hindered, and spine is one of the first parts of the anatomy to reveal it. Two parts of the body are most liable to curvature, the lower extremities and the spine, with the chest and pelvis. The lower extremities suffer so easily from curvature because the whole weight of the trunk and head rest on them.

Some will say the child will outgrow these postural defects, but the child will not outgrow them for the following reason. As a child approaches puberty, that critical change from childhood to young manhood or womanhood, the entire system undergoes a readjustment and many defects have a tendency to come to the surface. It is during this time and during the following years of adolescence that a common well-known affliction develops.

The spine is the chief support of the body and when anything is wrong with it, the whole physical organism is affected. When the spine weakens the shoulders become stooped, the chest is contracted and all the vital organs drop from their normal position. The most frequent of all defects is that in which the weight is habitually borne on the right leg, the left being inactive and placed out to the side.

Round shoulders is thought to be caused by laziness or carelessness but in most cases, it is caused by a real weakness of the body. The weakness is not in the shoulders and the stoop is the result of the weakness. The stoop originates in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions of the spine. There is a backward tendency, a posterior curve instead of the graceful inward curve at the waist line. This is the cause of the major portion of round shoulders. The backward curve takes away the brace of the spinal column that is so essential in maintaining an erect position. Round shoulders causes a squeezing of the contents of the abdomen, flattens the chest and depresses the lungs. It is difficult for the individual to sit up straight; and the normal physiological curves of the spine are not apparent.

The cause of round shoulders are those conditions that produce muscular or constitutional weakness like rapid growth, overwork, bad air in schools or homes, acute illness, poor hygiene at home, or general lack of exercise, and secondly, occupations that demand long continued flexion during the growth period, in fact, the requirement of any fixed position for more than a few moments at a time in a young child. A third and more direct cause is the wearing of clothing supported by suspenders bearing on the points of the shoulders, tending to pull them downward and forward.

The lessening of natural movements by school limitation during the years of growth is harmful, not only because muscular exercise is decreased, but also because nervous tension and strain should be repeatedly relaxed by periods of exercise for the purpose of correcting physical faults and deformities formed by the sitting posture. In schoolrooms the desks should not be too low because this is the cause of round shoulders, the drooping heads and the flat chests.

Digitized by
489

4	The relation of the seat to the desk height should be such as to permit the elbows to rest on the desk without stooping forward or unduly raising the shoulders. A perfect fitting seat and desk can guarantee only that the child shall be in the correct sitting position occasionally throughout the day, for, however well the desks may fit, pupils rapidly slump unless study periods are repeatedly interrupted by opportunities for exercise. To relieve this strain of the back and shoulder muscles the pupil changes to a pose, resting the entire weight of the trunk on the shoulder blades and lower end of the spine. The back sags down in a single long curve, the chest contracts, breathing is impeded and the circulation is made sluggish. This position stretches the muscles and ligaments of the spine, rounds the back and shoulders and pushes forward the chin.

The correct sitting position is one in which the pupil sits erect, the pelvis resting on the seat, with the arms beside the hips and the head poised so as to bring the center of gravity within the line joining the Ischial Tuberpitus. This posture is economic in muscular energy and most conducive to correct carriage, but the demands of school life do not permit the pupil to keep it long.

Reading, writing and drawing are exercises that require deviations from the ideal, and if we add to these requirements illfitting desks and long periods of sitting in which bad postures become habitual, the mischievous result cannot long be in doubt.

The school day in higher grades has definite periods of exercise and during this time the teacher can show the pupils the correct standing posture. One of the worst phases in the formation of any faulty posture is that the child becomes accustomed to the altered muscle sense. Readjustments take place by which the position of comfort is one of incorrect attitude and it soon becomes impossible to form proper co-ordination or produce the correct posture.

Posture means to the individual, both subjectively and objectively, poise, power, efficiency, service. Good posture means mental and physical uplift, while conversely, bad posture stands for more or less mental and physical relaxation and depression, resulting in decrease of efficiency. It is significant to notice the change of facial expression from one of relaxation to one of energy and alertness, before and after a faulty posture has been corrected.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Huxley—Elementary Lessons in Physiology.

Buchbltz—Therapeutic Exercises and Massage.

Hough & Sedgewick—Human Mechanism.

Openheim—Development of the Child.

F.	C. E. Schneider—Those Little Postural Defects, Mind and Body.

R. Tait McKenzie—Exercise in Education and Medicine.

Uffelman—Domestic Hygiene of Child.

Educational Review—12:284-289-1896.

G.	Stanley Hall—Adolescence.

Lillian Drew—Posture as Influenced by Environment, Physical Education Review*

Digitized by
440

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR ORTHOGENIC CLASSES. *

By WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia.

Physical Training Lessons for the Middle Grade.

Most of the physical training material of the lower grade is usable for this grade. The teacher should be thoroughly familiar with this. In the middle grade the teacher, however, can get better results physically, mentally and socially. Pupils in the middle grade should be expected to keep step when marching.

First Term.—September to February.

Lesson 1.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

Arrange the class as outlined in Lesson 1 of the lower grade. In this grade the pupils, however, should not be placed on marks, but should open their ranks by stepping sideward from the center, and by gradually raising the arms sideward until full distance is established. Later it may be possible to open the ranks by taking three side steps in six counts.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward.

Count 1, 2, 3, 4.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise the chest upward - 1; lower

-2.

b. Hands on hips-place. Bend trunk fore-downward - 1; straighten - 2.

4.	Hands on hips - place. Raise left leg forward - 1; lower - 2. The same exercise right.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	One step forward - march.

2.	Two steps forward - march (in three counts).

Repeat with clapping hands on the first count.

3.	Arms forward - raise. Arms upward - raise.

Hands on hips - place. Hands - lower.

These movements are to be taken only upon command. A sharp snappy execution is to be striven for.

Part 3: Aim: Social Development, Quick Reaction, Alertness.

Arrange the pupils in a circle and play the game - Cat and Mouse. After the pupils have played the game several times increase the difficulty by having two cats to one mouse. After several lessons select one of the events mentioned on page 23.

Lesson 2.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

Arrange the class and open the ranks as indicated in Lesson 1.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	a Hands on hips - place. Raise chest upward - 1; lower - 2. b. Hands on shoulders - place. Bend trunk left - 1; straighten

- 2. The same exercise right.

* Continued from January.

Digitized by Google
441

c. Hands on hips-place. Bend trank fore-downward - 1; return - 2.

4. Hands on shoulders - place. Raise left leg sideward - 1; return - 2. The same exercise right.

Review the exercises of Lesson 1.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

These movements or positions are to be taken only upon command.

1.	One step left sideward - march. One step right sideward

-march.

2.	Mark time-march.

Repeat, clapping hands on the first of every four steps.

3.	One step forward - march. One step left sideward - march. Repeat, clapping hands on the first count.

3.	Arms forward - raise. Arms sideward - move. Arms lower.

Repeat with hand clapping, e. g., with clapping hands, arms forward raise, etc.

Part 3. Aim: Quick Reaction, Skill, Co-operation.

Track Event. A Running Race.

Arrange the pupils in two teams. Have one team on each side of the yard. Measure off a definite distance, say 20 yards, and tell the pupils that you want to see which team has most winners in a twenty yard race. Place one runner from each team on the scratch line. You as teacher, stand at the finish line. Now command: “Get ready - run.” Credit the winning side with one point, and then continue until all have had a chance to run. Announce the winning team. Let them lead the march back to the room.

At another lesson have a hopping race. This is a much greater physical strain. The race, therefore, should be short, say about 5 yards.

Pupils in this grade should be able to run a “Potato Race” as a team race. A Potato Race is run as follows:

o o o o

o o o o

The first player toes the “scratch line.” In front of this scratch line are four small circles about one yard apart, the first being about three yards from the scratch line, see diagram. On the scratch line are four bags (or erasers, potatoes, pieces of wood) for each team. Upon the command: “Get ready-run” the player on each team

!ricks up one bean bag, runs forward and places it in any one of the our circles. He then runs back, picks up a second bag, and places this in another circle, this is repeated until the four bags are m the circles. Who crosses the line first after the four bags are placed

Digitized by v^ooQle
442

wins. The bags are collected by the next players in a reversed procedure, or they can first be collected and again placed as described above. At the close of the race announce the winning team.

Lesson 3.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

Arrange the class in open order as indicated in Lesson 1.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward.

2.	Arms for Running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale - 1; lower arms side-down-

ward and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise the chest upward - 1; lower

-2.

b.	Raise the chest and hands on hips - place. Straighten arms upward - 1; replace hands - 2.

c.	Hands on hips - place.Bend trunk fore-downward - 1; return - 2. Review the trunk exercises of the preceding lessons.

5.	Hands behind neck - place. Raise left leg backward - 1; lower

- 2. The same exercise right.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	Quarter turns left and right. Firet call attention to the left side, the left hands of the pupils. Then command: Left - face. Repeat this several times, then perform, Right - face, several times.

2.	Facing while marching in place. Command: “In four steps, left - face” The pupils mark time three steps during which they gradually perform a quarter turn left, and dose with the fourth count. “In four steps, right - face.”

3.	Arms forward - raise; upward - raise; sideward - lower; hands on hips - place; arms - lower.

Later combine these movements with hand clapping.

Part 3. Aim: Skill, Courage, Co-operation.

Long Jump Rope.—The teacher swings the rope in a circle headward. The pupils singly run through the rope at will. Later they are to run through at every fourth swing. After they are able to run through singly form the pupils in pairs, and have the pairs run through at every fourth swing.

Game. Blackman.

Place all the pupils in this game at one end of the yard. Select one of the brighter pupils as the Blackman. This blackman is stationed at the other end of the uard. Tell the pupils that when the blackman advances toward them and claps his hands three times, they are to run over to the side just vacated by the blackman. Tell them that who is tagged by the blackman is caught and must help this player tag the others. Thereupon start the game. In all probability at least one of those who ran through was tagged. This will put two players opposite to the rest. The game then is resumed by the blackman dapping his hands. The game continues until au are tagged. Who is tagged last has the honor to start the new game. Blackman is a splendid cold weather game. After several lessons take up one of the events mentioned on page 448.

Digitized by i^ooQle
us

Lesson 4.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward

-	begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms side-upward and inhale - 1; lower arms side-down-

ward and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Hands on shoulders - place. Turn trunk left -1; return

-	2. The same exercise right.

b. Turn trunk left and hands on hips - place. Straighten arms sideward, palms up -1; return - 2.

The same arm exercise when the trunk is turned right.

Review the trunk exercises of the preceding lessons.

5.	a. Arms sideward - raise. Rise on toes - 1; lower heels - 2. b. Hands on hips - place. Bend the knees - 1; straighten - 2.

Allow no stooping in this exercise. The trunk must be upright. Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

Arrange the class in a column of fours.

1.	Marching, halting upon command. Forward - march. After the class has taken from eight to ten steps, command: Halt. Repeat this several times, gradually decreasing the number of steps before halting.

2.	Left - face. With clapping hands, left - face. Perform also to the right.

3.	Arms fore-upward - raise. Hands on hips - place.

Trunk fore-downward - bend. Position.

Part 3. Aim: Co-operation, Quick Reaction. Arrange the class in a circle and play “The Muffin Man.” Words and music are to be learned in the classroom.

“Oh, do you know the muffin man,

The muffin man, the muffin man.

Oh, do you know the muffin man,

That lives in Drury Lane?”

The class is in a front circle formation, neighbors’ hands grasped. One of the pupils enters the circle and, while singing the following words, takes four skipping steps forward and backward in front of one of the players:

1.	"Oh,	do	you	know	the	muffin	man,

The muffin man, the muffin man,

Oh, do you know the muffin man,

That lives in Drury Lane?”

2.	The other players answer while jumping in place, with hands on hips: "Oh, yes, I know the muffin man,” etc.

The one addressed and the one in the center then take hands, and while skipping around the inside of the circle, sing: “Now, two of us know the muffin man,” etc.

The play is then continued by these two players repeating 1 in front of two others.

Then the four sing while skipping around in the center: “Now four of us know the muffin man,” etc.

Digitized by LjOOQle
444

When all the players have partners, they skip in a circle and sing:

“Now, all of us know the muffin man.

The muffin man, the muffin man,

Now, all of us know the muffin man.

That lives in Drury Lane.”

A Game. Two Deep.

Arrange the players in a large circle. Now select one pair as a runner and a catcher. The runner runs around the outside of the circle and places himself in front of a player, thereby forming a rank of two, “two deep.” This must never be. The last one, therefore, runs and places himself in front of some other player, again forming two, etc. In the meantime the catcher is chasing the runner, trying to tag him before he places himself in front of a player. As soon as the runner is tagged he becomes chaser, and the former catcher is the runner. The game then continues. In order to have a splendid game note the following: Do not allow any running through the circle; insist that the players always run around the outside. Do not allow the playing of “partners,” and encourage short runs outside, so as to get quick changes. If some players persist in running around the circle once or oftener, put them in the center of the circle to watch and learn how the game ought to be played.

Second Term. February to July.

Lesson 5.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms	to thrust - bend.	Thrust alternately sideward and upward

-	begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale -1; lower side-downward

and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise the chest upward - 1; lower

-2.

b.	Hands on hips - place. Bend trunk fore-downward and straighten arms downward - 1; return - 2.

c.	Arms sideward - raise. Bend trunk left - 1; return - 2.

The same exercise right.

5.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise left knee forward - 1; lower

-	2. The same exercise right.

b. Hands on shoulders - place. Raise left leg sideward - 1; lower - 2. The same exercise right.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	Facing, and then taking a definite number of steps. Left - face (2 counts) and three steps forward - march (4 counts). The same exercise, but facing right.

2.	Arms forward - raise. Hands on hips - place. Bend trunk fore-downward and arms downward - straighten. Position.
446

Part 3. Aim: Co-ordination. Judgment.

Field Event. Standing Broad Jump.

Divide the pupils in two teams, arranged according to age and sex. Place the teams on opposite sides of the yard. Pupils in this grade should be interested in knowing if they can reach the age-aims outlined for each age. Have the distance each age and sex should jump marked definitely on the ground. Credit each pupil that reaches the age-aim as outlined in the chart on page 36 with one point. When all have jumped announce the winning team.

A Game. Follow the Leader.

Read the description of this game and its variations on page 359, January. The teacher should first lead the class and later should select some good pupil as a leader. This will be a very useful game to fill in a few minutes that otherwise might be of little value.

Lesson 6.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arm	to	thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward

- begin.

2.	Arm for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale -1; lower side-downward

and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise the chest upward - 1; return

-2.

b.	Raise the chest upward and hands on hips - place. Straighten arms upward - 1; return - 2.

c.	Arm fore-upward - raise. Lower trunk forward - 1; re-

turn - 2. See that the arms are kept in line with the trunk.

5.	a. Hands on shoulders - place. Straighten arms upward and

rise on toes - 1; return - 2. b. Hands on hips - place. Bend the knees - 1; return -2. Part 2. Aim:	Prompt	Response.

1.	Taking a definite number of steps and then facing. Three steps forward (4 counts) and left face (2 counts).

The same exercise but facing right.

2.	Bend trunk forward and hands on hips - place. Position.

3.	Bend trunk left sideward and arms sideward - raise. Position. The same exercise right.

Part 3. Aim: Co-operation, Skill, Judgment.

A Game. Ball Relay Overhead.

Arrange the class in two teams, the first player of each team toeing the scratch line. The rest of the players stand behind the first at a distance of about one foot. The object of the game is to relay the ball (a basketball or some other suitable object) from the first to the last player by passing it backward overhead. Upon the command: Go! the first player passes the ball overhead backward into the hands of the second. This player immediately passes it overhead to the third, and so on until the ball reaches the last player

Digitized by LjOOQle
446

on the team. As soon as he has it he quickly runs along the right side of the line, and places himself at me head of the team on the scratch line, and passes the ball backward. This passing backward and running to the head of the team continues until each team member has run. The last runner will be the player who originally stood at the head. Announce the winner.

This game may be played in many ways. For instance, the ball may be passed backward under the legs of the players. In this form of tire game the players must stand farther apart, and they straddle their legs while stooping forward. The ball also may be relayed over and under, that is, it goes overhead from the first player, under the second, over the third, etc.

Another variation is to stand side by side and pass the ball sideward from first to last. In this case the last player runs behind the rank when running toward the head.

Lesson 7.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward

- begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale -1; lower side downward

and exhale - 2.

3.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise the chest upward - 1; return -2.

b.	Arms sideward - raise. Turn trunk left - 1; return - 2.

The same exercise right.

c.	Turn trunk left and hands on shoulders - place. Straighten

arms upward - 1; return - 2.

The same exercise with trunk turned right.

d.	Hands on hips - place. Bend trunk fore-downward - 1; return - 2.

5.	a. Hands on shoulders - place. Rise on toes and straighten arms upward - 1. return - 2. b. Arms sideward - raise. Bend knees - 1; return - 2.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	One step backward - march.

2.	Three steps backward - march (4 counts).

3.	Face left and arms forward - raise (2 counts). Arms - lower. The same exercise facing right.

Face left and hands on hips - place. The same exercise right. Part 3. Aim: Quick Reaction.

A Song Game. "Jolly is the Miller."

Teach the words and the air in the classroom.

“Jolly is the miller who lives by the mill,

The wheel goes ’round with a right good will;

One hand in the hopper and the other in the sack,

The right steps forward and the left steps back.”

This song game may be played by adults and children. The players form a circle composed of couples. When teaching the

Digitized by <^.ooQle
447

Ce to children play at first without the miller (the player who no partner and who is in the center). Starting the game, the players sing and march in a circle. At the words,“The right steps forward and the left steps back”, the children do as indicated. As soon as this changing of partners is well understood add the miller. Now, as change of partners takes place, the miller tries to a partner. If he succeeds, the player left without a partner Dines miller.

A Game. Catch the Wand.

Arrange the class in a front circle.

The leader stands in the center of a circle, formed by the other players, holding a wand upright, his first finger resting on one end of the wand, the other end resting on the floor. At any moment, by raising his finger, he allows the wand to fall to the floor, at the same time calling the name of one of the players, who must quickly rush forward and catch the wand before it touches the floor. If he succeeds in doing so he becomes the leader; if not, the game continues with the same leader until someone catches the wand.

This game may be changed to a team game by having one team compose one half of the circle and the other team the other half. If played as a team game it is wise to alternately place a member of each team in the center. In this form a team gets a point for each time the wand is caught.

Lesson 8.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1. Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and up-

ward -begin.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale -1; lower side downward

and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise the chest upward - 1; re-

turn - 2.

b.	Jump to a side stride position and hands on shoulders place.

Turn trunk left - 1; return - 2; turn trunk right - 3; return - 4.

c.	(Starting position as in b.) Turn trunk left - 1; turn trunk

right - 2. Continue this turning counting from 1 to 8.

5.	a. Arms fore-upward - raise. Bend the knees - 1; return - 2. b. (Same starting position.) Raise the left leg backward - 1; return - 2; Raise the right leg backward - 3; return - 4. Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	One step forward and one step backward - march (4 counts).

2.	One step backward and one step forward - march.

3.	As 1 with clapping hands on the first count, later on the first and third counts.

4.	With clapping hands, arms forward - raise. With clapping hands, arm sideward - move. Arms - lower.

Part 3. Aim: Determination.

A Field Event. Basketball Farthrow.

Divide the pupils in two teams arranged according to age and

Digitized by CjOOQle
448

sex. Points will be given to all who reach their age^requirements in throwing a basketball forward (see page 36, Age Aims Chart.) In this grade it is advisable to let the children know what they are supposed to accomplish in the regular track and field events. This can best be done by posting the events and the aims on the blackboard in the classroom.

Additional Material for the Middle Grade.

a.	Tag games like Hand Tag, Squat Tag, Skip Tag, Pussy Wants a Comer, Third Tag and Run.

b.	Racing, eventually up to 40 yards, and hopping over short distances, say up to 10 yards.

c.	Walking on low balance boards, also walking with added arm and leg movements. Jumping over the low balance boards.

d.	Additional song games found in the regular handbooks.

Tactics. Marching.

Arrange the pupils in a front column composed of ranks of two. Have them march forward through the center of the yard, and then divide, having the first two march to the right, the next two to the left, and so on. The two divisions keep on marching, and when meeting in the center they form fours, and march forward through the center in a column of fours. Later in the year it may be possible to again have the pupils divide (the fours) into twos, march along the sides, and when meeting march through the center by twos.

Games and Contests.

The difficulty of many games and contests may be increased in various ways. A game is made more difficult by increasing either the physical or the mental requirements. Under increased physical requirements usable in ordinary schoolwork, the following may be mentioned:

a.	Increasing the distance to be run,

b.	Increasing the size or the weight of the object to be thrown or caught,

c.	Increasing both distance and weight or size.

d.	Hopping instead of running.

There are, however, also instances where decreasing the size or shape of the thrown object increases the difficulty. For instance, a ball is more difficult to catch than a bean bag; and, within reason, a small ball is more difficult to catch than a large ball.

It can readily be seen that the course of work outlined in these lessons can be made to fit many conditions if the above statements are understood, and if the teacher is capable of modifying the lessons to me*»t the conditions. Before attempting any supplementary work the prescribed lesson however, should be performed in a satisfactory manner.

(To be continued)

Digitized by Google
449

INTERSCHOOL CONTESTS ITHACA PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

By JULIUS KUHNERT, Director Dept. Physical Education, Ithaca, N. Y.

PLAN:—The fundamental idea of inter-school contests is to stimulate interest in gymnastic drills, games and athletics. The program is broad enough to include all phases of the work. Owing to limited equipment and space at each school, the events have been selected so that all schools can compete. There can be no excuse for not running off the month’s events.

Each group of events are scored once a month. A separate schedule for the boys’ and girls’ activities will be described later. Posture, alertness, hygiene and chest expansion are common to both boys and girls.

The height and weight of each child is measured at the beginning of each term. In getting the height of the pupils, an ordinary yard stick is tacked to the wall. As most children are over three feet tall, measure off three feet and then tack the stick to the wall. In this way when measuring the height of the child, it will be the distance on the stick, plus the three feet which have been measured off. When a pupil stands to be measured, his heels, buttox, shoulders and back of head must touch the wall. The head should not be tilted back but he should look out directly in front of him. If there are no scales in the school the pupil can get his weight at a store and report it in pounds.

Every boy and girl in the room from the 4th grade up takes part in the contest except deformed children or pupils temporarily disabled. To find the score for the room, total all points, both boys and girls, and divide by the number of pupils in the room. Everyone should count, except deformed children. This will give the average score and on this basis can be compared with other schools. The score for the entire school is divided in the same way; that is the total score of all the grades is divided by the total number of pupils in the school taking part in the contest. The school having the highest average number of points is declared the winner for that month. There are then, two objects to win: grade championship and school championship.

Every child in the room is supplied with a score card. This applies to deformed children also, tho they do not take part in the events. The entire top of the card should be filled out. The teacher should see that this is correctly done. These cards, after the events for the month have been scored, are returned to the office of the Director of Physical Education. These cards must be in the office not later than the first of each month, or the Friday previous to a vacation.

ORGANIZATION:—At the beginning of each term the teacher divides her class into squads with responsible boys and girls as captains and lieutenants. Not more than ten or twelve are placed in a group or squad. If possible it is best to have two squads of boys and two of girls. During the supervised play period have each group practice a certain event, that is, the ones to be tested at the end of the

Digitized by Google
460

month. It may be possible to have each group practice the two events for the month during one play period or they may spend all the period on one event. Practice should not take place every play period throughout the week and month, but games should also be given. Continual practice will soon make the work distasteful to the children. Keep up interest and enthusiasm in both the contest and the games.

The events having been practiced several times during the month, the captains of each squad test the pupils on these events. This must be closely watched by the teachers. The testing is done during the last week of each month, the records placed on the score card and then the cards returned to the Director by the first of each month. This means all cards, whether or not the child has taken part in the testing. The score card is a part of the child’s belongings and when he is transferred to another school in the city, the card accompanies him. If he leaves the city, note this on card and return with the other cards.

To make the work more interesting in practice, play games with the girls one day and let the boys practice their events during the play period and the next day let the girls practice their events and have the boys play games. Be sure to keep watch of the practice to see that everything is going along properly and that they are doing the work properly.

SCORING:—Posture, alertness and hygiene are scored on a basis of 10 points. The marks are given at any time the teacher sees fit, with or without calling the attention of the pupils to the fact they are being marked. This must naturally be done in the school room. The triple test for posture must be given once a month regardless of the marks received on the score card. Alertness is marked on the way the pupil responds to questions in recitations, the speed and accuracy with which he does the exercise on command and general wideawakeness. Hygiene is marked upon his class work m this subject and his general appearance, cleanliness, neatness, etc.

CHEST EXPANSION:—Practice in this can be had at the close of each setting-up drill period with the deep breathing. This should be made more than a little superficial breathing. The deeper the breath the greater the expansion will be. An ordinary tape measure will answer the purpose for measuring. All air should be forced from the lungs and the chest measured just under the pectoral muscles. The tape should be at right angles to the back. A deep breath should be taken and the chest measured again. The difference between the two will be the chest expansion. Although pupils may be taught to do this they are not accurate and should not be allowed to test the other pupils in this event.

The following are the minimums for chest expansion:

4th grade 5th grade 6th grade 7th grade 11-4”	13-4”	2	1-4”	2	3-4”

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score three points for each half inch better than the minimum.

Digitized by LiOOQle
481

The following is the schedule for the events in the contest. These events should be run off during the last week of the month indicated and either outdoors or indoors as specified. An outdoor event should never be run off indoors and vice vena.

Months	Boys

September & May	25 yard dash

(outdoors)	Hop, Step	& Jump

October & April	2 Standing B. J.

(outdoors)	Running B.	J.

November & February Standing B.	J.

(indoors)	Chinning

December & March Combination dip (indoors)	Potato race

Girls 25 yard dash Standing Broad Jump Basket ball far throw Potato race Hopping Knee raising Indian club race Leg lifting

Owing to the shortness of the school months of January and June, no tests are planned for these months. The supervised play periods must be held regardless of this fact during these months.

BOYS EVENTS.

25 YARD DASH:—Practice starting and short sprinting. Place a starting mark on the ground and then measure off 25 yards and mark the finish. In starting the commands are “on your marks.” The foot is about four to six inches behind starting mark, resting on one knee with hands on the mark but not over. The knee of the opposite leg is placed at the instep of the front foot; “get set.” The weight of the body is thrown forward, the knee is raised slightly. “Go.” A short snap with the back leg pushes the boy off the mark. The start is very important because upon this usually depends the winner of the race. In practice at least five may be on the mark but in testing for the records only one boy should run at a time.

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th grade

7	sec.	6 sec. 5 sec.	4 sec.

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score three points for each second better then the minimum.

HOP, SKIP & JUMP:—Place a take off mark on the ground. The boys toe this mark, standing on one foot; they take a hop, landing on this foot; take a step and land on the opposite foot; take a

i'ump and land on both feet. Measure from the take off to the back leel, if one foot is behind the other, or if he falls back to the point where the body touches the ground, nearest the take off, providing, however, it was done correctly. Although a simple event, it will require considerable practice to become perfect.

MINIMUMS

4th grade 5th grade 6th grade 7th grade 11 ft. 12 ft.	13	ft.	14	ft.

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each six inches better than the minimum.

TWO STANDING BROAD JUMPS:—Similar to the standing

Digitized by Google
452

broad jump which every one knows, except that two jumps are taken, one directly after the other without hesitation any longer between jumps than is necessary to gain balance. (See standing broad jump). Measure from take off to the heel nearest the take off if body falls back, to the point where the body touches the ground nearest the take off.

MINIMUMS

4th grade 5th grade 6th grade 7th grade 8 ft.	8’6”	9’ 0”	9’6”

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each six inches better than the minimum.

RUNNING BROAD JUMP:—A fairly soft landing pit will be needed for the jump. Mark take off distinctly on the ground far enough behind the landing pit so that the smallest jumper will land in the pit. Boys take a nm, striking the take off with either right or left foot and jump into the pit as far as they can go. Stepping over the take off constitutes a foul and counts as a trial. Have the boys practice in their runs until they have the distance fairly well marked off for their run and strike the take off properly each time.

MINIMUMS

4th grade 5th grade 6th grade 7th grade r 6”	8' 0”	8’ 6”	9’

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each six inches better than the minimum.

STANDING BROAD JUMP:—Take off mark is placed on ground or floor. Boys toe mark and jump, measuring from toes to heel nearest the take off, or, if body falls back, to point where body touches floor nearest the take off. This may be practiced as mimetic exercise in the class room. Count 1, raise arms forward, upward overhead raising on toes. Count 2, swing the arms forward, downward and bending the knees slightly. Count 3, bring the arms forward-upward suddenly and spring from the floor with both feet. (Just a slight jump is needed in the class room.)

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th grade

3’ 8”	4’ 2”	4’ 8”	5’ 2”

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each six inches better than the minimum.

CHINNING:—The boy grasps the horizontal bar with any grip he desires. He hangs full length with arms perfectly straight, feet off the floor. He draws himself up until his chin comes to the top of the bar. He lowers himself again until his arms are straight. This counts one. The body should not swing or sway while doing this.

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th grade

2	3	4	5

Digitized by L.ooQle
453

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each time better than the minimum. No boy is allowed to receive more than 15 points.

COMBINATION DIP:—This exercise should be done on the count of the teacher. On count 1, boys place hands on ground, near feet; count 2, push th f- t backward, hands remaining in same position, body straight between hands and toes; count 3, bend the elbows so that the chin or chest touches the floor, back straight. (Do not allow the back to sag or the knees to touch the floor) count 4, stretch the elbows; count 5, 6, repeat; count 7, 8 repeat; count 9, return feet to hands; count 10 stand erect; count 11, 12 rest. Repeat from counts 1 to 12. Each series of 12 counts constitutes a combination dip.

MINIMUMS

4th grade 5th grade 6th grade 7th grade 2	3	4	5

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each combination dip better than the minimum.

POTATO RACE:—Use four blocks of wood for potatoes. Place a starting mark at the front of the room. (This mark may be used for the start off to other races in the school room and should be so

Jilaced as to give the best open course, that is, between aisles, across ront of room or back of room or at side between wall and desks.) Three yards from the start place a potato and then place each potato two yards apart from the first potato making a distance of nine yards from the start to the last potato. If there is not room for this in the room run the race in the corridor. Take the time from the instant the runner leaves the mark until he brings back the last potato. On the word “go” the runner starts and picks up one potato placing it in a box or basket at the finish. He does this with the next and so on until he has returned all potatoes one at a time, to the receptacle placed at the start for the purpose.

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th	grade	6th grade	7th grade

21 sec.	20”	19”	18”

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each second better than the minimum.

GIRLS EVENTS 25 YARD DASH:—See directions for boys 25 yard dash. MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th	grade	6th grade	7th grade

9	sec.	7	sec.	6	sec.	5 sec.

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one p int for each second better than the minimum.

STANDING BROAD JUMP:—See directions for boys broad jump.

Digitized by LjOOQle
454

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th	grade

2’ 10”	3' 0”	3’ 3”	3’	6”

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each three inches better than the minimum.

BASKETBALL FAR THROW:—A basketball is required for this event. The ball is taken in both hands, raised over the head and then thrown by bringing the arms forward. Measure from the place where the girls stood when the ball was thrown to the place where it first touched the ground.

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th	grade

14’	16’	18’	20’

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each foot better than the minimum.

POTATO RACE:—See direction for boys potato race.

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th	grade

23 sec.	22 sec.	21 sec.	20 sec.

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each second better than the minimum.

HOPPING:—Distance 50 feet. Start the hop on one foot returning on the other. Measure 25 feet at the side of the room or front of room or between aisles. The starting mark will also be the finish mark. Time the instant the runner leaves the mark to the instant she returns. Do not allow the foot that is raised to touch the floor except at the end of the course, when the turn is made.

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th grade

10	sec.	9 sec.	8 sec.	8 sec.

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each second better than the minimum.

KNEE RAISING:—The girl hangs straight from the horizontal bar. From this position she draws both knees up i. e., knee raising upward, as many times as she can. The legs must be perfectly straight from the hang. Count the number of times the knee goes up.

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th grade

20	22	24	25

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Seme one

Eoint for each time better than the minimum. No girl will be owed to score more than 20 points in this event.

INDIAN CLUB RACE:—Twenty feet from the starting mark draw two tangent circles, two feet in diameter. Three indian chibs or bottles are set up in one of the circles. On the work “got” the

Digitized by CjOOQle
468

runner leaves the starting mark, runs to the indian'clubs and changes them from one circle to the other, one at a time. When this is completed she returns to the starting mark. Time is taken from the instant the runner leaves the mark until she returns.

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th grade

14 sec. 13 sec. 12 sec. 11 sec.

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each second better than minimum.

LEG LIFTING:—Girls hang straight from the horizontal bar. Keeping the legs perfectly straight, raise the legs forward at the waist, knees straight and toes pointed. Count the number of times the legs are raised forward to a horizontal position.

MINIMUMS

4th grade	5th grade	6th grade	7th grade

112	3

Those reaching the minimum receive five points. Score one point for each time better than the minimum. No girl will be allowed to score more than 15 points in this event.

THE RELATION OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION TO HEALTH AND RECREATION.

By ETHEL R. WEEDEN, St. Louis, Mo.

Any consideration of the subject of the relation of physical education to health and recreation should be shot through with the educational significance of physical education. Physical education of the people, if it is of the right kind, will bring about social contacts of a dynamic character. By the right kind I have in mind that form of physical education which is found most largely in the play life of man, but which is also found in healthy industrial pur-suite, and vocational and avocational interests. This kind of physical education is one of the best means of education for socialization— our ultimate aim in education. It is very significant that only through the realization of this aim can we have a high level of national vitality. Habits of physical activity which increase physical vigor must be formed through education which leads to the selection and fixing of these habits; tastes for recreation must be developed and refined through the right kind of educational experiences; and personality must be enhanced through education which provides for rich experience of life in play associations. Bobbitt, writing on the function of play in human life, sayB, “Play is Nature’s method of building out these aspects of personality that are left fallow by an otherwise incomplete and barren experience”. He says further, "Half-exercise and half-realization of one’s social powers result equally in social ill-health, social disintegration, enfeebled social sympathies, incoordination of individuals with-

Digitized by i^ooQle
456

in the group except as enforced by external authority, social unresponsiveness, lack of consideration for others, lack of tact, social irresponsibility, and other social ills”. It is very important that in our whole treatment of the subject of the relation of physical education to health and recreation we should bear in mind the threefold inter-relation of health, recreation, and socialization.

When we turn to a consideration of the relation of physical education to physical health, we are confronted by a biological problem. During the period of growth and development the prospective health of the organism is practically determined and established, and it is for this period that education must organize its forces to meet the rapidly changing biological requirements, and to strengthen and fortify the constitution to the fullest measure. The practically healthy condition of most children at birth, the rapid decline of a large number in the first year, the increasing manifestation of prevalence of physical handicaps in the school period, and the tremendous percentage of unfit adults, as shown in statistics of the recent army drafts, graphically depict the nature of the health problem which education must help to solve.

Physical education which will meet these social and health needs must make possible the playful, free, unrestricted, self-directed movements necessary from birth for the proper growth and development of the structure and functions of the body. It must go hand in hand with fresh air, nutrition, and rest. Deep breathing, good blood, uncongested circulation, proper digestion, good posture, capable muscles, and steadiness of nerve control come through experience of natural play activities in the open air. Although children play naturally under normal conditions, there are many conditions of civilized life that are not normal, and physical education must provide that all children have a generous play life suitable to their mental and physical stage of development. Physical education must instruct in the use of the body and in the laws of exercise, and in the social responsibility for a healthy body, in order that our people may know how most advantageously to control the income and outgo of energy, and how to replenish any deficit, so as to keep themselves vitally alive under the varying demands and exigencies of effective living.

When we direct our attention to the relation of physical education to recreation, we find that many of our people have not been educated in those types of physical activity which are suitable and desirable for recreation and for the occupation of leisure time. Unless play manifestations of appearing instincts are encouraged and are given opportunity for expression in early periods of life, something of play interest and play momentum is irretrievably lost, and can never be regained. Pleasure in participation in the plays, games, sports, and pastimes which comprise the most healthful form of recreation is never so keen when the early experiences have been missed, and later attempts to engage in these physical activities are awkward, irksome, and often more fatiguing than recreation. Even vicarious enjoyment through observation is comparatively

Digitized by LaOOQle
457

weak because lack of practical experience means lack of understanding. You will hardly find a vigorous rooter at a baseball game who has never played the game himself. Interests must be awakened and skills perfected during the formative periods of life. Learning to play tennis after thirty entails too great effort in quick, skillful coordination of eve, hand, and foot to be purely recreational for one who has not had like play experiences in youth. In earlier years the necessary combinations of movement are accomplished in a rich play life with comparative ease and enjoyment. Physical education of the right kind develops tastes, abilities, and habits for recreation and so prevents undesirable forms of recreation. It also provides a big field for cooperative effort and thus leads to the organization of social groups whose activities may become increasingly significant for health, recreation, and the democracy of association.

Physical education for these purposes, social, health, and recreational, should provide for natural spontaneous activities following upon the appearance of instinctive interests, for such expression makes possible tlije development of various capacities. In the situations built up through instinctive activities, human nature is evidenced so naturally that there is opportunity to study the most fundamental social needs, and to bring about right appreciations and valuations for the guidance of improved modes of behavior. This behavior should lead not only to the expression of the social virtues, but also the development of physical powers of forcefulness, celerity, and accuracy, so that these powers may function easily and without wasteful mental and muscular effort, as they are needed for ordinary effective living—the kind of living that means efficient social relationship of leaders and coworkers, the physical establishment of high levels of health and vitality, and the determining of right habits of recreation.

CARRY ON!

By JANETTE TROWBRIDGE, Eastford, Conn.

The many articles which are urging that Physical Education shall deal with life and life habits show that the Physical Directors of the country have set to work in earnest to lessen the percentage of the physically unfit. Encouraging signs are:

1.	Less value placed on formal drill and technique.

2.	The increased number of “applied gymnastics” used in daily lessons.

3.	The insistence of a “setting up drill” in every grade— vigorous in action and so well learned as to become a part of daily routine, and (we hope) continued beyond the years of school attendance.

4.	The large place given to dancing, games, swimming, bowling, athletics,—forms of exercise which are of permanent interest.

5.	Applied hygiene.

Digitized by Google
468

It is of this last phase that I wish to speak at length. Most of the 38% found to be unfit among the drafted men had gone out from school influence but their education had not given them life-habits of such a kind as to insure good health.

How can this be done? By a practical, rapid inspection of each child every morning by the class teacher.

New York City has done much in this direction. The classes there are large yet the teacher takes but two minutes for the inspection. The conditions in New York are unfavorable, because of the great congestion, but the Daily Inspection has been so effective that during the two epidemics of influenza no school had to be closed. (In contrast to this, a school in a rural town, which numbers less than one family to the square mile, was closed for several weeks.)

Many cities have school nurses to whom the teachers refer all cases showing any significant symptoms. Towns and rural communities are engaging school-nurses who visit the school regularly. Where there are no school nurses, there are still either local doctors or nurses who will gladly aid any teacher who asks for definite help.

There are certain things which will further this matter:

1.	A simple, universal health-card, which also suggests remedies and which is sent to the parent at definite times.

2.	A regular time for inspection, e. g., from 9 to 9:05 A. M. daily.

3.	The study of such a health-system in every normal school in the country—with daily practice in making out the health cards.

4.	The granting of a state bonus to such schools only as follow this procedure.

Below is a suggestion as to a health-card of this kind: HEALTH-CARD.

Name—______________________

Grade—11	|2|8|4|5|6|7|8|

(check present grade.)

Gradings—1: excellent; 2, fairly good; 8: passable; 4: poor condition; 6: actively bad.

MONTHLY GRADES

Items:	S	0	N	D	IJ	|F	|M	A	|M	J
1.	Hair & Scalp  2.	Eyes 	..	—	—	—	—						
3. Ears 											
4. Nose 											
5. Throat 											
6. Teeth 												
7. Skin											
8.	Posture 		  9.	Clothing 	  10.	Feet				—	—	—	—	—	—	—	—		—

Teacher’s Signature:______
469

Rmm Sid# of Card.

To parent or guardian: We desire your cooperation in maintaining and improving the health of your child and of the community.

Below are a few helpful suggestions which we hope will be of assistance to you.

1.	Hair and Scalp.—For dandruff use crude oil or vaseline rubbed into scalp. Nits.—Crude oil, kerosene, or tincture of larkspur. To remove dead nits wipe off hairs with a piece of flannel wet with hot vinegar.

Idee.—Tincture of larkspur.

2.	Eyes.—Those shown defective by eye-chart test should be sent at once to an occulist.

Squinting.—Send to oculist.

Red, inflamed granulated lids.—Bathe with boric acid water, and with saltwater.

Continued inflamation.—See oculist.

Pink Eye.—See oculist or doctor.

Trachoma.—Exclude from school.

3.	Ears.—Dirty.—Use soap and water and recommend bath.

Running.—See doctor.

Aching—See doctor.

4.	Nose.—Obstructed.—See doctor.

Running.—Salt water douches.

6.	Throat.—Sore plus fever.—send home.

Enlarged tonsils.—See doctor.

Lumps or bunches.—See doctor.

6.	Teeth.—Inspect for daily cleaning. Have dental cleaning.

Decayed or malformation.—See doctor.

7.	Skin.—Dirty—Baths.

Scaly eruptions.—Isolate or send home and ask note of admission from doctor. Acne.—Cold cream at night, wash in morning with hot water and soap. Chapped hands.—Cold cream or glycerine at night.

Bitten nails.—Mix red pepper in vaseline and keep in nails until habit is broken.

8.	Posture.—If hips and shoulders are uneven, or if back is deformed, send to Orthopedic doctor or clinic.

Slouchy.—Hang from high bar (placed in doorway) for 6 minutes daily. Insist on erect carriage.

Poor Bitting posture.—Place several magazines on front edge of seat. This is a great help in preventing slumping. Reward good posture, both standing and sitting.

9.	Clothing.—Inspect and mark for cleanness and suitability.

10.	Feet.—Flat foot.—Learn to stand with the weight on the outer part of the foot.

Wear low broad heels and keep them straight.

Chilblains.—Paint with iodine.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

Indiana Governor’s Health Recommendations.—It is

to be expected that each year will show increased interest in constructive health legislation on the part of state executives. This naturally growing interest has been augmented by the prominence given to health questions through problems arising out of the war. It is not surprising, therefore, but rather an evidence of progress in conformity with the spirit of the times, that Governor Goodrich of Indiana should devote a considerable amount of space to health topics in his message to the General Assembly. “It is the first duty of the state,” he says, “to do everything possible to conserve the health, the physical and moral well-being of our people. It has been demonstrated that our public health laws are inadequate to meet the situation. The revelations of the draft examinations are convincing. Not only has a large proportion of our young men been pronounced unfit for service and rejected on the initial examination, but as the further sifting process has been continued, it has been ascertained that at least one-third of the young men of the country were unfit for service. . . . Physical education is as necessary to the development of our young people as mental training. .	.	.

Our educational system should be so organized as to provide for compulsory physical education of our young people.” As a practical recommendation for better health conditions in the state, the governor indorses the movement for all-time health officials. This indorsement should be of great assistance to the state board of health in its efforts to secure whole-time town and country health officials. The governor also discusses the rural school question from a health standpoint, basing his recommendations on the surveys and reports made by the Federal Commissioner of Education and the National Education Association, in cooperation with the American Medical Association. While admitting a just pride in the work and accomplishment of the rural schools of Indiana, he urges on the legislature that much remains to be accomplished for the improvement of sanitary and health conditions among rural schoolchildren and recommends careful consideration of the problems involved. Governor Goodrich's message is a gratifying evidence of the growing interest taken in health problems by our most progressive state executives. With such a governor progress in health matters in Indiana should be rapid.—Current Comment in “ Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. Jan. 18, 1919.

The Venopressor Mechanism.—The important factors in the diastolic filling of the heart that limit the volume of blood circulated in any umt of time are the venous pressure and the volume of the venous return of blood. The needs of different parts of the body for blood vary enormously at different times. Rest and

Digitized by

Google
461

vigorous muscular activity represent, for example, extremes of condition that determine widely unlike demands for blood distribution by the heart. Correspondingly enormous variations in the volume of venous blood return required and provided occur. Accordingly there must be some mechanism controlling the supply of blood from the veins to the heart and regulating the variations needed dming rest and exercise. This mechanism must adjust the venous pressure to dilate the right heart dining diastole, neither over nor underfilling the ventricle.

How is the advantageous control of this admittedly essential venopressor mechanism brought about? A few years ago when the peripheral modification of blood flow was believed to be associated solely with changes in the caliber of the arterial system, an active as contrasted with a merely passive change in size of the smaller efferent vessels, the venules, was scarcely taken into account as a vasomotor possibility. Vasomotor control was almost synonymous with regulation of the arterial side of the circulatory cycle. Today we must admit that the capillaries and venules also may participate more actively in a change in caliber that will modify the possibility of the blood flow through them.

Recent studies are beginning to indicate the probability—if, indeed, they do not clearly demonstrate—that both nervous and chemical factors may contribute to vascular relaxation and change in the capillary and venous regions.

The greater the activity of the muscles, the more venous this blood. The efferent vessels are thus relaxed and the outflow from the capillaries into the venous system made easier. The volume of the venous return to the heart is increased, the venous pressure is raised and (within certain limits) the efficiency of the heart is increased. Thus the two extremes of high venous pressure on the one hand and abnormally low venous pressure on the other are induced, respectively, the former by muscular exertion with great carbon dioxid production and the latter by acapnia and related conditions.—From, an editorial in the issue of Jan. 18, 1919 “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc.

The Metabolism of Growing Boys.—The large appetites of boys and girls have been observed by many a parent; but men of science have usually failed until recently to grasp the true physiologic significance of this desire for food. The real explanation has been furnished by the calorimetric observations of Du Bois* on the effect of age on heat production in man. He showed, as has been recorded more than once in The Journal, that the basal metabolism in boys of 12 is 25 per cent higher than for an adult of the same height and weight, or 50 calories per square meter of body surface— the conventional unit of such measurements. Indeed, metabolism

*Du Bois, E. F.: Clinical Calorimetry, Paper 12, The Metabolism of Boys Twelve and Thirteen Years Old Compared with the Metabolism at Other Ages, Arch, Int. Med., June 1916, p. 887.

Digitized by
462

is in general relatively high in childhood, falling rapidly in adolescence, and then decreasing slowly during the rest of life. It is interesting and fortunate from a scientific standpoint that Du Bois has been able to repeat the measurements of the basal metabolism at a later period in the same subjects—Boy Scouts—whom he originally examined some time before puberty. The statistics obtained, in conjunction with Olmstead and Barr,** represent the results applicable after a period of two years. All of the boys, some of whom were then exhibiting signs of puberty, showed a marked decrease, in metabolism. The fall incident to their adolescence is represented by the new figure, 44 calories per hour per square meter of body surface, as the average for the ages of 14 to 15 years. This is a decrease of 13 per cent for the seven cases studied. The metabolism is, however, still 11 per cent above the average for adult men between the ages of 20 and 40 years. Women show a metabolism that is 7 per cent lower than that of men, or 37 calories per hour per square meter of surface. As an indication of the pronounced influence of youth on the transformation of energy in the body, Du Bois and his collaborators have actually demonstrated that the metabolism in the same boys during the twelfth year was actually greater in calories produced than during the fourteenth year, although the boys showed a gain in weight of between 35 and 50 per cent. Lusk has expressed the situation in another way: The basal metabolism of an average boy of 13 years of age weighing 80 pounds and of a height of 4 feet, 10 inches may be calculated as 1,525 calories a day. This is the same as that of a man 25 years old, weighing 126 pounds and 5 feet, 2 inches tall. All of this means that a growing boy of 12 or 13 may need as much food as his father.—	Comment,

“The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc., Sept. 14,1918.

Heart Murmurs in Recruits.—When examining some thousands of applicants for the Naval Reserve, Cordeiro found that pulmonary murmurs far outnumbered all other forms of murmurs— perhaps ten to one. The majority of the pulmonic murmurs were found chiefly among runners, though they occur in all forms of athletics where there is a steady prolonged grind. The strain of a race is thrown almost wholly on the right heart. The left heart participates to a much less degree. The call is for blood and air in the lungs and the right heart endeavors to supply a double amount of the former. Thepaininthe side is a symptom of this abnormal effort. The pathologic history of these cases seems to be as follows: At first, after each abnormal dilation, the heart contracts to its normal size, or nearly so. But a physiologic hypertrophy accompanies these efforts and the pulmonary orifice, instead of contracting to its former dimensions, eventually overcontracts and becomes slightly narrowed. This may be furthered by the development of new muscular

**01mstead, W. H.; Barr, D. P., and Du Bois, E. F.; Clinical Calorimetry, Paper 27, Metabolism of Boys Twelve and Fourteen Years Old, Arch. Int. Med., 1918, p. 621.

Digitized by kjooole
463

tissue about the orifice. These murmurs, while occuring chiefly among runners, were also found in foot bailers, basket-ball players, boxers, wrestlers and among rowing men. Baseball players seemed to be least affected. Many college boys, undeveloped and imperfectly developing, without proper food at home, ana often without a midday meal, practice assiduously every afternoon on a field. While their anaemic systems are struggling with the burden of the rapid growth after puberty, they subject their hearts to the added strain of the track.

Another class of cases of pulmonary direct murmurs, which while indistinguishable clinically from athletic murmurs, have been found less often, and present a picture of their own. These cases can be attributed to an incoordinated development of the great vessels relatively to other parts of the body. Cordeiro has called them tentatively, hypoplastic murmurs. They occur only among the poorer classes and seem to be clearly the result of insufficient nutrition. There is usually a weedy growth in which the nutrition seems to be expended wholly in increasing the length of the body while the other parts remain stationary—notably the great vessels. The rule in such cases is that the subjects are very much under weight for their height—20 to 40 pounds underweight. Their complexions and skins are pasty and pimply, in marked contrast to the clear skin of health, in which specimens there are never heart murmurs.

As a result of his investigation, Cordeiro is convinced that athletes, professional and amateur, are of distinctly less value from a military point of view than the average normal man. He suggests that one of the reforms springing out of this war will be—not the abolition of athletics, but a revision of the present athletic system. Physical exercise from a recreational and hygienic point of view is necessary, but beyond that point is a waste of time and may be 'injurious. Track athletics among boys he regards as criminal, and among their elders is of no value to the participants or the community, but on the contrary tends to spoil what would otherwise have been good military material.—Abstracted by Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc., from original article by Dr. J. F. B. Cordeiro in ** The United States Naval Bulletin," July, 1918.

Child Welfare.—Juvenile courts occasionally have to deal with cases where delinquency is just the result of a spirit of adventure. The child is starved for something that appeals to his imagination. Neither home nor school makes provision for this necessary element in human experience, so the young adventurer seeks it himself on nocturnal journeys.—School Life 2:2 (May 16), 1919.

TESTS OF RADIATOR HUMIDIFIERS.

By request of physicians I have tested four types of radiator humidifiers on the market in Minneapolis. The experiments wer e performed at my house, which is heated by hot water. For the first

Digitized by i^ooQLe
464

three types mentioned the tests were made at the same time on the same radiator. The results are therefore strictly comparable. The results for the “Flobun” were obtained at a later date. All results have been calculated to indicate evaporation, per twenty-four hours, for each horizontal foot of radiator occupied by the apparatus.

Results

“Speco,” av. of 3 tests, zero weather, January, 1916.... 294 g.

“Savo,” av. of 3 tests, zero weather, January, 1916.. 230	g.

“Buddington,” av. 3 tests, zero weather, January, 1916 1,116 g.

“Flobun,” av. of 2 tests, zero weather,December, 1916.. 1,248 g.

These results for the “Buddington” and “Flobun” were obtained using wicks which were new or nearly new. But the efficiency of both instruments rapidly falls if tap water is used, owing to clogging of the wicks. In two cays the loss of efficiency in one series of experiments with the “Flobun” was 25 per cent.

Inasmuch as 10 to 30 gallons of water (Bryce, of Ottawa, says 75 gallons) must be evaporated daily in an ordinary-sized house to maintain reasonable humidity under the conditions of our northern winters, it will be seen that these radiator devices are practically worthless. Using the sling psychrcmeter I was never able to detect an increase of humidity from the use of any of them. Indeed, the best of them is no more efficient as an air moistener than one human being. The average evaporation from lungs and skin of a large laboratory class in subzero weather, and about 70 degrees inside temperature, was nearly two ounces per hour per person, or about 1,200 grams a day.

Summarizing recent reports of health authorities, says the November “Northwest Insurance," Minneapolis, we may consider ourselves living in an age of “cures by eliminations.” If you are all run down, have your tonsils cut out. If a sufferer from rheu-tism, get your teeth pulled. If you have chronic indigestion, get friend physician to eliminate your gall bladder. If you have a constant pain in your side, yield up your appendix. And last but not least, comes a physician with the statement that if you would prolong life beyond your natural days, remove the large intestine. Soon, we may expect to see the arrival of that glorious day when the Red Cross campaign motto will be a literal truth,

4 ‘All you need is a heart and a dollar!”

One way to check infant mortality, is to raise the wages of the infants’ fathers.

It is needless to tell mothers what to feed their babies if they have no money to buy it.

Industrial conditions and family welfare are inseparable.

Life and health are purchasable for the baby as well as for the community.—Public Health News, Trenton, N. J.

Digitized by CjOOQle
465

BOOK REVIEWS

Food For The Sick and The Well, How To Select It and How To Cook It.—By Margaret P. Thompson, Registered Nurse. Cloth, 82 pages. Price $1.00. Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York: World Book Company.

This is a practical volume and it gives definite aid in meeting a difficulty which to many persons is a real one.

It is a book of recipes, the result of many years of experience in arranging, changing and adapting them so as to form a well regulated diet for the sick and for convalescents, as well as for those who are well and wish to remain so.

There are recipes for breakfast cereals, breads, eggs, soups, meats, fishes, cereals and starchy vegetables, green vegetables, salads and desserts, cakes, albuminous drinks, jellies, canned fruits, and cheese dishes.

An additional section of the book devotes itself to treatment such as baths, sponges, hot-packs, salt-rubs, poultices, mustard plasters, enemas, douches, and directions for the proper way of filling a hot-water bag.

“In Breeding and Outbreeding.”—By Edwin M. East and Donald F. Jones. 285 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches, fully illustrated. Published by J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia. Price $2.50.

This is one of the monographs on Experimental Biology and General Physiology under the directorship of Drs. Loeb, Morgan and Osterhorst. The book is a clear, concise and trustworthy statement of the laws of heredity as applied to systems of mating between blood relatives of varying degree. It is a description of controlled experiments on plants and animals, with the conclusions to which they point. It presents simple solutions of questions that have long been puzzling. While designed especially for the biologist, the book is of interest both to fanner and horticulturist, to judge and legislator, to physician, physical training teacher and social worker, because of the far-reaching and fundamental application of the results to such diverse phases of every-day life.

The book will be of great aid to all progressive teachers of phy -sical education.

War Games by Professors Elmer Berry, 0. L. Fritsche and G. B. Affleck. 23 pages and cover, 4 by 7 inches. Published by Seminar Publishing Co., Springfield, Mass. Price, 25 cents.

The booklet is a compilation of vigorous games by the above named well known teachers at the Y. M. C. A. college at Springfield, Mass. The games have been grouped according to formations. For instance under “Line Games,” there are 28 games arranged in three divisions, or programs. Then come “Circle Games,” and “Informal Games.” These latter are subdivided into “Mass Athletic Meets.” “Team Games,” “Trial Strength Tests,” “Individual Stunts” and “Hand to Hand Fighting.” Because of the short, concise descriptions the authors have been able to present an unusual wealth of good material in a few pages. The book should be a great help to teachers looking for vigorous mass activities.

Digitized by LjOOQle
ATHLETICS

By EMANUEL HAUG, De Witt Clinton High School 69th St. and 10th Ave.,

New York.

Cinderpath For Armory.—A 440-yard indoor cinder track is being built in the Armory of the 8th Coast Artillery Corps in New York City.

This is the only one of its kind in the world. The dimensions of the dirt floor of the Bronx armory permits the institution of many outdoor privileges. It is 300 feet wide and 660 feet long, with no obstructions whatsoever obstructing the view of the spectators. Besides the 440-yard track, it is planned to erect a 220-yard high straight-away. According to the members of the committee, the participation of any sport known is permissible within the enclosure, as the lighting facilities are eighty-five feet above the floor. With the laying of the dirt track it is intended to put down one foot of loam, which will then be sprinkled, rolled and later given chemical treatment which will make the track lightning fast. The great space will also allow the marking out of four basketball courts, two indoor baseball diamonds, twenty-five tennis courts and a football gridiron. While the balcony surrounding the track can only seat five thousand, provisions can be made for accommodating thirty thousand persons.

The hygiene department of the College of the City of New York will put into operation next semester, beginning February 4, a plan which is expected to turn the overwhelming sentiment in favor of sports at present prevailing at the college into channels which will produce hundreds of candidates for athletic teams. The department purposes to permit students taking physical training to substitute work in the seasonal sports as equivalent for work in the gymnasium. More than 1,200 students are enrolled in the hygiene courses, and it is expected that several hundred candidates for football, basketball, baseball, swimming and track will come out fear practice as a result of the new plan.

Dr. Frederick A. Woll, acting head of the department, who will put the plan into operation, is working out systems of practice for the various sports. It is intended in the beginning to permit men to elect football, basketball, baseball, swimming, tennis and wrestling. If a demand for any other sport arises the department, he said, will endeavor to meet it. All instructors in the various sports will be members of the hygiene department.

Students electing the sports will be required to practice faithfully five days a week. They will be exempt from any gymnasium work, but will have to take the written monthly and final examinations in hygiene. Failure to report for practice regularly will be regarded as a failure in the course for which the substitution was

Digitized by LaOOQle
467

made. The new elective system will be open to all students except' the lower freshmen, who will be required to take the regular gymnasium work. Men will also have to make a mark of ,C” or better-in order to be permitted to make the substitution.

The legislature of the State of Oregon has enacted a law requiring physical education to be taught in all grades of the public schools-of the state. A course in physical instruction has been worked out by a committee and copies sent to each teacher in the state.

The state department of education, through the co-operation • of the state schools, sent to each county institute an instructor in physical education, who explained the new course and taught the teachers how to give their children the exercises outlined in the manual.

Two world's skating records were broken recently at Lake Placid' N. Y., when Ed. Horton completed the 200-yard hurdle event in 21

2-5 seconds, and Gordon Marshall made a backward jump on the skates of 3 feet, 6 inches.

The Amateur Athletic Federation of Chicago which suspended activities during the years of hostilities will again become active-and give thousands of amateur athletes an opportunity to win laurels. The Federation includes the International Gymnastic Union, the-Chicago Public High School Athletic League, The Chicago Suburban School Conference, Cook County Y. M. C. A., West, North, South • and Municipal Park Systems, Chicago Boy Scouts, Chicago Sunday School Association, Normal Schools, Illinois Turn Bezirk and the Polish Falcon Alliance.

Virtually all forms of athletics in which young America is active -are represented in the schedules.

Dr. E. A. Allen, industrial secretary Y. M. C. A., has been elected president and T. J. Smergalski, superintendent of recreation ■ West Side Park System, secretary.

One Of The Stories As To How Baseball Originated.—It is

said that more than eight million boys play baseball each year in the United States. Add to this several thousand who play it in Canada and England, and many thousands who play the game in Japan, Porto Rico, Cuba, and Mexico, and we have, outside of professional players, about nine million boys who annually enjoy one of the oldest games known to man.

Baseball is suppossed to have had its origin in England and then to have been passed to the United States, but the game was long ago known to the American Indians, and before they played it, the sport was common in China and India. As the research of man into how ancient peoples lived and played progresses, we begin to feel with the prophet that “there is nothing new under the sun.”

Digitized by tjOOQle
468

For with our own Cherokee Indians, residents of this continent long before any white man ever saw the land, baseball was a popular game. It was played with goals and bases, and called for great skill in the handling of the ball. So popular was the vigorous use of the ball (one of the best exercises any one can enjoy) with the Cherokees, they had a legend about it.

The Cherokee story-tellers claimed that the moon is a ball which was thrown against the sky in a game a long time ago. They say two ball teams were playing against each other. One of the teams had the best runners and had almost won the game, when the captain of the other team picked up the ball with his hand and tried to throw it to a goal. But it struck against the solid sky vault and was fastened there as a warning to all future players never to try to cheat.

Why a warning? The rules of baseball in the days of the beginning of the game forbade the ball ever being touched with the hand. This made the game more difficult than it is to-day. It was cheating ever to touch the ball with anything but the bat, the primitive bat much resembling a modem tennis stick. The Cherokees say, when the moon grows pale and small, as it does after the full period, that it is because of sorrow for those on earth who indulge in cheating.

The Chinese and East Indians played baseball all of a thousand years before the Christian era began. They used net bats, and the ball could not be touched with the hand. One day, as the legend runs, a favorite of a Chinese emperor was playing the game before his master and was very anxious to win. He was so anxious to be victor he grasped the ball in his hand when his opponent was not looking, and threw it toward the coveted goal.

But the ball, so the legend says, was so angry at being used to cheat that it bounded back and struck the unfortunate favorite. He was struck so hard he was driven off the earth and became a lone star in the heavens. He gives forth light every night to warn others who are tempted to cheat, of their possible fate.

The interesting feature of these legends—one from our own land and one from distant China is the lesson they convey out of the early days of man: cheating in sport or anything else is dishonorable and brings its own bitter punishment.

Baseball is a delightful game. The game quickens the wits, hardens the body. But it is not worth the while, any more than any other sport, if foul play and cheating are permitted to enter into it. Honesty in sport is like honesty in work: it carries with it the consciousness that you have done your best and if victory does not perch on your banner, you have fairly lost and can sincerely congratulate the winner.—Ex.

Digitized by Google
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

FRED FOERTSCH, Philadelphia, Pa.

AN EFFICIENCY TEST.

Six Events for Men and Women Showing Sex-aims Based

upon Height.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia.

There are 3 grades. A is an average performance, B is good, C is excellent. Height in inches is used as a basis for determining requirements in each grade. In the following table the figure 1 represents height in inches. For instance, if a man b 5 feet 8 inches high, 68 inches is used as a basis for determining his requirements. Under A he would have to broad jump a distance equalling his height, that is, 68 inches. He would be expected to high jump 40 inches, triple jump 176 inches, vault 68 inches, farthrow 40 feet, and push up from the floor 20 times. Fractions of feet or inches do not count.

TiSrmifa	i	Men		I	Women	
1 A		B	C	A	B	C
1. Standing  Broad Jump	1.	12.10	14.10	8.10	1.	12.10
2. Running  High Jump	6.10	7.10	8.10	4.10	5.10	6.10
3. Triple Standing Broad Jump	26.10	31.10	36.10	2.	25.10	3.
4. Giantstride High Vault Over a Rope	1.	12.10	14.10	8.10	9.10	1.
5. Basketball Farthrow. (No. of inches represent Feet.)	6.10	7.10	8.10	4.10	5.10	6.10
6. Push Up from floor. (Figure represents times. Men-Hands and Feet, Woman-Hands and Knees, body straight.)	20.	25.	30.	15.	20.	25.

Note.—This test was used at last year’s summer session of the Normal College' of the American Gymnastic Union in the course on Mass Athletics. The complete test, or parts of it, can be used by teachers to interest adults or older children. Let them find out what their per cent is. Interest them in seeing how much they can improve during the winter’s work. Let boys classes compete against girls*, or older pupils against adults.—Ed.

Digitized by LjOOQle
470

To compare one’s efficiency as expressed in percentage, with ithat of another person, change the A, B and C into points, giving A one point, B two points and C three points.

With six events it would be possible for a person to make a ^maximum of 18 points. 18 points would be 100 per cent. Add the number of points a person makes. To this sum add two zeroes, then ^divide by 18.

BUMBLE BEE POLKA. Group Dance.

Formation:—Column of front ranks of fours, hands grasped .and held shoulder high. The two on the ends may hold the skirt with the outer hands or place the hands at waist.

.Music:—“Poor Butterfly”	Dance	arranged

by Hubbel, or any Polka	by	Carriebel	B.	Cole

as, “Hindustan.”	Washington,	D.	C.

PART I.

(a)	Polka left and right obliquely forward - 1 - 4. 2	M.

(b)	Four dainty skip steps in place with a half turn left,

hands at waist - 5 - 8 ....................	2	M.

(c)	Grasp hands again and repeat a) - b)........... 4	M.

(d)	Repeat a)-c) ................................   8	M.

Total ........................................ 16	M.

PART II.

With the last skip steps the end members approach each other

Qing hands, each rank having formed a small circle. Neighbors’ s are grasped and held shoulder high.

(a) Slow step courtesy left sideward - 1 - 4, repeat

right-5-8 ..................................... 4	M.

(b) Glide left sideward - 1, glide-close right - 2, repeat - 3 - 4, glide left sideward - 5, pause - 6, point

right forward - 7, pause -	8 .................. 4	M.

(c)	Repeat a) - b)	beginning	right................ 8	M.

Total .......................,.................16	M.

PART III.

Circle formation, the middle girls forming couple No. 1, the two on the end forming couple No. 2.

(a) Couple No. 1 forms an arch by raising the joined inner hands.

Couple No. 2 passes under the arch, the two members release their inner hands and pass around the outside of the members of couple No. 1., returning to their original places. This passing under the arch and encircling is executed with 16 skip steps, each member of couple No. 2 retaining hands grasped while encircling the members of couple No. 1.

Digitized by LiOOQle
471

While being encircled the members of couple No. 1 execute a whole turn inward under their own raised inner arms with hands grasped, at the same time keeping the outer hands grasped with those who are passing around. The members of

couple No. 1 execute 16 skip steps in place while turning...... 8 M.

(b) Couple No. 2 now forms an arch and couple No. 1 passes under the arch, the members of which encircle the members of couple No. 2, and reform in the middle to form a front rank of fours as originally............................... 8	M.

Total .............................................. 16	M.

WAND DRILL.*

By J. E. SCHMIDLIN, Elizabeth, N. J.

Formation:—A column of front ranks of fours in open order, the two middle files girls, the two outer files boys.

Music:—“For the Freedom of the World."

Publisher:—Sam Fox, Cleveland, Ohio.

The drum and trumpet part is omitted and the last 16 measures are played three times.

Lower Wand foredown ward as follows:—

Raise left arm sideward and overhead grasping end of wand

-	1 - 2, straighten arms upward - 3 - 4, lower arms forward - 5

-	6, lower downward -7-8, pause 9 - 12.

GROUP I.

Exercise 1.

(a)	Stride right forward and bend arms for thrust - 1,

thrust upward - 2, pause - 3 - 4, bend right knee and bend arms for thrust - 5, straighten left arm downward, right hand front of left shoulder - 6, pause - 7 - 8, straighten right knee and bend arms for thrust - 9, thrust upward - 10, pause - 11 - 12, replace left foot and bend arms for thrust -13, lower arms - 14, pause - 15 - 16.........   8	M.

(b)	Repeat a) left, right and left.............24	M.

Total .....................................32	M.

Exercise 2.

(a)	Stride right sideward and bend arms for thrust - 1, place wand horizontally on left hip (left arm backward) - 2, pause - 3 - 4, bend right knee and bend arms for thrust - 5, straighten right arm upward, left hand in front of right shoulder - 6, pause - 7

-8, reverse and return movements - 9 - 16.. 8	M.

(b)	Repeat left, right and left................24	M.

Total .....................................32	M.

• Presented at the New Jersey Physical Education Convention, Dec. 13, 1919, Newark, N. J.

Digitized by Google
472

Exercise 3.

(a)	Stride right backward and bend arms for thrust - 1, thrust arms forward - 2, pause - 3 - 4, bend right knee and bend arms for thrust - 5, straighten right arm backward, left hand front of right shoulder - 6, pause - 7 - 8, reverse and return movements - 9

- 16 ...............................................8	M.

(b)	Repeat a) left, right and left.....................24	M.

Total ............................................ 32	M.

Exercise 4. (Marching)

(a)	Girls encircle the boys in 8 steps, passing in front.... 4 M.

(b)	Boys encircle the girls in 8 steps, passing in front.... 4 M.

(c)	Pause 16 counts.................................... 8	M.

Total ........................................16	M.

GROUP II.

Exercise 1.

(a) Stride right obliquely forward and bend arms for thrust -1, thrust forward, wand vertical right hand high - 2, pause -3-4, bend right knee and bend arms for thrust - 5, thrust arms upward - 6, pause - 7 - 8, reverse and return movements - 9

- 16 ...........................................8	M.

(b) Repeat a) left, right and left.............. 24	M

Total ..................................... 32	M

Exercise 2.

(a) Stride right forward and bend arms for thrust -1, thrust upward - 2, pause - 3 - 4, bend right knee and bend arms for thrust - 5, place wand horizontally on left hip - 6, pause - 7 - 8, reverse and

return movements - 9 - 16 ..................8	M

(b) Repeat a) left, right and left.............24	M

Total ....................................32	M

Exercise 3.

(a) Stride right sideward and bend arms for thrust, - 1 straighten left arm backward, right hand front of left shoulder - 2, pause - 3 - 4, bend right knee, bend trunk right and bend arms for thrust - 5, straighten left arm upward, right hand front of left shoulder - 6, pause - 7 - 8, reverse and return

movements -9-16...........................8	M

(b) Repeat a) left, right and left............24	M

32 M

Total

Digitized by <^.ocwle
47S

Exercise 4.

(a) Marching as in Group I exercise 4..............8	M.

(b) Pause 16 counts................................8	M.

Total ..........................................16	M.

GROUP III.

Exercise 1.

(a) Lunge right forward and bend arms for thrust - 1, thrust upward - 2, pause - 3 - 4, quarter turn left on heels, change knee bending and bend arms for thrust - 5, bend trunk forward and thrust arms forward - 6, pause - 7 - 8, reverse and re-

turn movements - 9 - 16 .................... 8	M.

(b) Repeat a) left, right and left...............2A	M.

Total ...................................  .32	M.

Exercise 2.

(a) Lunge right sideward and bend arms for thrust - 1, thrust arms forward - 2, pause - 3 - 4, bend right knee and bend arms for thrust - 5, straighten left arm obliquely foreupward, right hand over left shoulder - 6, pause -7-8, reverse and return

movements - 9 - 16 ......................... 8	M.

(b) Repeat a) left, right and left.............  24	M.

Total ......................................32	M.

Exercise 3.

(a)	Lunge right obliquely forward and bend arms for

thrust - 1, straighten the right arm obliquely foreside-upward, left arm bent the hand resting on the head - 2, pause - 3 - 4, change knee bending and bend arms for thrust - 5, straighten left arm obliquely backward-downward, right hand front of left shoulder - 6, pause - 7 - 8, reverse and return movements -9-16 ......................  8	M.

(b)	Repeat a) left, right and left................2A	M.

Total ...........................................32	M.

Exercise	4.

(a)	Pause 8 counts...................................4	M.

(b)	Carry wand at right shoulder as follows, raise arms

forward - 1 - 2, raise arms upward - 3 - 4, straighten right arm downward, left hand front of right shoulder - 5 - 6, lower left arm - 7 - 8..........4	M.

(c)	March in place 4 steps, then close ranks to the left

and march away....................................8	M.

Total ........................................  16	M.

Digitized by VjOOQle
NOTES AND COMMENTS.

The Department of Public Instruction of the State of New Jersey recently sent the following circular letter to the Physical Training Teachers of New Jersey.

The recent reports of the United States Public Health Service, the Life Extension Institute, the National Child Welfare Association, the American Red Cross and similar organizations which have studied the health problems confronting our country, point out the urgent necessity for positive health teaching and the inculcation of health habits in our school children. We have accomplished much, in New Jersey with our Medical Inspection, the employment of school nurses or health supervisors, the establishing of dental clinics, the material contained in the monographs on “Hygiene Safety" and “Physical Training,” and with our state wide interest in physical training. But we can and must do more.

Physical training helps accentuate the importance of all other health activities.

The Physical training instructor comes into closer contact with the pupils than any other member of the corps of teachers. He helps to mould their lives for dean living and active participation in the practice of health habits thru his daily work with them. Therefore, it is to him that we should turn when we think of a program for a more thorough and more vigorous presentation of the subject of hygiene than we have ever demanded before.

The physical training teacher should be the personification of health, a veritable fountain of knowledge on all of the necessary

Qualifications for a stronger, healthier and happier school child. He hould be a health supervisor, and a zealous guardian of the health practices of the children entrusted to his charge. He should be ever ready and willing to give generously of his time—and energy in raising the standards of vital resistance to disease—thru information and thru health producing activities. It is to him that the children should instinctively turn for council and advice in matters of personal hygiene and health essentials, which are not serious enough to necessitate visiting the family physician.

Thru his normal school and professional experience, the physical training teacher is eminently fitted to accept this responsibility.

Therefore, I would recommend that he devote o of every physical training period, with of course the exception of the three minute relaxation or setting up period, to instruction in personal hygiene.

I would recommend that approximately one-fifth of the physical training period be spent in this maimer; that a question box be installed in every gymnasium or play room, into which the children should be encouraged to put questions pertaining to health matters which they would like answered or discussed, and that a bulletin board be put up for posting health notices, health motives, and contributions on subjects pertaining to the manifold phases of this vital

Digitized by ^ooQle
475

subject. The state monographs are replete with material which is carefully graded and systematically arranged for class presentation. The small amount of time necessary to prepare the lessons would be well repaid; first by the enlivened interest in the physical training work on the part of the pupils; second, in the appreciation of the parents and school officiate; and third, in the consciousness of rendering a truly significant service to the community. I do not mean that we should evade the time requirement of our Physical Training Law. We can enliven our teaching and utilize some of the rest periods in the gymnasium lesson for this work. I firmly believe that in giving this health instruction, we will be following out the true spirit of the law, which has for its end in view the care and development of the physical, mental and moral vigor of the children.

Let us make this contribution to our health program, and put our very souls into it. We are face to face with a national crisis in health matters. The great emotional unrest throughout the world is evident to all of us and it is the opinion of many authorities that one of the methods of treating this condition is thru elevating health standards and causing our people to believe in the joy of living and the pleasure of work.

We can ill afford to let this opportunity pass by. The splendid-co-operative spirit which you teachers manifested at our recent New Jersey Physical Education Convention, held in Newark, makes me feel confident that you will accept this trust, that you will start this-instruction at once.

Don’t let us think in terms of prescribed courses, academic credit or examinations for this work. Let us speed up our daily lessons and let the final results be measured by the increased interest in health matters and more cordial response on the part of pupils,, parents, and teachers in the work we are doing for the boys and girls of our State.

(Signed) F. W. MARONEY, M. D.,

Director of Physical Training and Hygiene.

(Approved) C. N. KENDALL,

Commissioner of Education.

The National Safety Council, 168 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, write* us as follows:

We are sure that you personally and many of your readers will be interested in a booklet entitled “Plan of Safety Instruction-' in Public and Parochial Schools.” by Dr. E. George Payne. This booklet has been published by the National Safety Council as part of its campaign to secure the adoption of the St. Louis plan of safety instruction in every public and parochial school in the country within the next year. In this endeavor the Council is enlisting the aid of women’s organizations, civic clubs, the United States Railroad Administration and others interested in the whole question of public safety.

The officers of the Council consider Dr. Payne’s outline of the St. Louis plan as published in this booklet the most convincing
476

.presentation of this subject that has been made. They look upon the development of the teaching of safety in public schools as the greatest single contribution that has yet been made to the safety ■movement.

On the assumption that you are perhaps not fully acquainted with the nature of the National Safety Council, let me say that it is now the leading organization in the United States for the prevention of accidents in the industries, the street and the homes. Starting in 1913 with forty members, it now includes in its membership more than 15,000 factories, railroads, insurance companies, technical .schools, governmental agencies, etc., employing an aggregate of more than 6,000,000 workers. Its income is derived solely from membership. It does its work without asking for profit. It is co-operative, non-political, non-commercial. Practically all the industrial concerns, railroads and other public utilities, both large and small, which have obtained the best results in accident prevention are members of the National Safety Council.

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION CONVENTION PROGRAM, TENTATIVE FINAL,

NEW YORK CITY.

April, 7-10, 1920.

Waldorf-Astoria and McAlpin Hotels.

Wednesday, April 7.

Morning and Afternoon—Registration and Visitation trips.

7:30 P. M.— Music and Reception.

Welcome Address—Dr. John H. Finley.

Presidential Address—Dr. Dudley B. Reed.

Folk Dancing by Delegates—Elizabeth Burchenal in charge.

Thursday, April 8.

930 A. M.— Public School Section meeting.

2:00 P. M.— Sectional meetings.

8:00 P. M.— Pageant as provided by New York Society.

Friday, April 9.

9:30 A. M.— General Meeting.

Problems in Recruiting Teachers in Physical Educa-cation—Prof. Elmer Berry.

Educational Tests for Physical Efficiency—Prof. E. L. Thorndike.

Health and the High Cost of Living—Prof. Irving Fisher.

230 P. M.— General Meeting.

Progress in Physical Education Legislation.

Address—Prof. F. S. Lee, Columbia.

Relation of Physical Education to Leisure Time in Industry—Dr. Geo. E. Vincent—Pres. Rockefeller Foundation.

Digitized by v^ooQle
477

6:46 P. M.— Convention

Col. Campbell—“Physical Training at Aldershot.” Addresses: Dr. Eliott, Dr. Butler.

Toasts: Dr. D. A. Sargent, Dr. T. A. Storey. Saturday, April 10.

9:30 A. M.—General Meeting.

The Place of Physical Education in the General Schema of Education—Dr. Snedden, Pres, of National Ass’n., for Vocational Training.

Discussion of Printed Reports.

Business meeting and Adjournment of Convention.

12 KK)—	A. P. E. A. Council Meeting.

TWO BOOK EXHIBITS FOR THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL. EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

One at the Annual Convention, New York City, April 7-10r Headquarters Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, and a second exhibit at the Mid West Convention, Chicago, 111., April 22-24.

We ask you to examine the literature on physical education and make yourself conversant with the work of the American Physical Education Association.

The American Physical Education Association is working for adequate programs and efficient teachers in physical education. The economic losses due to physical inefficiency are more serious in the long run than the enormous losses due to war. The Surgeon General’s last report shows 47 per cent of the drafted men with physical defects. Approximately half of these interfere with a man's usefulness in civil life. Sir George Newman's report to the British Ministry of Health points out that the British workmen lost last year, due to illness, more than fourteen million weeks. This did not count any illness below four days. Failure to form correct health habits retards not only school progress, but sends children out with a poor health equipment.

MIDDLE WEST SOCIETY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

The Middle West Society of Physical Education has a large territory, comprising twenty-four states in the Mississippi Valley. The number of Physical Directors in these states might conserve tively be estimated at twenty-five hundred. A cordial invitation is given to all who are interested in physical education to join the organization of the Middle West territory. It is possible that many members of the American Physical Education Association in the Middle West cannot attend the national convention in New York City, April 7-10. They are invited then to consider attending the convention in Chicago at the end of April. The president of the National Organization is Dr. Dudley B. Reed, who will bring the Middle West Convention a report of the national convention in

Digitized by LaOOQle
478

New York. Other attractive speakers have been invited. Bullet-tins are being sent out by the secretary of the Middle West Society' to all paid-up members. Send one dollar with name, permanent .address, and professional title to Lillian Bruce Pendleton, Secretary-Treasurer, 248 West Marquette Road, Chicago.

MIDDLE WEST SECTION, AMERICAN	PHYSICAL

EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

Chicago, April 22-24, 1920.

Headquarters, Central Y. M. C. A. Building, 19 South ! LaSalle street.

TENTATIVE PROGRAM

Thursday, April 22 (Morning, afternoon).

.Registration at headquarters.

.Delegates will visit under guide any of the following places to observe physical work:

Public schools, including Chicago Normal College,

Private schools.

Normal schools of Physical Education,

University of Chicago, Northwestern University,

Parks and Playgrounds,

Social and Community Centers,

Y.	M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A.

Committee:

Captain C. E. Beals and Mr. Henry Suder, Public Schools,

Miss Musselman, Physical Education Normal Schools,

Mr. Reynolds, Parks and Playgrounds,

Mr. Hoffer, Y. M. C. A. and Social Organizations,

Miss Lawson, Y. W. C. A. and Universities.

.8.00 p. m.:

Exhibition of physical work to be given by the five normal schools of Physical Education of Chicago and vicinity: American College of Physical Education,

Chicago Normal School of Physical Education,

Columbia Normal School of Physical Education, Department of Physical Education of Northwestern University,

Y.	M. C. A. College of Physical Education.

(Note: Admission to this exhibition will be for members only. Delegates are urged to come in time to take in this part of the program, as it will be the basis of discussion during the following days.)

Friday, April 23.

9:00 a. m.—Registration at headquarters.

10:00 a. m.—Address: “Fundamental Essentials in Physical Education.” Speaker to be announced.

Digitized by
479

10:30 a. m.—Ten-minute addresses on present trend in:	.	.

Athletics, Speaker to be announced.

Gymnastics, Speaker to be announced.

Swimming, Mr. Thomas Robinson, Northwestern University.

Health Examinations and Health Instruction, Dr. D.

B. Reed, University of Chicago.

Play and Physical Recreation, Speaker to be announced Dancing, Speaker to be announced.

12:30 p. m.—Luncheon. Luncheon will be served at the Y. M. C.

A. for seventy-five cents per plate. Reservations should be made upon registration with the secretary.

2K)0 p. m.—Illustrated Lecture: Reconstruction of Wounded Soldier; Suggestions as to Methods for Industrial and Other Accidents,—Dr. J. C. Elsom.

2:45 p. m.—Section Meetings—program to be provided by each section chairman. At the close of these meetings, or at any time announced by the chairman, the officers of the section for the following year will be elected.

7:45 p. m.—Demonstration—Bartlett Gymnasium.

Committee:

Dr. R. A. Allen, Chairman, Central Y. M. C. A., 19 S. LaSalle St., Chicago.

Miss May K. Froom, Chicago Elementary Schools,

Dr. Otto Groener, Senn High School,

Mr. Joseph F. Wright, Francis W. Parker School.

»	Saturday,	April	24.

9:00 a. m.—Report from National Convention, Dr. Dudley B. Reed, President of the National Association. Discussion and questions.

9:45 a. m.—General Business meeting with election of officers. 10:30 a. m.—Laws relating to Physical Education in the Middle West States that are or ought to be adopted—Mr.

E.	Dana Calkins, Executive Secretary National Physical Education Service. Discussion and questions. 11:15 a. m.—Address, National Association Representative.

12 KM) m.— Adjournment.

In an exchange we find the following that may appeal to some of our readers who are continually looking for new things.

Want a new dance? Why not try the Indian egg dance? Place 18 eggs in a row on the floor and dance rapidly zig-zag among them without breaking any of them—that’s all. An expert says it takes four or five years of practice to become an adept and that learners will do well to use potatoes during the first two or three years of practice. It may be added that it is advisable to use strictly fresh eggs at any stage of the game.

Digitized by Google
t/

Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Equipment Steel Lockers

Established

1873

Years of intensive specializing in these particular lines have made MED ART products pre-eminent—the first choice of those who know—and who consider quality and permanence as well as price.

Write For Catalog “L“

It Is a recognized guide on Gymnasium, Playground, Swimming Pool and Locker Room phanlng, equipment and operation. Sent on request to thoae who are Interested. Write for it on your letterhead.

Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

35M DeKalb St., St, Louis, Mo.

THE CHICAGO RORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FOR WOMEN ONLY	ESTABLISHED 1903

FRANCES MUSSELMAN, Principal TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—REGISTRATION SEPTEMBER 2S and FEBRUARY t Accredited by State Department of Public Instruction. Theoretical and practical tiaininc hi all branches of physical education, preparing young women to become Directors of Physical Education in Public and Private Schools, Colleges and Universities, Young Womens* Christian Associations and Playgrounds. ▲ strong faculty of teachers with a national reputation. Hundreds of our graduates are holding responsible positions in the best institutions of the country. Exceptionally fine dormitory for non-resident students.

SIX WEEKS SUMMER TERM for 1920 opens JUNE 28 SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN Foe catalogs address Registrar, 438 S. Wabash Are., Chicago.

CATALOG UPON REQUEST

CHICAGO

Gymnasium Equipment

COMPANY

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND OUTFITTERS

THEO. A. GROSS, President

1040 W. Lake St	CHICAGO