MIND AND BODY

Vol. 37	OCTOBER,	1930	No.	389

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.f NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. SETCHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postcffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act cf March 3, 1879.

o— ■	- ■	■	■■■	—----

Original articles and reprint^}

--------------------------------------------—•

ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH EDUCATION, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, RECREATION*

William A. Stecher

INTRODUCTION

Educational procedures are in the throes of change and readjustment. Dewey’s philosophy of education is being interpreted to mean nearly everything from the utmost freedom to a restricted guidance. By some teachers “Education through spontaneous self-activity” is interpreted to mean that the child should be given its chance for educational development only by means of such activities as it chooses to undertake. Others believe that mature individuals or trained teachers have had a good opportunity to learn what lines of development are best under present day conditions, and that because of their experience they can profitably guide a child’s “Education through spontaneous selfactivity.” Naturally the organization and the administration of materials used for educational growth vary according to one’s philosophy of education.

*NOTE: An extension course given at the Territorial Normal School, Honolulu, T. H. February to June 1930.

Digitized by
142

In the work done during this course it was deemed wise to be guided by the following viewpoints:

1.	Educational activities are valuable if they lead to a development of character, mentality, organic strength, initiative and adaptability.

2.	Curricular materials, that is activities, that permit spontaneous self-activity are of the greatest importance in the growth and development of the child because they allow an expression of its inner tendencies; this in turn gives rise to creative self-expression.

3.	In order that all innate powers of the child be given a chance for development it may be necessary in many cases to select guided activities to supplement the self-selected activities. In these the child should be given much freedom.

4.	Development and growth should mean a continuous recreation of a child through worthwhile experiences; such experiences should help a child interpret the world in which he lives.

5.	The school should furnish a good environment for the child so that normal growth may result.

6.	The projects outlined in various parts of this pamphlet are not presented with the idea that a teacher should copy them. They are intended to act as guides showing inexperienced teachers how a project might be developed after a similar activity had been suggested by the pupils.

(As a further aid in the organization and administration of health education attention is called to the various articles on this subject that appeared in “Mind and Body” in the issues of April, May, June, etc., 19,30).

7.	In leading the development and growth of children in the Elementary School, the project method is very valuable. The function and use of projects should be about as follows:

A project in its development should furnish good educational material.

It should give the child much opportunity for self-activity.

It should lead to creative thinking and to absorbing activity.

It should help in the acquisition of worthwhile knowledge and skills.

It should help in the development of good habits.

It should tend to develop high ideals and a sensitive appreciation.

A worthwhile project should serve to direct and give reason for much of the work demanded of the school by modem conditions.

Five committees were formed at the beginning of the course so that the problems confronting the class could better be considered. These committees were (1) Health Education in Junior High Schools, (2) Physical Education in Junior High Schools,
143

(3) Health Education in Elementary Schools, (4) Physical Education in Elementary Schools. (5) Municipal Recreation.

Each committee presented the results of its discussions to the class for adoption or rejection. The results of this procedure were gathered by a publication committee which prepared the following material for the future use of the class members.

PARTI. HEALTH EDUCATION*IN THE ELEMENTARY

SCHOOLS

1.	Object.

The aim of health education is to develop habits of healthful living; to present accepted fundamentals of health development; to interest the teacher and pupils in community health; to give suggestions for study by the children in school toward various forms of helpful health activities.

2.	Organization.

The plan of procedure for health education in the Elementary Schools is to bring health education closer to the life of the child by developing health practices relating to personal cleanliness, environmental cleanliness, food, teeth, exercise, sleep, fresh air, sunshine, work, play, and rest.

To make this application, the teacher must know the needs of the community; the needs of the school plant; the needs of each child to be taught; and her own needs in presenting the lessons.

As soon as possible the pupils should be organized into squads, teams or committees to help in as many ways as possible

3.	Administration.

The program should include examinations to correct defects of the eyes, ears, nose, throat, teeth, etc.; suitable devices, charts and graphs for recording improvement or otherwise. Children's interest in civic betterment should be aroused. Parents co-operation should be secured by means of standard reports.

In launching the health program, the instruction should be presented according to type lessons with definite time allotment. Interest should be developed by means of projects and self-testing measures and devices.

4.	Motivating Devices.

Devices in health education should carry a definite meaning to the children. The device itself should not be the real purpose. The central motive should be the interest of the children to be good and healthy Americans. These stimulating practices could be encouraged through the use of health plays, pageants, slogans, posters, movies, honors, badges and other awards.

5.	Details Relative to Grades 1» 2, 3.

A.	Time Schedule. Ten minutes daily for morning inspection. Two periods each week of 15 minutes each for direct health instruction. One period each week for correlation with other subjects.

Digitized by LaOOQle
144

B.	General Aim. To develop personal health habits and activities in the school, home, community.

C.	Teacher’s Aim. To keep the health record of each individual as well as the health progress of the class. To train pupils in personal health habits and to guide their interest in establishing healthy growth.

D.	Pupil’s Aim. To develop good health habits.

Grades 4, 5, 6.

A.	Time Schedule. One 30 minutes period each day.

B.	General Aim. To pursue the development of personal health habits and other health activities with broader approaches to the subject. To stress the importance of pupil participation in community health programs.

C.	Teacher's Aim. To promote valuable instruction for hygienic growth. To explain the connection between food and health. To place before the children the community interest in disease prevention.

D.	Pupil’s Aim. To guide his personal health development by protecting the body, properly clothing the body, securing medical attention when needed, understanding why food plays an important part in the human race, and to understand and appreciate what the community does for the health of the people.

6.	The Four Health Fundamentals.

In planning their health education procedures teachers should remember that there are four health fundamentals; they are 1) Food. 2) Air and Sunshine; 3) Rest and Sleep and 4) Exercise and Work. Each is important; health never can result if one is neglected.

In the following these four fundamentals are presented briefly according to educational viewpoints and educational functions.

1.	FOOD

1.	Knowledge relating to food. Necessary for growth, work. Necessary for right living.

2.	Skills to be acquired. Selection of healthful food. Planning a healthful meal.

3.	Habits to be formed. Eat wholesome foods. Cultivate good table manners. Avoid eating between meals. Prevent indigestion. Seek to establish daily bowel movement. Be cheerful while eating and drinking. Regular exercise outdoors.

4.	Ideals to be developed. Seeking to be healthy and strong. Striving for the school health letter.

5.	Attitudes. Becoming fit through properly prepared foods. Cultivating an appreciation for body building foods such as milk, vegetables, fruits, etc.

Digitized by CjOOQle
145

2.	AIR

1.	Knowledge relating to Air and Sunshine. Essential for healthful living.

2.	Skills. Outdoor living in clean, fresh air. Establishing proper ventilation indoors.

3.	Habits. Breathing properly. Keeping lungs healthy. Developing good chest expansion. Regulating the appearance of the whole body. Play outdoors in sunshine whenever possible.

4.	Ideals. Seeking to be fit in order to withstand contagious diseases. Working for a school health badge. Striving to establish strong, healthy lungs and chest.

5.	Attutides. Appreciation of a well-regulated sanitary home. Making proper use of clean, fresh air and the golden health gem, The SUN.

3.	REST AND SL.EJEP

1.	Knowledge relating to Rest. Information necessary for proper growth and development. Relaxation; its value and importance. Precautions against late retiring.

2.	Skills. Creating helpful rest periods accordiig to age.

3.	Habits. Preventing fatigue. Allowing sufficient rest to be comfortable. Being strong and sturdy because of proper hours of sleep. Striving to remove incorrect sleeping positions. Taking enough rest to place the body in a good condition for work.

4.	Ideals. Restful sleeping in order to be strong and healthy. Seeking a school health button for full time hours of rest, according to age, at home every night.

5.	Attitudes. Appreciation of the value of rest and sleep whenever the body is tired. Cultivating the proper use of bed clothing and covering. Desirability to be a member of the outstanding athletic teams, because of proper rest and sleep.

4.	EXERCISE (Work)

1.	Knowledge relative to Exercise and Work. Information relative to the best type of exercise to develop the whole body.

2.	Skills. Selection of appropriate healthful exercises and games to help build bones, muscles, nerves. Preparing devices for exercise.

3.	Habits. Establishing habits of healthful bodily exercise. Keeping trim and fit.

4.	Ideals. Seeking to be cheerful, happy, alert. To win a school health badge or letter. To be in perfect physical condition.

5.	Attitudes. Appreciating the manly appearance of a youth due to healthful exercise. Noticing the wholesqme change in character and behavior of children due to healthy growth.

Digitized by UaOOQle
146

6.	Motivating Devices. According to the conditions, the teachers should use proper motivating devices. With very young children an airplane or a ladder showing health improvement, or different colored stars showing improvement, could be used. Children of Grades 4, 5, 6 could use other more intricate devices and projects for motivating definite phases of health education.

(To be continued)

LESSON PLANNING IN HEALTH EDUCATILN

Grover W. Mueller

In the April issue of Mind and Body we began the publication of a series of lesson plans in health education. The importance of lesson planning was emphasized. A general outline of plans for the types of lessons most commonly used in health education was presented. This was followed by a more detailed discussion of the development type of lesson. The article was concluded with a sample Development Lesson.

In the May issue the type of lesson known as the Project Lesson was discussed and a sample lesson printed. In addition we presented another development lesson. In June, two examples of another type of lesson, namely the Review Lesson, were printed. These were accompanied by a discussion of the form and value of each lesson.

This month another type of lesson, a Textbook Study Lesson, is offered. Another Development Lession is added. The development type of lesson is the most valuable for use in health education, although other types may be best in certain cases as we have suggested from time to time in these columns.

Illustrative Lesson I. A Textbook Study Lesson

The textbook study lesson is not one of the more important types of lessons used in health education. However, there are occasions when its use is warranted and we offer one lesson plan of this type as a possible aid to those who may be seeking suggestions on this topic. The reader of this article should not confuse the textbook study lesson presented here with study assignments which pupils are expected to do as home work or during rostered study periods. In the lesson appearing in this issue the pupils' study is done entirely with a specified textbook during a regular class period. It is not one of the aims to develop in the pupil an ability to study, although as far as possible the accepted procedures commonly used in such an aim should be followed. The main immediate aim is usually that the pupils obtain and fix in their minds certain information in a limited amount of time, i. e., during a class period. The teacher may wish them to gain this information for use in connection with a future recitation, or to serve as an apperceptive basis for a future

Digitized by LjOOQLe
147

discussion on a related topic. Such a lesson might also be assigned to familiarize pupils with the textbooks in schools where a limited supply of such books makes it inadvisable to permit one class of pupils to take them home; or it may be assigned in the event of the teacher’s absence.

In order that study in a lesson of this kind be fruitful, it is important that pupils be given significant questions to be answered, an important problem to be solved, or a need of real consequence to be satisfied. There must be a clear understanding by the pupil of what is to be done. The old type of study assignment which consists chiefly of an enumeration of pages or topics which are to be studied fails to achieve worth while results. Even among mature college students there are relatively few who are able to make good use of assigned material unless they have been given some well-defined purpose or need to be served through it. In making the study assignment the teacher should, therefore, make clear the conclusions to be sought, the applications to be made, and the purpose to be achieved. Unless this is done there will be no thorough study. “The pupil, having no especial purpose of his own to satisfy through the material, and only dimly divining the teacher’s aims, follows the safe and familiar plan of trying to remember a sufficient collection of fragments from the material to appease the teacher.”* The matter of being very definite in making the study assignment is especially important in health education because in only few casqs is it possible to develop a checking feature by which the pupil will know, with reasonable certainty, when the assigned task is fairly completed. A definite preliminary plan saves the pupil “from that unfortunate but too common surrender to the material, in which he passively allows himself to drift with the running current of words, without using them for constructive purposes. Such a preliminary plan induces him to assume an active, purposive attitude, alert for significant features in the material, and discriminating as to relative values.”*

With regard to the relation of the teacher to her pupils during the study period, we quote from Wilson, Kyte, and Lull**: “Negatively stated, the teacher should not be a “crutch” for her pupils during the study period. She should not do for them what they can and should do for themselves. On the other hand the teacher should not sit by and allow the pupils to stumble along to a greatly delayed success, or as often happens, to a wasteful discouraging failure which micht have been prevented by timely wise counselling and guidance. Positively stated, during the study period, the teacher should guide and inspire each child to go about his work to the best of his ability and in keeping with the essentials of good study. She should guide each child, as need arises, and keep before him what he is to accomplish during the study period.”

•Principles & Technique of Teaching—Thomas ••Modem Methods in Teaching—Wilson, Kyte & Lull.

Digitized by v^ooQle
148

Following is an illustrative textbook study type of lesson designed for use in Grade 7B. The length of the period is forty-five minutes. As indicated at the beginning of the plan, it is supposed to be the first in a series of lessons on the general topic: Muscles.

Health Education Grade 7B Text Book Study Lesson

TOPIC: The Digestive System—Lesson 1.

TEACHERS’ REFERENCES: Williams “Anatomy and Physiology”

Winslow and Williamson “The Laws of Health”

Williams "Healthful Living”

PUPILS’ TEXTS: Newmayer and Broome “The Human Body and Its Care,” Chap. XI (parts)

Blount "Health”, Chap. VI (Page 94-99) Winslow “Healthy Living,” Chap. VI Cuzzort and Trask “Physiology, Hygiene and Sanitation,” Chap. VII

I.	Aim

General: To develop proper food habits through an understanding of the simple parts and functions of the digestive system.

Specific: To establish oral hygiene through

a)	a knowledge of the structure and function of the teeth

b)	an understanding of the way to preserve the teeth

c)	knowing the part played by the tongue and salivary glands in the digestive process.

II.	Content

Teeth

a.	Structure and composition

b.	Temporary and permanent

c.	Function and kinds

1.	Biting (incisors)

2.	Tearing and grinding (canines, bicuspids, and molars)

d.	Health habits

1.	Brush teeth and tongue

2.	Use dental floss

3.	Use foods which require chewing

4.	Use foods that contribute to bone growth

5.	Visit dentist regularly to prevent decay, deposit (tartar), pyorrhea (receding gums), abscess.

Tongue

a.	Mixes and tastes food Salivary glands

a.	Secrete saliva

1.	Moisten food

2.	Dissolve some foods

Digitized by UjOOQle
149

3.	Make slight chemical change of starch to a kind of sugar (maltose)

III.	Method

Assignment

a)	Prefatory quiz on necessity of food, what is meant by digestion, and where does it start.

b)	Motivate textbook assignment through such questions

as:

Why brush the gums? What foods aid in preserving the teeth and gums? What makes a tooth ache? (do not accept answers at this time)

c)	Suggest that answers to these and other important questions are found in pupils' texts. Briefly state the aim. Give exact chapter and pages to be studied.

Directed Study

List the following questions on the board as guidance for study:

What part do the teeth play in digestion?

Where do we find the enamel? the dentine? the nerve? the blood vessel?

Which teeth are involved in biting? tearing? chewing? What do you understand by care of the teeth?

In what ways does the food we eat affect the teeth? What is tartar? pyorrhea? an abcess?

How does the tongue aid digestion?

Name two ways in which saliva helps digestion.

Recitation

To faciliatate this phase of the lesson make a drawing of a tooth on the blackboard. Have pupils label various structural parts as they are discussed. A brief outline may be constructed as a result of the pupils’ answers.

Conclusion

a) Recall pupils’ aim. Allow short time for questions and discussion.

b|) Have pupils copy in note book essential material.

Illustrative Lesson II. A Development Lesson

The foollowing lesson plan is also designed for use in Grade 7B. It is a development lesson of the same type which has appeared elsewhere in this series of articles. As indicated at the beginning of the plan, it is supposed to be the first in a series of lessons on the general topic: Muscles.

Health Education Grade 7B Development Lesson TOPIC: The Circulatory System—Lesson 1 TEACHERS REFERENCES: Williams "HealthfulLiving” Chapter XII

Winslow and Williamson “The Laws of Health” Chapter VIII Williams "Anatomy and Physiology,” Pages 280-284

Digitized by kjOOQle
150

I.	Aim

General: To promote the practice of health habits through an understanding of the blood and its circulation.

Specific: To relate the compostition and function of the blood to the contributive health habits.

II.	Content

The Blood

a.	Composition and function

1.	Red corpuscles

2.	White corpuscles

3.	Plasma

4.	Platelets

b.	Deficiency of red blood cells (anemia) caused by:

1.	Inadequate food

2.	Insufficient oxygen

3.	Worry

4.	Poisons from intestines

5.	Focal infections

6.	Loss of blood

c.	Healthy blood promoted by:

1.	Moderate exposure to direct sunshine

2.	Outdoor recreation and exercise

3.	Proper food habits

4.	Adequate rest

5.	Elimination of waste

III.	Method

Approach

By means of oral drill briefly review the general function of the blood as covered in Grade 5B and in Grade 7A (The Body Cells Lesson 1).

Development

a.	Through drawings and outline present the composition of the blood and the functions of its parts.

b.	Outline the possible causes of anemia, briefly describing how each affects the blood.

c.	From the negative factors outlined under “b”, construct, by questioning, an outline of positive habits, supplementing where necessary. Stress this part of the lesson, especially “sunshine,” as it is of great importance. If necessary use an extra lesson (Current Health Topic) to consider this subject.

Conclusion

Have pupils copy outlines in note books.

Assignment

Assign qs topic for home preparation:

“How may we obtain more benefit from sunshine?”

•Material reserved for high ability group.

Digitized by Google
151

physical defects in junior high school pupils

Theo. R. Rhea, Kalakaua Junior High School, Honolulu, T. H.

The following figures are an attempt to accumulate the results of the physical examination given by the Board of Health in four Junior High Schools in Honolulu in October of 1929. The figures, however, do not cover all of the Junior High Schools in the City,:—Kawananakoa and Lincoln were not included.

	Number of Students	% Defective Tonsils	% Tonsils Corrected	% Defective Teeth	% Teeth Corrected	% Defective Hearing	% Under Weight (10% and more)	% T. B. Suspects	% Defective Vision	% Vision Corrected With Glasses
Nationalities  Japanese	998	47.2	9.7	41.2	13.6	4.1	25 7	3.	13.	1.7
Chinese	365	51.5	6.	39.9	21.5	4.3	44.7	3.8	11.7	1.1
Hawaiian and	222	50 9	7.6	39.2	19.6	5.4	27.	3.1	5 4	.4
Part Hawaiian Portuguese and	148	55 4	11.4	33.1	20 6	4.7	36.4	1.3	8.1	4.
Spanish All Others	139	48.9	12 2	39.5	10 8	5.7	30 2	2.1	9.3	.7
Totals for all	1872	49	9	40.	13	5 2	30.	3.	11.	1.5
Nationalities by Schools  Washington	578	42.	10.2	39.	12.8	5.4	28.	3.1	7.9	1.1
Jr. High Central	341	42.6	7.	46.		4.4	28.	3.8	15.	3.2
Jr. High Kalakaua	704	56.	9.5	43.	16.8	5.5	37.	2.5	7.9	1.4
Jr. High Liliuokalani	249	55.	8.4	28.	21.7		22.5	2.8	13.7	1.2
Jr. High										

This year all of the seventh grade children in Washington Kalakua, Central and Liliuokalani were examined, malting a total of 1872 children. Here we have attempted to work out the percentage of defects by nationalities, and by schools, also the previous correction by' nationalities and schools that were made before the children entered Junior High last fall.

The fact that the Chinese are high in defective tonsils and low in correction is just what we, who are in this work, would expect. The Chinese, especially those whose parents are not American bom, are very difficult to deal with—they are terribly afraid of the knife. In many cases they can not be persuaded even though a bad heart accompanies the diseased tonsils and the doctors feel that the tonsils are responsible for the heart condi-

Digitized by CaOOQle
152

tion. The Chinese, however, are higher in teeth correction than any other group.

Another interesting fact brought out in these figures is that the percentage of underweight children varies greatly with different groups. The Chinese are 44.4 per cent underweight while the Japanese are only 25 per cent. This proves that we can not depend too much on one standard scale, using it to compute underweights in all the different nationalities. Here we consider only the ten, fifteen and under as being underweight. One of the most interesting facts was the high percentage of defective vision among the Orientals. The figures for visual defects were startling and in order to make it cover more cases, the visual defects were taken for a thousand more cases, making a total of over 2800 cases. Here all the Orientals were grouped together and all non-Orientals were grouped together in another group. We found the Orientals to be 12 per cent defective in vision and the others were only 7 per cent defective. While this survey does not' cover enough cases to make any of the facts brought out absolutely conclusive, still it might be a guide to future investigation.

In comparing the schools we can see the definite effect of an organization such as Palama Settlement on the amount of corrections made. For example, in teeth correction we see that Kalakaua ranks above Washington even though Kalakaua draws from a poorer class as a whole than does Washington. While these children in Kalihi were in Grammar school a very large per cent of them were taken care of at Palama. The doctors examining at Central did not mark on the cards whether teeth had been corrected or not, so that we can not tell what has been done for the children entering the seventh grade there.

The most interesting fact in comparing the schools is brought out in the underweight condition existing. Several school men were asked how they would rate the four schools according to financial condition of parents and condition of the homes. They all rated them the same, Liliuokalani first, Central and Washington very nearly the same and Kalakaua quite a bit lower than any of the others. We find them in just the same order from the standpoint of underweight. Liliuokalani only 22.5%—10 and 15% underweight, Central and Washington both 28 and Kalakaua 37%.

THE USE OF LEISURE

Henry Suzzallo

We Americans live in a workdriven world. The rest of the world has noticed it; and we are beginning to take note of it ourselves. We do not know just why we have gloried in this lopsided life. Our common talk seems to show that we have.

•Reprint, Journal National Education Association.

Digitized by Google
153

We talk unduly about the day’s work when the day’s work is supposed to be over. Shop rules our minds.

We business men and others go to conventions, ostensibly on a serious errand which justifies us among our neighbors; but down in our own rebellious souls we know that we are really seeking change and recreation. We take a socially respectable half-vacation when our psychological need is for a whole and wholesome vacation that has no pretense of responsibility in it. Thus, we veil our real motives to keep our social standing and our personal self-respect.

Every American who is not yet a social rebel is afraid to be a man of leisure. It sounds too much like being an idler. It is associated with laziness and economic parasitism.

I wonder how we came to feel and act this way? Few of us know! And many do not care. Yet I think it will help to give us a new openness of mind toward our problem if we recognize how much the values of another day are ruling us.

Let me repeat that we often make no use of leisure, or a very poor use of it, because we are living up to the code of some dead ancestor, near or remote, who worked out a philosophy of life of his own, while we do not take the same liberty of fitting our working and living values to our own particular needs.

We need a code of our own for a life of our own. Hence it is necessary for us to look sharply at some traditional attitudes which have trickled down to us through many generations, handed on by father to son.

First, there is still among us that lingering touch of asceticism which filtered down from the Middle Ages. It makes us look a bit disdainfully on our bodies as though they were not worth serious attention as are our minds and souls. There is the thought, too, that a thrill of physical wellbeing is not altogether consistent with the good of our souls, and that to be happy in common human ways may not be completely conducive to goodness. More of us are caught in these tenacious attitudes than would dare to defend them by any rational argument.

Then, there are some conventions among highly respectable people, culturally and socially speaking, which are said to be mid-Victorian. Disregardful of the instincts and impulses of human kind, they are both repressive and narrowly selective in determining how people shall be permitted to enjoy themselves. The pleasures of the parlor are to them more respectable than those closer to earth and human nature. Worthy leisure is, by this pale highbrowism, to be confined to the upper stories of man’s very human inheritance, to the polite and more or less subdued activities of mind and feeling.

But more influential with us are the attitudes of our own American social ancestors which pour over from the last generation or two into this one. The Puritan undervalued the recreational side of life and disdained it. Many merely playful activities were thought to be harmful. Later, we conceded they

Digitized by LjOOQle
154

were harmless. Now, we know they could be positively helpful to mental wholesomeness. In addition, the Pioneer, by the unconscious pressure of frontier necessity, overvalued work and responsibility, and gave too exclusive attention to them. One disdained and the other forsook playful leisure as an important part of life. Both alike damaged the free spirit and omitted from the American living tradition a sanction for recreative playfulness. Both alike suffered somewhat from selfdeprivation. Their conditions of life, however, did not make the deprivation tragic. Our own life and time is so different that a taboo on leisure and the playful life is a definitely tragic thing, alike for the common man and the pillar of society. Of this we shall say more later.

It might be well to ask ourselves how life has changed for us from the day of our grandparents—not in its mere externals but in its impacts, repressions and releases of the human instincts.

We were once largely an agricultural people. It was a life of hard, physical work—that is admitted. But it had its compensations. The work varied from season to season, if not from day to day. There was winter slackening if there was summer overworking. Many skills, judgments, and emotional reactions were called for in infinite variety. But man-at-work was still the master of his tools. And time had flexibility. Often it was a lonesome life. Man, the gregarious, suffered some. Woman, more. The country man and woman were deprived of the best cultural institutions, which flowered most richly in great cities, but he had Nature which his city cousin had lost—skies, the blue hills, the countryside. Trying to command her in all her moods and fancies, his work was changeful and versatile. Life was not standardized or mechanical.

Since then, his children, in countless numbers, have gone to the cities to become urban dwellers, workers in shops and factories in an industrial, mechanized, and standardized age. Flexibility has fone from working time. The tasks are painfully alike from month to month, day to day, and hour to hour. Life lacks variety; monotony and boredom fill its place. More than half the nation’s population, more or less, is thus engaged.

Most of what invention and industrial organization has done for the farmer is, in human terms, clear gain. He and his family gain good roads, the automobile, the advantages of a nearer town. They have the telephone, the phonograph, and the radio. Some but not too many machines relieve him of sheer animal toil.

Much that has happened to increase the efficiency of urban industry is a clear psychological loss so far as human work is concerned. The machine governs the worker. He has become a machine-tender; he has ceased to be its master. The regular turning of a wheel times his reaction. Time for him has no flexibility, no variety. He does the same thing over and over again with a part of his wits. The rest of his powers are uncalled for and unemployed!

Digitized by Tooele
155

From this approximate description, you will realize that some thing has happened to man industrialized. It will explain why he was the first to get the short working day. The farmer’s day has scarcely been shortened at all. The contrast has a psychological significance. The work of the factory which is easier on his body is less endurable to his mind, while the hard, physical toil of the pioneer farmer's life is more genial to mentality. Thus, to the city dweller and worker, garden and gentleman farming are leisure occupations.

All that man has and is by human nature is meant to be used. If a single capacity of man is overused, it is abused. If it is not used, underused, or underexpressed, it is also abused. The first leads to fatigue or monotony, the second to boredom or restlessness. Work under such conditions does not satisfy; man craves to stop and seek compensatory satisfaction. His wish to stop has given him a short working day—and incidentally the longest known daily leisure or freedom from work.

What then do we behold in great industrial cities? Bored, underexpressed, monotonized, restless men and women pour out of factories, office buildings, and shops at the end of the shortest working day, moving into the longest daily freetime the worker has ever known. He craves activity, engrossment of mind, enjoyment! He wants to play, which is the desire to let himself act directly or vicariously in genial, interesting, non-irritating ways.

Here is the problem of modem leisure!

A bored man will play! With normal, harmless, and even helpful expression repressed; without interest, capacity or training in the finer, stabler, joyous activities of life, he plays with the only feelingful things he has to play with—with instincts, appetites, passions. Commercialized sensuality, sensuousness, or sensationalism beckon him. Thus emerges the problem of the use of leisure.

At the other end from the workers are the pillars of society— the managers of the world’s affairs in large units of it. They carry larger loads than before. They carry them on soft, sensitive nerves, not on hard muscles. Their decisions touch thousands of men. Theirs is a life of anxiety or apprehension. They break down with the load. Or they grow calloused of heart and imagination, a merciful defense-mechanism for the man himself; but for mankind whose destiny such leaders affect, it is an unpromising trait to have in high places. The work of these does not lack either variety or interest; but it carries an overload of strain. Such men need recreation and leisure to rest and refreshen them. But the world hurries and pursues them with more work and gives them no free time. This, also, is the problem of leisure!

Common folk in between these two extremes also cany more loads upon their feeling life now. The king’s responsibility and strain now fall upon the common man. In democracy we are

Digitized by t<jOOQle
156

all kings, responsible for the government and the commonwealth, for order, stability, and progress. This wears on the conscientious citizen. He has an increased sense of failure and defeat— less of a sense of effectiveness. Political interest wearies many and they drop their burdens. A new political indifference is the calloused defense-mechanism of less able men, in small but still responsible places. The loads fall more heavily on a few, who continue to bear them. Duty now frowns doubly on the morally able, but with it comes a heavier anxiety to the sensitive and the responsive. Both types need rest, recreation, leisure, mental reconstruction. Without it, they cannot arise in the morning with a new thrill to slay the political dragons. Knightliness does not arise in fagged, discouraged men. Recreation is exactly what it means—recreation! Restored power! New power!

Our world beats on the humble citizen as never before. He lives in the whole big world, not in his little neighborhood alone. The telegraph, the telephone, the cable, the radio, the newspaper, the magazine, the wide distribution of books, fill his mind with everybody’s troubles. All these are added to his own. Such a mind certainly needs free time away from a responsible vocation, a responsible citizenship, a responsible humanness. He is entitled to a leisure, full of happy activities which spontaneously interest him and leave him refreshed. It does not matter so much how much we wear down in eight hours of responsible wage-earning work and two more of responsible, active citizenship if only we can rebuild in five of leisure and eight of sleep. But what if we are not given time to rebuild, to re-create? What then? What kind of a world shall we have if only tired, bored, discouraged men are in it? For society to grant a man leisure is not to confer a personal favor on the individual; it is to give safety, hopefulness, and progressive power to society.

Could we solve the problem of leisure, we should surely have the beginnings of a new kind of world, a more effective and happy on^!

Some guiding principles may be suggested to bring it about:

First, let us give leisure, recreation, or free time for the individual as respectable a place in our scheme of life valuation as we give to work. They are supplements. As sleep and rest are to physical restoration, so recreation is to mental, emotional and spiritual restoration.

Second, let the time conventions of life be arranged to protect the privacy of free time. The gogetters of American life should be warned off late afternoons, our evening hours,, our Saturdays, our half-holidays, and our Holy days. Let us have the courage to snub these relentless men. Let us get over the shame of being caught idling or working in our gardens, listening to music, going fishing, or reading a good book. These matters are pressing human needs and while we are at them, we should put up a “busy sign”! Privacy needs to be restored as a human institution for many reasons, of which one is the need to restore

Digitized by t^ooQle
157

our minds to wholesomeness through a leisurely pursuit of the things of heart’s desire.

Third, let us not permit supplementary and coordinate aspects of wholesome human living to become rivals or competitors, each seeking to crowd the other out.

Well-used leisure is not a competitor of productive wcrk; Its presence in life will outlaw the pathological slogans that "work is a curse” and “the less the better.” Leisure is the humane life-partner of work. In the last analysis, it heightens the pleasure of doing something that needs to be done. It is the good recess that breaks into labor too long pursued, as work itself is another recess to play too long indulged. It is only our false traditions and our psychological ignorance which make us act as though these statements were not true. An unbalanced psychological ration is as bad for the mind as an imbalanced diet is for the body.

That bit of old wisdom which says that "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy” is in terms of our new psychological wisdom, absolutely true. To begin with, it makes him a duller workman! Also, if he steals his pleasures, and they are likely to be the most forbidden ones, Jack becomes a poorer man and citizen, and somewhat of a social liability.

A true use of leisure never destroys other important values of life; sanely perceived play or recreation should heighten all other values and processes. Right use of leisure makes us constructive, not destructive. It makes us more moral, not less so, more refined, not more gross; more eager workers, not less willing workmen.

Fourth, let us provide opportunity to train for a good use of leisure everywhere we can in life—at home, in the neighborhood, on the playground, in the school, in every institution that has an interest in wholesomeness. A boy or girl, a man or woman needs a broad exposure to know what fits his nature and his circumstance. Then he makes a wiser choice, one that is likely to endure for him.

We have only to observe those who have rebelled against the unnatural distortions of life and have let mere feeling guide them to pleasure to know how fatally narrow an accidental choice may be. Our observations teach us that they are more likely to be wrecked than saved. What actually happens depends upon how natively intuitive or refined people are. Too often they shortchange themselves with sensuality, sensuousness, or mere sensationalism, the thrills of which do not endure, and which, like drugs, require larger dosages to bring renewed satisfaction. Such unfortunates have no sense of the higher types of play which delight without sad cost to the very last day of life. They had no chance to know. Society did not privide them opportunity to play with the more softspoken but more enduring satisfactions of life.

Digitized by t^ooQle
158

Fifth, let play opportunities be of every good kind. We need only to recognize that we are all that we are—body, mind, and soul. We cannot wisely leave any of them out of our work. Neither can we leave any of them out of our play.

Body, mind, and soul are inseparable partners for life. This is merely a way of saying that in our plan for the use of leisure and in the educational program which trains for leisure, we must be all-inclusive and quite tolerant of every wholesome, natural demand, whatever its emphasis. Each way of change, rest, play, or recreation has its place—walking, dancing, games of skill, the sports of the countryside, workmanship in the shop, lectures, sociability, drama, music, the movies and the talkies, the radio, reading good books, drawing, painting, singing, conversation, comradeship. Yes, even what other men call work may be my play. The great organ of life has many keys and many stops.

The things that may occupy our leisure spread from the one extreme of full, lusty, attention-engrossed, and active participation or expression, to the opposite one of a vicarious, imaginative appreciation which is almost passive and receptive. The great organ of life may be played from pianissimo to fortissimo.

Sixth, in whatever program we set up, let us educators profit by our rather long and somehwat sad experience in the intellectual field. Let us not repeat in the new field of recreation that tragic error of assuming that men and women, boys and girls, are all alike in their emotional and expressive needs. They were not in the field of cultural and practical training.

I fancy people are far more unlike emotionally than they are intellectually. Intellectuality has one long dimension, from idiocy to genius. Emotionality has fifty or a hundred dimensions running from almost-not-having-it to having-more-than-any-one-else. And it is largely with man’s exciting, inciting, wearing emotions that the biggest jobs of our offtime life are to be found. Let the individual begin to solve the problem of his own use of leisure by fitting free-time to himself and to the conditions of life as he is largely compelled to bear them. Leisure must be individualized.

Two almost inescapable factors make our needs different: the kind of a human nature we carry around with us, and the particular kind of life we are compelled to lead.

Other questions will suggest more specific and suggestive clues. How do we have to live and work? Where do we get joys in these operations? Where are we bored? Overexcited? Worn? When do we feel the thrill of achievement or success? When the sense of bafflement or failure? Is there some enchanting activity outside our life which beckons us? Or two, or three of them? These are some of the questions that must be asked and answered in individualizing the program of leisure. Let the individual find his own enjoyment, remembering that the kind or kinds are best which satisfy the individual most and hurt his
159

fellowmen least. And no fellowman need have his feelings hurt by a difference of choice.

Then let me sympathetically warn teachers against their favorite habit of grading things. There is a kind of dignified disease we have; a kind of dignified highbrowism which suggests that a worthy leisure must be confined to the upper and the rarer stories of human endeavor. The errors of this pale highbrowism may be as pathetic in their unwholesomeness as the opposite primitivism of a lowbrowism engaged esclusively with the appetites and the senses. Both fail.

The gross error of the lowbrow is easier to correct for it is perceived with shock. The traditions of all civilization are against it. The less suspected error of the highbrow is encased in respectability. It afflicts the sensitive and the discriminating who are always trying to live up to what prestige-people declare to be the best. The sedentary mind worker may most require plain, primitive, physical romping. It will probably do him more good than some of the more anemic entertainments, which merely again overexercise, in a new way, what is already overworked instead of exercising or expressing those natural impulses of the human organizsm which too long neglected foster a mysterious restlessness that is like a mental toxin loose in the soul

There is another kind of tyranny in recreation which is caught rather than imposed. Too often we take our pleasures in the way that “everyone is doing it." This prescription is good for a trial or experimental taste but it seldom rests on a good personal diagnosis. Our leisure activities are already too faddistic and fashionable. Just when we grow to like something immsensely and begin to get a great deal of fun out of it, the style changes and leaves us bereft of our joy. Our leisure, unlike our clothes, cannot be subjected to the constant changes of fashion and the crowd's whims. Once more we must be reminded that the most buoyant and useful recreations are highly individualized. The fact of a mob-companionship or a wide current prestige will not compensate for the second-rate appeal to us of a transiently dominant game or activity. We have to have our fun for ourselves. The joy that others are getting in our presence is not as contagious as we would like to think. Let us find our own joys and keep them regardless of what other folk are doing. There is no wiser way.

I have said that facilities should abound everywhere. Recreation should be in the program of adult education as in that of schools for youth. The chance to learn to play or to change one’s kind of play at different levels of life is important. Most children play. Most men in middle life do not. The man retired in old age is the most pathetically playless object I know.

Being old is not being old in years, but it truly is leaving behind or losing the spirit of youth. The spirit of youth is eventually one of venturesomeness and success, curiosity and playfulness, wholeheartedness in doing things and freedom from too

Digitized by <^.ooQle
160

much responsibility, anxiety, and strain. *A good recreative life provides the opportunity through which each of these qualities may be invoked and heightened. Middle age, the most active and responsible period of life, needs the repairs these leisure states of mind bnng and the energy releases they provide. Even old age, with its weakened body, may take on new happiness and usefulness if empty time can be filled interestingly so as to restore color and quality to the life of the mind.

I.	SOCIAL MEDICINE IN THE CANAL ZONE

Henry S. Curtis

Our largest venture in social medicine is in the army and navy of the United States, but our largest project with civilians is in the Canal Zone at Panama. This is not radically different from the medical service that is being furnished by many of our large industrial organizations to their employees, but it is of interest to us because we are doing it, and because it has been conspicuously successful.

There are five dispensaries in the zone, with two or three doctors at each. These are located in the five largest centers of a population consisting of about 30,000 civilians. The services of the doctors to Zone employees and their families are free at the dispensaries, but a small charge is made, if the doctors must go into the homes. The number of visits to these dispensaries runs above 15,000 a month, about half as many visits as are there are civilians in the Zone. This large number must be regarded as an evidence of appreciation.

If a patient needs to go to a hospital for longer treatment, the doctor writes him out a pass, which is good on the government-owned railroad, and then calls up the hospital to have an ambulance meet the patient at the station. At the hospital all treatments and operations are free to employees, and their wages go on as usual; but food is charged at one dollar a day for white employees and at fifty cents per day for colored employees. There is a small charge for the families of workers depending on the wage received. This is usually from one fifth to one tenth of what the hospital would charge an outsider; but in case the wage of the employee is low, it may be omitted altogether.

There is no finer hospital anywhere than the great Gorgas Hospital at Ancon. The medical force of the Zone is a very superior group of men. They have done the most outstanding piece of public health work in the sanitation of the Zone that has ever been done anywhere, and turned "the pest hole of the world” into a health resort. The mortality rate of the French company, that started the Canal, was about 30% a year. The rate in the Zone for 1928 was 7.37 per thousand from disease,

Digitized by UaOOQle
161

which is much lower than it is in the United States as a whole, and about as low as it is in any section or city in the world. The Isthmus was cursed with insect pests before we came; but in my entire stay there, I never saw a fly or a mosquito.

II.	HYGIENE AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE CANAL ZONE

Part Ii—Health

I.	Health Hazards of the Tropics

1.	Insect pests, heat, humidity.

2.	Lack of adjustment in body, diet, and customs to tropical conditions.

3.	Age of maturity, longevity.

Loss of vitality.

Army regulations and recommendations:

a.	Length of stay, leave, leave area, physical examinations.

b. Long break in the middle of the day, two hours, c. a short day or a less strenuous one. d. Keep up

exercise.

II.	Health Service

1.	Physical examinations.

Recommendations, time, hearing, skin troubles, preschool children.

2.	The dispensaries, social medicine.

Further needs:

a. Dental clinics, b. Hook-worm sampling, c. A syphilis policy, d. Method with tropical ulcers.

3.	Hospitals.

4.	School sanitation.

5.	Health service to the teachers.

Physical examinations, special lectures, health trips.

III.	Health Education

1.	Morning inspection, add hair and handkerchiefs.

2.	Health habits, check-up.

3.	Cleanliness.

4.	Teaching safety.

5.	Malnutrition.

a. Milk supply, b. Tuberculosis, c. Need of gardens, United Fruit Co. policy; houses or barracks for civilians; an agricultural experiment station, d. The standard of living as a means of birth control.

6.	The six-point child.

7.	May Day as Child Health Day.

8.	Adjusting health teaching to local problems.

9.	Correlative teaching of health.

10.	A health counsellor.

Digitized by LaOOQle
162

IV.	Health Education in the Junior High School.

Recommendations: add the following courses:

1. Physiology, including the physiology of sex; 2. First-

aid; 3. Home nursing; 4. The health history of the Zone.

V.	Hygiene in the Senior High School

Recommendations: 1. Use a standard text; 2. Emphasize

health projects; 3. Improve health library.

VI.	A school for the training of health workers.

Part II—Physical Education

I. Department of Clubs and Playgrounds:

Furnish playgrounds, play sheds, club houses, athletic fields, swimming pool and bathing beaches, patrons largely adults, similar to play systems elsewhere.

II.	Recommeded program for elementary schools.

III.	Recommended program for junior and senior high schools

IV.	New Facilities: Level and enlarge playgrounds; add play sheds and showers, furnish supplies.

V.	New Personnel: A director of hygiene and physical education; a part-time psychiatrist, a dietician, two white and two colored nurses, six to twelve physical directors.

OBSERVATIONS ON THE HEARTS OF MEN ENGAGED

IN ATHLETICS*

T. K. Richards, M. D., Boston

It is not an unusual occurrence at athletic contests to see a man collapse during or at the end of a hard race. When he collapses the clinical picture is that of utter exhaustion, the patient gasping for air and yet being unable to take a full breath. He complains of abdominal pain and is more comfortable lying on his side doubled up, with both hands pressed tightly against the abdomen. The pulse is rapid and not of good quality. Although the patient is perspiring freely, his body feels cold. There is often considerable nausea and not uncommonly vomiting, and in extreme cases there may be unconsciousness.

Various reasons have been given in explanation of the cause of this collapse. Rarely it has been brought about by rupture of a heart valve. Some medical observers have attributed it to an acute cardiac dilatation. The latter condition does not seem to fit the clinical picture. Other observers have thought that a lowering of the blood sugar was a causative factor.

None of these reasons for the collapse seen in athletes during and after strenuous exertion seemed logical, so it was decided to carry out a series of 7 foot roentgen studies of the hearts of athletes when at rest and immediately after exercise. In order to take roentgenograms of a man unconscious from overexertion, it was necessary to have him in a prone position Therefore, to be consistent, all films were taken with the plate

•Reprint, Journal A. M. A.

Digitized by UjOOQle
163

eaxctly 7 feet from the x-ray target and with the man lying flat on his chest.

These studies were carried out on all members of Harvard’s, varsity and freshman cross country squads, on various visiting cross country squads, and on individual distance runners of international fame during a period of four years.

The films of the men at rest were made on days when no exercise was being taken and no race or competition was imminent in order to avoid any psychologic factor causing excitement. The films after racing were taken as the men finished their races; i. e., after crossing the finish line they ran on into the x-ray room and the plates were taken before they had any time to rest.

The accompanying table shows the results of these observations. Unfortunately, all the roentgen films and the figures obtained from them except the one series presented in the table were destroyed in a recent fire. However, these figures are typical of the whole series.

From the table it will be noted that the hearts after racing were consistently smaller than those at rest. Two after racing showed no change in the transverse heart diameter, and only one man showed an increased transverse heart diameter of 0.1 cm.; but it is to be noted that this man had rested about three minutes before the film was taken. With the exception of the one instance of increased diameter, the range of decreased transverse diameter was from 0 to 1.4 cm., the average contracture for the nineteen cases being 0.67 cm.

There were also several other rather striking facts noted:

1.	The hearts of distance runners who had had many years of competition showed the greatest decrease in the transverse diameter after racing, this decrease not infrequently being as much as 2.5 cm.

2.	The hearts of men in collapse—i. e., unconscious at the time the observation was made under the fluoroscope—showed in addition to a small contracted heart, the right border of which lay behind the sternum, a markedly diminished systolic excursion. As the man’s condition improved and he regained consciousness, this excursion became greater and greater and finally at the end of an hour or more the heart in some cases resembled one that was acutely dilated.

The author is not a trained cardiologist and so hestitates to trespass on the field of competent observers of hearts; but it did seem worth while to record these observations in the hope that trained workers in this field might more accurately check these results and offer some explanation of the clinical picture. The following is offered as a partial explanation of the conditions noted:	It has been fairly definitely demonstrated that the

so-called cramps of striated muscle are due to an excess of
lactic acid in the affected muscle, and that the cramp can be relieved by any method that will increase the carbon dioxide content of the blood stream, thus setting free the lactic acid.

Results of	Reontgenographic Studies of	the Heart After	Cross

Country Races*

Athletes

1926 Before Race

T.D. H.D.

1..............-........... 26.5	12.4

2.

3.

31.3

29.2

13.0

12.6

4	......................... 27.8	13.3

5	......................... 27.5	12.9

6	......................... 26.4	11.4

7	......................... 24.5	12.8

8.

9.

10..

28.0

30.3

11.1

13.7

27.0 12.5

11........................... 30.2	14.2

12

13

14.

15

16

17

18

19

20

28.6

28.4 28.2

26.5

31.2

29.2

29.6 25.8

11.6

11.6

12.6

11.7

11.5

12.0

12.2

11.9

1926 After Ra^e

- Difference H.D. H.D.

11.7	-0.7 -0.9 -0.7

27.8 12.6 -0.7 27.5 12.5 -0.4 11.0 -0.4 11.4 -1.4 11.2 +0.1 29.7 13.0 -0.7 27.0 11.6 -0.9

13.2	-1.0

10.8	-0.8 11.6 0.0

11.2	-1.4

T.D.

25.2

30.2	12.1 29.5 11.9

25.1 27.4

27.2

30.3

28.4

28.5 28.7

26.5

30.6

29.2

28.2

27.6

27.7

11.3 -0.4

11.5	0.0

11.5	-0.5

11.6	-0.6 10.5 -1.4 11.1 -0.5

.........................  29.2	27.7________________

*In the table T. D. indicates thoracic diameter (transverse); H. D., heart diameter (transverse). All measurements are in centimeters.

Cannot the contracted hearts of athletes, especially those in a condition of collapse, be explained as some form of muscle cramp which results in a smaller or contracted heart, the clinical collapse accordingly being due to a cerebral anemia, and may not this be nature’s method of protecting the heart from immediate permanent harm?

DISGRACE OF SMALLPOX STILL UPON US

It apparently takes a large number of people on this earth a long time to learn much. Speaking offhand, we would say that it takes from a thousand to ten thousand years for some things to be learned by some people.

About one hundred and thirty years ago Edward Jenner in England demonstrated to the satisfaction of the scientists of that day that vaccination would protect against smallpox. When

Digitized by

Google
165

Jenner perfected this process, as practiced at that time, smallpox was one of the great scourges of the earth. Some writers have gone so far as to claim that in some single years in the sixteenth and seventeenth century more than ten per cent of the total population of the earth died from smallpox. The disease was very virulent at that time as it has been since on frequent occasions. The mortality was very high. In many epidemics of the eighteenth century preceding Jenner’s discovery the mortality was as high as fifty per cent; that is, half the poeple having the disease died.

During the last few years the process of preparing smallpox vaccine has been made practically perfect and almost free from any danger of contamination with any other disease, condition or infection when used on a person to prevent smallpox. Under the leadership of the United States Hygienic Laboratory at Washington standard measures have been perfected and adopted until today it is just as safe from the standpoint of infection to have vaccine virus injected into one’s skin as it would be to have plain sterile water rubbed in. It has been proved during the past hundred years by its use on millions and millions of people that no one can suffer any unfavorable consequences following the vaccination against smallpox if even ordinary care is exercised.

Since the adoption of smallpox vaccination as a prevention of that scourge the mortality has been reduced to almost nothing; that is, very few people now dying of the disease when having it, although an occasional death occurs, and in some epidemics the disease is still virulent and causes the deaths of quite a number of people. However, speaking of the world at large, the universal use in all countries of smallpox vaccine has reduced the mortality to a very low figure. People now have very mild attacks as a rule compared to virulent attacks of former days. It is, however, the same disease it has always been—one of the most contagious in the world, one of the most filthy and loathsome diseases, and one in which the patient suffers untold agonies when the disease is contracted in anything like severe form. Any relaxation of the laws requiring vaccination or any suspicion of its use and its recommended use by physicians over the world would result in a few years time in the same terrible conditions returning that were present in the eighteenth century.

In spite of all the foregoing facts, in the full face of knowledge so simple that any child can understand as to what vaccination has done and what smallpox meant before vaccination was discovered, we find in this free and liberty-loving United States of America today more people having smallpox per thousand population than any country in the world except among the benighted population of tropical India; and we also find flourishing as never before anti-vaccination societies and organizations who flaunt in the face of the public the fact that they are in existence for the purpose of opposing this humanitarian and life

Digitized by LaOOQle
166

and health saving measure sponsored by scientists for more than a hundred years and proved as no other single scientific measure has ever been supported.—North Carolina State Health Bulletin.

INFANT MORTALITY RATES IMPRpVE

Stock market crashes and unemployment have failed to disturb the downward trend of infant mortality in the cities of the United States during 1929, according to a report just issued by the American Child Health Association, in which the figure of 66.2 deaths among each thousand births is announced.

Next to the rate of 64.9 attained in 1927, the rate for 1929 is the lowest ever recorded for the cities of the country. The decline has been almost continuous since 1915 when the Birth Registration Area, formed for the collection of dependable information, was organized. In 1928 the rate rose slightly to 68.3 over the low point of 64.9 in 1927. Fifteen years ago the rate was near 100. Today the rate is but two thirds what it was just after the World War started.

The report covers 720 cities in the Birth Registration Area which now includes forty-six states and the District of Columbia, which have satisfactory registration laws and record 90 percent of the births. The figures in the report are drawn from the provisional summaries of the United States Census Bureau and from state and local authorities.

“The 1929 rate,” said the announcement “was the lowest ever attained in Chicago, Philadelphia, Detroit, Boston and Baltimore.” For the five year period from 1916-20 Pittsburgh exhibits the most outstanding decline, the rate dropping from 120 to 77 in the period 1925-29.

Portland, Oregon, had the lowest rate among the cities over

250,000	population. Seattle was close second with 46 and Minneapolis stood third with 49. Among the 10 largest cities in the country, St. Louis and New York tied for first place with a rate of 59. Close on their heels came the metropolis of the middle west, Chicago, with a rate of 60. Other figures were Cleveland 61, Philadelphia 62, Los Angeles 65, Detroit and Boston 69, Baltimore and Pittsburgh 73.

St. Paul, Minnesota, was in the lead with a rate of 46 among the cities of the 100,000 to 250,000 class. Union City, New Jersey, stood first in the 50,000-100,000 class with a rate of 25. In the 25,000-50,000 class, another Jersey community, West New York, stood in the forefront tied with Revero, Massachusetts, each having rates of 26.

Among the smallest cities with populations from 10,000 to 25,000, Northbridge, Massachusetts had the low rate of 15.

As a group the cities of the Pacific Coast continue their undisputed leadership as the banner home for babies. Oregon and Washington lead the procession with the cities of Minnesota in third place. Vermont, Utah and California cities show the same average rates.

Digitized by CjOOQle
167

A VARIETY NUMBER

By Otto Eckl

M3 DEL EXERCISES

of the

Concordia Gymnastic Society, St. Louis, presented at Buffalo Turnfest by Eight Women and Eight Men.

Music:—Valse des Fleurs—P. Tschaikowsky.

Starting Formation:—a line of front couples; couples numbered 1 and 2, starting R end (girl stands at boy’s R.).

Introduction

(The four measures preceding the waltz are played twice.) Counts

1	Girls stride L sideward, L arm sideward, head turned L. Boys stride R backward, hands grasped in rear.

2	All hold.

3	Girls a whole arm circle of the L arm to the L placing the L hand on hip, closing the L foot to the R, eyes R (as in dressing R).

Boys hold position.

4	Girls L hand down, eyes front (position).

Boys close R foot to L, hands at sides (position).

5-8 Boys repeat movements taken by girls.

Girls repeat movement taken by boys.

I.

1-4 G. face y R and layout L sideward swinging the arms sideward.

B. face y<i R and fallout R sideward swinging the arms sideward.

5	G. face L (1-4) stepping L, the R arm swinging thru upward to meet the L arm, dip the knees and trunk forward the arms swinging downward and backward.

B. face L stepping L, swinging the R arm downward, then both arms obi. foreupward.

6	G. with a dip straighten knees and trunk, swinging the arms loosely foreupward.

B. the dipping forward, with arms down and back.

7	Change positions.

8	Change again.

I-I-I-I-HHI-H BOYS HI-I-I-I-I-HH	GIRLS

Digitized by CaOOQle
168

9	Change again.

10	G. with straightening the knees and trunk, face R, the arms obi. sideward upward.

B. step R back placing the L foot backward, swing the arms foredown placing the L hand on hip and swing the R arm backward.

11-12 G. bend backward across boys R arm to the “crab’' position.

B. kneel L swinging the R arm forward across the girl’s back (supporting her as she bends backward).

13	B. rise to a stand and lunge L sideward (position is L obi. backoutward to front position) swinging arms sideward.

G. hold.

14	B. change knee bending with a 3-4 double arm circle outward to position arms upward.

G. hold.

15	B. face R, closing R foot to L, swinging the arms side down to a position behind the girls.

NOTE:—boys are now facing obi. R forw.

G. hold.

16	B. layout L with 1-2 double arm circle inward, to arms for strike over head.

G. hands remain in position, drop to lying rearways with legs extended (shoulders lower to floor first).

HHHHHHHH B°YS

HHHHHHHH	GIRLS

II.

1-2 G. slow double leg raising.

B. with changing knee bending, circle trunk forward and to the L with the arms finishing with the L knee bent, trunk facing front and bent backward, with the arms upward.

3-4 G. slow leg lowering.

B. slow change of knee bending with lowering the trunk forward.

5	G. quick double leg raising.

B. bend trunk forward with swinging the arms foredown and back.

6	G. hold.

B. straighten the trunk with swinging the arms forward grasping girl’s ankles with hands, and straighten R knee, raising the L leg backward to a balance stand (trunk is inclined forward.,)

7-8 All hold positions.

9 G. bend knees.

B. close L foot to R, straightening the trunk and bend both knees.

Digitized by v^ooQLe
169

10 G. Roll backward to a handstand.

B. straighten knees and lift the girls (assisting them in their roll backward and supporting them in the handstand). 11-12 Hold.

13-14 G. bend arms drawing in their head.

B. lower the girls slowly.

15-1,6 G. roll forward thru the seat with legs crossed to a stand with arms obi. sideward upward.

B. release girls’ ankles, dip the knees and trunk forward with swinging the arms foredown and back, and with a dip straighten trunk and knees swinging the arms thru forward to obi. sideward upward.

III.

1-2 B. face L and fallout L sideward, swinging arms sideward, the R arm bent for strike over head, the L arm sideward, hands clenched to a fist, head turned R. Then dip the trunk once to the R.

G. move L sideward with a step, cut and balance hop L, facing L on the balance hop, the R arm circles R on the step and cut, and then circle both arms backward to fore-upward on the step and hop.

3	B. change knee bending with circling trunk to the R, passing thru forward, the arms swinging foredownward and thru R sideward upward.

G. place the R foot in rear of L dipping both knees and the trunk forward, the arms swinging foredown and back.

4	B. change knee bending moving the arms to obi. sideward upward.

G. with straightening knees hop L, swinging the R knee forward, the arms obi. sideward upward.

5-7 Repeat the first three counts to the opposite side.

8	B. with the change of knee bending and arms obi. sideward upward, face R.

G. straighten knees and trunk, the arms obi. sideward upward (omit the hop with knee raised forward).

S^-IO G. moving L back toward boy, tour jete (flying turn) to a balance stand R on the boys' R thivh, the arms swinging sideward, circle over head to arms obi. sideward upward.

B. hold position, grasping the girl about the R knee as she alights on his thigh.

11-12 Hold.

NOTE:—couples are numbered 1 and 2 from R end. Cl and C2.

13	G. carry L leg forward to the R.

B. (couples 1) take hold of girl’s L ankle with L hand.

14	G. 1 jump to stand in front of partner.

B. 1 grasp girl at waist with both hands, lowering partner in front.

G. 2 bends backward over boys R shoulder with R knee bent, the R foot at the L knee, arms fifth.

Digitized by Google
170

B.	2 Places R hand at girls R hip (assisting her in bending back over his shoulder). Close L foot to R.

15-16 Couples 1.

Boys face R, with partner across R shoulder, the L arm extended obi. forward, the girl being tilted backward resting against the boys back.

Couples 2.

Run to open order, G B; G B; partners facing obi. forein-ward, in the stride stand with hands at waist.

H _| COUPLES 1 H |

VG COUPLES 2

x wupico X.

Boys place L foot backward bending R knee (layout), tilt girl far backward.

Couples 2.

Jump to squat stand with hands on floor.

2	C 1 Hold.

C 2 kneel on both knees, sitting back on heels, hands on floor, body lowered far forward (arms are upward).

3-4 C. 1 Hold.

C.	2 With bending arms straighten the hips and knees, the body being carried forward as though creeping thru a hole.

5-6 C. 1 with changing knee bending pull downward on girls L leg and tip her forward, so she falls across the boys R arm (which is across the lower part of her chest) with her body well arched and down, and her crossed straight legs drawn up high in back by his L hand.

C. 2 Sit back on heels again.

7-8 C. 1 with changing knee bending and finishing in a stand on his R foot, he swings the girl to an attitude on the ball of her R foot. She has her arms R in fourth, and he supports her with both hands at her waist.

C. 2 Repeat counts 3-4.

9	C. 1 jump to squat stand.

C. 2 run to positions in open order behind couples 1 opposite partner.

10	G. rise to stand, facing partner, stepping forward on L foot with the arms obi. sideward upward.

B. face partner, falling to sitting position, legs crossed, hands on floor.

11	G. hold.

B. lower to lying rearways, with knees drawn up, feet apart and resting on floor, arms forward.

12	G. bend forward placing hands on partner’s knees.

Gh	hB	H H	H H
	)	H )	i- )
	\B	rG	B
H	)	H )	1- J  IV.

Digitized by CjOOQle
13-14

15-16

1-2

3r4

5-6

7-8

9-10

11

12

13-16

1-2

3-4

5-8

9-10

171

G. bends forward throwing her feet backward and upward, falling forward with shoulder against boys hands to a shoulder stand.

B. catches girl on hands.

G. returns to a stand and runs, evading R to the opposite, or head side of hoy.

B. pushes the girl down to stand, places his hands behind head and straightens knees to lying rearways.

G

H h H h H h-I- I-

I- I-H I-H H I- H

V.

G. layout L back, placing hands on boys elbows.

B. raises the straight legs vertically forward.

G. places R foot backward, to support-lying frontways.

B. lowers both legs L sideward till feet touch floor.

G. raises L leg backward.

B. raises both legs vertically forward.

G. lowers L leg.

B. lowers both legs R sideward.

G. raises R leg.

B. raises legs vertically.

G. jumps to squat stand.

B. holds.

All rise to stand.

Run to a circle (closed) facing inward, boys to L of partner, hands grasped.

B. fallout R forward toward center of circle, the arms down and back.

G. step R back, bending R knee deep, the arms forward with body inclined forward.

Change positions.

B. bend L knee, kneeling R, trunk erect, with arms forward.

G. straighten R knee swinging R leg backward to a balance stand frontways on L foot, arms are upward.

B. with releasing the hands, dip the trunk forward swinging the arms foredown and back; return swing of arms to obi.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
172

sideupward with straightening the trunk and rising to a stand on L foot, R foot is pointed backward.

G. face R and tour jete (flying turn) R sideward, the arms swinging thru sideward to circle over head.

11,-12 B. face R about, lunging forward R, the arms sideward.

G. lunge R sideward, with R arm sideward the L arm curved over head.

13-14 B. hold.

G. tour jete L sideward to a stand R in attitude on boys R thigh, arms R in fourth; R leg is held by boys R hand. 15-16 B. straightens R knee, striding L sideward.

G. places L foot on boys L thigh, in stride stand, both knees being firmly clasped by boys arms.

Q

1-4 B. 1-1 turn L while holding the girls.

G. change arms to L in fourth.

5-6 G. straddle legs sideward, clinching knees about boys waist, and crossing ankles in back, arms to side.

B. catches girl at waist as he bends forward, tipping the girl forward (the girl holds her back nicely arched).

7-8 B. lifts the girl to a stand in front of him.

G. opens and closes her feet as she alights in front of^the boy, with arms to circle over head.

9-11 B. lunges L obi. forward outward, the L arm obi. sideward upward, grasping next girls R hand, the R arm is side-downward grasping partner’s L hand.

G. lunges R sideward, with R arm obi. sideupward, the L opposite.

12 Return to position swinging arms sidedownward.

13-14 B. layout L back, arms obi. sideward upward and hold.

G. tour saute L forward (step close and step swing with 1-2 turn to a stand with the opposite leg raised backward) to a balance stand L frontways, arms swing thru circle over head to sideward.

VIII.

(alternate girls are numbered 1 and 2, (G. 1, G. 2)

1 G. 1 closes R foot to L, facing R, with arms sideward.

G. 2 holds.

B. Hold.

Digitized by Tooele
173

2-4 G. 1 tour jete L sideward to a stride stand on partners thighs, as in previous exercise, the boys striding L sideward and clasping girls knees with both arms.

G. 2 steps R back, straightening trunk and arms obi. sideward upward.

5-6 G. 1 hold.

B. 2 strides L sideward, with both knees bent, body bent forward, hands clasped, with L hand resting in the palm of R.

G. 2 runs, starting L, toward partner, stepping R foot in partners both hands. She then straightens R knee as partner lifts her sharply over head, she standing in attitude in his L hand, his R hand having grasped her R thigh. She has her R hand in fourth.

7-8 All hold.

9-10 B. 1 turn L about. li-12 B. 2 turn L about.

13-14 B. 1 turn L about.

15-16 B. 2 turn L about;.

IX.

1-4 B. 1 lower partner in front, as described in 5—8 of Exercise VII.

B. 2 bend arms, slowly lowering partner, then grasp partner with R arm about her waist, and set her to a stand in front of him.

NOTE:,—partners finish standing side by side, about three feet apart, L sides toward center of circle, see cut.

	Lr
	1 G
X	1 *
\	_u X
-r	
/	V	\  V
/	

5-6 G. lunge R sideward, away from circle, arms sideward B. lunge L sideward, toward center of circle, arms sideward. B. lunge L sideward, toward circle

B. lunge L sideward, toward center of circle, arms sideward. 7-8 straighten outer knee, swinging outer leg sideward, bend trunk toward each other grasping hands, with arms sideward to a balance stand sideward.

9-10 1-4 turn toward each other on the stationary foot, with straightening the trunk, striding sideward with the raised foot, finishing in a double circle facing each other with arms sideward.

11-12 G. 1-2 turn R, moving to her R with a step L.

B. 1-2 turn L, moving to his L with a step R; both turn

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
174

under the joined hands finishing back to back, boys have their arms bent for strike over the head, and the girls have arms upward, with all hands still grasped.

13-16 B. bend forward, pulling the girl backward over his back. G. girl raises both legs forward and somersaults backward over partner, finishing in a stand, facing each other.

X.

1-2 B. lunge L obi. foreoutward, with L arm fcreupward, the R opposite.

G. lunge L obi. foreoutward, with L arm foreupward, the R opposite.

3-4 both change arms, bending the trunk backward, grasping the R hand over head.

5-8 Face R on heels, change knee bending, straighten trunk, and then bend slowly R sideward, arms sideward, the R hand touches floor, arms are vertical.

9 G. face L, stepping L into a single circle, with the boys facing outward, closing R foot to L, lowering body forward, with hands behind head.

B. face R, closing L foot to R, straightening the trunk, facing outw., the arms sideward.

10 G. dip knees and trunk forward, elbows forward.

B. hold.

11-12 both alternate positions.

13-16 alternate positions two more times.

Interlude

1-6 G. dip and straighten knees and trunk three times with arm swing.

B. same but in reverse order.

XI.

1-4 Run to two flank lines with girl in front, the girls with arms to circle over head, the boys with arms obi. sideward upward.

5	G. lunge R sideward, arms sideward.

B. lunge L sideward, arms sideward.

6	Close inner foot to outer foot, with 1-4 turn toward partners, the outer arm circling thru upward, and dip knees and trunk forward, swinging arms downward and backward.

7-8 G. straighten knees and trunk, swinging arms foreupward, bending body backward, and striding backward on R foot. B. same, but stride backward with L foot.

9-10 With straight knees dip trunk forward twice, the hands touching floor.

11-12 G. with bending R knee, circle trunk R with the arms finishing with the body erect but bending backward and the arms upward, R knee bent.

B. same but L.
175

13-14 Straighten trunk, swing the arms foredown, and three steps toward each other, starting with forward foot, finishing in a single line facing in oposite directions, hands grasped.

15-16 All lower forward to a balance stand frontways, the hands still grasped at the sides.

1-4 Face front, closing raised foot to other, and assume positions described for 1-4 above.

5-12 As described above.

13-14 B. kneel L, lowering arms sideward, grasping hands with neighbor.

G. three steps forward toward boys, starting with L foot.

15-16 G. handspring over boys hands, they assisting them over their grasped hands.

Grouping

1-8 Couples will run into grouping as indicated in diagram; arranging themselves in a semi-circle.

G<>

* Vr	
\	
X	
	
- 4—	
	7
\	~~*r"
	ir

ez

S3

/

/

GX 1 67





B. 1 and B. 2 in the center of the semi-circle facing front, feet in a stride stand with knees slightly bent, hands clasped, L in the palm of the R, elbows resting on the knees.

G. 1 and G. 2 about five feet in front of partner and facing him, with L foot pointed forward, the arms obi. sideward upward.

B. 3 to the L B. 2, lunging L obi. foreoutward, L arm obi. foreupward, the R arm opposite.

G. 3 standing to the R of partner’s L knee, with R side toward center of circle, arms in same position as partner’s. B. 4 same as B. 3 but to the R of B. 1, with the lunge R. G. 4 about 5 feet directly in front of partner, with arms obi. sideward upward, L side toward partner.

B. 5 at the L end of the semi-circle in lying rearways, with head toward B. 3, knees drawn up, arms forward.

G. 5 at partner’s feet facing him, with L foot pointed forward, the arms forward.

B. 6 and G. 6 as G. 5, at the R end of the semi-circle. G. 7 between G. 1 and G. 2, facing in the same direction, in the side stride stand, hands at the waist.

G. 8 in the center of the circle, facing front, standing on R foot with L foot pointed back, arms obi. sidewardupward. B. 7 to the L of G. 8, standing on his L foot with the R

Digitized by CjOOQle
176

foot pointed sideward, facing girl, holding her L hand in his L, R hand at waist.

B. 8 same on the other side of the girl.

9-12 G. 3 and G. 4 step to an attitude, on partners lunging thigh.

13r14 G. 1 and G. 2 run toward partner stepping R into his hands, while he lifts her high in an attitude, holding her R foot in his L hand, and grasps her R thigh with his R hand.

15-16 B. 1 and B. 2 turn in place away from each other, and finish with backs turned, their partners have R hand in fourth, grasping each other’s hands.

G. 8 raises L leg backward, partners take her waist with their outer hands, and her ankles with the other.

1	B. 7 and B. 8 stand in a side stride stand, swinging G. 8 backward between them.

2	She is swung forward, B. 8 releasing his hold with both hands as B. 7 does 1-1 turn L in place, swinging the girl around.

3	B. 8 with the completion of the turn, regains his hold on her wrist and ankle.

4-6 Repeat 1-3, but B. 7 releases his hold, while B. 8 does 1-1 turn R.

7-12 Repeat this “figure eight.’’

13	Swing her backward between them.

14	Swing her forward, B. 7 releases her wrist and ankle as she swings upward to a stand R on the chest of B. 8, with her body bent backward, L knee raised, arms R in fourth, B. 8 supporting her with L hand at her R ankle, and his R hand at her R knee.

15-10 All hold.

Counts 1-8.

.	.	i,

Health education notes

<— -------■— ------------------------------<>

Whole Wheat Bread and White Bread: Comparative

Study.—McCarrison found that white bread, containing approximately 2 per cent of yeast, is inferior in nutritive value to unleavened bread made from whole wheat flour. The amount of yeast used in the manufacture of white bread does not suffice to make good the deficienty of vitamin B in the white flour from which the bread is made. The superiority of whole wheat bread over white bread as the staple article of diet is maintained even when the diet is supplemented with an abundance of fresh vegetable foods and 2 cc. of whole milk—an amount of milk that would correspond to more than a pint a day for a child of 7
177

years. When fats form a considerable proportion of the diet, an abundant supply of vitamin B, as well as vitamin A, is necessary for their utilization. A diet having white bread as its basis does not provide these factors in amounts sufficient for this purpose, even when it is supplemented with a fair amount of whole milk and an abundance of fresh vegetable foods; on the other hand, a similarly constituted diet having whole wheat bread as its basis does provide these vitamins in sufficient amounts. Among the properties possessed by milk which render it unsurpassed in excellence as a dietary consituent for growing rats—or children—is its ability to aid in the utilization of fats.

Subtle Influences of Environment.—Marked differences exist in the psychic patterns of the gastric ulcer and gallbladder disease groups. Indeed, they are as definite as any differences which have appeared in the morphologic panel. Furthermore, it should be noted that combinations and overlappings of the qualities in the psychic patterns are found just as they were in tne morphologic panel. Such gradations were frequently met in the morphologic studies. But they seem to be perhaps more frequent or at least less well defined in the psyche. Notwithstanding, however, the difficulty of precise focus in the task of envisaging the imponderable elements of personality, it is none the less possible by this method to gather and project a useful conception of the nature of the psychologic panel. But it should be remembered that it is quite impossible to conceive of a living organism apart from its environment. Indeed, the whole purpose of living matter is expressed in its perceptive powers and reaction capacities. Consequently, these can have no meaning nor can their nature be discovered uuless the details of the surroundings with which they engage are known. It is impossible to judge, even remotely, of a man’s character unless we can analyze his reactions to the subtle influences of the environment in which we observe him. We are, therefore, driven to contemplate the details of that environment with the same sagacity as we do the man himself.—Draper, George: Disease and the Man, New York, Macmillan Company, 1930, p. 182.

Bladder Stone and the Lack of Vitamin D.—Evidence is accumulating that phosphatic calculi in the bladder are caused by a lack of vitamin D in the food. The function of this vitamin in compensating for a disproportion between the supply of lime salts and phosphates has been mentioned. The prevalence of urinary calculi in rats on diets deficient in fat-soluble vitamins was mentioned by Mendel in 1920. Van Leersum of Amsterdam observed hundreds of experimental rats upon complete diets and diets lacking in fat-soluble vitamins. None of the rats bn complete diets developed stone, but it was exceedingly common, especially in the males, on the deficient diet. Quite independently McCarrison has noticed that “in rats stone in the bladder

Digitized by LjOOQle
178

is brought about by an ill balanced diet containing much oatmeal, whole wheat or white flour, and that to avoid stone the excess of these cereals must be compensated for by the consumption of appropriate amounts of milk. Those excellent foods, oatmeal and whole wheat, may prove harmful by causing disturbance in the normal diet, but only when, the diets containing them are poor in vitamin D." The prevalence of stone in the bladder in human beings on diets with a preponderance of cereals imbalanced by vitamin 1) makes it probable that, as in the case of rats, it is the shortage of this vitamin which is to blame.

. ' - „ »

The Storage of Fruit. Experiments by S. A. Trout of the low temperature research station of Cambridge have broken new ground with regard to the storage of fruit. We have been taught that fruits are living organisms, inhaling oxygen and exhaling carbon dioxide, like animals, and we are apt to think that they require the presence of oxygen. But Mr. Trout has found that in the absence of oxygen it is possible to extend the storage life of fruit 50 per cent. Temperatures must not be too high and more than 10 per cent of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere must be avoided. The experiments were made by storing early maturing pears in atmosphere containing nitrogen and carbon dioxide in proportions of 05 and 5 per cent, 90 and 10 per cent, and 85 and 15 per cent, respectively, at temepratures of 3, 10 and 18 C. At all these temperatures, harmful results followed when the percentage of carbon dioxide ecxeeded 10. The exposures to oxygen-free atmospheres containing less than 10 per cent of carbon dioxide delayed ripening and prolonged the storage life of the fruit. The best results were obtained by storing pears for twenty-one days at 3 C. in an oxygen-free atmosphere containing less than 10 per cent of carbon dioxide. These pears ripened two weeks later than those stored in air. In another series of experiments, pears were stored in an atmosphere of nitrogen from which the carbon dioxide formed by the fruit was removed by soda-lime. The results were successful.

Value of Cod Liver Oil for Underpar Children of School Age.—To determine to what exetnt the administration of cod liver oil to school children would be of value for the treatment of incipient tuberculosis, twenty-eight school children were selected by Holmes and Ackerman as subjects. These were classified as (a) contact cases, ( b) arrested cases, (c) more or less active tuberculosis cases, or (d) those presenting a daily rise in temper-ture. A teaspoonful of cod liver oil of high vitamin content was administered twice daily each school day. The experimental period varied for different subjects, but on the average was of twenty-six weeks’ duration. All subjects gained in weight during the test. The abnormal body temperature of twenty-five subjects decreased during the experimental period. By the end of the test,

Digitized by LjOOQle
179

the temperature of twenty subjects had returned to normal. On the other hand, the body temperature of three subjects was higher when the test ended than at the beginning. The number of days that the group of children under consideration were absent from school during the year that they received cod liver oil was markedly below the number of absences for the same group the previous year, in spite of an epidemic in the schools during the year in which the test was made.

Whole Grain Bread.—Hartmann advocates a whole grain bread that contains rye and wheat in the proportion of 2:1 and also about 2.5 per cent of potato flour. He asserts that this bread is of excellent flavor, is digestible and retains its freshness for a comparatively long time. The fact that it contains mostly rye is of great economic significance for Germany, since the German climate and soil is better suited to the cultivation of rye than of wheat. The price of this bread is lower not only because rye is a domestic product but also because the bread contains nearly the whole grain. The bran content is of great value because it supplies bulk and roughage for the intenstines. The author reviews several reports from the literature that emphasize the great value of roughage in the food. It increases peristalsis and is valuable not only for the prevention and treatment of constipation but also for other digestive disorders, for disturbances of the gallbladder, liver and kidneys, for skin diseases, for some forms of arthritis and for nervous and circulatory disorders.

Reclamation.—Reclaiming the cripple is an obligation of a state that claims to offer equal opportunity for all, Dr. Frank D. Dickson and Henry S. Curtis assert in an article in Hygeia.

Since the World War the great rehabiltation movement that has been developed among disabled soldiers has been extended to civilian cripples. Forty-one states now have rehabilitation departments supported partly by federal and partly by state aid.

Reports of these departments show that the average age at which civilians are rehabilitated is 30 and that the cost of their training is $230. Since these persons have about twenty years of employment before them, it is an enormous saving to the community to give them the training that enables them to be self-supporting.

The profits on the social side are not less important than the financial aspect of the problem. Nearly every adult cripple represents a problem of unhappiness, of social unrest, of unemployment, of poverty and often of begging. Society owes them a chance to live lives as nearly normal as possible.

Rickets, tuberculosis of the bone and infantile paralysis cause a vast amount of crippling. Rickets is a food deficiency disease which may be prevented by proper food, cod liver oil and suushinp. Tuberculosis is caused by unhygienic living, lack

Digitized by LjOOQle
180

of sunshine and by drinking milk from tuberculous cows. If children lived outdoors more and drank only certified or pasteurized milk the percentage of tuberculosis would be reduced. Deformity in infantile paralysis may be prevented or its severity will be lessened if the child has good care, rest and the injection of the convalescent serum at the earliest possible moment.

Endogenous Obesity.—Newburgh and Johnston assert that obesity is always caused by an overabundant inflow of energy. The excess is deposited as adipose tissue. This disproportion arises from a variety of conditions that may be thought of under two general headings. The first group includes the various human weaknesses such as overindulgence and ignorance. The second group is composed of conditions that cause a decrease in the requirement for energy, such as lessened activity or lowering of the basal metabolic rate for any reason. If the long established food habits do not respond to this lessened demand, obesity is inevitable.

Foods to Avoid in Constipation.—Eat only small servings of meat or fish. Do not eat fried foods. Do not eat crackers, white bread, cake, pie or dughnuts. Do not use rice, farina, macaroni, spaghetti, noodles or starchy puddings. Do not eat dried beans or peas. Do not use boiled milk, much cocoa or milk soups. Do not drink strong tea or coffee. Do not eat candy or nuts.

Nature of Obesity.—Newburgh and Johnston are certain that obesity is never directly caused by abnormal metabolism but that it is always due to food habits not adjusted to the metabolic requirement—either the ingestion of more food than is normally needed or the failure to reduce the intake in response to a lowered requirement.

The Fears of Children Are Not Natural.—We have learned much that is valuable from the behaviorists about the conditioning of emotions and actions. We have found that most of the fears of children are not “natural” as was formerly thought. They are conditioned by the home environment. Though behaviorists have not worked out a plan of campaign, it is clear that desirable actions and interest in reading may also be conditioned and, consequently, we have here an important and fruitful method of child training when some one appears with Hall’s enthusiasm for practical applications and with his genius for making the scientific facts clear to the ordinary mother and teacher. —Swift, E. J.: The Psychology of Childhood, New York, D. Appleton & Co., 1930, p. 8.

Hereditary Predisposition to Hernia.—Birkenfeld is firmly convinced that heredity plays a dominant role in the

Digitized by kjOOQle
181

etiology of hernia; in fact, even the kind of hernia or variability as to kind are inherited factors. For instance, in one family only inguinal hernias may occur; in another umbilical hernias, and in a third, all varieties of hernias have occurred. Ten family charts are shown in which these characteristics are emphasized. Persons whose family tree shows a predisposition to hernia should be cautious in engaging in activities, sport and athletics which may cause a hernia. In persons with an evident hereditary predisposition to hernia who were subjected to a herniotomy, recurrence took place in 11 per cent; those without such hereditary predisposition showed only 4 per cent of recurrence.

The Heralds of Individuality.—There is no question that the form of the bony skeleton, especially the proportions of facial design, tell much about the man’s race and family breed. But it is in the nonmeasurable, moving parts of the face and limbs and trunk that the story of his inner emotional life is written. Facial expression, posture, gesture are the heralds of individuality in function. The habit of looking at these and learning to read their significance is as necessary a part of the good doctor’s equipment as is his ability to recognize the difference between the lymphocyte and a polynuclear leukocyte. In itself, the study of human morphology adds perhaps but little; as a means to the larger conception of the man as a whole, however, it is well nigh indispensable.—Draper, George: Disease and the Man, New York, Macmillan Company, 1930.

Prevention of Wound Infections.—Veraart and Drenth assert that infection of accidental wounds can be prevented to a considerable degree with a treatment that they have employed for seven years in a large accident service. They cleanse the wound thoroughly with hydrogen dioxide, dilute alcohol and occasionally ether, and then freely swab all the wound surfaces, particularly the nooks and crannies, with 5 per cent tincture of iodine. Tests made with a control showed that cultures from wounds so treated gave 86.5 per cent negative results as against 41 per cent negative results with untreated wounds. The tincture of iodine is given the credit for the good results.

Athletics in Schools.—Lempriere in England is convinced that games and sports in the larger schools are, on the whole, well managed and supervised, and that there is surprisingly little evidence of harm resulting. At the same time, constant care is needed on the part of the medical officer and others to see that youthful enthusiasm does not lead to undue excess, and it is in the most healthy and vigorous type of school and boy that such excess is likely to occur. The real risk lies in boys playing games or running after some minor illness, generally slight influenza. Reexamination will not necessarily be a safeguard, as in many cases symptoms precede signs.

Digitized by LjOOQle
182

Personality Begins in the Cradle.—Shaping personality begins in the cradle and continues through the preschool period. By the time the primary room is reached the foundation of personality has been laid and, like a building, the possibilities of the superstructure are settled by the underlying support.—

■■ — ■»

News, notes and comments

--- --------------------------- I

War Psychology. In the newspapers of Cinicnnati we find the following item that vividly recalls the war frame of mind, when it appeared to be necessary for most people to suppress all information relative to Germany as a fundamental means for winning the war. Dr. Henry J. Curtis, who during the war was speaking on recreation, was stopped during his address. A bill which he presented to the Board of Education of Cincinnati, at whose invitation he spoke, was refused payment. Since that time the bill has been presented several times and refused payment. Among the Board of Education notes for the month of March appears the following:

“The bill of Dr. Henry J. Curtis, who delivered a lecture during the war on recreation, and was halted because he praised German methods, was paid by the Board of Education at its meeting, last Monday. This action was taken on legal advice.”

A Letter To The Editor of Cleanliness Journal: Most of the children come to school clean and water is provided wherever possible for washing hands, but I do not believe that it is a common practice here to wash often enough, especially after toilet.

This is due to the fact that except for the town of Shelby most of the water is delivered to homes at a cost of 75 cents per barrel. Children are not encouraged to use water extravagantly, or even as often as necessary.

This condition needs improvement but at present is rather beyond anything we may hope to do. We have a few schools where no drinking water is provided except what the children bring from home each day. In the winter snow is melted. Water is a great problem in this part of Montana and the chief reason why our teaching of cleanliness is not carried over into practice as we would desire. Blanche Anderson, Superintendent oj Schools, Toole Co., Shelby, Mont.

One of the largest play days ever held in the South was conducted April 17-19 at Alabama College when 416 girls from thirty-seven high schools of the state came together for three days of play. The program included mass games such as Progressive Dodge Ball, Club Snatch and End Ball, a supper hike to the college camp with an Easter egg hunt and stunts, team

Digitized by C^ooQle
183

games as basketball, bat ball and baseball, challenges and stunts of all sorts, recreational swimming and a stunt track meet. The girls were divided into four color teams, regardless of the school from which they came. Each color group entered one to four teams in each event. At the end of the three days of playing together, arm bands in the Alabama College colors were given to the girls on the victorious color teams.—Playground and Recreation.

Cerebral Development and Physical Education. In the Great Hall of the Universita adriatica at Bari, Italy, Professor Gallerani inaugurated recently a series of lectures on the development of the brain in relation to physical training. The benefit to cerebral activity resulting from physical training is due to the stimulation that exercise exerts on the hematopoietic organs, which in turn aids the circulation, internal respiration and nutrition of the brain. Well regulated muscular work activates the cardiac function, increases the vital respiratory capacity and the quantity of fixed oxygen, and reduces sensory excitations that stimulate the cortical centers. The functional correlation between the glands of internal secretion, particularly between the thyroid the hypophysis and the genital glands ,which have considerable influence on the brain and the mind, is favored by systematic physical exercise. The speaker illustrated the relations between physical education and mental development, the will and the character in general. The knowledge of one’s own strength, the rapid sizing up of the situation, the evaluation of one's opponent —of his intentions, are all mental phenomena stimulated and accentuated by physical exercise. Attention, the indispensable condition for the accomplishment of any cerebral associative act, tends to be perfected by systematic gymnastic exercises, games and fencing. The more developed the power of attention becomes the shorter will be the reaction time of psychologic, discriminative and selective phenomena.

The Sale of Sunshine Lamps to the Public. The Council on Physical Therapy has taken the stand that a sunshine lamp sold directly to the public should be so constructed that the radiant energy emitted shall not differ essentially from sunlight. Furthermore, the advertising and descriptive matter pertaining to such lamp should contain no curative claims nor mention of specific diseases.

In general, the Council believes that more conservative claims for the necessity of strong sunlight should be made by the manufacturers of lamps for home use, such statements being restricted to those which can be justified by conclusive scientific evidence. The Council is not convinced that human beings in health require the great amount of ultraviolet energy one

Digitized by CjOOQle
184

is led to believe is the case from the advertising and descriptive matter pertaining to some of the so-called sunlamps sold to the public.

A number of the more responsible manufacturers have fully agreed with the opinion of the Council. The emission characteristics of their lamps are in essential agreement with the requirements established by the Council, and in their advertisements they carefully avoid making curative claims. Furthermore, in these advertisements attention is called to the advisability of consulting one’s physician before exposing oneself to ultraviolet radiation.

From time to time the Council will publish reports on the sunlamps which conform to the requirements established by the Council. These reports will describe in detail the construction and operation of the lamps and will contain complete information on their electrical and emission characteristics.

Physical Training Colleges. The Carnegie Trust has recently issued its annual report, and it is interesting to note that after careful consideration by a body of experts it has been decided to establish Physical Training Departments for the Training of Men Teachers in two selected training colleges, one in the north and one in the south of the country. Between £30,000 and £40,-000 will be available for the work, and it is suggested that a hostel, gymnasium and playing field sufficient for 60 students will be provided in each case. It almost appears as if the Prince Charming mentioned in another article in this issue, has been discovered to place the physical training Cinderella on her feet at last.

The first College, apparently, is to be established at Leeds. The Leeds Education Committee has accepted the offer of the Trustees and has decided to erect the College on the Beckett Park Estate. We shall be interested to learn the exact details of the scheme of training, and whether the opinions of the large number of Headmasters and others who were approached during the initial inquiry have been acted upon.;—Physical	England.

There are over 11,000,000 children in rural schools of America today. Of this number 4,750,000 attend one-room, one-teacher schools, of which there are 165,417. The vast majority of these teachers have practically no knowledge or training in physical education, health education or recreation. Very few of these schools have adequate play space or leadership to organize the play life.

According to Lewellyn McGuire in the “Rural Community”, 75% of the children leave school before the sixth grade. This means that any program of education in health, physical education or recreation skills must reach the child before the sixth grade, and a large percentage in the one room and village schools.

— TIniversity of Southern California News Letter

Digitized by CaOOQle
185

Value of Diet Consisting Exclusively of Raw Fruit and Vegetables, for Healthy Person.—Susskind describes four dietetic experiments that he performed on himself. The results of these experiments show that an exclusive raw plant diet is unsuitable for man because on such a diet it is impossible to prevent loss of body weight despite a caloric intake in excess of the normal requirement.	____________

Summer Ban on Custard and Cream Puffs.—Following a request from the Master Bakers’ Association, the health con-missioner of St. Louis, Dr. Max C. Starkloff, issued an order, August 15, prohibiting the sale of custard or cream confections until October 1. The health commissioner not only banned their sale in stores but warned against preparing such food in homes. One batch of bakers’ goods examined by the health department was said to have been found “well colonized with paratyphoid.” A similar order was issued by the health commissioner of Chicago a few weeks ago.

♦ - -

Foreign items of interest

♦- — ■ »

National Institute oj Physical Education. A decision has been reached by Mr. Morinaud, undersecretary of state for physical education, with refreence to the choice of a site for the French national institute of physical education. After consideration of several reports of experts, he has chosen a site in Parc St. Maur, in the suburbs of Paris, in the vicinity of the Ecole militaire de gymnastique de Joinville, with which the new institute will be closely affiliated. The site of eighty acres was formerly used for military maneuvers. The institute will be a center for the whole of France. Another site at Vaugirard which was first considered will likewise be acquired for the buildings of another institute, somewhat less important, which will serve the Paris area. These creations have been looked forward to for a long time by the athletic interests of the country. At the same time, a superior council on physical education will be created the headquarters of which will be available to the representatives of gymnastics, sports and military training.

International Hygiene Exposition at Dresden, Saxony. The following seven groups are portrayed by the Deutsches Hygiene-Museum and the exhibits are in the new building of the museum: (1) Man (	Homo sapiens); (2) Hereditary Transmission and Eu-

genics; (3) Woman as Wife and Mother; (4) Dietetics; (5) Health and Diseases; (6) Hygienic Instruction of the People; (7) Health Culture as Revealed by History and Ethnology. In addition, there are fourteen more distinctly scientific groups: (1) General Care of the Body; (2) The Child; (3) Woman in the Family or

Digitized by CjOOQle
186

Engaged Occupationally; (4) Physical Exercise; (5) The Hygiene of Labor and Industry; (6) Food Products; (7) Agriculture, Including the Hygiene of Meat and Milk; (8) Climate; (9) Clothing; (10) Dwelling and Settlement; (11) The Combating of Vermin and Disinfection; (12) Healthy Mental Existence; (13) Superstition in Relation to Health.

According to a report of “L’Education Physique,” it is the plan of those sponsoring athletics for the youth of France to have an achievement test at the educational period, which will include running, jumping, throwing, carrying and swimming, These exercises are to be shaped into a competition which is to be covered in a limited period of time. Only those who reach the minimum standards of achievement will be permitted to specialize in individual events.	Letter	13,	Mass.	Bureau of

Physical Education.

The women of the executive body of the German National Organization for Physical Education held a meeting, over which Madam Doctor Matz presided. The purpose of the meeting was to determine whether or not German women would participate in the 1932 Olympics. In opposition to the endeavors of other countries who aimed to restrict participation to swimming, tennis and skating, the following resolution was adopted:

‘‘The executive committee hereby goes on record as favoring the participatoion of women in light athletics.”

The following membership figures indicate the growth of the women’s interest in sport in Germany: Catholic Physical Education Cluty, 240,000; German Gymnastic Union, 225,000; Industrial Gymnastic and Athletic Association, 172,000; Swimming Association, 40,000; Bicycle Association, 39,000; Soccer, 20,000; Hiking Association, 28,000; Teachers Association, 37,000.

Health of Palestine. The Department of Health of Palestine reports a small decline in the infant mortality rate for 1928. The rate for the country as a whole is 186.34 per 1,000 and 203 per 1,000 among the Moslem population. The relatively low figure of 95.89 for the Jewish population is attributed partly to the interest in maternal and infant welfare and partly to the fact the Jewish mothers are comparatively young and healthy. The total birth rate of 53.98 compares with 50.35 in 1927, and the Moslem birth rate has risen to 60.99. The number of admissions to hospitals and attendance at dispensaries continues to be high. In general, services to pregnant women, infants and children among the Arab population are inadequate.

The department records with satisfaction that the standard of school medical service throughout the country has been well maintained. The health of the children both in Arab and Jewish schools is remarkably good, while the training in hygiene

Digitized by UjOOQle
187

and the elements of mental science is having a beneficial influence on the pupils.—Am.	J’l. Public Health.

Mexico Child Health Wqrli. The Division of Infant Hygiene, Service de Higiene Infantil, was established by the Federal Department of Public Health of Mexico early in 1929. In recent years this department also established prenatal clinics in the capital and in the states. Child health centers have been in existence since 1921, and since the organization of the Division of Infant Hygiene, 5 new child health centers have been established where prenatal advice is also given. The centers, situated in the poorer districts, all have modem equipment and are staffed with physicians and nurses. Treatment in case of illness is also given to mothers and children, although the main purpose is the prevention of illness. The Division of Infant Hygiene also maintains a staff of visiting nurses who visit the mothers to see whether they comply with the physicians' directions and to persuade them to attend the centers regularly. A school of child care (Escuela de Puericultura) in maintained, in which courses are given for physicians, nurses, school teachers, and housewives.

The Division of Infant Hygiene is also cooperating with the Associacion Nacional de Protecion a la Infancia, a recently organized private society, which maintains a maternity home and several nurseries and is planning to establish new child health centers. This association has established child health agencies in various states. —A. J’l. Public Health.

BOOK REVIEWS

The Football Quizzer for 1930, by W. J. Sheeley. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. Paper bound 5” x 7 1-2”, 100 pages. Price 50 cents.

The “Football Quizzer” is another one of those articles for which people have been looking. It offers an easy, interesting source for studying rules, and without question enables the reader to better understand and interpret them. Every rule is covered. An interesting and valuable supplement present# a complete collection of illustrative cases submitted by coaches and officials throughout the country. We heartily endorse this book for use by players, officials, and spectators.

Educational Objectives of Physical Activity, by Frederick Rand Rogers, Published by A. S. Barnes and Co.—1929—Price $1.00.

Unlike many books of the past dealing with the subject, this book is small in size and brief in content. However, it is packed with stimulating ideas and sound suggestions.

It is divided into three main parts. The first presents a discussion of the philosophical basis for determining physical education objectives, the methods of accomplishing the objectives,

Digitized by UjOOQle
188

what the general program of physical education should contain, and finally a summary of the discussion in outline form.

Part two consists of a discussion of the implications to be made from the preceding chapters for the elementary, intermediate, secondary teacher, the physical educator, the principal, and the superintendent.

Part three presents a very interesting bibliography describing sources in philosophy, method, and program.

Anyone interested in the modern trends in the philosophy of physical education will profit greatly by reading this book. It is one of the too few books which has in a masterly way treated physical education as real “flesh and blood” education. It is a book whose value is as great for the general teacher or educational administrator as for the special teacher.

—C. Kiefer.

Muscle Function, by Wilhelmine G. Wright and J. Playfair McMurrick, Published by Paul B. Hoeber, Inc., New York, 1928. Clothbound 6”x8 1-2”. 206 pages, Price $3.50.

A small volume discussing the actions of the muscle groups involved in the isolated movements of the various parts of the body. The explanation of muscular actions involving combinations or sequences of movements of several parts of the body is not within the scope of the bock.

The author assumes that the reader has already acquired the fundamental knowledge of the structure of the skeletal and muscular systems of the body.

The descriptions are clear. Many of the author’s statements are based upon careful observation of the actions ol muscles and groups of muscles in patients who have lost the use of the antagonistic muscles through paralysis.

Those who are interested in applied anatomy will find some interesting and valuable material in this book.

—Fred, E.

Personal and Community Health, by Claire Elsmere Turner. Published by C. V. Mosby Co., St. Louis, 1930. Cloth-bound 6”x8 1-2”. 443 Pages.

The material in this book is well organized and presented. It contains a minimum of technical terms.

Part I deals with personal health problems. Here we find a discussion of such topics as Health Values, The Hygiene of Nutrition, The Hygiene of the Mouth, The Hygiene of Action, and the Hygiene of Reproduction.

Part II makes up by far the larger part of the volume and treats very thoroughly the fundamental phase of community health.

The book will make a very valuable addition to a teacher’s reference library. It will also serve as an excellent text for use in normal schools and colleges.

—Fred E. Foertsch.

Digitized by C^ooQle