Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. WM. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wts.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

A REVIEW OF SWEDISH GYMNASTICS.

By THEODORE HOUGH.

(Continued.)

NOW the Swedish system does achieve good results. Comparison of the entering Junior and the graduating Senior classes of this school proves this,—not a comparison of the two classes during the drill hour in the gymnasium, but more especially off the gymnasium floor; and I have never seen it questioned that the results obtained in Sweden are eminently satisfactory, at least from the point of view of corrective work. What, then, are the strong points of the system which enable it to produce its physiological effects?

1.	Every group of muscles in the body is given its appropriate functional activity. We have thus produced the effects of use upon these muscles and upon the nerve-cells which innervate them. The various neuro-muscular mechanisms become more perfect machines, capable of doing the work demanded of them at any time. In connection with this valuable secondary effects are produced upon other organs, such as the aid to peristalsis with abdominal movements, the increased efficiency of the respiratory mechanism, etc.

2.	Closely connected with this is the correction of faults of posture by properly chosen contractions of the various groups of muscles in the

Digitized by kjOOQle
-74-

body. The muscles adapt themselves to the work of the skeleton, and the skeleton adapts itself to the work of the muscles. Thus the dorsal muscles of the neck will lengthen and the ventral muscles shorten, when the weight of the head is allowed to bend the neck forward. When the pectoral muscles are exclusively used and the pull they exert on the shoulders is not corrected by contractions of the musles of the back, the latter group of muscles lengthen, while origin and insertion of the pec-torals come closer together. The result is round shoulders, the skeletal parts accommodating themselves more oi; less to this condition. When the erect posture is not carefully maintained and improper curvatures of the spine result, the antagonistic muscles and ligaments of the spinal column likewise accommodate themselves to the changed condition, those on the concave side growing shorter and those on the convex side growing longer. Consideration of these deformities shows that they are produced in two ways,—by improper positions and by the use of one set of mustles with concomitant disuse of their antagonists. In both cases one set of muscles becomes longer,—/, e., origin and insertion come to lie further apart,—while the other becomes shorter,—/. e., origin and insertion come to lie closer together.

The trouble is corrected, first, by such work as will passively stretch the shortened musles and ligaments; in response to which stretching they lengthen. Thus the correction of the fault of round shoulders begins with the stretching of the pectoral muscles or by other means. In addition to this, we must strengthen by use the muscles whose antagonistic play maintains the proper relation of the skeletal parts, the purpose of this obviously being to make such muscles sustain the continuous contraction demanded of them without undue fatigue.* Mere difference in the strength of antagonistic muscles will not of itself produce skeletal deformity. Such deformity is apt to result, however, when this difference of strength goes to the extent that one group of muscles is too weak to sustain efficiently the work demanded of them. When they fatigue in this way, exactly the same thing happens as in a “tug of war,” when the greater fatigue of one side gives the victory to the other. These considerations also make it clear that, where both antagonistic muscles are too weak and consequently relax their support to such skeletal structures as the vertebral column, skeletal deformities may result, even when the muscles in question are of equal strength. Undoubtedly, many cases of improper curvature of the spine have their origin in this cause.

Whether or not this is the complete physiological explanation, there can be no doubt that such deformities, when not too grave, can be corrected in the manner indicated; and it is in this field that gymnastic work in our schools does what play alone cannot do. When, for example, stopped shoulders have been acquired by faulty position,

* Not only does a fatigued muscle exert a less powerful pull than a fresh muscle, but the feeling of effort under these conditions becomes an unreliable indication of the amount of work done. If a dynamometer be arranged so as to record the work done at every moment of the effort, and not merely the maximum pull, it is found that, toward the last, when every effort is being made and, to judge from our feelings, with more or less success to add one pound more to the record, in point of fact the muscle is not doing half the work it did at first; and, when we remember what an important part these afferent impulses of the “muscular sense” must play in guiding the work of the antagonistic muscles which maintain proper position, it at once becomes clear what a difference it makes whether or not we rely for such work upon muscles which are strong enough to sustain it.

Digitized by kjOOQle
-75-

spontaneous play gives no stimulus to bring about that contraction of back muscles which will correct the fault. Indeed, in many cases play only accentuates the fault because of the natural tendency to use the stronger muscles and to disuse the weaker ones. This must be especially true of unregulated play; and, even with supervision, attention cannot, in general, be given to the manner in which a movement is made. Play is, therefore, not a practical method of corrective work.

3.	The work not only trains the neuro-muscular mechanisms of isolated movements to a high degree of efficiency, but also trains these mechanisms to work together. In other words, it trains the power of nervous co-ordination of movements. Just as the separate cells of the body become more efficient by being used, so these cells learn, as it were, to work together by performing as accurately as possible those movements which call for their co-operation. Hence the stress which is laid upon balance movements and also upon the proper execution of movements involving considerable co-ordination. Awkwardness is, for the most part, only another name for the bad habits formed by doing things in the wrong way. It is avoided or corrected by doing them in the right way.

Every effort is made, moreover, to facilitate this correct performance of more or less complicated movements; and it is partly for this reason that the element of undue fatigue is avoided. The same rule is insisted upon in one of our most successful methods of language study. The lesson must not exced fifteen or twenty minutes, and must be interrupted as soon as fatigue shows itself. The correct idiomatic use of the language is acquired by the correct repetition of the idioms of the language; /. e., by the acquisition of habits which can be acquired only by correct use; to attempt to speak these idioms when one is fatigued with previous -study means that a large percentage of them will be incorrectly given, with the result that, if bad habits are not acquired, the mental path of easiest conduction for the correct habit is no longer the clear and unmistakable one it should be. Precisely the same thing is true of what may be called the grosser movements of the body. To do them correctly is to blaze a clear and unmistakable trail of nervous conduction. To do them incorrectly is to confuse that trail with misleading signs which must be unlearned.

A very striking feature of the highly co-ordinated movements used in the Swedish gymnastics is the fact that so many of them are performed with one or both feet on the ground and supporting the weight of the body. Such is the case with all balance movements. The significance of this is at once seen when it is remembered that it is exactly this co-ordination which is of greatest use in everv-day/life.

An equally great sum total of co-ordination is required by the more difficult feats on the horizontal or parallel bars or the trapeze; but the skill thus acquired is useful, for the greater part, only in the performance of similar tricks on such pieces of apparatus. I can personally recall cases of men who were most excellent athletes of this kind and yet whose gait was anything but graceful. Now it is a legitimate demand on any gymnastic training in schools that it shall produce not only correct proportions of the body at rest, but also graceful carriage of

Digitized by LaOOQle
—76—

the body in locomotion; and the principle of training by use shows us clearly that this is to be accomplished chiefly by the use of movements and positions in which, the weight of the body* being supported on the feet, equilibrium must be maintained in difficult positions.

4.	The need for training to do the more difficult word is kept in view. Students attempt particular movements only as they are provided with the proper physiological agents therefor by previous work. The exercises, in other words, progress from the simpler to the more difficult, and are so chosen that the former directly prepare for the latter. No other work compares with the Swedish in this respect.

5.	Full and free respiration is always insisted upon. In many forms of physical exertion there is a tendency to diminish or even suppress entirely for a time the respiratory movements. At times, of course, this is absolutely necessary, as when, in lifting heavy weights by the arms, the thorax must be made rigid to assure a firm point of origin for the working muscles. The condition is even then, however, objectionable from the standpoint of the organism as a whole. Probably one of the chief benefits of muscular exercise is brought about through the accompanying increase in the breathing movements. We caunot at present positively affirm or deny that this is because of the increased amount of oxygen taken to the tissues,* although such an explanation is frequently given with an assurance which betrays complete ignorance of some welknown physiological literature. It must be remembered, however, that the respiratory movements produce other effects upon the organism than ventilation of the lungs. They aid in the return of blood to the heart; and they are an important factor, if not the most important factor, in causing the flow of lymph in the lymphatics. Thus their increase during muscular exercise aids the heart at a time when it is apt to be overworked, and increases largely the flow of lymph, not from the working organs alone, but from all organs of the body. This is not the place to describe the physiological importance of the lymph flow. Let it suffice to say that there is good reason to believe that a good, steady lymph flow from an organ is an important condition of its healthy nutrition, and that the increase of lymph flow from all organs of the body brought about through the increased respiratory movements is one of the chief agents through which muscular exercise favorably affects the body as a whole.

It is, therefore, quite conceivable that the breathing movements may be sufficient to supply all the oxygen needed for muscular work and to

—------------------ •

* We have good reason to believe that merely increasing the ventilation of the lungs does not increase the percentage of oxygen in the blood nor the amount taken up by the tissues. The tissues do not take more oxygen because more enters the lungs. On the contrary, their consumption of oxygen is conditioned upon the amount of chemical change taking place in them ; and this, in turn, is largely dependent upon their work. It is almost certainly, moreover, a mistake to assume that during muscular exercise all cells of the body profit by a quickened circulation and a more ready access to oxygen ; the percentage of oxygen in arterial blood being practically constant, the amount of oxygen offered any organ will be determined by the amount of blood flowing through it, and not by the ventilation of the lungs ; indeed, we know that, in general, the blood supply to internal organs is distinctly diminished during muscular exercise, in order to compensate for the increased supply to the muscles and the skin. Whenever there is an increased amount of blood flowing through an organ, more oxygen will, it is true, be offered to its cells, but it will be taken up by them only as their chemicall processes call for it. We have, moreover, good reason to think that the mechanism of respiration, including the heart, provides, under ordinary conditions, far more oxygen than even the working tissue can use. The blood leaving an organ frequently, if not generally, has half the oxygen with which it entered the organ; and this remains true even when the organ is working, the increased blood-flow being more than sufficient to compensate for the increased consumption of oxygen.

Digitized by kjOOQle
-77-

remove the large amounts of carbon dioxide produced thereby, and yet not be the aid to the circulation of blood nor to the flow of lymph that they should be; and, if this be true, it is a proper function of physical training to train the power of full and free respiration under all possible conditions. It is a matter of common experience that there is a marked tendency to insufficient respiration whenever work presents the least element of effort. I have seen this frequently among bicyclists in going up even slight inclines; they seem to put all their energy into volitional muscular contractions and to have little left for respiration; respiration is, as it were, held in abeyance until the effort is over; and then they must stop to “puff and blow.’’ Now it is just as easy—nay easier—to maintain full and deep respiratory movements during the performance of most work ; and, when this is done, there is less of subsequent fatigue. Moreover, as I have attempted to show, the general hygienic effects of the exercise are most probably enhanced by this deep breathing. It would, indeed, seem that all considerations point to the advisability of gymnastic training cultivating the habit of deep breathing ; and, wether the Swedes give the correct reason for the practice or not, it is a fact that its importance is everywhere recognized in their practical work. The mobility of the ribs is kept at its maximum, the capacity of the thorax is enlarged where that is possible or advisable, while the special respiratory exercises do4 their part in training the breathing mechanism to the full measure of its working capacity.

6.	The carrying out of definite movements with accuracy and precision is a training in volitional control. It increases the efficiency of the mechanism of skilled movements. One who has had such training in carrying out great numbers of movements at the word of command can do with the muscles what it is unlikely that he would be able to do otherwise. The body becomes more “supple,'’ which means largely that the number of its possible movements is largely increased, or, more correctly expressed, the number of its possible movements is not reduced as life advances, and we tend to limit the movements of the body to the few which some sedentary occupation calls for. It prevents the narrowing of the field of volitional control, and it is especially important that the field of volitional control shall not be narrowed during the period of development.

To prevent any misconception, it may be well to state clearly that this increase of volitional control does not mean that a person can at once perform some new kind of work as well as those who have become accustomed to that work by long practice. Almost all^special kinds of work involve the more or less constant use of certain groups of muscles, or else, as in swimming or rowing, they involve the acquisition by practice of a co-ordinated nervous mechanism of accustomed movements. A man with such complete volitional control will have to strengthen still more the muscles which rowing, for example, involves ; he will also have to acquire the nervous mechanism of the movement ; but he can learn to row accurately and easily sooner and with less expenditure of effort than can a man without such volitional control.

This effect is of psychological importance. Health depends on exercise, and whether we are inclined to take exercise or not depends partly

Digitized by CaOOQle
-78-

on the use we can make of our bodies. Exercise is necessarily monotonous to the man who has but few muscles to use, few movements to make. There is an impulse to take the exercise that health demands when the individual has the conscious power which comes from volitional control of many movements. In other words, there is a love of movement, natural to the child, and a priceless possession from the hygienic point of view to the adult, which we should never allow to slip away from us.

7.	In a later portion of this paper we shall have occation to discuss the relations to each other of the two purposes of physical training, corrective work and the general hygienic effects of exercise, as well as the extent to which the day’s order fulfils the latter purpose. We may here anticipate these discussions, however, merely to say that Swedish gymnastics, properly done, produce in a high degree those general effects of exercise which favorably affect the health of the organism as a whole.

I must not be understood as saying that each of the above seven objects is accomplished only by Swedish gymnastics. Some of them are distinctive, while others are not. The essential characteristic of Swedish work is that it aims at and secures in a remarkable degree all these results; and I believe that the secret of its success is to be sought here rather than in rmnor details of the “day’s order,” which is simply the practical method adopted of achieving these physiological ends.

The exact form of the “day’s order” is not simply the expression of a physiological idea. Certain things are done because they are the most feasible under given conditions. Moreover, in gymnasium work there is a psychical as well as a purely physiological element; and nothing can be worse than to neglect this in practice; a class is not put directly to executing back or lateral trunk movements; the effect of such a course upon the interest of the class in its work had better be left to the imagination. It is, moreover, only partly for physiological reasons that each movement is given at the time when it can best be performed or least interfere, by introducing the element of fatigue or otherwise, with the proper execution of other movements. Any explanation of the work must therefore take account of other considerations than those which are purely physiological.

The exercises of the day s order may be classified as follows:—

1.	Introductory movements, which include order movements and movements of the extremities.

2.	Span-bending movements.

3.	Heave movements.

4.	Balance movements.

[5. Back movements.

?6. Abdominal movements.

f7. Lateral trunk movements.

8.	Running, jumping, vaulting, and games.

9.	Slow-leg and respiratory movements.

The common nomenclature is retained as far as possible, although certain objections may be made to it. Indeed, the names are denotative rather than connotative; and, so long as this is understood, there is but little objection to the use of the common terms. I have, however.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-79-

dropped the old term “leg movements,” and substituted therefor the more accurate term, movements of the extremities. The old term is not only misleading, but is associated with certain very questionable physiological explanations, and should be abandoned.

Postponing for the moment the description of these classes of movements and the reasons for their sequence, we may classify the exercises of the “day’s order” from the physiological point of view, as follows:—

1.

2.

3.

Activities of limited motor mechanisms

Activities involving a high degree of general

r Span-bending Heave Back

Abdominal Lateral trunk Extremities

co-ordination

Balance

General bodily activities of considerable intensity

f Vaulting 1 Jumping j Running I Games

The order movements have been omitted from this classification because they are not of physiological importance; likewise, the slow-leg and respiratory movements, because of the very special function for which they are used. The purpose of the first group is to correct or prevent deformities; of the second, to give ease and grace of carriage; of the third, to produce as far as possible the general hygienic effects of exercise. Finally, the three groups overlap to a very considerable extent.

The term activity is used to emphasize the fact that it is not simply the muscles which are being trained, but the nervous system as well. Indeed, it is more than this; for still other organs, notably those of the vascular and respiratory systems, take part in such muscular work.

(To be concluded.)

POTPOURRI OF SPORT. Sporting men generally will be glad to show that the quarter-mile track at the Stadium at the Pan-American Exposition at Buffalo is assured as originally planned. One of the Pan-American designing architects says the track not only would be available for cycle races, but probably for horse races or exhibitions and match tests of speed.

Interest in the Stadium and the sports of the exposition is growing steadily throughout the country. During the exposition it is doubtful if any feature of the great show will prove more attractive or draw greater crowds. The baseball, football, lacrosse, tennis, and other games, particularly with college men or teams interested, will draw thousands of spectators. Bicycle races and horse, cattle, and other animal competition will add to the popularity of the Stadium.

It will be peculiarly the home of sports at the exposition. The fact that its size is to be proportionate to its importance as a popular center shows the good judgment of the exposition authorities, who deem it unwise to restrict in any way the sports to be held on a grand scale. The plans as known have met with general approval throughout the country.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-80-

“ATHLETICS MUST BE CLEAN.”

COLUMBIA COMPELS HER FOOTBALL MANAGER TO RETIRE.

CHARGED WITH CARELESSNESS, IRREGULARITY, AND UNTRUTHFULNESS BY THE GRADUATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE OF THE UNIVERSITY.

PRESIDENT LOW TALKS ON PURE SPORT.

“/CLOSELY following the stringent rules adopted by the Faculty of the O Athletic Committee of Columbia University comes the most radical step ever taken by the institution in the interest of pure athletics. The manager of last year’s football eleven, who had been unanimously reelected, has been compelled to permanently sever all relations with Columbia athletics. Prof. Frederick R. Hutton, Chairman of the Athletic Committee, explains the Faculty’s action in a letter submitted by him to the committee and the college newspaper. The letter reads in part:

During the past season charges were made that the football team was not a genuine college team. At the request of the president the Faculty Committee on Athletics immediately made an investigation through the manager of every person challenged. The manager stoutly asserted that every man on the team was a bona fide student. The records upon the surface were in every case correct, so far as enrollment, payment of fees, etc., were concerned. The investigation showed, however, that the state of affairs was secured by assuring the student that he had obtained a scholarship in the university, which is contrary both to-fact and policy of the institution. Following the uniform custom at Columbia of believing every student until he has proven himself untrustworthy, the Committee on Athletics reported to the President that the criticisms on the team were not justified, except in the case of a substitute who was immediately forbidden to play.

During the last few weeks rumors have been in circulation involving the manager. As soon as these rumors reached the ears of the Faculty Committee on Athletics, this committee asked the Graduate Adviso^ Committee of the Athletic Association to cause the manager's books to be audited by a public accountant and to report the result of their inquiry to the Faculty Committee on Athletics. The report of the Graduate Advisory Committee shows that the manager had changed the accounts in order to conceal payments made to various members of the team for tuition and for board, and that in two instances what appear to be mistakes of about $200 in each case were made in settlement with visiting teams. These errors will, of course, be promptly corrected.

It also appears, by admission of the manager, that finding himself at the opening college year without a satisfactory football team, he determined that it was better to form one at all hazards than frankly to face the facts. This-grievous mistake, made, as the Faculty Committee believes, under the stress of great temptation, accounts for the falsification of the manager’s books, and for his blameworthy actions in many directions. The accompanying statement of the Faculty Athletic Committee will explain itself:

Rumors have arisen affecting the integrity of the management of the football team last year. An investigation has been made at the request of the Faculty Committee on Athletics, by the Graduate Advisory Committee, which committee has also employed an expert in examining the books. It appears that there is no evidence of personal dishonesty on the part of the manager, but many evidences of carelessness and irregularity, involving some payments deemed to be improper and contrary to the regulations of this committee. Unhappily, it also transpired that the manager, carried away by his zeal to make a good showing for his team and the university, permitted himself in a moment of great stress to adopt a policy of untruthfulness toward the Faculty Committee on Athletics instead of one of outspoken frankness.

Digitized by

Google
-81-

In view of all the circumstances, the graduate committee determined that the manager should be called upon to retire from all connection with athletics, and referred the report to the Faculty Committee on Athletics for such further action as it might seem to call for.

With the consent of the Faculty Committee the manager has severed his connections with the university. The committee regrets that no other course seemed practicable, but truth is vital in all relations of life, and the lack of it in connection with the athletics ot this university cannot be tolerated from anybody under any circumstances.

For the Faculty Committee on Athletics,

Frederick R. Hutton, Chairman.

The developments have caused an immense sensation at Columbia but the general sentiment among faculty and students is to make a clean breast of the whole affair for the university’s future athletic name.

President Low said:

“Our problem is to check as many as possible of the abuses of intercollegiate athletics and to develop all that is good in them. As Columbia, in her new home, seems likely to be more of a factor in this field than heretofore, I desire to say that the influence of the university will be thrown as strongly as possible in favor of accenting in every way the amateur character in competitions. The attitude of ’the college faculty is, therefore, friendly to such sports when conducted upon a strictly amateur basis and with a high sense of honor, such as becomes a gentleman.

“All universities and colleges with whom teams representing Columbia may hereafter compete may understand that the good faith of the university itself is engaged to maintain the amateur character and the genuine student standing of all men who may represent Columbia in athletic contests. Mistakes may sometimes be made from lack of knowledge, but there will be no hesitation in withdrawing from a representative position any man who is known to be either only nominally a student or not a bona fide amateur. If other colleges and universities will take the same stand, it ought to be easy to put an end to many of the evils which have marred intercollegiate athletics in the past.

“Along these lines and so long as it appears that athletic sports at Columbia are, as I believe they can be, a valuable agency in the training of men, I shall be glad to give them my hearty support.”

The students of the university held a mass meeting on March 29, to take such action as they see fit to provide for the election of a football manager at once, so as not to militate against the formation of a successful fall schedule.

Later the university took another step in the same direction as the following quotation indicates:

“The Advisory Committee of the Columbia Athletic Association has again shown its disposition to keep athletic affairs straight bv suspending Captain T. H. Allen of the Freshman Basket Ball team for the rest of the season for neglecting to put in an appearance at the late Columbia-Yale game.”

Yale has been working in the same direction. The following quotation explains itself:

“Yale University undergraduates to night are very indignant over the fact that C. F. Cook, who was regarded as the star pitcher of the

Digitized by (JooQle
’varsity nine, was not permitted to go on the Easter trip with the team which started south to-day. It was stated that Cook is a little back in his studies and the faculty would not permit him to go along with the nine. This practically shuts outlook from pitching for the remainder of the season, and the Yale boys, who had been expecting much from his work in the big games, are grievously disappointed over the situation. Cook ran into a similar experience last fall when he tried to make the ’varsity football team, the faculty then interfering because he was behind in his scholarship standing.”—N. Y. Sun.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF PHILADELPHIA, PA.

THE physical cultivation of the human body is now in all civilized countries a part of public education; it has been introduced in public and private institutions to relieve the continuous mental strain of the pupils, to counteract faulty positions, and to obtain a harmonious development of the body in which health, strength, and gracefulness principally figure.

In this country many cities have in their schools this important branch of education as a part of their daily curriculum. The so-called “gymnastic exercises” have been in time of such beneficial influence that it is gratifying to notice the steady advancement and extension of physical training.

In the public schools of the city of Philadelphia much has been done for the mental improvement of our children, their studies have gradually increased in the efforts to keep pace with the progressiveness of our times. At present the mental burden has reached a dangerous point, the more so as nothing has been done for the physical welfare of the child. It is absolutely necessary to take prompt and active measures upon introducing physical education into our schools. The mental overwork of the children must be counterbalanced and their health and physical strength increased. The best gift for the career of life is a sound mind and a sound body.

After close examination of different plans of physical training in public schools I recommend the following as the best adapted for the schools of Philadelphia.

To conduct physical training in our public schools with the best results, it is necessary to have a staff of competent instructors in physical education. This staff should consist of one superintendent and twenty assistants; each assistant to be appointed as instructor for a certain district, these districts to be formed according to locality of the schools and number of scholars. The superintendent will supervise the physical training in all the schools and issue quaterly a manual of exercises for instruction, containing a series of daily lessons systematically graded in consideration of the classification of the pupils. Every lesson should be arranged to exercise the whole body in general, being governed by hygienic principles. The first elementary instruction must consist in forming correct habits of standing, walking, and sitting, also calisthen-

Digitized by tjOOQle
-83—

ics, composed of movements for the feet, legs, head, trunk, arms and shoulders together with respiratory exercises. The assistants will visit the schools in their district at stated times, set by the superintendent, and instrnct the classes and their teachers conforming to the quarterly manual of exercises. Each month one lesson must be arranged for the class teachers of each school, in order to enable them to properly teach the exercises in their respective classes. The instructors will make a monthly report in writing to the superintendent of physical education, concerning the progress of their work. The latter duty is also to visit the schools, to examine and make observations; his report must be sent quarterly to the superintendent of the schools. The gymnastic lessons must find a place in the daily curriculum for a period of at least 15 minutes.

The exercises can be executed either in a well ventilated class-room or in the corridor. The lessons must be conducted in such a way as to stimulate the mental and physical power of the child and must not be regarded as a mere recreation. Recreative exercises will be found in various gymnastic games, which should be taught during recess in the school yard. These should be fitted up as play grounds with sandpits, for running, and jumping.

As the work advances and the beneficial influence is noted hand apparatus, such as dumbbells, wands, and rings, also wall apparatus placed in corridors may be added for use in the higher grades. The ideal condition for physical education is a gymnasium for each .school, having a permanent physical director and being equipped with apparatus for in and out of door exercises. In some of the foreign countries, where the great value of physical training is recognized, schools have been provided with such gymnasia.

Let us hope that a country, as progressive as the United States, will in the near future take as active measures in enforcing the physical education of. the children as it has taken towards educating their mental powers.	Richard Pertuch.

PHYSICAL TEST FOR NORMAL SCHOOL. At the Board of Education meeting proper a solution for the overcrowded condition of the Chicago Normal School was found, it is believed, by the adoption of a report of the committee recommending the establishment of a physical examination in connection with the usual mental examination for admission to the Normal School. The first physical examination took place at the West Division High School on June 14. The examining board consisted of three women physicians and the women members of the board. Any one of five disabilities is sufficient to debar from admission. The five are:

Pulmonary tuberculosis.

Marked physical deformity.

Pronounced neurasthenia.

Irremediable defects in sight or hearing.

Organic disorders or such nutritional deficiencies as may prevent proper care and control of pupils.

This report of the Normal School Committee was adopted by a vote of eighteen to one, Thomas Brenan alone voting against it.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-84-

Mind ftND BODY. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

IM2Ll-wa.vi.lee©, *TXriac©aa.e2.2a..

MSF" Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

STRENGTH TESTS OF THE UNIVERSITIES.

THE advocates of anthropometric measurements have, among other arguments, always affirmed that such measurements would permit of an approximately correct comparison of the physical development between individuals, classes, schools, and even nations. For some time the eastern universities have been carrying on such comparative anthropometric tests on a previously well-arranged uniform plan, the summaries of which we frequently see published in the daily papers. All of these institutions in turn seem to be able to bring out a strong or strongest man. We see at present a contest in progress that seems to attract as much interest as any actual athletic performance.

To be sure, we have no objection against such practice; it may help to awaken the students’ interest in a subject that was almost entirely foreign to them until lately.

However, we are of opinion that the results of these measurements ought to be used more for statistical and scientific than for business or advertising purposes.

It seems to us immaterial which college at this time can boast of the strongest man. If these tests are to be regarded simply as a new and novel form of sport, just or unjust accusations of irregulaties (to the detriment of the benefits claimed for anthropometry) will be as frequent as in the athletic field, or more.

Furthermore, it should never be forgotten that these tests, for various reasons can never be regarded as absolutely reliable, even if one man would supervise them all and at one and the same apparatus. The more examiners and machinery, the greater the probability for unavoidable errors.

THE FOLLOWING BEAUTIFUL METAPHOR is an excerpt from an essay by the old turner-pioneer Heinrich Huhn. It is an ample illustration of the noble spirit and exceptional devotion entertained by the founders and pioneers of the N. A. G. U. The turner-pioneers will meet on June 20th to 23rd at Philadelphia in honor of the Golden Anniversary of the N. A. G. U.

“Weak and humble was the sprig that the exciles of 1848 planted into the soil of this republic. But it put forth roots in the new ground, and grew and prospered, and spread out its branches in all directions. It is true, many a storm roared around the young tree and it was often in danger to be torn down by the power of the tempest. Noxious

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-85-

insects, too, built their nests in its branches; many a worm stung its fruits and bedded its destructible hatch into its bark. But neither tempest nor thunderstorm could shake the trunk; neither hurricane nor putrefaction could destroy its best fruits. Deeper and deeper it sunk its roots into the nourishing mother earth; farther and farther it stretched its branches under which every one can find shelter and protection who is endangered by the storm of times; every year, with new splendor, new leaves and blossoms sprout forth and new delicious fruits ripen on its branches. And though worm-eaten here and there, or attacked by the moths of selfishness, false ambition, and hypocrisy; though the weeds of corruption and servility may sprout forth in its shade—what harm is done ? Every strong gust of the refreshing and enlivening breeze of liberty shakes down the worm-eaten fruits, expels the vermin insects that whir about its branches, dry up the weeds that grew in its shade. The trunk of the tree is substantial and solid; the ground in which it roots is nourishing and productive; its care lies in the hands of mindful gardeners who nurse and protect it; and posterity will enjoy the delicious fruits that it will bring forth. For all this our thanks is due to those men who put the tender sprig of physical training into the soil of our republic out of which the North American Gymnastic Union has developed into a great, strong, fruit- and shade-spending tree which offers its fruits to all constituents of our cosmopolitean nation for the purpose of recreation and invigoration.”—Translated from the German by H. 0. D.

HE NATIONAL EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATION has sent out the

following circular for a competition in Prize Essays on School Hygiene:

At the meeting of the Department of Superintendence of the National Educational Association at Chattanooga, Tenn., in 1898, a committee of nine members, with Hon. W. T. Harris, Commissioner of Education as chairman, was appointed to propose a plan for prosecuting a scientific inquiry for the determination of the factors involved in the proper seating, lighting, heating, and ventilating of school buildings. That committee made a preliminary report at the Columbus meeting of the* department in February, 1899. The report was also presented to the National Council of Education at the Los Angeles meeting of the Association in July.

In accordance with the recommendations of the report, the Council appointed a committee consisting of A. R. Taylor, President State Normal School, Emporia, Kans.; W. T. Harris, United States Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C.; George P. Brown, Editor School and Home, Bloomington, 111.; W. F. King, President Cornell College, Mt. Vernon, la., and Aaron Gove, Superintendent City Schools, Denver, Colo., to ask the Board of Directors of the general association for the sum of $1,200, to be offered to experts for prize essays on the subjects named, and, if the amount should be granted, to make formal propositions for the same.

The allowance wa§ made and the committee offers the following prizes, subject to the conditions hereinafter named :

For the best essay submitted on each of the following topics: the seating, the lighting, the heating, and the ventilating of school buildings, $200.

For the second best essay submitted on each topic, $100.

Each essay shall be limited to ten thousand words and shall be submitted in printed or typewritten copy without signature, but with name of author enclosed with it in sealed envelope and addressed to the chairman of the committee at

Digitized by

Google
-86-

Emporia, Kansas. Three copies of each essay shall be submitted. They must be mailed not later than February 1, 1901. The essays and envelopes will be properly numbered for identification and the former forwarded to three experts to be hereafter appointed by this committee. Each expert will be ignorant of the appointment of the others and their combined judgment shall determine the award. Should no essay on any topic be found worthy of an award and publication, the committee reserve the right to withhold the same.

The committee reserve the exclusive right for the National Educational Association to copyright the prize essays and to publish the same for general distribution.

The committee desire that each essay shall treat each topic independently and be complete in itself, no reference being made to statements contained in another essay. Generalities and speculations are not desired, neither are detailed technical formulae and demonstrations. Each essay should present concisely and comprehensively the problem to be solved and the scientific principles involved; should discuss briefly the construction of the school building as related to the problem of sanitation in general and to the specific subject of the essay in particular; should describe in detail sufficient for the apprehension of the average teacher the conditions and mechanisms by which the best results may be obtained; should include figures and diagrams illustrating general plan and principles involved: should set forth methods and devices for detecting defects and suggest remedies for the same in buildings already constructed; should give references to a few buildings where the system has been adopted ; and should be supplemented by a brief bibliography of standard authorities on the subject discussed and a short list of manufacturers of approved devices and supplies for carrying out the plans advocated by the author.

The essay on ventilation should include full suggestions concerning the use of disinfectants.

Should the awards on two or more essays be made to the same person, he will be permitted to revise and unify the manuscript before publication by the committee.

A. R. Taylor, Chairman of Committee,

Emporia, Kansas.

Irwin Shepard, Secretary N. E. A.,

Winona, Minn.

March 20, 1900.

TO THE MEMBERS OF THE ANDERSON ALUMNI ASSOCIATION greeting:

The Third Annual Meeting of the Alumni Association was held in New Haven, Ct., May 12, 1900.

Members were present from every class graduated since the establishment of the school in 1886, except two. The signing of the Constitution and the payment of a fee of one dollar constitutes life membership in the Alumni Association. Of the one hundred and eighty graduates of the school ninety-five have joined the Association, and other names are being sent in almost every week.

It seems to be the general sentiment of the members that those who are actively engaged in gymnastic work should pay annual dues of one dollar in addition to the membership fee. We would thus be able to add to the fund already in our treasury, and so, perhaps, establish a loan fund for worthy students, or use the money in other ways that may seem advisable. The ‘question will be voted upon at the next annual meeting, and any communications in regard to it may be sent to the president.

The meeting in New Haven was very successful from every stand-

Digitized by tjOOQle
-87-

point, unless the length of the program may be criticised. Those having the matter in hand did not make sufficient allowance for the general discussion of each paper. That so many were ready to speak shows that the question chosen was one of very general interest.

The morning was given up to greeting old friends, and making new ones, and a very interesting exhibition of gymnastic work.

No fancy work was given, but a regular lesson in both German and Swedish gymnastics, with a series in club swinging, gave those gathered in the gallery a good idea of the powers of endurance of the class of 1900. They are to be congratulated upon their work, and the Association appreciates the kindness of the management of the school in giving the annual exhibition at this time.

A charming luncheon was served by Dr. and Mrs. Arnold at their home, 46 York Square, and all present enjoyed the hospitality shown.

At two o’clock all gathered in the gymnasium, and the program opened with a short address by Miss Beiderhase, ’91, the 1st Vice President, who filled the president’s place in her enforced absence.

Dr. Anderson was introduced and gave a most hearty welcome to all present. His address was a good one, and it was a pleasure to all to hear him once more.

The general theme for discussion was “How to Interest the Public in Physical Training.”

Dr. Ehinger, ’90, of the S. N. S., West Chester, Pa., read a paper on “How to Interest the Physician,” Mrs. Grace Prentice Valiant, ’89, of Boonton, N. J., read one on “Howto Interest Parents,” Miss Elizabeth Bremner, ’92, of the Brooklyn Public Schools, read one on “How to Interest Teachers,” and Miss Mary G. Cannon, ’96, Director of Physical Training in the New Britain, Conn., Public Schools, read one on “How to Interest Childreq.” A very interesting discussion followed the reading of each paper, and Dr. Arnold gave an able summary of the whole question.

At the business meeting the following officers were elected for the coming year:

President, Louisa Smith, M. D., ’95, Bryn Mawr College, Pa.

1st Vice-President, Miss Sara E. Boudren, ’92, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Cambridge, Mass.

2nd Vice-President, Miss Kathleen Atkinson, ’97, Assistant to Physical Director, Public Schools, Brooklyn, N. Y.

3rd Vice-President, Miss Mabel Salter, 1900, Girls’ High School, New York City.

Rec. Sec’y., Miss Cora B. Class, ’95, S. N. S., Shippensburg, Pa.

Home Sec’y., Miss Minnie Haupt, ’99, Assistant to Dr. Arnold, New Haven, Ct.

Treas., Miss Helen H. Frothingham, ’92, 105 Gates Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y.

Cora B. Clark, Sec’y.

Shippensburg, Pa., May 26, 1900.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

Digitized by VjOOQle
—88—

28TH GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. G. U.

WITH the Festival only a few days distant, the interest which is being manifested is growing to an unforeseen intensity. Everything points to a grand success, so that the Festival beyond doubt will be the greatest display of gymnastics ever witnessed in this country. To the educational world this huge gathering must necessarily be of great signifiance, since the question of physical training as a schoolbranch is confronting every institution of learning at the present day. It is only a question of time when this end, toward which the N. A. G. U. has been striving for many years, will be reached. A system of physical training, which by mere merit of system has popularized gymnastics to such an extent that in many places it has become public property, needs hardly any recommendation for its acceptance into any school curriculum, be it primary, grammar or high school, college or university. Besides this competitive festivals, arranged by the N. A. G. U., where and when has there ever been a gymnastic or an athletic meet which might be considered a popular competition ?

In the customary athletic meet we have only a few specialists representing a big organization or school or sometimes even the entire country. On the other hand, in these festivals, like Philadelphia is about to celebrate one, the number of contestants is in the thousands. Specialists have no opportunity to harvest laurels; it is the man who scores the highest number of points in all gymnastic as well as athletic events, that is crowned as winner. Besides, the team competition gives ample opportunity to the average man to partake, hence the large number of contestants. The coming festival will illustrate this fact in all its phases.

Up to the last meeting of the local Executive Committee 2,412 entrees had been received. The chairman of the Finance Committee reported that a garanty fund of twenty thousand dollars has been procured. This surely is a sign that the citizens are heartily supporting this great undertaking. Upon suggestion of Mr. Richard Pertuch, the Technical Director of the Festival, the different parts of the program were assigned to the following physical directors:

Hans Goetz, of the Columbia Turnverein, will lead the Mass Exercises of the Senior Classes.

Dr. Krogh, of the Southwark Turnverein, those of the children.

F. A. Finkeldey, of the Camden (N. J.) Turnverein, those of the Ladies and Juniors.

Carl L. Schroedcr, of the State Normal School, West Chester, will have charge of the Pentathlon.

The Committee of Arrangements hopes to be able to greet a great number of the readers of “Mind and Body” in Philadelphia during the Festival, and to those who will not be able to attend it promises a full account of the entire jubilee in there columns some time later.

Digitized by G.OOQle
-89-

ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE Y. M. C. A. PHYSICAL

DIRECTORS.

THE Annual Conference of the Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors was held this year at the Thousand Islands Park, N. Y., June 6th to 14th. The following course of lectures was given by Dr. Luther Gulick:

GYMNASTIC THERAPEUTICS.

The object of these lectures was to give in most serviceable form those facts and experiences which were most helpful to the average physical director in counseling men about their health. The medical treatment of these cases were not discussed. The limitations of gymnastic and hygienic treatmet were carefully considered.

Constipation:—Relation to sedentary life. Results of Peristaltics. How pro-duced. Mechanical, thermal, neural, and psychic factors. Effects of deep breathing, abdominal exercise, agitation, etc. Cases reported by Dr. Geo. J. Fisher.

Cardiac Weakness:—Factors controlling cardiac activity and metabolism. Cardiac activity and blood pressure. Heart and emotion. Effects of exercise upon. Exercises of endurance. Dosage. Cases reported by Dr. J. Gardener Smith.

Carriage of Trunk:—Relation to health and activity of thoracic and abdominal viscera. Factors in maintenance of good carriage. Cases discussed by W.

H.	Ball.

Scoliosis :—Causes, development. Gymnastic treatment.

Obesity :—Relation to muscular activity. Nature of fat tissue. Muscular labor as related to breaking down of fatty tissue. The cardiac element. Cases discussed by Dr. A. E. Garland.

Neurasthenia:—The diseases of civilization. Over-emphasis on accessory muscles in certain trades. Hyper-excitability of nerve cell. Treatment by muscular exercise. Cases discussed by A. G. Studer.

Insomnia:—Result of over-stimulation upon nerve cells. Effects of loss of sleep. Danger of muscular exercise. Dosage an essential element. Cases discussed by Dr. Chadwick and Max J. Exner:

General Vitality:—Exercise as related to somatic vigor, dosage, character, denation, etc.

In the course of lectures particular emphasis is to be laid on the whole subject of hygienic management of the individual. This was done in the interests of common sense rather than of the mere logical development of the topic. In proper relation of topics baths and bathing was discussed. The influence of the mental state and suggestions foi its control. Sleep.

Massage has such good manuals that there was no detailed discussion of it. As already indicated, the following clinical papers or lectures were given:

Cases of Obesity......................Dr. A. E. Garland.

“	“	Constipation................Dr. Geo. J. Fisher.

“	“ Neurasthenia....................Mr.	A. G. Studer.

“	“ Cardiac Weakness............Dr.	J.	Gardner Smith.

“	“ Indigestion......................Dr. P. S. Fage.

“	“ Insomnia...Dr. H. L. Chadwick and Max J. Exner.

Carriage of the Trunk....................Dr. W. H. Ball.

A paper was presented on “Clean Bowling” by Dr. Garland.

Reports were also made by the following standing committees: Indoor Test-Bowling College—Hand Book—Jubilee—Nomenclature—Anthropometry and Personal Hygiene.

The Executive Committee consisted of:

tv. H. Ball, Montreal, Canada, Chairman.

W. E. Daj'ton, Ohio, Secretarv.

G. W. Ehler, Chicago, 111.

Dr. H. Kallenberg, Chicago, 111.

Dr. A. E. Garland, Albany, N. Y.

Dr. Meylan, Boston, Mass.

Geo. T. Hepburn, New York, N. Y.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-90-

ROUNDEL—RED, WHITE, AND BLUE.

(To the tune of “O, Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean.”)

By ADOLF OPPENHEIMER.

2 -. 1 -

TTTTTTTT T T T T T T T

Rear J Rank. Front *

Distance between front and rear rank 4 steps, distance between pupils 2 steps.

Any number of ranks can take part and any number of pupils may be in the rank, provided the number in both cases be even.

The visual effect of the roundel will gain if the pupils are made to cary flags.

FIRST STANZA.

No. 2. 4 steps forward, 4 steps in place, 4 steps backward,

4 steps in place ...............................   lb	counts.

No. 1.	The same......................................... 16

No. 2.	8 steps forward, 8 steps backward................ 16	“

No. 1.	8 steps backward, 8 steps forward................ 16	“

No. 2. 4 steps forward, encircle No. 1, passing in front,

with 8 steps, 4 steps backward................... 16	41

No. 1. 4 steps backward, encircle No. 2, passing in front,

with 8 steps, 4 steps forward .................... 16	“

96 counts.

SECOND STANZA.

No. 2 and No. 1. Repeat twice the first 16 counts of first

stanza, both marching at the same time ........... 32	counts.

No. 2. Two	steps sideways to	the	left........ 4 counts.

“	“	“	“	“	right ....... 4

<(	U	it	it	ii	it	^	it

it	ii	it	it	ii	£	ii

No. 1, simultaneously performs the same in opposite,

direction right, left, left, right...............  16	.44

Repeat............................ .............. 1 6	44	,

No. 2. One quarter turn left , No. 1 to the right, and 2 steps sideways to the right. No. 1 encircle No. 2 to the left with 8 steps ; then both 2 steps sideways

back to place .................................... 16

No. 1 and 2. 2 steps sideways ; this time No. 2’s encircle No. l’s to the left and return to place with 2 steps sideways, turning to the front on the last count......... 16

96 counts.

THIRD STANZA.

No. 2 14 turn left, No. 1 14 turn right, each 2 steps sideways to the right, and grand right and left through the line until each meets partner for the second time ; then all turn to front and sing to end of stanza.

Digitized by G.ooQle
ANTHROPOMETRIC CHART.

ARBANGKD FOR THE USB U

Gymnasia and Higher Schools.

By F. PFISTKR, M. D.

The upper figures indicate the class of males, the lower of females. — All measurements arc made in inches •nrl poundii*. NORTH-AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

PER CENT BELOW MEAN.

PER CENT ABOVE MEAN.

	men,.	45	40	30	20	10' 1	50 % j	I 10	20 30 | 40 45 *	nicnt.
Weight,  _ fitter without cloths*, or clothe* afterward subtracted	'79...  77<p.	1)0  7s.a  Cl  55.1	102  9G	111  104.3	120  110.3	12 J 115 |	135 ] 120.2		150 158 194 128-4 I3^ryl49 179	//;
Height standing,  Without shoes, fundamental position.			02.7  58	64.6  ‘61.4	66  62.1	GG.S 62.8 !  34.8 1 32.0 j	| 67.6 ^ | 35.2 t  j 88.1	69.2  68.9	G4.1 G^Wn^.9 (js 4	w  w
Height sitting,  On 13 inch box, legs in right angle to thighs.	2M	31.0 29.3	32.8  30.2	33.9  32	34  32.5			35.6  33.4	30 30.9 i wjt 39.4 ! 38.8 34.lj^p&4 37.2 .	
Height to sternum.  Front sol* of foot to upper end of chest-boos.		48.8 40.1	51.9  49	52.9  49.8	54.1  50.4	54.7 j 51.2 j	55 \ ) 51.6	55.G 52	52.6 53.-1 f 542 5<k7	[6U  \71.V
Arm reach,  Both arms stretched mdeways, beck ngainst wall.	lu	00.0  55.2	63.3  58.3	65.2  61.5	66.0  62.4	68.4 I  63 j	j 09.2 | 68.0	69.0	70.4 72 V 78-4 ! 76.2 C5 60.2 \^s.4 | 70.4	
Breadth of shoulders,  At broadest part, arms on body.		14.1  12.4	14.8  12.8	15.2 • 13.2	15.7  13.7	>av;  14 J	iG.l 1	! 16.4  I....14-"*	14.5 16.7:	7 7*
Breadth of hips,  At broadest pert (at beginning of thighs).	'37.	11.3  10.5	11.7  11.5	11.9  11.8	12  12.1	12.2 ! 12.4 |	j«|	! 12.S  s 18.2	13.l\p.4 14.6 15.9 1 13.8 ^.1 15.6 17.3 ^	7.3-3
Depth of chest,  !nright-angle to spinal column, in line with nipple*.	ft	5.4  5	5.9  5.6	6.2  6.1	6.3 C 5	' 6.8 j  6.7 |	7  I G.S \	7.4  7	7^ VT.6 7/J S.8 1	JL  76
Depth of abdomen,  In right angle to spinal columi), above navel.	7.f	5.5  5.2	5.9  5.7	6.3  6.2	G 4 G.3	6G j  0.5	I 6.9 | ] 67 ;	7*	. 9.1 10.2 7.3 t^L^Jf.4 9.6	
Girth of neck,  At smallest part (below larynx).	/S3L.	10.3  ly.o	11.6  10.6	12.9  11.6	13.1  11.7	13.4  11.9	1 13.6 j  I 12.1 |	18,8  ‘12.4	14.1 14.5 16.9 3 12.0 l^X>Tl.6 14.9 .	\777
Girth of chest, repose, in lino with nipple*, lower end of shoulder bone enclosed.	m	28.2  23.0	80.1  25 4	31.1  2721	32  27.8	33.1  28	34.2 j I 26'7 !	35.7  j 29.8	30.9 fTlfy 40.1 42.7 3 30:4 1 31* 33.6 36.4 J	13.1,6  \ha
Girth-of chest, expanded,  After deep inspiration.	3U.	20.3  24.8	32.G 2G.3	34.4  29-4	85.T  30	35.6  80.9  28.2  24.4	! 36.1 1  1 31yt	I 36.0 j 31.8	38.2- fAOJr 42.3 45.1 j . 32 j yf.l ‘ 35.2 38.1 |	
Girth of waist,  ''At smallest part.	u		24  19.0	26.4	:  21.5	j	27.2  23.2	27.9  23.0		IF!	r™  \ 26.4	30.81 >12.2 34.8 38.4 27.5| 2?k^ 38.4 38.1	Sir
Girth of right arm; up, At largest part, am; sideways, flexed and firmly contracted. {	/£6	9.4  7.2	10.1 , 8.7	10.G  9.9	lT  10.1	11.3  10.4	j	i w-8i ! 10.8:	12.4  'H	I.	8.2,^4kllSa4.S 10.9  II.	7 12>n4^ 14.1	77-3
Girth of right arm, down, j  At largest part, arm extended and relaxed. i	1'/,7.	7	8.4  7.4	9.1	9.4  '7.9	9.7 j	j k!	10.1  8.7 1	10.4 10.9 Ud?*>13.H 9.1 93£*5rf,.0 12.4	7S.
Girth of right forearm.  At largest port, hand to fist. (	1  Y'7...	> 7.9 | C.4	8.6  7.2	•9.3  7.8	-9.0  8.1,	9.9  8.3 I	| 10.1 t  1 *■*!	10.8  j		10.7- ml 11.9 12.9 8.7 / 9 Ik 9.9 11.6	//.!?
Girth of left arm, up.	73...	' 0 ! 71	9.8  8.3	10.2  9.0	1C."  9.9	11 I  1C*. 1	j 10.3 ;	! n,  ; 16.7	11.1 wi”	7JJ
Girth of left arm, down.	i  7/7..	i 7.5 j 0.8	8(2  7.1	8.7  7.4	L	' 9.2 7.0 ;	j 0.4il 0.8 1 * ; . *•-		O.s Jy.l I 13.1 8.4 9^*0.* • 11.7 ,	7.M
Girth of left forearm. j	!  Vm.	I c!i	8.2  GO	8.7  7.4	9  7.7	9.2 1	1 :j 9.8  ! *1 j 8.2		10.1 fovj | lLP 12. 8.4 \i.6 I Jf. 10.9	77.3:  13/  777
Girth of right thigh, At Urge* part, ^.•uulmgj  on both feet, heels ta inches apart. 1	p,k	'• 10.1 t 158	17.7  18.::;	18.0 , 19.1	10.7  20.2		i 20.4- :	I -9T	s;:i	
*«•••• ••• • * "" * f Girth of right calf, [  At largest part, standing or. both feet.	7 SI	' 10 1-; 10.2	11.9  12	12,8  12-3	18.1 12.6	13.4 1 12 9 i	1 184	[ £1	14.2 >6.4 14.7 1G-2	
**?• tf Total .5.Sfi'.StV '■ pull-ups^j Lf tody s/eight. {■	M.	; is 15	56  23	b5  32	122  40	189 i  4S 1	‘56 j	1	1 4'0 ^Lj5 668 750 1 72 ■ >4 ‘ 95 115	6/3
	f  Strength of leg extensors, With dy.-.i.ro-  naeter, knees ber.t, (hollow back, arms cxt.-i: j	J	10*  ;	2T2  131	340  152	37'i  165	800 I 17« i	450 | 194 j	j	1 \ 65 9# 780 850 j 2:iX 286 ; 352 420	
Strength of trunk posterior, with dyur-no-’  ' meter, trunk bent forward, kr.ee» and arm exte. /c.'.i	I	J ;:o	2!G  00	2G9  . ._...	t’S3  108	815 I 114 !	|3;>5 i 128	360 ■ .180 '	j 898 . \j0 • *l02 590 ! 160 206 2^2 310	
Strength of hand flexors, !  With grip-machine, arm extended and free from trdy.1		| 32 1 25		87	85  49V.	Ti	101  i55	110 j  58 I	| 122 147^^8^ 201	
Ltfng capucity, 1  With spirometer. )J	tf/fa i	| 105	112	120.9	188:6	iil!	s« 1  147 3	254 i	260 290 TVJriT :*80 '  | 188 218.2 264.1 ; 813 |	263
II 1						!. 1:				

N.B.—Any marked disproportion between the two sides of the body is an indication for special attention and examination.

Date of first measurement..£/..&£?:.................

“ second “................................. ,..

...Cxamincr..

-----------------continuous	line shows first!

o—o—o—o dotted line shows second f measurement-

We publish this chart because rt gives proof of an exceptional harmonious and almost ideal development, which one would hardly expect to find in a blind young man. The second measurement shows considerable improvement after a half year’s gymnastic work under Prof. W. A. Crippen, the physical director of the Illinois State School for the Blind.—Edit.
-92-

I N OCTOBER 1899 the Freshman Class of the Wesleyan University was | required to take physical examinations and measurements. The Intercollegiate Strength Tests were taken at the same time.

Require#! gymnasium exercise for the class began directly after Thanksgiving Day and continued until the last of March, except about three weeks when the class was discontinued for vacations and examinations.

This class met three times each week. Its work consisted of settingup exercises, Indian clubs, dumb-bells, chest weights, apparatus work, and running.

The statistics show the average man of the class before the required gymnasium work and the average man after:

Weight and strengths given in kilos; Lung capacity in cubic inches.

	Weight.	Strength  of  Back.	Strength  of  Legs.	Strength of R. F. Arm.	Strength of L. F. Arm.	Cap.  of  Lungs	Push  ups.	Pull  ups.	Total.	Con-  dition  -for—
Before Exercise—Oct. 1899	61.2	116.38	216.96	40.98	33.37	242.86	6.43	5.75	500.42	+ 29 - 37
After Exercise—April 1900	62.9	154.75	331.18	47.00	42.69	253.83	10.09	7.39	698.07	+ 63 - 3
Gain						1.7	38.37	124.22	6.02	4.32	15.97	3.66	1.64	-97.65	

Fred. W. Marvel,

Director, Fayerweather Gymnasium, Wesleyan Univ’y.

BAN ON FOOTBALL AT THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS IN CHICAGO.

The action of the faculty of the College of Physicians and Surgeons in putting college football under the ban aroused considerable comment in athletic circles, especially among university men. While there was manifest no disposition to criticise adversely the faculty’s course there was a general opinion both at the University of Chicago and at Northwestern that the restrictions on college athletics which might be necessary at Physicians and Surgeons’ were uncalled for at the universities. Professors and students alike spoke of athletics as most desirable for students, providing necessary diversion and outlet for surplus energy.

A member of last year’s football team at Physicians and Surgeons’ said football undoubtedly would be dropped in accordance with the faculty ruling, but declared baseball would be played as usual. Dr. W. E. Quine, dean of the faculty, said, when told of this declaration:

“Baseball is not under our ban and we have no such objections to it as to football.’’

Students of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Chicago discussed the action of the faculty with less animation than their interest in the subject could warrant on account of the majority of the students being out of the city. To the handful of undergraduates who are attending the summer session of the college the news of the ban came in a nature of a surprise, and was felt by most of them to be the natural consequence of the professionalism which affected last year’s football ath-

Digitized by C.ooQle
-93-

letics. Rival collegians openly charged the College of Physicians and Surgeons with having ^iven free tuition to two members of their football team. They say the action of the faculty is just what it ought to have been. On this head members of the College of Physicians and Surgeons generally keep silent.

Richard Lockwood, a member of last year’s team, said:	“I	am

surprised to learn of the action of the faculty. I certainly thought they were going to support athletics this year. With football, to tell the truth, everyone seems to be more or less disgusted in our college. Last season fell flat, and out of fifteen games scheduled only three were played.”

SCIENTIFIC FAITH-CURE.

MOST physicians recognize the influence of the mind on the body, and use it when they are able to do so. The trouble is that such influence must usually be secured by indirection of some kind, either by an acted lie, as when bread pills are administered, or by the aid of some variety of credulity or superstition. In an article in La Science Franfaise, M. Gabriel Prevost advocates what he calls the education of the will, so that each person so trained may have power within himself to exert on his own body the influence of his mind, so far as it may be exerted at all. This would seem to be a modified form of Christian Science, divested of what the opponents of that cult call its absurdities and anomalies. M. Prevost. however, does not propose any system of will-training, and so those persons who have ready-made systems, no matter how objectionable to the scientific mind, will doubtless continue for the present to hold the field in what psychologists insist is merelv treatment by auto-suggestion. Says M. Prevost:

“The English have given the name of ‘faith-healing’to a combination of phenomena whose complete explanation has hitherto eluded all the efforts of the physiologists.

“By what unknown means does will-power act on the organs of the human body even to preserving them or restoring them to health in case of morbid derangements? It is through the blood, or through the nerves? At what limits does its effective power cease? No one has yet answered these questions; but when facts that bother official science are produced, it too often adopts the more convenient method of denying them a priori.

“One example will bring us to the very middle of our subject .... A child afflicted with chorea or St. Vitus’ dance is brought to an obscure charlatan. By methods evidently ridiculous, the operator inspires in the patient the idea that he is cured. And, in fact, the child sees that the disorder in his movements stops; the chorea is gone.

“The papers have recently been telling of the prowess of a Venezuelan, who has been curing rheumatism and gout by the simple imposition of hands. The facts are indisputable ....

“Now we certainly do not care to advertise all the ‘fakirs’ without diplomas who are exploiting the credulity of invalids .... but faith-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-94-

healing exists all the same, and opposes its real and disconcerting facts to the theories of the old Pharisees of the conventional schools.

“In 1899 a young physician, Dr. Tiffaut, in the introduction to his doctoral thesis on ‘The Illegal Practise of Medicine in Bas-Poitou,’ enumerated numerous celebrated cures wrought by the will-power of the credulous. We may say that ten folio volumes would not have been sufficient for a complete list. We believe that he understands this, for he says with Charcot, whom he quotes:	‘Faith-healing	seems	to me to

be an ideal method, for it often works when all other remedies have failed.’ ......

“Very timidly we propose the following theory:	The nerves, in-

struments of sensation, are the immediate cause of suffering in all cases, and the mediate cause in three quarters of sick persons; whenever a morbid state is dependent upon them, the will-power can exert on them a powerful action, either for defense of the organism or for a possible cure—always with the understanding that we know absolutely nothing about the mode of action of the will on the nerves.........

“We must note in the first place that all practical cures made by quacks on subjects other than neurotics have no chance of success except when the person operated upon has complete faith in the operator.’’

The writer here reminds us that in certain cases the faith need not be directed toward an operator, but toward the spontaneous action of the subject’s own will. There can be no “magnetism” nor hypnotism here, he says, but only an education of the ego, rendering it, so to speak, the master of the substance and operation of the organs, even so far as to alter physiological conditions. An example is the case of President Kruger’s amputation of his own thumb, and M. Prevost relates several other similar instances. The writer comes finally to the following stated conclusions:

“1. There is an undeniable action of the will on the organism, whose mode of transmission has hitherto eluded scientific investigation. If we did know it, we should perhaps hold the key to the problem of life. Very likely it will never be known.

“2. This action may, according to circumstances, be anesthetic, defensive, or curative. A vigorous education of the will would increase the vitality of the individual in large measure. It would aid in bestow-ing health and longevity. An imaginary invalid is still an invalid, as Dr. Monin has told us..........

“3. As much in the interest of invalids as for the purpose of snatching them from the clutches of all kinds of sorcerers, wizards, and healers, physicians ought to read a little book written by Dr. E. Laurent entitled ‘The Medicine of the Mind,’ in which he advises his brother practitioners not to overlook the action of their patients^ wills. . . . Dr. Bouchut also says:	‘Moral	medicine	will	probably	play

as great a part as physical medicine, and therapeutists ought to make use at the same time of the resources furnished by both physical agents and moral force.’

“We shall certainly never lose sight of the reciprocal influence of mind and body—but we ought to be prouder of dependence on out own

Digitized by

Google
-95-

will powers than of reliance on a poultice.”-— Translation made for The Literary Digest.

CORRESPONDENCE.

W. E. Day, Dayton, 0—We are unable to procure for you a copy of “Schaible, Systematic Training of the gody.” Perhaps one of our readers is in possession of the work and willing to part with it.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—A girl should be brought up so as to be able to make her own living, whether or not she’s going to inherit a fortune. But a woman’s place is in the home, though some women do better in business than men. A girl ought to be careful about the man she marries, too, especially if she has money. She oughtn’t to marry until she’s old enough to know what she’s doing, anyway.—Hetty Green, in the June Ladies’ Home Journal.

ENGLISH GYMNASTIC BOOKS

FOR SALE BY

Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

A SYSTEM OF PHYSICAL CULTURE, DESIGNED AS A MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. By Carl Betz. —First Book : Free Gymnastics. Price, 75 Cents.—Second Book: Gymnastic Tactics (Stepping, Walking, Running, etc.). Price, 75 Cents.—Third Book : Light Gymnastics (Poles, Dumb-bells, Rings, Wands, and Clubs). Price, 75 Cents.—Fourth Book:	Popular

Gymnastics, Athletics and Sports of the Playground. Price, 75 Cts. —First Book abridged:	Free	Gymnastics arranged especially for

District Schools. Price, 50 Cents.

BEALE’S CALISTHENICS AND LIGHT GYMNASTICS FOR YOUNG FOLKS. 120 Illustrations from Life by Photographic Process. Containing Broom and Fan Drills, Marches, Fencing, Club, Wand, and

Dumb-bell Exercises. Swimming and Music for Marching. This is the most complete work published on the subject. 160 pages. Boards, 75 Cents. Cloth, Price, $1.00.

GYMNASTICS IN THE SCHOOL-ROOM. By Hans Ballin. A Manual for the Use of Teachers Containing One Hundred and Fifty-eight Half-tone Illustrations Direct from Photographs. Price, $1.00.

DICK’S ART OF WRESTLING. A Hand-Book of thorough instruction in wrestling, with the accepted rules to be observed in the different methods of wrestling generally adopted at the present time. Fully illustrated by well-designed engravings, exhibiting all the aggressive and defensive positions necessary for success. Paper covers. Price, 25 Cents.

NED DONNELLEY’S ART OF BOXING. A Thorough Manual of Spar-

Digitized by Google
-96-

ring and Self-defense, Illustrated with Forty Engravings, Showing the Various Blows, Stops, and Guards; by Ned Donnelly, Professor of Boxing to the London Athletic Club, etc., etc. This work explains every movement of attack and defense in the clearest language; the engravings show each position as plainly as the instruction of a professor could convey it. Including the latest revision of the Marquis of Queensbury’s and London Prise Ring Rules. 127 pages. Price, 25 Cents.

THE ART OF ATTACK AND DEFENSE. A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing. By Major W. J. Elliott. This work affords thorough instructions in the modern method of Fencing, Sword against Sword or Bayonet, Bayonet against Sword or Bayonet, and the latest developments in the Pugilistic Art. Paper cover. Price, 25 Cents.

THE SWEDISH SYSTEM. By Baron Nils Posse. The Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics. 264 Illustrations. Latest Edition. Price, $3.00'.—Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish System. Cloth, Price, 55 Cents.

CODE-BOOK OF GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. By L. Puritz. Translated by 0. Knofe and J. W. Macqueen, members of the German Gymnastic Society of London. With 268 Woodcut Illustrations. Price, 60 Cents.

GYMNASTIC TACTICS. Part I: Tactics of the Individual. By E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director of Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics. Price, 20 Cents.

ELEMENTARY APPARATUS WORK OF THE GERMAN SYSTEM OF GYMNASTICS. By E. H. Arnold, M. D. Arranged by Frances N. Boynton. Price, 25 Cents.

SCHOOL TACTICS. For the Use of Schools and Gymnastic Associations. By W. A. Stecher. With 50 Illustrations. Price, $1.00.

HAND-BOOK OF GYMNASTICS. By J. M. Watson. Illustrated. Price, $2.00.

TEACHERS’ MANUAL OF PHYSICAL CULTURE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS. By Henry Suder. First Series. Part I : First and second grades. Price, 25 Qents. Part II: Third and fourth grades. Price, 25 Cents.—Second Series. Part I :	Fifth grade. Price, 30

Cents. Part II : Sixth grade. Price, 30 Cents.

MANUAL OF CALISTHENICS. By J. M. Watson. Illustrated. Price, $1.25.

GYMNASTICS. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the use of teachers and pupils in public and private schools and gymnasia. Edited by W. A. Stecher. Cloth, 354 pages. 308 Illustrations. Price, $3.00.

PHYSICAL CULTURE FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS. By Hans Rassmus-sen. Illustrated. Cloth. Price, bound 1.50.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by LiOOQle