MIND AND

Vol. 33	MAY,	1926

BODY

No. 349

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered ns second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March J, 1879.

♦-----------------------------♦

Original articles and reprint^

IS COMPETITION GOOD FOR GIRLS.

From the Boston Sunday Globe, Feb. 21st, by Gardner Jackson.

How much and what kind of athletic competition is good for girls? With the exciting and admirable contest between Helen Wills and Susanne Lenglen still a source of animated discussion, and with another match promised next month, the question seems especially pertinent now.

But it has point from another angle also. Several hundred Massachusetts physical education teachers were called together the other day by the State Department of Education to consider the problem of interscholastic athletics for girls, particularly high school girls.

The majority of these teachers were women. They expressed overwhelming disapproval of wholesale interscholastic competitions in sports for girls, and advocated the substitution of a broad system of intramural games.

Digitized by LjOOQle
50

Too Few Competing

It was not through interscholastic competition in tennis that Helen Wills developed her splendid sportsmanlike conduct, but certain it is she could not have established a personality- that wins such universal respect had she not subjected herself to the most strenuous sorts of competition. The Massachusetts physical education teachers would be the first to proclaim this. But they are concerned more particularly with other sports than tennis, such as basket ball and hockey, though the resolutions they adopted appear to include all sports.

Their “big argument,” as stated by Miss Elizabeth Quinlan, director of physical education at Boston Teachers’ College, is that only a few girls participate in sports at the high schools which engage in interscholastic games. Miss Quinlan has been in charge of girls' athletics at high schools where only intramural sports were played and at those which belonged to school leagues. She contends that just as much interest in sports and just as much school spirit is developed at the former as at the latter, and that the true purpose of physical education —to develop the many and not to develop just the stars—is served far better through intramural competition.

Bad Effects Claimed

The opponents of interschool contests for girls advance other arguments based on the “bad physiological and emotional effects.” To illustrate these arguments they marshal an extraordinary list of incidents connected with certain girls’ basket-ball leagues. Girls, egged on by the taunts of the howling, cheering crowds in gymnasiums, losing their temper and swearing at their opponents; the principal of one high school rushing onto the floor and protesting the decisions of the referee during a girls' game; the girls imbued by the fanatic enthusiasm of the townspeople with a “win-at-any-cost-spirit” and thereby failing to gain any of the recreational benefits from the game; girls fainting during and after the games and emotionally upset for days afterward.

Payson Smith, State Commissioner of Education, reports a conversation with the superintendent of schools in a Massachusetts city, during which the latter admitted that the high school athletics of his city “are controlled from the poolrooms”. He referred particularly to the boys’ athletics, but Mr. Smith points out that the same will be true of girls’ athletics if they are organized on the same interscholastic basis as boys’.

The superintendent confessed the evil of “poolroom” control, but said the school authorities are afraid of losing the support of the townspeople in other matters if they don’t do as the people want in athletics.

“The nervous reaction” on the girls of going "out into the raucus, howling mobs that are characteristic of interscho-astic competitions,” according to Mr. Smith, is decidedly harmful, “and it is even a great question whether it is a good thing for boys in the adolescent age.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
51

"Until you get rid of the evils in^thejinterscholastic system of competition for boys,” states Mr. Smith, "it is certainly unwise to put our girls into it.”

Top of Pyramid Trained

Carl L. Schrader, State supervisor of physical education, adopts the same point of view. “I am anxious for the girls to be saved from pitfalls into which the boys have so easily fallen,” he says. He describes boys’ athletics as now training the top of the pyramid without paying attention to the base. And the star boy athletes think “the world circles around them”. The girls will get into the same state of mind, he feels, if the same methods of publicity and write-ups are applied to them.

Miss Florence A. Somers, assistant state supervisor of physical education, says that "a majority of the high schools in the state engage in interscholastic competitions for the girls”. She believes there is some reason for this in the case of schools so small that a number of teams within the school cannot be formed. But even in such cases the games should be limited.

“We often hear the argument that the school team helps create school spirit,” she says, “but I think that many teams within the school lead to an even better spirit.” For 10 years she was in charge of girls’ athletics at a large Western high school and had no outside games.

"It is significant that in the large cities,” she continues, “where they have trained instructors at the head of the physical education department that they do not have interscholastic games.” Boston does not.

Basket-Ball Leagues Flourish

Among the basket-ball leagues for girls that have flourished particularly in this State she mentions the one including Arlington, Wellesley, Watertown, Winchester and Lexington, and the North Shore League, including Glouchester, Beverly, Swamp-scott, Marblehead and Manchester.

“In these leagues,” she explains, “there are at least 10 games a season—one a week for 10 weeks—and in some instances 12 games a season, with two games a week sometimes.”

Miss Somers suggests having the unusually proficient girl players "honored” by being made assistant coaches or referees, and by having two honor varsity teams picked to play for the intramural championship at the end of the season. She also refers to the point system whereby the girls win emblems by accumulating points through participation in various sports. She lists hockey, basket ball, soccer, baseball, volley ball, track and field games, skating, hiking and gym work as among the games open to girls.

“We are trying to create more interest,” she says, “in the games of simple organization such as volley ball.”

Best Scholars Best Athletes

She agrees with the other teacher that quite often the best girl athletes are the best scholars and that special provi-

Digitized by

Google
52

sions must be made for them. Miss Somers refers to the attitude of the women’s division of the National Amateur Athletic Federation. This division states its policy in these terms: “No athletics can exist without competition. The object of the women's division of the N. A. A. F. is to promote wholesome athletic competition for the greatest number of girls and women. The type of organization which fosters extramural games does not build towards these ideals. Therefore, the women’s division encourages a broadly planned intra-mural program and, for the present, stands firmly against the policy of extra-mural competition.”

Miss B. L. Barnes of Brookline voices the sentiment of • all of the instructors in her fears of commercialization if girls go into interscholastic competitions. The commercial spirit of boost and the desire of the townspeople for “Roman holidays” (to borrow Mr. Smith’s phrase), will swallow the girls’ teams just as it has the boys'.

The resolutions adopted by the State conference, while they do not flatly oppose interscholastic games for girls, are just the first step, according to the leaders of the movement. Copies of the resolutions were sent to every school superintendent and high school principal in the State.

“The resolutions state that “we are opposed to the interscholastic competition for girls, except under the following conditions: That the team shall be coached by women under approved girls’ rules; that the representative teams shall be picked from contestants in intra-mural contests; that all games shall be played in the afternoon; that no team shall compete in more than three games in one sport in a season; that no team shall contest with any team not observing these rules.”

Professional Is Accused

From William S. Packer, member of the unpaid Park Board of the town of Winchester, who has been chiefly instrumental in developing a varied program of athletics for both girls and boys in Winchester, comes an opposing standpoint.

“The professional view of those who gain a livelihood from the physical training of girls is interesting and should be valuable,” he observes, “but in sport it is customary to seek light from the amateur.

“There are matters to which the professional directors are curiously blind. For instance, locked doors and nothing doing is the gymnasium rule for Saturdays when the children are hunting about for something to occupy them and finding little except the movies. If the physical directors are really serious about giving athletic opportunity to a larger number of girls, they can find room for it by a rearrangement of their working hows and Saturday use of the gymnasiums. Until they move for this, they are biased witnesses.

“In Greater Boston,” he continues, “field hockey for girls received its impetus from Harold Durrell, a banker. This ama-

Digitized by

Google
63

teur had the imagination to induce various high schools to take it up. With few exceptions the trained physical directors take small interest in the game of tennis, the most international game of all and the only sport considered by schools which a girl is likely to find of use to her in after life.

Mrs. Wightman’s Experiment

“It remained for a Californian, Mrs. George W. Wight-man, to bring to the attention of Boston a form of tennis tournament which can be played through a single Saturday. During the past three years six such tournaments have been held at the Longwood Club, all of them widely announced and open to any boy or girl of the requisite age who pays the 50 cents entry fee. As yet no physical director has had sufficient professional interest to take part of a Saturday to find out what is happening at Longwood in the Spring and Fall. Mass instruction in tennis was not invented by any of the trained physical instructors connected with schools, but by Harry L. Cowles, coach at Harvard.

“In this jazzed-up world,” he goes on,“where girls when they leave the front yard, and sometimes even before that, enter an atmosphere of roadhouses, parked cars, gin-inspired dances, vile jokes, dirty plays and filthy literature stacked high on every newsstand, there is need for a compelling interest in the out of school hours which shall be clean and decent, and which shall catch and hold the interest of a spirited girl, giving her a few years in which to establish her balance and gain a sense of values.

No Place for Soft Girls

“The diluted intra-mural system cannot be expected to fill the bill. Physical overstrain must be avoided and any trained director worth her salary should be watchful and intelligent enough to know when a girl should not play and when a substitute should be sent to take her place. The director also requires sufficient character to send a girl who swears or pulls hair to the side line.

“As Martin Luther once said, ‘This is a hard world for little girls.’ The present world is also hard for them. There is no place, at least no place where a decent person likes to think of them for soft girls. The rearing of women of sufficient fibre for modern conditions must have in it a certain severity. When a girl can bear her part in team play and competition against strangers, she has a fair prospect of picking her way wisely through life.

“The problem is to give girls some of the same opportunity for character making that is afforded boys by the five-yard line. If physical directors are up to their jobs they can make such an opportunity out of the sports in which girls are beginning to engage in interscholastic competition.

“The movement now on foot to restrict and abolish, denaturing sport for girls,” he concludes, “is a part of the enslave-

Digitized by v^ooQle
54

ment from which women have suffered through the ages. It cannot finally succeed although it may gain sufficient present vogue (because of the professional interest in easier work behind it) to cheat a generation of girls of the contact with the world which is their right. If it does so, the immense money interest now waxing gross on the debauchery of youth will grow considerably richer. On one side is a young girl asking for a training to fit her for the requirements of life. On the other is the Minotaur of jazz with only one use for women.”

The Opposing Views.

The difference between the two points of view seems to be simply that the opponents of interscholastic competition for girls contend that intramural athletics are sufficient to stir the enthusiastic interest of the majority of high school girls, and the proponents, as represented by Mr. Packer, insist intramural competition does not create genuine interest and does not test the girls rigorously enough.

The physical educationists point to the majority of the large women’s colleges which do not engage in intercollegiate contests. Mr. Packer says the comparison is not a fair one, as the college girls are coming more and more to be a carefully selected lot, not needing intercollgiate competition, whereas the high school girls are not selected and need such training.

The movement started by the physical directors bids fair to excite warm dispute. It will prove of value just in so far as it leads more girls to play games for the sheer love of playing. Miss Somers hopes it will emphasize the need of developing physical education teachers as distinguished from coaches, and in this connection she quotes Dr. Alexander Meiklejohn on “the tragic spectacle of a group of boys using their arms and backs and legs at the command of another man’s wits and supposing at the same time they are playing a game.”

IN THE MATTER OF GYMNASTICS.

E. H. Arnold, New Haven

Comes to my desk “Courses of Study in Physical Education in Junior and Senior high schools,” State of Missouri. The author is Dr. Henry S. Curtis widely known for his work in the play and playground movement. The syllabus is much like the usual run of syllabi issued by state departments. Some fairly valuable hints are contained in the general introduction and in the introduction to the several chapters. Dr. Arnold’s work on Athletics for Women is made short mention of.

Gymnastics are treated fairly scant; small wonder, with the idea that the author or authors have of them. Section six, Gymnastics, is ushered in somewhat like this: “Gymnastics are military in origin. Their most vigorous and

Digitized by C^ooQle
55

effective use is undoubtedly still in the army as a means of securing erect carriage and keeping in condition. European countries have always held that formal gymnastics were essential to military efficiency. However, the movement by squads and platoons is becoming less significant. In the presence of the machine gun, close formations are deadly. More and more the primary requirement in the modern army is initiative, which allows the man to be his own captain or lieutenant and fight the battle from his own isolated shellhole or tree-top as he has a chance. The American soldier who was trained mostly from athletics was probably on the whole as effective, if not more so, than the German soldier, with his long years in gymnastics and military drill. Since the World War, the armies of the world have given an entirely new emphasis to sport.”

This way of looking at gymnastics seems to be quite the fashion these days. The reviewer recalls a like passage somewhere in one of Dr. Williams' books, and the last number of Mind and Body contains an effusion from Major L. Griffith running as follows: “I have a notion in the games our boys develop initiative. They tell us the German army lacked this quality and when an officer was killed the privates fled, but when our boys lost an officer, someone stepped out and led them on just about as well as the commissioned officer would have done if he had remained.”

It would seem that gymnastics need to be set right in the presence of such misconceptions and mis-statements. In the first place, the idea that gymnastics were military in origin is, of course, contrary to the historical facts in the case. The military system of Prussia had broken down under the onslaught of Napoleon the first. The drill master, the drill rod had signally failed. F. L. Jahn conceived the revival of physical fitness through gymnastic means; gymnastic here in the widest sense including plays, games, hiking and swimming as an antidote against Militarism. He intended it as a health measure, health again in the largest sense, physical, mental and moral for the German people, independent of army or even government influence in the schools.

It should be a commonplace by this time that the government of Prussia became highly inimical to gymnastics, that a large majority of German gymnasts were so inimical to the form of government and militarism as to lead them into the attempted revolution of '32 and '33 and actually into the revolution of '48. The refugees, the forty-eighters so-called, brought gymnastics to this country as should likewise be well known by this time. Nothing is further from the gymnastic mind than to have even such a quasi-military form of movement as tactics serve military purposes such as Curtis seems to indicate.

Has all the teaching and preaching of educational ta<v tics that I have dope for the last forty years in this country

Digitized by

Google
56

beenjin^ram? Then comes this mere twaddle and rubbish of the war and,|post-war hysteria and propaganda talk, of which at least every educator ought to be ashamed now, if he wasn’t at the time of the war.

A military man like Major Griffith should not allow himself to make a statement on the basis of hearsay. “They tell us”; what kind of talk is that for a major to make about a military affair? Are not military records available to prove or disprove such a statement? The memoirs of a sufficient number of English and French and lately American generals are available at this time. They prove none of the assertions here made for athletics or contra-gymnastics. As a matter of fact, in the beginning of the war all armies suffered from having their officers, that were made conspicuous by their uniform, shot away in great numbers. The replacement of these officers during and after action by men from the non-commissioned and private ranks was recognized as a necessity by practically all armies. The Germans had such an official title ready as “Of-fiziersstellvertreter.”

An army’s efficiency depends upon the physical fitness of the army in the widest sense and of its intelligence, mental capacity and morale on the other hand. Statistics as to the physical efficiency of drafted men in this country were, of course, available and caused a tremendous outcry at the time, which should not have been forgotten. Evidently a largely athletic-trained body of men were physically not particularly fit.

The intelligence tests of our army are likewise available. They showed the intelligence of the army to have been somewhere between twelve and fourteen years. Nothing to be proud of as a result of athletic training I take it. As for the sources of the efficiency of the German army in the latter category, statistics as to the presence of analphabets are available. They show that outside of some neutrals, Denmark and perhaps Sweden, no country engaged in the struggle had as low a percentage of them as Germany. Intelligence as a fighting means has been acknowledged and recognized by the Prussian army at least as far back as 1866, for it was then said that the war of '66 was won by the school master of Sadowa, meaning the teacher of the common schools.

As for the training for initiative, leadership through athletics and gymnastics, a better test is at hand then mere belated war talk. The German Gymnastic Association and likewise the German Working Men’s Gymnastic Association cairy on their work among the millions of participants in exercise that flock to their gymnasia and playgrounds daily, practically exclusively by voluntary, nonpaid and non-professional leaders. It would seem the gymnastics produce these leaders.

Where have athletics anything to show in comparison? Has not every coach, every official to be paid for the least of his efforts? The experience of another large gymnastic body in this country rims practially in the same channel. During the

Digitized by Google
57

time of its greatest efficiency and most flourishing condition the North American Gymnastic Union, including in the neighborhood of two hundred and thirty societies, had at no time more than fifty per cent of these societies tutored by paid instructors. Of these men no more than perhaps seventy-five per cent were professionally trained. The rest were all taught by volunteer teachers, non-trained and non-paid. All the societies had at least one leader for the men’s classes and an assistant leader, so-called first and second tumwart. From this group most of the professionally trained teachers used to come in former times, and all the successful professionally trained teachers had at one time or another been leaders in these gymnastic societies.

These societies were largely gymnastic; athletics and highly organized games not making their way into them till the last twenty years. Out of this group of men have come practically all those leaders who have been instrumental in introducing physical training in the larger public school systems. Not wishing to mention the names let me recite the localities where these leaders were active. St. Louis, Davenport, Denver, San Francisco, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Milwaukee, Chicago, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Rochester, Indianapolis, Louisville, Newark, Philadelphia and New Haven are localities where these gymnastic leaders made themselves felt. Their ranks have furnished any number of nationally important men in physical training.

Now contrast with this the status of leadership in that body at present. The component societies of the North American Gymnastic Union, as is the fashion these days, turned largely to athletics and organized games with the result that without a paid leader they are all on the rocks. What about the eminent leaders of physical education that those societies, become more or less athletic, have furnished this country within the last twenty years? There does not come to my mind at present the name of one eminent man having sprung from this source. The proof of the pudding is of course in the eating. If athletics must serve as a means for preparing for war, and such is evidently the intent of the three authors, it would be a fatal and disastrous mistake to expect of it what evidently it does not and cannot give. In the hour of need this failure might be sorely felt.

THE HUMAN AUTOMOBILE

By Alfred Brodbeck, Cincinnati

The automobile of today is as perfect a machine as human skill and science can make it.

But, as a builder of machines, man will always run a poor second to the Creator, for there never was, nor will there ever be a machine built that is as perfect in all its parts as the Human Machine,

Digitized by LjOOQle
58

Many a car is saved from the scrap heap by the observance of just a few of the rules of "automobile hygiene.”

The same thing is true of the Human Machine, for many a man is saved from the scrap heap by obeying the Laws of Personal Hygiene.

But it is also true that there are many of both kinds of machines that have out-lived their usefulness because of the failure of the owner to take the necessary precautions.

Automobile parts are easily obtained and the repairs are usually made with the greatest ease; it is simply a matter of time and money.

But repairs in the Human Machine are not so easily made; broken parts cannot be replaced; the “old part” must be repaired and used over and over again.

Every automobile owner is the owner of two machines and the mileage he gets out of either one depends, to a great extent on the care he takes of them. Very often, the man-made machine is given the most loving care and attention while the God-made machine is permitted to get along as best it can. Strange too, isn’t it, especially when you consider how much more important it is that the Human Machine be kept in good repair

Keeping on the Road

There are thousands of Human Machines that are just functioning—and that’s about all. Give them a short hill and not a very steep one at that, and you’ll find that they will have to “shift to second speed” to make it. Many of them are passed “on the road” by older machines, the drivers of which, having learned before it was too late, that it pays to give the Human Machine the same care that they bestow on the automobile.

Too many men, whether they be drivers of cars or not, are satisfied to “just keep on the road”. They miss much of the joy of touring on Life’s highways and this too, for want of the same attention given the automobile. A certain writer once said that, “simply to live, breathe and move should be a delight.” Some men are satisfied just to live and breathe; they object strenuously to moving, except it be in an automobile at the rate of about fifty miles an hour. Ask them to “move” their own machines by taking a little exercise and they answer that they have no time. When they are required to move the muscles in an unusual manner, as all of them must do sooner or later, the act does not given them much pleasure and it is far from being a “delight.”

The “Lines” of the Car

You’ve heard the A. E. (automotive engineer) talk about the “lines” of the car. You wouldn’t catch him riding around in an engineering freak nor in a car that attracts too much attention or unfavorable comment from his friends or from the people on the street. Yet this same chap may not be the least bit concerned about the “lines” of the Human Machine.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
59

Suggest to him that a barrel has “beautiful lines” and he probably will disagree with you. He may very nearly resemble a barrel in appearance, but it doesn’t seem to bother him much. But if he owned a car of the same shape, he’d trade it in a a hurry or sell it to the junk man. A dealer in second-hand Human Machines would do a land office business if it were possible to trade “the old machine” in for a new one. The majority of the barrel-shaped gentlemen would be regular customers. The transaction must not consume too much time, however, and the cost must be very low. There must be practically no expenditure of physical energy and as for making any sacrifices oh, no; that’s impossible.

But let them get dissatisfied with the “lines” of the car; that’s another matter and nothing will stop them from trading it in. They will make any kind of a sacrifice and will spend both time and money to get what they want. A “bumper” on an automobile is often necessary and it does not detract much from the appearance of the car. A “bumper” on the Human Machine, in the shape of a waist band out of all proportion to the size of the machine, can hardly be called a thing of beauty, and it certainly is not a necessity.

The Four Hundred Cylinder Machine

Have you ever ridden in a car in which all of the cylinders were not functioning? If you have, you didn’t have much of a joy ride. The “old bus” sputtered and sputtered and you wondered just when and how you would reach home.

A “miss” brings a worried look to the face of most drivers. But let the engine “hit on all of ’em” and they are the most contented fellows imaginable. They enjoy the “purr” of a smoothly running motor and hills mean nothing to them. They ride over the rough places and make any grade with a song in their hearts and with joy in every line of the face.

Automobile engineers, in designing a car, plan to make it as light and powerful as possible consistent with the size and type of engine used. But whether it is a “four” or a “six” or an “eight” or even a “twin six” all of the cylinders must function and, if they do not do so, it is next to impossible to run the car.

The Human Machine is more complicated. It has something over four hundred cylinders and all of these were intended to function. By a wise provision of Nature, it is possible to run the machine even though a great number of cylinders are missing, but the “trip” isn’t much of a “joy ride.”

What a great thing this for some men, for the average man, doing office work or work of a sedentary nature, and who takes no exercise, uses only a small number of “cylinders” each day; the balance of them lying dormant or “missing” most of the time.

These men “sputter and sputter” along through life and many of them never know the joy of a smoothly running machine.

Digitized by ^ooQle
60

If they had to “lay up” the machine every time a "cylinder” was “missing” they’d be in the "garage” most of the time.

Most drivers of automobiles demand that the engine “pick up quickly” and an instant response as soon as the hand touches the throttle. The engine must have lots of “pep” all the time. But this same driver is uasually satisfied with three days of “pep” in his own engine. The balance of the week he has what more nearly resembles “The Pip” but it doesn't give him very much concern.

The “response” of the human machine may be very poor and as for a "quick pick up” he doesn’t know what it means. He always thinks of the things “he should have said” on the following day and when he is caught in a position that requires “action” and “quick thinking” he always loses out. His muscles, at least many of them, are untrained, and he can get no response from them. His “battery” may be in good shape, but the “spark” which it sends down to the muscle may be a little weak or there may be a “kink” in the “wire” leading to the muscle and the result is slow action.

A man may lead a sedentary life for years and may have, what appears to be, good health, but sooner or later, the effects will assert themselves. Muscular activity is absolutely essential to healthy living. This fact no one can deny. But it is also essential that all of the muscles get some exercise and not only a certain few. If one would really get the best out of life one must have a “smoothly running engine,” one in which all of the "cylinders” are functioning.

Carbon and What it Does

When carbon forms in the automobile engine, some drivers, not many, will use one of the many preparations on the market advertised to remove the carbon “overnight”. But the real A. E. knows that the relief to be had is only temporary. He knows that, sooner or later, he must resort to other methods to get rid of the waste. Too much carbon means loss of power and the real A. E. takes every precaution to keep the engine clean and to prevent the formation of any excess of carbon. He soon learns to regulate the amount of “gas” and “oil” and the carbon that does form is either burned or scraped out as it should be.

But let "carbon” form in the Human Machine and it means a trip to the medicine chest. Temporary relief is had and after a day or two, it’s back again at the same old speed and the same old “rich mixture”. No attempt is made to regulate the “gas and oil” nor is there an effort made to get rid of the carbon by “burning” it out with exercise. You don’t find many drivers putting twelve gallons of gas in a ten gallon tank, nor will you find many that will use six quarts of oil when four is the proper amount.

But there are lots of men that insist on crowding four quarts of food in a four pint stomach and then wonder why

Digitized by v^ooQle
61

they don’t feel right. Every car driver monkeys with the carburetor until he gets the proper mixture and he makes every effort to keep any foreign substance out of the tank and out of the carburetor. He knows that the gas must be properly vaporized before it is fed to the cylinders.

But does he take the same care of the “carburetor” of the Human Machine? Not only is food thrown into the stomach without thorough mastication, but very often the stomach is called upon to hold twice the amount it should. Every driver knows that weather conditions influence the running of the car and that he must use a “leaner mixture” in summer than in winter. But the same “rich mixture” is fed the Human Machine, regardless of the season of the year, and, as for “vaporizing” it, you’d think the fellow didn’t have a tooth in his mouth to see him swallow his food. The whole job of “vaporizing” is left to the stomach and sometimes with disastrous results.

When it comes to the car, nothing is too much trouble, but the Human Machine can get along as best it can. The driver is very careful not to "flood” the carburetor of the car, but the stomach, the “carburetor” of the body is very often asked to carry twice as much fuel as the body will use in a day. Many a man is a 2500 calorie man; that is, he is burning up or oxidizing about 2500 calories each day. But he insists on feeding the body about 3500 or more calories per day and then wonders why he is “slowing up” and losing “pep”.

He can’t dispose of the knotty business problems with the same snap and judgment as before, and many a big deal goes wrong, because his "battery” isn’t working as it should. Instead of cutting down the supply of “gas and oil” he keeps filling the “tank” with a supply big enough to take care of the most stalwart ditch digger. He takes no exercise, not even a good brisk walk now and then. While he has made a study of the "diet” necessary for the car, he has neither the time nor the inclination to find out just what amount and kind of food the Human Machine requires.

If he persists in eating the same quantity and kind of food as before, and will not take exercise, not only will carbon continue to form in excessive amounts, but fat will form as well. Before he is aware of it, last year’s suit is just a little too small for him and he begins to look like “something that has been in the water too long”. When his waist measurement has increased several inches or more in girth and his friends get a little personal in their remarks by asking whether “his chest has slipped down” or “why are you wearing the bumper” he may take notice. His family physician—he has made numerous trips to the Doctor by this time—advises that he cut down the diet and take a little exercise.

He goes to the Gym and consults the Physical Director. It may have taken years to get in the shape he is in but he insists that he be “made right” in a few short weeks. It may

Digitized by Google
62

be too, that a few of his “valves” are not functioning properly; in fact, one or two of them may be found lacking. This makes it difficult to prescribe the kind and amount of exercise necessary to bring about the best results, but there is still hope, and after many trials and much tribulation, he begins to look like a human being. .

The Cooling System

Every Automotive Engineer knows what happens to an overheated engine. He wouldn’t think of going out on the road without water in his radiator, nor with a broken fan belt, or with a pump that is clogged up. Insufficient water drinking-one glass instead of six or eight each day—poor circulation due to lack of exercise; muscles, especially the breathing muscles, atrophied through lack of use; constriction of the circulation due to tight clothing, especially tight belts, tight garters, tight collars, not to mention tight hats; failure to keep the sweat glands and oil-glands of the skin functioning properly; all of these things affect the temperature of the body and result in overheated parts and a general condition that is a little below normal.

An automobile needs a certain amount of water, the amount depending on the temperature out of doors and how long and how fast it is run each day. The Human Machine needs a certain amount of water each day for the same reasons. All of the tissues require water in order that they may function properly, and, since there is a certain amount of water lost through evaporation of the perspiration—only one of Nature’s ways of getting rid of the wastes and incidentally, lightening the work of the kidneys—more water must be taken in.

Sweating may be more or less of a nuisance—and some people consider it so—but it is essential, in that, by the evaporation of perspiration, the body remains cooler than its surroundings. No effort should be made to stop the flow of perspiration, on the contrary, it should be encouraged in every possible way. If drinking water makes one perspire, it would be wise to drink more water. By doing this you help Nature cleanse the body. Many people do not drink water because they say it dilutes the stomach juices, and the digestion is interfered with. The opposite is really the case, for water aids the flow of gastric juice and aids digestion, not only in the stomach, but in the intestine as well. It is safe to drink water with your meals, provided it is not too cold and is not used to wash down the food.

It is much better however, to drink several glasses of water about half an hour before eating and none during meals, for the reason that water drinking with meals encourages overeating.

The lungs might be compared to the “radiator” of the automobile for it is here that the interchange of gases takes place; the carbon dioxide is given up and the oxygen is taken in; and the blood is purified and sent back to the heart to be-

Digitized by Google
63

gin again its journey through the body. Nothing should interfere with this important function and every effort should be made to strengthen the respiratory muscles so that they may perform their work easily and without interference in any way. There is no better way to improve the entire respiratory system than to take light, general exercise. Exercise promotes deep breathing and because of the deeper inspiration, more oxygen is taken in and the blood purified more rapidly.

Flat Tires and Trouble Ahead

When the wheels of the car are out of alignment, there is trouble ahead. Not only does the driver have trouble in steering the machine, but he gets about one-half the guaranteed mileage out of his tires. He is put to considerable expense in the purchase of new tires and tubes, not to mention the danger of collision and the effect on other parts of the car.

But there are automobile drivers, and other men too, for that matter, who pay very little attention to the “alignment” of their own “wheels”. They walk and stand with their feet pointing to “ten minutes of two” when they should be pointing toward “twelve o’clock”.

You	won’t	catch	a driver crowding a 34 x 4	tube in a 31

x	3	tire.	But	there	are lots of them that insist	on crowding

a No. 9 foot in a No. 8 shoe. When a tube is inserted in a tire, the driver sees to it that it is not pinched at any point.

This	same	chap	may crowd his foot into a	shoe that is

not	only	much	too short, but is also pointed to such a degree

that the toes are cramped into about one-half the space they need. Then he wonders why he has trouble with such little tilings as corns, bunions and hammer toes.

A man is just as good as his feet. When the human foot is out of alignment, you may look for trouble. Not only for trouble of the kind mentioned above, but sometimes in parts far removed from the seat of trouble. Certain joint affections in the knee, the hip, and even in the sacro-iliac joint at the base of the spine, are caused by flat feet. No driver will ride any great distance on a flat tire. Not only is it a very expensive habit, but it causes great discomforts as well, especially if the roads are bad.

Flat tires are often prevented by a little care and attention, and the same thing is true of flat feet.

Flat foot is generally due to undeveloped leg muscles that support the arch. Faulty standing and walking positions and lack of leg exercise of the proper kind not only promotes flat foot; but faulty posture as well. Faulty posture, interfering as it does with the entire circulatory system, is the cause of more little physical ailments than is generally believed. When a tire is flat, it means the insertion of a new tube, or the patching of the old one, and a little back breaking exercise in manipulating the pump, or the changing of the tire for the “spare”. But when a foot is flat “that is something else again”. Some

Digitized by (^.ooQle
64

relief may be had by changing the shoe, especially if we get one that is big enough and one that is shaped to support the arch in the proper manner. There are such shoes on the market—orthopedic shoes—built to take care of the flat foot, and that will not only support the arch but will also keep the foot in proper anatomical position.

Artificial supports for the arch will not cure flat foot. The foot must be properly exercised to correct this condition. Since Nature has not provided us with "spare feet" to be put on when the old one goes back on us, we must patch the old one and get along as best we can on it.

Traffic Rules for All of Us

Every city, town, village or hamlet, no matter how small, has found it necessary to make laws governing the speed, the driving, and the parking of cars. Any driver violating these rules is apt to find himself in trouble.

Occasionally, a man will be found, who will show his contempt for the laws, but this fellow usually comes to grief in a very short time. On the whole, the laws are pretty generally observed, and violations are the exception rather than the rule. But when it comes to the "Laws of Hygiene,” the man who observes them all, is an exception; in fact, it is quite amazing to see how men, and supposedly intelligent men too, abuse their bodies.

The fines inflicted by the Judge or Country Magistrate for violations of the traffic rules, are mere "bags o’shells” when compared to the “fines" inflicted by Nature for breaking the Laws of Hygiene. There is no dodging the payment of Nature’s bills. You can pay the Judge’s fine in dollars and cents, but Nature demands payment, not only in dollars and cents, but in physical pain and misery as well. The great trouble with most of us is, that our “mental brakes” are not operating as they should. We have been “coasting” through life for such a long period; have never denied ourselves anything. When we are told that we must "slow down”, we find it next to impossible to do so because of loss of will-power, due to the long “joy-ride” we have had.

What a fine thing it would be if each home could have it’s "traffic cop”. His job would be to tell us when we were "speeding” and to prevent our doing it; to crack us on the head with his club whenever it became necessary.

We may “speed” in many ways. It may be in the matter of hasty eating, or over-eating—a crime of which nearly all of us are guilty. Or it may be that we overindulge in tobacco, coffee, tea and the use of stimulants, including condiments, etc. It may be too, that we are over-working mentally or physically, or both; and it may be that we are “over-riding”. The automobile, as a factor in the health of the Nation, must soon be taken into consideration, for there is no doubt that men are riding too much, and exercising too little.
65

The “Lamps” and the Remedy

Every wise automobilist, doing any great amount of night riding, sees to it that his lamps are in good shape. He realizes that he must have good lenses in order that he may have good light when driving. He knows too, that the battery of the car must be fully charged so that he may get the proper power. He makes every effort to conserve the strength of this battery and will not burn the lights except when it is necessary, nor will he use the big lamps when the dimmers will accomplish the purpose. When only one lamp of the automobile is functioning, driving is hazardous for not only is there danger of collision with other machines, but there is also a chance that the car will climb a tree or run into a ditch before it has gone many miles. Many communities recognize this danger and make laws prohibiting the driving of “one-eyed automobiles.”

But how about the one-eyed driver, of which there are more than is generally known. There are hundreds of men driving cars today, who are, practically, one-eyed men so far as the vision of each eye is concerned.

There is a distinct relation of the eyes to the general health of the individual. * It must be remembered that the eyeball does not see. It is only a sensitive organ which transmits impressions to the higher centers of sight. In other words, the act of vision is performed in the brain, and it is well to remember this when we are tempted to abuse the eyes by reading in a poor light, or by the pernicious habit of reading while lying down and in many other ways. It pays to take care of the eyes.

Let me quote Dr. Pyle, a man who knows what he is talking about: He says—“It is a great mistake to consider the visual apparatus as a separate organization. It is intimately connected with the whole human economy. If there is any serious functional or organic change in the body, the eyes may participate in the evil consequences, and in the same way, visual defects may influence the whole constitution. Persons who seek to preserve their vision all through life must not only observe the laws of ocular hygiene, but also those of the general body and mind.”

The “Finish”—What is Left

When men buy automobiles today, they look for something more than a finely finished car. They look under the hood and at every part of the mechanism and construction. Strength and power are the desirable qualities, not only in the automobile but in the Human Machine as well, and men, like cars that comma'nd the highest prices and salaries, are those that give the best service and are very nearly perfect in every detail. The old motto “Mens sana in corpore sano”—a strong mind in a strong body—is now the motto of Big Business everywhere, and no matter what sort of a job a man is filling today, he must have the physical strength to^go through with it.
66

A well trained mind is of no value in a weakened body, for no matter “how strong the spirit may be, if the flesh be weak” you have a poor man and one unfitted for any kind of a job. There is an old saying and a true one that, while it has been worn thread-bare, will still bear repeating. Transposed it is, “Your body, like your auto, is just as strong as its weakest part.”

Are you getting the most out of life? Are you alive every minute in the day, or are you like thousands of others, just “moving along”? Is every organ in your body functioning as it should? If not, why not? Are you just “below par” physically? If so, there must be a reason for it.

33rd National Turnfest, Louisville, Kentucky June 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 1926.

TACTICS AND WAND EXERCISES FOR SENIOR MEN

A

B

C

D

E

Tactics

Formation: One long front rank. Counted off by fours.

16 marching steps forward....................... 16	counts

1-2 wheel left................................... 8	counts

16 marching steps forward .......................16	counts

1-2 wheel right.................................. 8	counts

Open ranks in shortest possible manner.

Wand Exercises

The exercises are described only to one side but are to be executed left, right, and repeated.

Music: “Vienna Forever.” March by Johan Schramel. Play as written, except omit 2 measures before Trio and repeat Trio again after Fine.

Tempo: 1-4 note—100.	The music has 2 counts to a

measure. While marching and opening ranks, wand is carried vertically in right hand, forefinger under bottom of wand.

Lower wand to starting position (horizontally in front) in 2 counts.

Grasp upper end of wand with left hand—count 1; lower— count 2.

Introduction—

Pause ............................................  4	measures

Digitized by {^.ooQle
Figure On*	Fifur*	Two	Figure Three

FIRST GROUP Exercise 1—	Counts

A Place left foot forward and swing arms forward. Figure 1	1-2

B	Lunge left forward and swing arms upward. Figure 2	3-4

C Change knee bending and place wand in rear of shoulders.

Figure 3........................................... 5-6

Return to Position B.................................... 7-8

Repeat Parts Cand B.................................... 9-12.'

Return to Position A...................................13-14

Swing arms downward and close left foot to right, starting

position.....	 15-16

Figure Four

Figure Five	Figure	Six

Digitized by Google
Exercise 2—

68

Counts

A Place left foot sideward and swing left arm sideward Fig. 4	1-2

B Lunge left sideward and swing arms downward and right

arm sideward. Fig. 5................................ 3-4

C Change knee bending, swing arms downward and up to left, wand vertical with right hand at left shoulder, and bend

trunk right sideward. Fig. 6 ....................... 5-6

Return to Positions B,C,B, A.......................... 7-14

Swing arms downward and close left foot to right .......15-16

Figure Seven	Figure	Eight	Figure	Nine

Exercise 3—

A Place left foot backward and swing arms forward Fig. 7. 1-2

B Layout left backward and swing arms upward. Fig. 8 .... 3-4

C Bend trunk forward, place wand in rear of shoulder. Fig. 9 .. 5-6

Return to Positions B,C,B, A....................... 7-14

Swing arms downward and close left foot to right ...15-16

Digitized by
69

Figure Ten	Figure	Eleven	Figure	Twelve

Exercise 1—	SECOND	GROUP

A Lunge left forward and bend arms'to thrust. Fig. 13........ 1-2

B 1-4 turn right on heels, straightenjleft knee, thrust arms

forward and bend trunk forward. Fig. 14 ................. 3-4

C Straighten trunk and bend arms to thrust................... 5-6

D Thrust arms upward and bend upper trunk backward.

Fig. 15 ............................................ 7-8

Return to Positions C,B, A..............................  9-14

Straighten arms downward and close left foot to right ..15-16

Figure Thirteen	Figure	Fourteen	Figure	Fifteen

Digitized by v^.ooQle
70

Fifure Sixteen	Fgure	Seventeen	Figure	Eighteen

Exercise 2—	Counts

A 1-4 turn left and lunge left forward, wand vertical in front,

right hand high.	Fig. 16............................ 1-2

B Place right hand at left shoulder, left hand high, wand vertical. Fig. 17	  3-4

C Change knee bending and lower trunk forward, wand in line

with left leg. Fig. 18 ............................. 5-6

Return to Positions#, <7,1?, A.........................  7-14

Swing arms downward, 1-4-tum right, close left foot

to right...........................................15-16

Figure Nineteen	Figure	Twenty	Figure	twenty-one

Digitized by kjOOQle
71

Exercise 3—

A Place left foot sideward, carry right hand to left shoulder, and slide left hand to middle of wand, right hand high

Fig. 19 ............................................  1-2

B Lunge left sideward and swing arms sideward, wand vertical in left hand. Fig. 20....................................  3-4

C Change knee bending, bend trunk right, turn head left,

wand horizontal in left hand. Fig. 21 ............... 5-6

Return to Positions B, C, B,	A :  7-14

Lower wand to horizontal position, close left foot to right 15-16

Figure Twenty-two Figure Twenty-three Figure Twenty-four

Exercise 4 (Golf)

A Stride left sideward, change right hand to under grip and slide it to left hand, pointing wand fore-downward as

golf club. Fig. 22	  1-2

B Shift weight to right foot, pointing left toe sideward, twist trunk to right, swing wand over right shoulder and turn

head left—looking at ball. Fig. 23.................. 3-4

Return to Positions A and B............................ 5-8

C With a twist of the body toward the left, swing wand downward hitting the imaginary ball and immediately carry the wand fore-upward while stepping left forward and

hold this position. Fig. 24.........................9-12

D 1-4-turn right, step right sideward, lifting left foot about 6 inches from the floor, leg straight, and slide right hand to right end of wand, upper grip, both arms forward ....13-14 E Close left foot to right and swing arms downward .........15-16

Digitized by LjOOQle
72

TULEY HIGH SCHOOL SWIMMING TEST, CHICAGO.

By Howard Gross

To arouse an interest and to give the boys of our high school something to strive for, I devised the following swimming test. Medals are given to all who succeed in passing the test. The whole school of near 800 boys took the test and 30 were successful. Twenty more will probably pass next semester.

In order to pass, boys must make the following averages: Ages 12 to 15—50 points.

Ages 15 to 18—60 points.

Ages 18 and over—70 points.

Points	Seconds 40 yd Crawl	Seconds 40 yd Breast	Seconds 20 yd Back	Points  Diving  1. plain and 1 optional
5	45	50	25	5
10	44	49	24	10
15	43	48 .	23	15
20	42	47	22	20
25	41	46	21	25
3C	40	45	20	30
35	39	44	19	35
40	38	43	18	40
45	37	42	17	45
50	36	41	16	50
55	35	40	15	55
60	34	39	14 4-5	60
65	33	38	14 3-5	65
70	32	37	14 2-5	70
75	31	36	14 1-5	75
80	30	35	14	80
85	29	34	13 4-5	85
90	28	33	13 3-5	90
95	27	32	13 2-5	95
100	26	31	13 1-5	100
105	25	30	13	105
110	24	29	12 4-5	110
115	23	28	12 3-5	115
120	22	27	12 2-5	120
125	21	26	12 1-5	125

I found that in the back stroke, which is naturally hard anyway, the boys had most difficulty. Some directors would prefer to substitute a life saving stunt for the back stroke.

The test as given in our school consists of four events-40 yd. Crawl, 40 yd. Breast, 30 yd. Back, and Diving. In the chart the figures under the three swimming events are seconds
78

and under diving the figures are points. In the diving event one plain and one optional dive are required, and an average of the two is taken. Points must be made in all four events, and then the points are added to determine the ones who passed the test.

A SYMPOSIUM

In response to the Superintendent’s outline in the form of a questionnaire given below, the following excerpts taken from the various papers by instructors of the Columbus Public Schools Physical Education Department have been rather freely edited. And since it is difficult to “think mathematics, for example, while motor skills—any physical activity demanding quick and intense physical and mental coordination—are in constant demand,” physical education is necessarily specified frequently in this digest.

I. Aiut—

“To provide as fully as possible for the educational needs of all pupils in the most practical and scientific way.”

Intelligent action is the goal toward which all education is directed. We should aim, therefore, to establish school objectives through a careful analysis of contemporary life, and strive to develop through vicarious experiences, the power to act intelligently in actual situations.

Dr. Williams of Columbia University, believes that a Physical Education program should provide opportunity for every boy and girl to act in situations that are physically wholesome, mentally stimulating, and socially sound. Thus our program should involve large muscle action because school practices which train simply the eye, ear, tongue and hand, do not promote the health of the pupil. The true basis of sustained and happy intellectual life is health.

Organized play has wonderful moral and social values—it quickens the sense perceptions, demands exercise of judgment in making responses to stimuli, develops powers for social cooperation and, builds up resistance to disease. Big muscle work in games is an essential part of emotional control in relation to character building. Formal gymnastics increase the powers of self control through inhibition of neuro-muscular activities.

The corrective elements should be individual, secure extension of the spine, arouse an interest in the subject, with exercises prescribed for a definite condition and these repeated frequently. •

The educative phase should seek form control and isolation. It should express instinct, idea and emotion. It must function in the life of the person, have utility, and aesthetic quality. It must have mental content, skill, procedure and related knowledge. It should be thoroughly satisfying.

Digitized by Google
74

II.	Improving Instruction—

(1) Better Classroom Teaching by:

1.	Careful preparation for each day’s lesson which should be well rounded and suited to the needs of the particular classes:

2.	Response of pupils with regulation and hygienic costumes;

3.	Ability to create interest and a desire for perfection— enthusiam and interest on the part of the teacher will be the greatest incentive and tonic for the pupil;

• 4. Being able to secure the co-operation of the children by an attitude of sympathetic understanding;

5.	Increasing and stimulating interest by tests which tabulate the individual achievements of the pupils.

6.	Cultivating an open mind toward improved methods of teaching and showing a willingness of advancement by professional reading and attendance upon advanced class work;

7.	Minimizing the outside interruptions of class work which occur so frequently in the combined auditorium-gymnasium:

8.	Working constantly toward a better understanding of Physical Education among faculty, parents and citizens, who so often fail to see the lack of equipment and space wherein boys and girls can expand as nature has provided they should • when she endowed them with faculties for motor activity;

9.	Arranging work so that the greatest good for the greatest number may be obtained;

10.	Striving to have classification according to grades in this subject the same as in academic subjects—slow progression follows classes of mixed grades;

11.	Observing other teachers of good repute often is an excellent incentive to keep one out of a rut. (Regular days for observation should be assigned each teacher,)

12.	Eliminating routine work as much as possible from class time, such as roll call, absence excuses, disciplining, etc., and developing leadership and responsibility among pupils;

13.	Classifying pupils mentally and physically with instruction modified to suit their relative needs;

14.	Testing the teachers by answering these questions:

1.	Was the lesson purposeful—and did the activities increase circulation, respiration, exertion and provide big muscle activity and stimulate the nervous system by giv-

. ing joy?

2.	Am I enthusiastic and an effective leader, fair under all circumstances, ready to co-operate and be loyal?

3.	Do I have the right view point—and believe in the worthwhileness of my work, and am I deriving pleasure in giving service?

(2) Better Supervision—

May be bettered by:

1.	A liberal allowance of time for observing teachers at work;.

Digitized by kjOOQle
r75

2.	Willingness on the' part of the teachers to accept criticism from supervisors and ready cooperation from teachers;:

3.	By conferences and instruction, help the teachers in

unsatisfactory work, and assist in the ,solution of their individual problems;	.

4.	Secure time for constructive meetings and opportunity for teachers to observe good teaching;

5.	By keen interest on the part of the supervisor in, a good quality of work, the, teacher receives an incentive for better work.

6.	By demonstration lessons;

7.	By securing. greater uniformity over the city , with specific material;

8.	More medical supervision to complete the physical examination of die teacher and safeguard athletic competition;

9.	Testing results.

III.	Providing Citizenship 'Training.

Many of the great lessons of life come from' the games we play in youth, and it is here that the child is given the opportunity to experience citizenship and not merely learn about it. “The playing field is in truth the High School of life and no American boy can be healthy and whole and miss the laws of honor. They ring through every school that is worth the stuff it is built of; they are; blazed as in letters of fire over every playing field worth walking on. They are among the oldest things in the world, and they will last as long as the human race.”

Thus it is the crowning achievement of Physical Education to create team spirit—which means the surrender of self, loyalty, obedience to law, truthfulness, courtesy, fair-mindedness, self-control, personal cleanliness,' cooperation and the enjoyment of a game well played tho’ it end in defeat. :Thus these qualities of a sportsman may be -carried over into later life to make men to help a nation ,on. ‘‘If we are loyal to our team, and our school we shall be loyal to our town and to our country. The very beginnings of patriotism lie in our games.”

ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION

By Gustav Li Stecher.

Whenever a patient does not breathe for one reason or another it is important that the lungs be made to function by the artificial .means known as the Schaefer prone method. Do not depend on mechanical devices to do what you can do better with your hands; but use the -method only if breathing has stopped.

If a person is unconscious, try • other restorations such as spirits of ammonia, or dash water into the face; have the head

Digitized by LaOOQle
76

lower than rest of body to get the blood to the head; plain ammonia also may be used, but don’t get it too near the face.

In a drowning accident the condition produced is paralysis of the centers in the brain that control the muscles of the heart and the muscles concerned in breathing. The thing to do is to start the breathing; and to start the breathing you must temporarily supply power to the paralized muscles. Keep cool, do not get rattled; begin at once and keep on the job for four hours or more if necesary. Do not squander valuable time and opportunity by taking the patient to a hospital. In order to get experience try the method. It is important to go through it several times, so as .to be prepared when you have a chance to save a life.

The Schaefer Method of Resuscitation

Procedure. At the place the. person is taken from the water, gas, smoke, or electrical contact, lay the victim face downward on a flat surface, or with the head slightly downhill. Turn his head to one side, extend one arm up beyond head and place one hand of the victim under his face, to protect his open mouth and nose from dirt. Kneel (straddling one or both knees) facing subject's head.

Place hands over lower ribs, one on each side of backbone and about four inches apart, thumbs and fingers together. If hands are in correct position, the little finger of each hand is over and following the line of lowest rib.

Move weight of body slowly downward and forward for about three seconds—don't slide the hands. Keep arms straight. The shoulders should be behind the hands, so that the pressure exerted is forward. Then snap the hands off, allowing ribs to expand quickly, filling lungs with air. Swing body slowly backward to upright position, thus relaxing muscles of back.

At the end of two seconds again place hands in position and apply pressure. This timing (three seconds pressure and two seconds release) uses five seconds for one complete respiration, assuring twelve respirations per minute. This is fast enough and will allow the operator to continue for a long time without exhaustion.

To assist in properly timing these movements, repeat either silently or aloud during the period of pressure	goes	the

bad air.” Then snap off the hands and repeat during the period of release, "in comes the good.”

Supplemental Treatment. As soon as helpers arrive, put them to work. Send for a doctor, for warm bottles or bricks, and for tea or coffee for stimulant. When you need rest, let one of your helpers take your place, One may clean patient’s mouth, stimulating reflexes by moving tongue back and forth. Patient’s clothing may be loosened, and his body and limbs rubbed toward the heart to stimulate circulation. Covering and heated articles may be applied. (Be careful to avoid burning patient.)

Digitized by CjOOQle
77

Aromatic spirits of ammonia may be placed near patient’s nose at frequent intervals. All of this supplemental treatment is helpful, but must not be allowed to interfere with, or interrupt for one second the process of artificial respiration.

Organize your helpers while you are working. Look around, pick out two or three intelligent people and say, “Will you two get some others to join hands and keep the crowd back. Make a large circle; we must have air.” They will recognize you as a leader, and gladly help.

Don't give up. Persons who have been under water as long as thirty minutes .have been resuscitated by this simple method. There is no certain sign by which the layman can determine that it is too late for artificial respiration. If no results are seen, the subject should not be abandoned until at least two hours' effort has been made to revive him.

When subject begins to breathe and can swallow, give a teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia in half a glass of water. Hot water, tea or coffee may be used as a stimulant if aromatic spirits of ammonia is not available. Should the patient be inclined to vomit (which is a favorable sign), turn him on his right side to facilitate it. Don’t allow patient to walk or otherwise exert himself. After such an experience, a person requires medical attention and should be put to bed.

FLIES*

How many flies do you want in your home this summer? How many will you have?

The two questions are intimately related. The answer to the second depends upon the first.

You will have in your home this summer just so many flies as you want.

But, you say, rather indignantly, I do not want any flies at all. I know how annoying they are, and how dangerous. I resent even the suggestion that I want them.

Very well, but the statement still stands. You will have just so many flies as you want. If you are really sincere in saying that you do not want any flies at all, then you need not have them.

The existence of flies is absolutely dependent upon filth. Flies cannot breed or live about a house that is clean. The number of flies around a home is a living, moving proof of the sanitary condition of that home. If you want a flyless home you must have one that is clean.

A clean home is not necessarily one where the floors are scrubbed till they shine, where the windows are without spot, where it is the proud boast of the housewife that a speck of

’From Health Bulletin, State of N. Carolina.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
78

dust'is not to be found therein. Cleanliness in the home extends beyond the confines of the four walls of the house.

Some people, quite a lot of them, too, are satisfied to keep the house and front yard in a condition of cleanliness, and leave the back yard go. An open garbage can, slowly filling with refuse too often stands by the back steps. Disca-ded tin cans are allowed to accumulate. ' Frequently there is an open-back, insanitary, abomination of a privy. In the villages and country a hog pen is not far from the house, and a cow barn within easy fly range. No wonder that flies pour into the house in ever increasing numbers as the warm weather grows into midsummer. Ideal breeding places are supplied for the little pests, and instinctively they seek the company of their human benefactors.	j

In nearly all the larger towns and cities the automobile and the sanitary privy law together have just about solved the problem. The automobile has put the once popular livery stable out of business, and so removed one of the fly’s favorite places for breeding. Modem sewerage and the enforcement of the sanitary privy law have abolished another favorite haunt of ,the fly. But both stables and privies continue to breed flies, by the million.

Of course the stable, the cow bam, the hog pen, the chicken house, are all necessary for the rural home. These cannot be abolished. They can, however, be kept in such sanitary conditions that the opportunity for fly breeding will be reduced to a minimum, and the country home can have, and deserves to have, a sanitary privy.

Going back to the beginning, how many flies do you want this summer? This is a pertinent question, for you can have as many or as few as you really want.

Relation of1 Flies to Disease

The fly is the most active living agent in the dissemination of disease, excepting alone human beings' themselves. Nature has1 so constructed the fly as to make it an ideal carrier.

First of all the fly is born and bred in filth. It feeds and lives upon filth. Its body is covered, with fine hairs and bristles which act as excellent media for the collection Of the filth in which it moves and has its existence. Its wings even, which look like the finest gauze, are fringed with hairs arid thickly studded with bristles. The six feet, with pads beneath and great claws, and bristles of various lengths and sizes, naturally afford safe places for thfe collection of all kinds of dirt and refuse that the fly is accustomed to visit.

, If the fly would be content to remain in its natural place of breeding and feeding, it would; not be dangerous to folks. But the fly likes people. It likes to get into their homes. For a change it likes to feed on the good things which folks have for themselves. It takes delight especially in sweet things. Milk has an almost irresistible attraction for it. But anytinhg
79

will do. Back and forth from the manure pile, the heap of decaying garbage, the privy, to the kitchen and dining room it blithely goes, carelessly spreading the filth it accumulates;

Typhoid Fever

Typhoid fever is caused by a small germ called Bacillus Typhosus which lives in the bowels of human beings. Flies are the most active agents in spreading these germs and causing this disease.

To have typhoid fever it is necessary that the germs of the disease be swallowed. Since these germs grow and live only in the bowels of human beings, then to have typhoid* fever you must partake of the bowel, discharges of some other person.

There are three principal ways of getting typhoid germs into your mouth, and thence into your stomach. First, through water; Second, by personal contact with a sick person; Third, by flies contaminating the food you eat.	*	■

The water route of infection has been practically closed. Protected water supplies now furnish nearly all the urban population with pure water, and even the individual rural homes are rapidly abandoning the potentially dangerous open well.

The personal contact route of infection is limited. Only a few people actually come in contact with one sick with typhoid, and these are taught to be careful.

The fly route of infection remains the one widest open and most traveled. Nothing could show this more conclusively than the yearly rise of the typhoid rate with the warm weather, reaching its highest in August, and dying out with the frost of autumn, just as the rise and fall of flies occurs.

Of course people have to be careless, else the fly could not be a carrier of typhoid. But people are careless. Discharges from the bowels of typhoid patients are thrown out carelessly,* and the fly wallows in it. The accumulated particles on its body are brought along when it comes buzzing into the dining room at meal time. As it walks proudly and gallantly about upon the butter, the biscuits, and other food, it, of course, leaves in its wake a small portion of the human excrement it has so graciously brought in. And as it dines upon the good, things upon your table its next act is perfectly natural. It relieves its crowded stomach of a portion of its contents. The result is fly specks. A tiny black fly speck may easily in a few weeks grow into the black veil of death.

Dysentery

Dysentery is a disease which is spread in practically the same manner as typhoid. The germs causing it are passed in the body discharges, and the flies convey them to our foods or some other object from which by way of the hands we get them into oUr mouth. Like typhoid, dysentery is most prevalent during the hot weather, because flies are then most prevalent.

Digitized by LaOOQle
80

Diarrhoea in Infanta

The infant mortality represents about one-half of the preventable death rate of the State. The diarrhoeal diseases of infancy are the greatest factor affecting this high infant mortality. Here again flies play an important part in carrying the disease. Safeguard your baby by abolishing the fly.

Other Diseases

Flies are potential if not actual carriers of every disease due to a specific micro-organism—accessible to the fly on its rounds. Included in those which may be spread by flies are tuberculosis, ophthalmia neonatorum, poliomyelitis, and others.

Protective Measures

So long as there are folks who are careless and dirty, so long will there be flies. To entirely exterminate the pest is therefore out of the question. All that can be done is to adopt such measures of protection as may be available.

First of all, prevent the breeding of flies by destroying their breeding places. Every home can have a sanitary privy, and every home can have clean, sanitary premises.

Second, because of carelessness on one’s own part or that of neighbors which permits flies to breed, destroy as many flies as possible after they are hatched to minimize further breeding, using fly-paper, traps, poison.

Third, screen the home and all places where food is handled or sold.

Destruction of Adult Flies

The best method for the destruction of adult winged flies is the fly-trap—not a ten-cent store fly-trap, but a real homemade fly-trap made along the same lines as the small cone-shaped wire trap, but one two or three feet high and twelve to eighteen inches in diameter. The use of fly-traps in homes is not recommended. The place for the trap is out of doors.

For the flies in the house the use of sticky fly paper is recommended. This, together with fly swatters, offers a very effective means of killing those flies that pass the screens.

Various poison chemical mixtures, such as formalin, arsenic, etc., have been advocated, but they have no particular superiority over the sticky papers and swatters, and have the objection of dead flies falling in every nook and comer of the room. This is particularly objectionable in grocery stores and food establishments.

For the convenience of those desiring to use any of the various poisons advocated, the following recipe is probably the simplest and safest: FORMALDEHYDE—a formaldehyde solution of approximately the correct strength may be made by adding three teaspoonfuls of the concentrated formaldehyde solution, commercially known as formalin, to a pint of water.

Or three teaspoonfuls of SODIUM SALICYLATE (a powder) to a pint of water may be used.

Digitized by UjOOQle
81

A container has been found convenient for automatically keeping the solution always available for flies to drink. An ordinary, thin-walled drinking glass is filled, or partially filled, with the solution. A saucer, or small plate, in which is placed a piece of white blotting paper cut the size of the dish, is put, bottom up over the glass. The whole is -then quickly inverted, a match placed under the edge of the glass, and the container is ready for use.

The most practical and efficient means yet found for protecting ourselves against the fly is thorough screening of the home and places where food is handled, from April 1 to December 1. Screens for the entire house, including the back porch where much of the food is handled, should be regarded as much a part of the complete house as the windows and doors are. And if your house is not yet complete, see that the job is finished immediately. Flies have already begun to multiply.

Cheap extension screens are not very satisfactory. They rarely fit the windows or make it fly tight. They are, of course, quite an improvement over no screens at all. Wire screens protecting the whole window are the best. This may be tacked over the window, or it may be tacked onto a frame constructed to fit each individual window. If you have to buy the wire, don’t get the coarse 14-mesh to the inch; get the 16-mesh wire. The 14-mesh will keep out flies, but will admit mosquitoes. The 16-mesh will prevent the entrance of both flies and mosquitoes.

What To Do To Protect Yourself Against Flies

Build a sanitary privy.

Screen your windows and doors. DO IT NOW!

Screen all food, especially milk. Do not eat food that has been in contact with flies.

Keep flies away from the sick, especially those ill with typhoid fever, scarlet fever, dysentery, infantile diarrhoea, and tuberculosis. Screen the patient’s bed. Kill every fly that enters the sick room. Immediately disinfect and dispose of all discharges.

Catch the flies as fast as they appear. Use liquid poisons and sticky fly papers.

Allow no decaying matter of any sort to accumulate on or near your premises.___________________

In this issue we are reprinting an article that appeared in the Boston Globe. This should receive the careful attention of all thinking teachers of physical education. Is it true, as stated by Mr. Packer, that teachers are interested only in boys and girls when at stated hours they come to their gymnasiums, and have no time for them on other days? Are gymnasiums like churches, used only at stated periods that may or may not meet the legitimate demands of a community? In the enormous increase of physical education teachers has that missionary spirit been lost that made such enthusiasts of our older teachers, and that made them available at any time of the day or night? Is the profession fossilizing?—Editor.

Digitized by v^ooQle
News, notes and comments

+-----------------------------------------♦

PHYSICAL EDUCATORS CLUB OF CHICAGO

From the discussions and talks made before the Physical Educators Club of Chicago by experts and laymen, many of whom are principals of high schools, and others interested in the physical education work of the schools, there seems to be some indication that the physical education program now being carried on will come in for considerable revision together with the other school subjects.

The Chicago Board of Education is contemplating a revision of all high school subjects in the near future, and the question of how much time to give to physical education and how far reaching this subject shall be made will be given considerable thought. An analysis of the talks thus far given by men interested in this subject who as guests of the Club rendered their opinions would indicate that there will not be sufficient time available in the curriculum to conduct this work on a basis that will provide for each pupil a thorough systematic comprehensive scheme of physical training. '

The men who will ultimately determine the physical education program to be conducted as a required course in the curriculum of the schools, after giving due consideration to the merits of the various systems advocated will undoubtedly make an effort to select the principles and methods from all systems that will be best adapted to school conditions and to the requirements of the American youth. Some predict that this will be entirely a play program, others will advocate a more rigid gymnastic program, while others will argue that a competitive athletic and sports program would be best suited.

It seems to be the concensus of opinion, especially among the laymen that a program of physical education involving activities that may be carried on after boys and girls leave school would be the most practical scheme. The question of how much emphasis to place upon health, how much on muscular development, and how much upon a knowledge of play and athletic activities, are all to be considered in the selection of the physical education course to be adapted.

Mr. F. L. Morse, Principal of the Harrison High School, speaking before the Club at the last meeting, stated that, in his opinion, which was that of a layman, the limitations of time and equipment preclude any intensive training scheme, and that the real value of the physical education work lies in those activities that can be carried on out of school hours and after the boys and girls leave school. “However,” said Mr. Morse, “there is no body of men who are in a better position to give

Digitized by CjOOQle
83

advice and make recommendations than your group, and undoubtedly you men will be consulted when the revision plan is considered, and if the physical education program patterned after the German or Swedish systems, which is now largely used in the schools is to be continued or enlarged upon, it will be necessary for you to have some good arguments to present in its favor.”

Mr. A. S. Hall, Principal of the Medi High School, also a guest of the Club, stated, much to the surprise of the members, "you men have the easiest teaching job in the school system”. After the ripple of laughter had subsided Mr. Hall explained that the physical education teacher had the easiest job because the boys and girls liked the subject. “The teacher of other subjects in the school,” said Mr. Hall, “must camouflage and color their subjects, and, of course, to teach those subjects that boys and girls like is much easier. I am also a layman and hesitate to go too deeply into the subject in addressing experts, but I believe the time is ripe for an All-American system of physical training,” said Mr. Hall. “Your problem seems to me is to take the best from all systems and find something that will appeal to the American boy.”

The balance of the program was made up of a demonstration of Danish gymnastics by Mr. A. Anderson, a graduate of the Gymnastic Institute of Denmark. Mr. Anderson stated in his preliminary explanation that there was a tendency in modern gymnastics to get away from the more rigid and exacting form of both the Swedish and German systems, and to adopt a freer and more natural scheme of gymnastic exercises having a tendency to promote health and develop poise and grace in carriage, rather than emphasizing muscular development. After this explanation Mr. Anderson taking a class of recruits whom he had never seen before put them through a series of self-resisting and companion exercises, which were chiefly of a stretching nature.

Dr. W. D. Zoethout, who had previously lectured before the Club on “Fatigue” gave a very elucidating lecture upon the nervous system in general. Dr. Zoethout defined the physiology of the neurons which make up the nervous system, explaining the function and purpose of the synapse, the cut-out or connecting point between the incoming and outgoing nervous energy. The human being acquires at birth all of the nerve cells that it will ever possess, normally about fourteen hundred million, all connected with each other, the most wonderful piece of mech-ism in the world, said Dr. Zoethout. Growth and education does not increase the number of nerve cells but merely open up additional paths through whiph nervous energy operates. There are two nervous systems in the human body, the central and the peripheral systems. A nerve stimulus received at the periphery is communicated to the central nervous system located m the spinal column, passes through the synapse, or the so called “electrical gap” and is then communicated by the outgoing route

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
84

to the muscle involved in producing the necessary action. This experience establishes a nervous path through the maze of neurons comprising the nervous system, and when constantly repeated establishes what we call habit, or produces re-flex action.

The meeting was concluded by a talk by Mr. Everson of the Everson Filter Company on Swimming Tank Filtration. Aside from having a proper filtration equipment Mr. Everson stated that in his opinion the use of chlorine was the best substance to purify the water as a single agency, but when used in connection with the ultra-violet rays gave 100% efficiency.

Petition for recognition of a four-year course in physical education to be included in its curriculum has been made by the University of Rochester to the Department of Education at Albany. The proposed course, which was laid before the department recently by Dr. Edwin Fauver, head of the present physical education department at the university, would be given jointly by the physical education and vital economics departments and would lead to the degree of bachelor of science in physical education.

The aim of the course is to prepare men to be instructors of physical education and health hygiene in preparatory schools and industrial organizations. The difference between the proposed course and similar courses offered in other institutions would be the emphasis placed upon hygiene and health as related to groups, particularly the problem of hygiene and health education in the high schools.

THE UNIVERSITIES AND PHYSICAL TRAINING

Speaking at the Conference of Universities of Great Britain and Ireland recently, Dr. J. G. Adami, Vice Chancellor of the University of Liverpool, said we were an odd, illogical people. We were bitten with sport, if not sports mad. Too much of our sport was vicarious. Where there were a score or so of players there might be thousands of onlookers, and tens of thousands had a “little flutter” on the event. Yet the influence of corporate sport and team play had inevitably told upon the whole spirit of the nation; while university staffs admitted that the old Greek ideal of education was the right one—namely, an all-round training of both mind and body, the universities had not acted in accordance with that belief. At most they condoned physical exercises and sport. We had gone so far as to make physical exercises obligatory in our State schools. At the universities there was little or no official encouragement of physical training, and the achievements of university athletics received no official recognition. Prizes and athletic distinctions were not officially awarded or announced at university congregations. The “Blues” were not present coram populo to the Chancellor or Vice Chancellor. There was not even a university trophy room. We were establishing

Digitized by LjOOQle
85

departments of music and fine arts, but not one of our universities had a department of physical training. We might boast the possession of chairs of brewing and refrigeration and of strength of materials and public health, but a chair of bodily development was apparently outside the bounds of imagination.

E)r. Adami advocates the appointment of a well-qualified director of physical training with qualified staff in every university and university college, and the compulsory physical examination upon entrance to the university of students, who would be advisted as to whether they were fitted to take part in particular games. The next desideratum in all universities was a spacious gymnasium, and it should be made obligatory that every student, during at least the first two years of university life, should spend not less than two hours per week in some form of physical exercise. Such a scheme had been for many years in active operation in many of the foremost universities of the United States.—Physical Education, England.

Theory and practical work will be included in the course for men students, to be taught at the University of Cincinnati. The men will join a class of students specializing in physical education for this course. The instruction for women will be given at the Conservatory of Music, in the gymnasium, and will lay special stress upon the relation of music and dancing and bodily movements as an expression of music.

HYGIENIC NOTES ------------------«

I have never been quite certain whether Hygiene and Physical Training are, in the official mind, brandies of the same tree, or whether one is a branch of the other, or whether the two are merely scholastic subjects having kindred purposes. Still, whatever the relationship, it must be very close; and to my mind the important factor is that both are concerned with the promotion of health and the prevention of disease.

Hygiene is a personal matter, hygiene is a communal matter. In the first place it must be taught to the young at home; in the second place it must be taught to the young at school; and in the third place, since a certain number of persons manage to pass through these two refining processes untouched, hygiene must be enforced by Act of Parliament on a none too willing population. One has only to study for a brief spell the long list of modem statutes dealing with the question of hygiene and public health to be convinced that cleanliness is perhaps not a natural inclination of the race. It always appears to me—although I am open to correction—that when a State finds itself compelled to multiply the number of laws, rules and regulations concerning any particular phase of life, something must be very much wrong with the people for whom the laws are intended. And the people of any one generation are

Digitized by

Google
86

merely the product of the training and environment supplied by their progenitors. If the training has been sound and the conditions under which the young have lived are healthy, then the child grown to man’s estate will reflect all that is good. If our prisons are filled; if our people, or if any of our people, do not feel the intense desire to burn down every slum, and other unlovely and ungodlike place, then they are merely reflecting the lack of facilities to appreciate the beautiful, both physical and moral, which was prevalent in the days of their youth.

Based upon this broad generalisation, it would follow that the evil of the present generation is the result of the lack of training afforded by the past, and one step further the faults of the future generation can be laid at the door of the present. And it all comes to a question of Education.

I do not think any great effort was made in the past by Education authorities to teach the principles of hygiene, either as a subject or otherwise, to the young at school. Certainly, speaking as a product of the past, I do not remember ever hearing the name mentioned whilst I was at school. I certainly learnt (after great pains, both physical and mental) that the best people made every endeavour to cleanse their persons in the invisible as well as the visible places, that because one did not generally expose one’s arms above the elbow to public gaze, this did not provide sufficient excuse for a morning ablution up to the elbow only. I also learnt that God’s air was just as useful inside a room as outside in the fields; that one’s nose was Hot merely an ornament but was intended by nature to function in a natural manner; that the free play of the air on the skin was beneficial, and that a surplus of clothing over the body was generally harmful; that drains were intended to be flushed; that in the twentieth century refuse was not thrown into the streets or yards; that adulterated food did not produce the same beneficial effects upon the system as pure food; that tainted food should be avoided at all. costs. I learnt this and much else, but not at school. I happened to be one of the fortunate ones born into a family which understood these things. To-day I am only too painfully aware of the fact that every child does not possess equal facilities at home, and since so many parents fail, generally through ignorance themselves, to impart useful instruction to their off-spring, it becomes the duty of the State, through the medium of the schools, to instill facts which are of such fundamental importance to health.

I believe that the teaching of Hygiene as a “subject” is not encouraged by the officials, since it is felt that hygienic facts are a matter of general interest and should be pointed out whenever occasion arises. That is to say, the spirit of hygiene should permeate the whole of the school life. Undoubtedly this is an excellent principle in theory, but, like so many theories, it often fails in practice. It would be an ideal system where education was treated as a whole, and not divided into

Digitized by U^ooQLe
87

so many isolated parts, when the subjects were so interlocked that it was impossible to detect the dividing line. The danger of this system in practice is that some very essential elements of education are apt to become squeezed out of place, and I very much fear that Hygiene would be one of the neglected elements.

If we have no time to take Hygiene as a special and distinct subject, then let it find its place correlated with other definite subjects. Special portions can be dealt with in the Physical Training, the History, the Science, and the Geography lesson; and the school library should always contain some "readable” books relating to the science of hygiene.—Physical Education.

In only about 30 per cent of the rural communities of the United States is health work taken seriously or any very definite health work attempted, taking as a basis of judgment the number of superintendents answering a questionnaire sent to 2,500, concerning health activities in rural schools. Of these communities, according to data collected by the Interior Department, Bureau of Education, and embodied in School Health Study No. 10, Progress and Prospect in School Health Work, about 75 per cent have some form of medical inspection and 50 per cent have dental inspection. Physical education is carried on in about 75 per cent of these schools. Gymnasiums were reported in 40 per cent, playgrounds in 30 per cent, and swimming pools in 1 per cent. A noon lunch is served in 40 per cent of the schools reporting.

These figures compare favorably with reports received from schools in small towns of from 2,500 to 10,000 people. Of the 27 per cent answering a questionnaire on the same subject, approximately 75 per cent have medical inspection and 45 per cent dental inspection. Physical examinations are conducted in 50 per cent of the schools heard from. In 56 per cent of these village and small city schools the pupils have the advantages of gymnasiums, 40 per cent have playrooms, and 7 per cent swimming pools.

One of the most important functions of the school and of the teachers is to train children in right habits of living and to inculcate in them an enthusiastic interest and an effective working knowledge of health and all that pertains to it. Many health programs have been prepared in the last few years by associations devoted to public welfare, by departments of education, and by individuals. These programs have been freely consulted and used by the technical experts in preparing the report of the joint committee. Since it has been formally adopted by the National Education Association with a membership of more than 150,000 teachers, this health program will be widely used in the schools of the United States and is sure to be a potent influence in the health education of the coming generation.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
88

THE SCHOOLS ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION, ENGLAND

The Daily Express founded the above Association in June of last year with the object of "giving to juvenile athletics a central, organised and purposeful body invested with the authority to employ itself actively in the advancement of national juvenile athletics.”

The annual championship meeting organised on a county-basis by the Association will be instrumental in giving a needful impetus to school athletic training; it wll also show the nation where to look for its international champions of the future.

Championship trophies and cups for outstanding performances are being presented by the Daily Express, who are also giving practical support in other directions.

Membership is open to "recognised schools county athletic associations,” and the affiliation fee is 10s. 6d. per annum. The work of the Association will be conducted by a Council, which shall consist of the officers, and six representatives elected from London and two representatives elected by each other affiliated county association.

All competitions shall be conducted under A. A. A. laws and the Association Championship for Boys decided on the total points gained in the following nine events:—100 yards, 220 yards, 440 yards, 88 yards. Hurdle race, high jump, long jump, tug-of-war, and relay race.

The events for girls are:—100 yards, 150 yards, high jump, long jump, hurdle race and relay race.

No child may compete in more than one event other than the relay race, and all children must be under 14 years and on the 31st March of the current year.

The points for the championship are 1st. 4; 2, 3; 3rd, 2; 4th, 1.

The Hon. Secretary of the Association is Mr. C. W. G. Evinson, Babington Road, Streatham, S. W., and the athletic associations which have already become affiliated are, London, Bedford, Berks, Bucks, Cambs, Essex, Hants, Herts, Kent, Middlesex, Oxford City, Surrey, Sussex.

FIRST AID FOR PERSON IN CONVULSION

Here are a few “do’s” and "don’ts” which may some day prove of service to you if you see a person in a fit or convulsion. They were given by Dr. William L. Munson, a district state health officer of New York, in a recent radio address:

1.	Send for the doctor at once and be sure to leave word what the trouble is, for then he will come quickly and will know what to bring with him.

2.	See that the person suffering is placed where he can do no iniury to himself or any one else. This usually is best accomplished by placing the patient on his back on the floor.

Digitized by L^ooQle
89

Do not use a couch or chair. There is danger that another convulsion may occur and the person will throw himself on the floor, and be injured.

b 3. Loosen the clothing about the neck and chest to permit easy breathing.

4. Observe just how the patient acts, that is, what part of the body is involved in the convulsion and its character, the length and severity of it so that you may make an accurate report to the doctor when he arrives. In certain cases the doctor has to depend upon the history that he gets in order to arrive at a proper diagnosis.

The things that you should not do are perhaps more important than the ones you should.

1.	Do not try to revive the patient by dashing water in his face or giving inhalations of strong aromatics. You may cause strangulation.

2.	During the seizure do not try to pry the mouth open, you may break the teeth. However, if the convulsions are recurrent, it is well between attacks to insert something between the jaws large enough and firm enough to prevent the teeth from closing on the tongue.

3.	Do not fay to give medicine or stimulants by trickling them down the throat of an unconscious person. You may do a great deal of harm by this if the medicine goes the wrong way. Medicines that are of any value have to be inhaled or given by a hypodermic syringe and should be used only by a physician.

4.	Do not try to get the patient on his feet too soon;

wait until the doctor arrives,	—Hygeia.

NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

Department of School Health & Physical Education.

Program

Tuesday, June 29th, 1926.

Presiding Officer Melville Stewart, State Director of Physical Education and Hygiene, Charleston, West Virginia.

1.	The School Program in Physical Education—Prof. Clark W. Hetherington, New York University, New York.

2.	The Health and Physical Education Program in Public Schools—Grover W. Mueller, Special Assistant, of the Dept, of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia.

3.	Physical Education for the College Girl—Miss Agnes R. Wayman, Barnard College, New York City.

4.	The Sportsmanship Brotherhood—Captain Percy R. Creed, Secretary National Asso., New York City.

5.	A Working Plan of Sportsmanship—Daniel Chase, Chief, Bureau of Physical Education, State of New York.

Digitized by
90

Thursday, July 1, 1926.

1.	Health and Physical Education in the Public Schools— Clifford J. Scott Supt. of Schools East Orange, N. J.

2.	Teaching and Supervising Health Education—Miss Elma Rood, George Peabody College, Nashville, Tennessee.

3.	The Prevention and Control of Common Contagious Diseases among School Children—Dr. Phillip M. Stimson, Cornell University, New York City.

4.	The Relation between Recreational Activities and Mental Hygiene—Dr. Frankwood E. Williams, National Committee for Mental Hygiene, New York City.

Physical directors will regret to learn of the death of William L. Coop in Providence, R. I. March 5th, 1926. Mr. Coop was one of the founders of the Narragansett Machine Company, manufacturers of gymnasium equipment, and through his association with that Company has come in contact with thousands of physical directors during the past forty-four years.

He was closely associated with the late Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, father of the modern American gymnasium as early as 1879. Dr. Sargent designed many pieces of apparatus and the Narragansett Machine Company manufactured them for him. Later on Mr. Coop and his associates entered the designing field themselves and the Narragansett Machine Company brought forth a line of gymnasium apparatus of their own which is represented by installations in almost every country in the world.

As an expert and authority on gymnasiums and playgrounds, Mr. Coop will be remembered by physical directors both old and young. For many years he gave illustrated normal course lectures annually in the principal colleges of the country and at the Chautauqua Summer School.

Practically every physical director in America and in many other parts of the world has carried the GYMNASIUM DIRECTOR’S POCKET BOOK published by the Narragansett Machine Co. and edited by Mr. Coop. This book has become a pocket manual for directors containing information of particular value to them and memorandum space for dates of events. The Company wishes it to be known that publication of this valuable little book will be continued and it is hoped it will always fill the need which Mr. Coop appreciated in compiling it.

Cincinnati is to have a Recreation Commission. An exchange says “The favorable action taken by the Park Board and the Board of Education, this week, upon the project of establishing a Public Recreation Commission, in Cincinnati, has aroused the interest of citizens.

“The idea is not a new one,” said Will R. Reeves, executive secretary of Community Service, the organization which has devised and promoted this plan.

“It was submitted to us three years ago by the Helen Trounstine Foundation,” Reeves said. “At that time I took the

Digitized by CjOOQle
91

matter up with the recreation bureau of the Council of Social Agencies, but they were forced to table it for lack of funds. In April, we succeeded in effecting the passage of a bill in the State Legislature, authorizing a tax levy for this purpose. Thus this difficulty has been obviated, and we now have free rein in the promotion of our scheme.”

*The ideal to which we should drive is that there should be no child in America that has not been born under proper conditions, that does not live in hygienic surroundings, that ever suffers from undemutrition, that does not have prompt and efficient medical attention and inspection, that does not receive primary instruction in the elements of hygiene and good health.

—Herbert Hoover.

Articles have appeared from time to time describing a method of heating in vogue in England, by which hot water is circulated through a network of piping carried in the concrete floors and ceilings. In one of the newest London office buildings, that of Messrs. Thomas Cooke & Son, Ltd., this interesting method of heating has been used. The grid of heating pipes is laid in the earliest stages of building construction within the forms for the concrete floors, and acts, in a sense, as a reinforcement. Wall panels between windows and in other exposed locations are also included in the plan; all office piping being imbedded in the walls. . Proper circulation is secured by an electric motor-driven pump. It is apparent that the British heating engineers are quite enthusiastic over this method of heating, and anticipate that it will become a recognized practice . in the British Isles. It must be admitted that it does away with ugly exterior piping and radiators, and in this respect at least, the practice is commendable. As to the life of the installation and the freedom from trouble, there is an open question that only time will settle.— Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SPORTS

From Die	Leibesuebungen, Berlin.—Translated	by Dr. D.

V. Besser, Philadelphia.

During the summer of 1924 leading physicians of Germany founded a National Association among themselves for the purpose of promoting physical education in general and sports in particular. Any physician who is interested in bodily training is eligible for membership. Previous to that time only local associations existed.

The problems of the alliance are divided into two groups.

The first group takes care of personal hygiene, recreation centers and daily gymnastics. The second group deals with

Digitized by t^.ooQle
92

preparing the physicians for research work in sport societies.

The idea of forming the national association came from the sportsmen. It is hoped that the physician, trained in sports, will eventually be the leading guide in all sportsmanlike activities. This supervision requires a great number of physicians who are actually trained in sports and gymnastics. It is the purpose not only to provide the sportsman with a clean bill of health but that in case of sickness the physician’s advice in regard to sports must be followed.

To gain the necessary theoretical knowledge of the injuries and diseases, caused by sport activities, the association of physicians will soon start special courses for its members in many parts of Germany.

WHICH SPORTS ARE MOST SUITABLE FOR WOMEN?

From “Die Leibesuebungen’’ Berlin, Germany.

Translated by Dr. D. V. Besser, Philadelphia.

An English Commission sent a questionnaire to several hundred experts, in order to ascertain their opinion as to what sports are the most suitable for physical training of girls.

The following is a summaiy of the opinions expressed by physicians and teachers: Tennis and Basketball received general indorsement. Hockey is too strenuous for girls and women. Cricket is characterized as useless or of little value. Football entirely condemned. Swimming is an excellent exercise for the health of girls and women, but not suitable for all on account of the great strain upon the heart. The same opinion is entertained in regard to rowing. Nearly every physician recommended that rowing contests should be eliminated. Bicycle riding is favorably mentioned when practised with care and discretion. Some experts fear that excessive bicycle riding leads to round backs and round shoulders.

A committee of German physicians, interested in sports which considered the questionnaire also expressed in its deliberation the following opinion:

“Bodily training, consisting of gymnastics, plays and sports, is equally as important for men and women as for boys and girls. However, a physical examination by a physician is essential to decide the choice of exercises and the proper type of training in each individual case.”

NOTICE TO SARGENT ALUMNAE

The New York Sargent Club, composed of Alumnae of the Sargent School of Physical Education will have a luncheon at the Robert Treat Hotel in Newark Friday, during the convention of the American Physical Education Association. A room will also be reserved at the same hotel as headquarters for Sargent people.

Digitized by LjOOQle
93



YSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. 1 LF. KEOGH, M. D.

E

The Food and Fuel of Athletes.—According to the newer conceptions of the nature of muscular contraction, sponsored in particular by the German physiologist Meyerhof and the Enlish physiologist A. V. Hill,* the primary fuel of muscle is carbohydrate. If fat is used as a source of energy in muscular work it must first be converted, so Hill assures us, to carbohydrate somewhere in the body. The recent conclusions of Henderson and Haggard** on the fuel of muscular work from investigations on the Olympic championship crew of 1924 call for caution in the interpretation of the problem under consideration. Their actual observations on the respiratory quotients of these athletes, who were superlative in muscular performance over the brief periods of many races, are in general agreement with the conclusions of the Scandinavian physiologists, Krogh and Lindhard,*** according to whom the proportion of fat to carbohydrate broken down is a function of the available supplies of these substances.

This is in harmony with a long held view that the muscular machine can transform a definite fraction of the energy liberated by the combustion of any available substance into mechanical work, provided the substance can be oxidized in the organism. Henderson and Haggard observed with the oarsmen that a man continues to consume during a short period of great exertion whatever proportions of fat and sugar he may have been burning during rest prior to work. Sugar, they state, is therefore not the sole fuel of muscular energy. It is, however, the fuel most immediately available for muscular work and is utilized with much less distress to the subject than is fat, as Krogh and Lindhard have shown. Sugar produces 5.05 calories for each liter of oxygen absorbed by respiration: from fat only 4.7 calories is obtained per liter of oxygen, 7 per cent less on the same volume of air breathed and oxygen consumed.

• When a Muscle Contracts, editorial, J. A. M. A. 84:442 (Feb. 7) 1925.

** Henderson, Yandell, and Haggard, H. W.: The Maximum of Human Power and Its Fuel, Am. J. Physiol. 72:264 (April) 1925.

Krogh, A., and Lindhard, J.; Biochem, J. 14:290 (July) 1920.

Digitized by

Google
94

Certain dietary considerations follow from such findings. The newer data indicate that at least two thirds of the energy expended by most athletes now is derived from fat. The Yale physiologists believe that it would probably be distinctly helpful to “wind” and to the prevention of overtraining if athletes were fed so that their respiratory quotients were kept constantly well up to 0.85 or even 0.9, instead of the lower figure indicative of greater fat combustion. That carboydrate exhaustion through work may proceed to the point of actually decreasing the circulating carbohydrate has been demonstrated on a group of runners in the American marathon race.**** There was a close correlation between the condition of the runner at the finish of the race and the level of his blood sugar. Those who had the extremely low blood sugar level presented a picture of shock not unlike that produced by an overdose of insulin. It was suggested, therefore, that the adequate ingestion of carbohydrate before and during any prolonged and violent muscular effort would be of considerable benefit in preventing the hypoglycemia and accompanying development of the symptoms of exhaustion. Henderson and Haggard advise in a similar vein when they suggest that it would probably be advantageous to raise the respiratory quotient further and to provide ample sugar in the blood and tissues, a half or three fourths of an hour before any prolonged contest. Their dictum is: Sugar is the best quick fuel for intense exertion.

The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. Editorial, June 27, 1925

**** Levine, S. A.; Gordon, Burgess; and Derick, C. L.; Some Changes in the Chemical Constituents of the Blood Following a Marathon Race, J. A. M. A. 82:1778 (May 31) 1924.

Light and Nutrition.—The last decade is likely to become notable in the history of the medical sciences because of its contribution to the science of nutrition. These have been notable, first, in the extension of our knowledgge of vitamins, and, secondly, because of the analysis of the actions of light on the body. The Medical Research Council of Great Britain only recently paid tribute to the current progress in these words:*

It is difficult to exaggerate the far-reaching importance of this work to a population like ours, living in a northern climate and, for the present at least, in smoky cities where rick-

* Report of the Medical Research Council for the Year 1923-1924, Committee of the Privy Council for Medical Research, London, His majesty’s Stationery Offiae, 1924.

Digitized by CjOOQle
95

ets and its accompaniments have been a long standing curse. All these studies, still in active progress, have given new hopes of which some are already realized, of a wide-spread diminution of disease and of a great future improvement in the health, stature and beauty of people in this country.

In harmony with such sentiments, two noteworthy contributions** have recently appeared in The Journal. Presenting the observations of independent investigators, they corroborate and supplement ealch other, and give an abundance of food for thought to even the most “practical” of practitioners. It is rarely, indeed, that the research of the laboratory, in contrast with bedside observation, brings its results so closely into relation with practical therapeutics and preventive medicine.

For some time it has been known that both cod liver oil and certain types of radiant energy—the so-called ultraviolet rays—may act in some subtle way as regulators of mineral metabolism, at least so far as calcium and inorganic phosphorus are concerned. This effect has been expressed as a maintenance of the physiologic salt equilibrium of the body in the presence of salt combinations of different complexities which are continually being absorbed from the food. The phenomenon is an extraordinary one. As Park significantly pointed out several years ago, neither cod liver oil nor radiant energy supplies the required calcium or the phosphorus. It is an extraordinary fact, however, that either one can enable an animal, kept in a state of calcium or of phosphorus starvation, to obtain so good a utilization of the minimal quantities of calcium or of phosphorus supplied in the food as to maintain the level of the calcium or of the phosphorus in the body fluids almost at the normal. Without supplying either phosphorus or calcium, radiant energy or the potent component of cod liver oil causes the organism to operate as if a requisite or almost re-

3uisite quantity of phosphorus or calcium were supplied. They o so by supplying something that makes the metabolism more efficient; i.e., they cause the organism to operate with increased economy. Neither the histologic studies of the bones nor the chemical examinations of the blood indicate that either cod liver oil or light bring new processes into operation, rather permitting the organism to have full use of processes that were natural to it all the time, but were not effective.***

The fact that such different agents as light and cod liver oil should have the same effect on rickets has made it incumbent on the research worker, Steenbock and Daniels remarks,

** Hess A. F.: The Ultraviolet Rays of the Sun, J. A. M. A. 84: 1033 (April 4) 1925. Steenbock, Harry; and Daniels, A. L.: Irradiated Foods and Irradiated Organic Compounds, ibid. 84: 1093 (April 11) 1925.

*** Park E. A.: The Etiology of Rickets, Physiol. Rev. 3:135 (Jan.) 1923.

Digitized by <^.oooLe
96

to supply the explanation or else admit definitely that little is known about the etiology of the disease. The answer seems to have been found in the now repeatedly verified observation that light can impart antirachitic properties to certain otherwise inert compounds. Such a transformation, mirabile dictus, has been noted with meat, milk, cereals and various other common foods that ordinarily are not antirachitic in potency despite whatever other nutrient virtues they may have. From a strictly chemical standpoint it is highly noteworthy that cholesterol, the long known lipoid component of animal cells, is readily activated in this way by irradiation with ultraviolet rays.**** The active product is a comparatively stable substance. It is thus easy to understand why the antirachitic component of cod liver oil has been secured from the nonsaponifiable fraction of cod liver oil. Chemists have already separated products of a high degree of potency representing a concentration of the antirachitic substance of the oil several hundred times as strong as the untreated oil. It requires scarcely more than 0.01 per cent of the irradiated cholesterol to secure calcification of rachitic bones in experimental animals.

These studies have furnished the explanation as to how light acting directly on the body and cod liver oil taken by mouth can have the same action in preventing rickets. Evidently, when light acts directly on the body, it acts in part by virtue of the fact that it activates antirachitically certain substances already present. Steenbock and Daniels assert that, superficially considered, it thus becomes immaterial whether active compounds are ingested or whether they are activated after they are absorbed. The end-result is the same. Hess and his collaborators, commenting on the results of irradiating cholesterol, regard it as particularly interesting that this substance should be susceptible, since it has been regarded as chemically inert, although its ubiquitous presence in the cells has rendered it an object of study for many years. The number of disorders with which* from time to time, it has been associated is manifold, but in no disease or metabolic disturbance has investigation proved that it assumes a constant or essential role. Cholesterol does not occur in plants; they contain somewhat related compounds, termed phytosterols. The latter have sometimes been regarded as the sterol precursors of the animal tissue lipoid. It is significant, therefore, that phytosterols also can be activated into antirachitic potency by radiations of short wave length. Foods of animal and vegetable origin are thus brought into common relations to radiant energy. The linking up of light with food factors and nutrition is a triumph of present-d?iy biochemical research.

The Journal, Am. Med. Assoc, editorial, May 23, 1925.

•***Hess, A. F.; Weinstock, Mildred; and Helman, F. D.: The Antirachitic Value of Irradiated Phytosterol and Cholesterol, I. J. Biol. Chem. 63:305 (March) 1925.

Digitized by

Google