r\ V

LIBRARY

Univerciiy / lontana

Vol. 25	MARCH	1918.	No.	267

MIND m BODY

A MONTHLY JOURNAL

DEVOTED TO PHYSICAL EDUCATION

New Ulm, Minnesota.

CONTENTS

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS:

XXII Convention ol the American Physical Education

Association, Program..................................   1

Every Man A Leader, by George Van Ness Dearborn.......	8

General Pedagogy of Physical Education, by Emil Rath..	15

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND:

Uniformity in Athletics for Women, by Carl L. Schrader. ..	19

Flag Drill for Boys and Girls, by Mathias H. Macherey.	22

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE:

An Ode to Health........................................ 34

Dietetic and Physical Treatment of Constipation............ 34

Food Supply and Growth of Population....................... 35

Collegiate Athletic Sports.............................. 36

Throw Away Your Care at Meal Time.......................... 39

Our Husky City Boys....................................   39

Defects Among Drafted Men..............................   40

ATHLETIC NOTES:

World’s Rowing Championship	Races....................... 43

American Rowing Championship	Races..................... 43

Norse Women Take Indoor Net Titles......................... 44

NOTES AND COMMENTS:

The Social Benefits of Daylight Saving..................... 45

Sixth Meeting Capitol District Branch of the New York

State Association of Physical Education and Hygiene. ..	46

War and the Activation of Health Interests................. 48

I

Digitized by

Google
2

Thursday, April 11th, 9:30 A. M.

Public Schools Section, William A. Stecher, Philadelphia, Chm.

1.	“Fundamentals Regarding the Selection of Exercises”.......

.................................Emil	Rath, Indianapolis.

2.	“Minimum Essentials within the School as to Time, Equip-

ment and Activities, a) In the Elementary Schools, b) In the High Schools................Ethel Perrin, Detroit.

3.	“The Daily After-school Athletic Life of Boys”, a) In the

Elementary Schools, b) In the High Schools...........

.....................Randall	D.	Warden,	Newark,	N.	J.

4.	“The Daily After-school Athletic Life of Girls”, a) In the

Elementary Schools b) In the High Schools............

........C.	Ward Crampton, M. D., New York City.

5.	Discussion, Five Minute addresses.

Thursday, 2:15 P. M.

Therapeutic Section, R. Tait McKenzie, M. D., Philadelphia, Chm. Program to be furnished.

Thursday, 8 P. M.

Pre-Military Training Harry R. Allen, Chairman Demonstration Committee. Demonstration of Physical Education Activities showing premilitary instruction at the University of Pennsylvania Gymnasium —April 11th.

I.	GAMES FOR THE. ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS, grades 1-8.

A.	Grades I to IV. Aim — to lay a foundation for physical, mental, social and moral fitness by means of happy, healthy activity.

Grade I. Song Games — Joyous response with much motor activity.

1.	Hickory Dickory Dock. 2. Our Little Girls.

3.	Chimes of Dunkirk. 4. Danish Dance of Greeting.

5.	The Muffin Man.

Grade II. Tag and Running Games, teaching quick reaction, discrimination, accuracy of motion.

1.	Catch Me. 2. Cat and Mouse (various formations)

3.	Stand Dodgeball (using Bean Bag). 4. Spin the Plate.

Grade III. Folk Dances, teaching co-operation and giving bodily control.

1.	The Shoemaker. 2. Gustaf’s Greeting. 3. Annie Goes to the Cabbage Patch. 4. Norwegian Mtm. March.

Grade IV. Group Games emphasizing daring, courage and skill.

1.	Black Man. 2. Fox and Chickens. 3. Day or Night. 4. Relay Ball (several forms).

Digitized by

Google
3

B.	Grades V to VIII. Color Contests — a scheme for bringing every pupil into vigorous competitive activity suited to the age and sex.

Grade V. Dodgeball, Relay Potato Race, Tug of War. Grade VI. Endball, Triple Standing Broad Jump, Hand Wrestling.

Grade VII. (Girls only) Captainball, Ball Farthrow, Hand Pulling.

Grade VIII. (Boys only) Volleyball, Shuttle Relay Race, Wand Wrestling.

II.	GIRLS HIGH SCHOOLS. Exercises designed to improve

posture and to secure prompt response.

1)	Marching and Free Exercises 2) Aesthetic Couple Dance.

III.	SCHOOL OF PEDAGOGY. Exercises illustrating the use

of rhythmic work for boys and men.

1) Gymnastic Dancing combined with wand exercises.

IV.	GIRLS NORMAL SCHOOL. Illustrating bodily develop-

ment by means of rhythmic exercise of a vigorous type. 1) English Folk Dances.

V.	RECREATION CENTRES. Showing healthful and vig-

orous recreational activities for working boys and girls as well as for adults.

1) Wand and Dumbbell Drill 2) Games.

VI.	PHILADELPHIA TURNGEMEINDE. Presenting exer-

cises which illustrate the use of apparatus for the cultiva-yi tion of skill, courage and bodily control of the highest y	type for men and women.

^ Vaulting Table, Parallel Bar, Horse, Horizontal Bar.

VII.	NORMAL DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCA-V TION, TEMPLE UNIVERSITY. Presenting exercises

that train for prompt response, also exercises showing 5*	difficult co-ordination, grace.

1) Response Activities, 2) Mass Exercises, 3) Aesthetic X	Dance.

!jyill. BOYS HIGH SCHOOLS. Illustrating 1) Exercises leading X	to prompt and instantaneous co-operation, 2) Develop-

v:, mental Exercises, 3) Games leading to the control of the 1:	fighting instinct.

1) Military Marching, 2) Setting up Exercises, 3) An-^	tagonistie Games.

Friday, April 12th, 9:30 A. M.

►

* College Directors’ Section, Joseph B. Raycroft, M. D., Princeton, Chairman.

"Physical Education and the War”...................

............Joseph	H.	Raycroft, M. D., Princeton.

2)	"Corrective Work for Recruits”... Speaker to be announced.

1C0?613
Friday, April 12th, 9:30 A. M.

Women’s Section, J. Anna Norris, M. D.; Minneapolis, Chm.

1.	Physical Education and Woman’s Dress.

2.	Reconstructive Work.

3.	The Function of the Women’s Athletic Association.

4* Discussions.

PLAYGROUND-RECREATION SECTION Mr. H. S. Braucher, New York, Chairman.

Secretary of the Playground and Recreation Association of America.

1.	Types of modem recreation buildings, illustrated by Lantern

Slides	W.	D.	Champlin,	Executive	Secretary,

Board of Recreation, Philadelphia.

2.	Legitimate recreation activities for both sexes with emphasis

on the competitive and combative features

P. C. Jacobus, Principal Athletic Recreation Center, Philadelphia.

3.	What may be done the year round on a playground without a

building	J.	Leonard	Mason, Supervisor,

Board of Recreation, Philadelphia.

4.	The importance of wholesome recreation in war times and

how we may help.	Speaker	to	be	announced.

5.	Questions and Answers (this period will be of great value as

being the first meeting of the group. Definite plans are not yet formed and this will furnish a starting point for future operations.)

6.	Business Meeting.

Friday, April 12th, 9:30 A. M.

North American Gymnastic Union Section,

Herman Groth, M. D., Pittsburg, Chairman.

Program to be furnished.

Friday 2:15 P. M.

General Meeting, E. H. Arnold, M. D., New Haven, Chairman.

1.	New work to be undertaken by the association for the physical

welfare of children in war times.

Randall Warden, Newark.

2.	Clothing of the child in war times.

Geo. Fitz, M. D., Boston.

3.	Feeding the child in war times.

Speaker to be announced.

4.	The necessity of welfare work for children in war times.

E.	H. Arnold, M. D., New Haven. 4:30 to 6 P. M.

At the Pool of the University of Pennsylvania. Demonstration of Mass Teaching Methods in Swimming, Diving and other Water Sports by boys and girls, Direction of George

W.	Rieger, Supervising Committee on Athletics, Public Schools, Philadelphia.

1.	Demonstration-Group Teaching—Beginners—Breast Stroke— Land and Water Drills.

Digitized by CjOOQle
5

2.	Demonstration of Strokes—Pupils of Philadelphia Tumgemeinde —one length of pool.

1.	Breast Stroke. 2. Under arm side stroke. 3. Over arm side stroke. 4. Double over arm side. 5. Crawl stroke. 6. Back stroke.

3.	Demonstration—Teaching Back Dive to a timid child.

4.	Racing O Free style—one length.

a.	Public Grammar School Boys. b. Public Grammar School Girls, c. High School Boys. d. High School Girls, e. Y. M. C. A. Boys. f. Y. W. C. A. Girls, g. Girard College Boys. h. First Regiment Pool Girls,

i.	Phila. Tumgemeinde Girls.

5.	Novelty Swimming Event-

Shackled Race—Three little girls—Phila. Tumgemeinde.

6.	Demonstration—Life Saving Methods.

Resusitation—Schaeffer Method—Temple University— Physical Training students.

7.	Fancy Diving.

a.	Y. M. C. A. Boys. b. First Regiment Pool Girls,

c.	High School Boys. d. Phila. Tumgemeinde Girls, e. University of Penn. Men.

8.	Applied Life Saving.—A Summer Water Accident.—Phila. Tumgemeinde ladies.

9.	Water Polo—University Teams.

Friday, 8 P. M.

General Meeting, Dudley A. Sargent, M. D., Cambridge, Chm.

1.	Education, W. C. Chambers, Dean School of Education,

University of Pittsburg.

2.	A social program for secondary schools,

Samuel M. North, Baltimore.

3.	Physical fitness and aviation, Joseph M. Ames, M. D.,

Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore.

Saturday, 9:30 A. M.

General Meeting, William Burdick, M. D., Baltimore, Chm.

1.	The significance of the Boy Scout movement,

Lome W. Barclay, New York.

2.	Athletics in Military Training Camps,

Joseph Raycroft, M. D., Princeton.

3.	The physical activities of the army and navy Y. M. C. A.

George J. Fisher, M. D., New York.

4.	Recreational work in war camp communities

William F. Ashe, Petersburg. 12 o’clock—Business Meeting.

12:30—Council Meeting.

Saturday, 2 P. M.

Automobile trip, visiting playgrounds and recreation centers, ending at the new Kingsessing Recreation Center where the different playgrounds will have a demonstration of the city’s recreative activities.
6

PRE-CONVENTION PHYSICAL EDUCATION INTERESTS, FOR APRIL 8th, 9th AND 10th.

Pre-Convention Headquarters, Bellevue-Stratford Hotel.

Under Direction of

Board of Education

Playgrounds

1.	Small (Shelter House

or

(Small Building

2.	Medium Med. Bldg.

3.	Recreation Centers

Gymnasium Swimming Pools, etc.

Universities, Colleges and Schools

Elementary Schools Backward Classes Gary System Grade Work Open Air Classes High Schools Junior High School Normal School School Yard Playgrounds

Bryn Mawr College Drexel Institute Girard College Private Schools Swarthmore College Temple University University of Penna.

Institutions

Location:

Overbrook for Blind Widener Home. Cripples Mt. Airy for Deaf & Dumb Elwyn for Feeble Minded Orphanages Glenn Mills for Reform

Civic Playgrounds under Playground Association of Philadelphia.

Tuesday, April 9, 1918:

Evening Training Course High School from 7 until 9:30 P. M. (Songs Games, Dances, Stories).

Miscellaneous

Boys & Girls Clubs Boys & Girls Scouts Settlements Turngemeinde Wanamaker’s Com’l Inst. Y. M. C. A.

Y. W. C. A.

Civic and Historical Interests

Academy of Fine Art Academy of National Science

Art Alliance Bartram’s Garden Betsy Ross House Carpenters Hall Christ’s Church City Hall

Commercial Museum Fairmount Park Franklin’s Grave Franklin Institute Horticultural Hall Independence Hall Lulu Temple Masonic Temple Memorial Hall Phila. Navy' Yard U. S. Mint William Penn House

for Playground Teachers, West Philadelphia 47th and Walnut Streets.

Special Notice. Convention visitors are urged to come to Philadelphia several days before the convention proper opens.

The pre-convention committee will be stationed at the headquarters, Bellevue-Stratford hotel, beginning Monday morning, April 8th. Visitors will be directed from there to the places and to the kind of work that will interest them most. Write for the special folder relating to this work. Address: J. Leonard Mason, Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by
7

HOTEL	SINGLE	ROOM	DOUBLE	ROOM
	Without	With	Without	With
	Bath	Bath	Bath	Bath
Adelphia —  13th and Chestnut Sts. Bellevue-Stratford— Broad and Walnut Sts.	$3.00-$4.00	$3.00-$5.00  $3.50-$5.00	—	$5.00-$ 8.00 $6.00-$10.00
Continental —  9th and Chestnut Sts.	$1.50’	$2.00-$4.00	$2.50	$3.00-$ 5.00
Greens —  8th and Chestnut Sts.	$1.50-$2.00	$2.50-$3.00	$1.50-$3.00	$3.50-$ 4.00
Hanover —  12th and Arch Sts.	$1.00-$1.50	$1.50-$2.00	$2.50-$3.00	$3.00-$ 4.00
New' Bingham —  11th and Market Sts.	$1.50- $4.00	$2.00-$5.00	$3.00$5.00	$4.00-$ 6.00
New' Colonade —  15th and Chestnut Sts.	$2.00-$3.00	$2.50-$5.00	$3.50-$6.00	$4.50-$ 8.00
Ritz-Carlton —  Broad and W7alnut Sts.		$3.50-$5.00		$7.00-$ 9.00
St. James —  13th and WTalnut Sts.	$2.00-$2.50	$2.50 $6.00		$5.00 $10.00
Wendig —  13th and Filbert Sts. Walton —  Broad and Locust Sts.	$2.00 $5.00	$2.50 $8.00 $2.50--$8.00	$3.00-$6.00	$3.50-$ 8.00 $3.50 $10.00

Correspondence with regard to hotel rooms and requests for reservations should be addre?sed to the managers of the respective hotels.

Special Notice. All the readers'of Mind and Body who would like to have a copy of the pre-convention program will please write to J. Leonard Mason, Pre-Convention Headquarters, Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa. A special effort is being made to have those who wish to see schools, associations, clubs, recreation centers, etc. in full operation to have an opportunity to do this either on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday before the convention. Members of the reception committee will always be found at the headquarters to direct visitors. But—get your pre-convention program at once so as to know what may be visited during these days.

Selective Gymnastics. — The director of hygiene of the Dayton, Ohio, schools has recommended to the school authorities a plan for gymnastic instruction of the school pupils on a selective plan. The children will be divided into groups after careful physical examination, and each group given such exercises as are adapted to their strength, requirements, etc.

Digitized by t^ooQle
8

EVERY MAN A LEADER*

Notes on the Psychology of Leadership By GEORGE VAN NESS DEARBORN

I maintain the unrealized ability of the average man. I maintain the apotheosis of the average man against all comers! He has within him, and about, all the requirements of a leader in the great world’s advance. Multitudes are potential leaders who know it not! and they know it not because they still lack the fundamental principles of the dynamic relations of the mind and body. Many who think not at all of being leaders or who think they could not be, lack only the incentive and the opportunity. The opportunities are everywhere — the incentives need discussion and widespread publication. I “sing,” then, the super-efficiency of the human body-and-mind as a conscious working machine, as a successful “going concern.”

I cite 10,000 million nerve-units in the body; a thousand muscular units; and hundreds of glands — all integrated, all made into one organism, and under the command more or less of one will. Nothing else imaginable by the finite mind can approach it, ever, in complexity and perfection and beauty of workmanship. Nothing else so leads to leadership, and all men have, and habitually use, the requisite “machinery.” The pseudo-“average” man needs to be stimulated in self-trust, and (above this even) encouraged in initiative. Most of us are not living up to, or even attempting to live up to, the broad high standards and privileges of our souls. We do not often realize what really we are — how versatile, how capable, how full of power which might well help on the world — and in so doing make ourselves men of a higher grade.

But the children! the children at any rate! Let us at least realize just this one handicap under which so many of them grow up to manhood and to womanhood. Who ever tells some of these of this marvel-machine of nerve and muscles and gland? and that it is made, (even the philosophers scarcely know how) so that it can start things up by itself — and show initiative? Not only the engine and the self-starting gear are there, but the man at the wheel as well, all in one wondrous organism. No one, sometimes, tells them this, and so they live on and on perhaps and die, never leaders in all their one life-chance — always below the ideal set by the God Himself within them. These need and from us not only encouragement, but knowledge, information, as to themselves and as to that potential leadership which is in every one of them. Encouragement, to be sure, is second in importance, but first is the simple idea, the easy but tremendous fact of latent powers. Simplicity of statement as to this, simple eloquence, repetition, reiteration, sympathy, vigorous impression, explanation — all or

•Remarks made at the Conference-Banquet of Physical Directors, Committeemen and Leaders, at the Boston Y. M. C. A. building, Boston, April 21, 1917. Reprint from the Scientific American Supplement.

Digitized by LaOOQle

i
9

any of the means the psychologist, the good teacher, has at command to use in the driving-home of first and fundamental truths these are enough.	,

Impress “the subconscious” with this simple bit of the wisdom of life; and the subconscious will do the rest, and never tire and never forget. Thus, or in some such way, do I plead for a much wider recognition, and earlier, in the minds of the children, the children of the rich as well as of the poor, of their respective and inherent leadership potential in its own degree in every normal girl and boy of wcman born. This is a special privilege of the playground and of the gymnasium, and the good they do in this respect of personal self-respect is deep and extensive. I plead only that such counsel be made far more intensive, so that it becomes more often yet effective for leadership in the children. Some children, mostly indigent, cannot develop self-confidence nor even self-respect. It is certainly one of the essential duties, as well as privileges, of the playgrounds, and the rest, to tell them, to show them, over and over, every one, how efficient is every normal human organism. This is the indispensable start of every leadership. I try to make this notion emphatic in your minds.

Our psychology proper must be adapted to each of the two kinds of leadership:	ordinary and extraordinary, or usual and

unusual.

In a bit more detail, leadership in ordinary affairs involves at least four essential elements:

1.	Energy of intelligence;

2.	Technical understanding of situation involved;

3.	The courage of optimism and of good humor; and

4.	Kindliness, which is the basis of democracy.

1. That native energy of intelligence which involves as part of itself, initiative and mastery. Resistless force of will based on understanding as deep as ik is wide. This matter of initiative has much psychological and physiological interest and properly so, for in a way the concept is the personal symbol of evolution itself, as frankly and clearly it is the symbol of civilization, democracy. At initiative's stomach, so to say, is energy, energy of that twofold one-thing what we call body and mind; at initiative's heart are the Courage and Self-confidence which are part of human personality; in initiative's brain is the Wisdom of things as they are. The Energy of body and mind; the courage of a great adventure the wisdom based on knowledge and on insight — these are for me the essentials of initiative at least in ordinary affairs.

To this audience I need not emphasize the organic physiologic, basis of these three, Energy, Courage, Wisdom, expecially Energy and Courage. But other kinds of audiences, people in general, do need to know just this relationship between Bodily Training and each of the energetic processes of the mind, the emotions in particular. Muscles and Nerves and Glands are behind these things which underlie Initiative. Just as much, however, energy and emotion and initiative lie behind and underlie the action of muscles, gland and nerve. The dependence, we may be sure, is

Digitized by LaOOQle
10

mutual. All, in short, are but aspects of just one thing in each person, ourselves, our “souls.” Let us, then, do our professional best to make our fellow men and women, college trustees as truly as “the great unwashed,” understand this fundamental interdependence between personal initiative and strong muscles, nerves, and glands. For it now may be understood. Initiative not so based is nothing substantial in the motivity of the world; it is nothing more, nor can it be more, than an intention; a good intention if you insist, but inevitably an intention and never an effective cause at all.

2.	Technical understanding of the situation concerned is of course involved in every mastery. This must be taken for granted in the psychology of leadership. Without it we have the crank, the demagogue, the “anti”-everything, the forceful individual always “agin’-the-gove’nment,” always “agin” government and custom of every sort.

3.	The courage of optimism and of good humor, based on appreciation of Life as a great adventure, and on the powers of the human will. Such leadership gathers ever more and more momentum, for every strong man feels at once its basal wisdom, feels inevitably that Life is too great and too deep and too meaning-full to be overcast, and thus darkened and spoiled by worry about anything whatever (unless it be one’s own evil will). Optimism and good humor are assuredly an essential factor of every ordinary leadership.

4.	Kindliness comes next and last. This is based largely on the continuous feeling that of all low things at once irrational and debasing, snobbery is the most despicable. Can any of you imagine a man or a woman who really understands the nature of things a snob? One might ask to dinner burglars or even a coward, but never in all one’s life a snob. A leader has to have this equality point-of-view, and determine his behavior accordingly. Autocracy is a form of snobbery! Kindliness, then, is allied to democracy! None other can remain a leader long, none who has not democratic kindliness warming his heart and brain.

These four are general factors of leadership in ordinary affairs, and are “all in the day's work,” one might almost say.

Beneath these and conducting them is an intention, a purpose to be a leader; consistent; and continuous. And your intentions to be a leader must be real intentions, based in muscle and nerve-centers and in glands,' in the means of ability, in your “action-system”; and deep in the mind. The good-intentions-with-which-Hell is-paved are not real intentions, but are part of the flimsy painted scenery intended for powerful appeal to the gallery full, and overfull, of unthinking and sensation-seeking people. Real good-intentions are more fit to serve in a brighter and more cheerful land! to adorn “the golden street.” These scenic good-intentions are but an element of the pretense, the sham, with which so many “jolly themselves along” in an ill-adapted world, and ease themselves of pangs coming from “the conscience,” — wherever it may be. So much is a part, at least of the psychology of human mastery in
11

general — one of the normal processes of emulation in a world already becoming, in sports, too small for its inhabitants.

But there’s another kind of leadership, the other kind which sometimes all but transcends humanity at its best, wherein hero and philosopher meet, and fuse! The stoic is the stuff from which most heroes are made, that type of stoic who looks “upon the world but as the world, Horatio,” a great Adventure which we both live and die. It is of this stuff that leaders and heroes are most often made. There is too much hasty and arbitrary judging of cowardice and of courage in other men and women — judging which is as false oftentimes as it is ill-advised and meddlesome. The truer wisdom is that which Will Carleton puts into his homely words,

“Things is various and human,

And the man ain’t born of woman Who has got enough acumen To tell what’s another’s aims.”

He, indeed, is a wise man, who knows his own real motives. And who can pick out the leaders, in advance? Thinks any man, or woman with her intuition, that the hero in real-life is the splendid and widely famous handsome, dashing guardsman of Dumas’s enticing tale? Can one pick the criminals out of the sidewalk-crowd on Washington Street? Can one, could you, pick the heroes by sight out of even a list of your own acquaintances and “friends”? Of course not. Only seldom may this be done in advance, for the qualities which make the leader and the hero are as deep within the man or woman or child, as deep at least as are the heart and the brain themselves! Often they rise for the first time only to meet their need. But they rise! and the world knows them at once and wonders not.

Analyzing a bit of psychology of emergency-leadership, I find seven factors important and different enough to sanction brief mention. I place the most important the latest in the list:

1.	Knowledge of human nature;

2.	A specific understanding of the confronting situation;

3.	An appreciative moral consciousness;

4.	Self-confidence;

5.	Organic or bodily energy;

6.	Initiative; and

7.	The right combination of emotions.

Noting this list as arranged in the approximate order of importance (the least so first), one finds that the supposed factors are mainly intellectual and emotional, and the emotional elements are judged the more essential in leadership. For it is feeling that gives us the substance of our motives — and tremendous are they sometimes when oriented and guided by understanding. “Leadership without emotion” were well-nigh a contradiction in terms. Ideas lack the indispensable thrust; the stress and strain of concepts is too cold to fire a soul!

Let us take up our seven factors of leadership and see what we mean by them.

Digitized by Google
1,	2. The de facto leader who lacks the first two features mentioned (knowledge of human nature and understanding of the immediate conditions}* is apt to end a demagogue or a clown — or both. Without these again, one is apt not to aspire to leadership at all, for it does not come within his range.

3. An appreciative moral consciousness is indispensable to leadership. Almost nothing else is mighty enough, indeed, to awaken and to vivify the deepest and strongest natures who are living the stoical life. “Only a scrap of paper”; Belgium’s myriad murders and rapes and wanton childish waste; the “Lusitania”; Miss Cavell; Captain Fryatt; piracy of underseas and over-land; plotting in the guise of friendliness; the Armenian annihilation; the enslavement of deported populations; the immortal “Hymn of Hate,” cursing its author forevermore; the sinking of hospital ships full of maimed soldiers; the pretense of property-rights in the Atlantic Ocean itself — the whole unbelievable and immoral ghastliness of this power-mad autocracy with which we are of its own necessity at war, has made arise a moral consciousness which would desolate the world before it could see itself again ignored or set aside!

Twenty years or mere ago Archibald Lampman wrote his prophetic lines:

Still the tides of fight are booming And the barren blood is spilt;

Still the banners are uplooming,

And the hands are on the hilt;

But the old world waxes wiser;

From behind the bolted visor It descries at last the horror And the guilt.

“Yet the eyes are dim, nor wholly Open to the golden gleam,

And the brute surrenders slowly To the Godhead and the dream;

From his cage of bar and girder,

Still at moments mad with murder,

Leaps the tiger, and his demon Rules supreme.

One more war with fire and famine Gathers — I can hear its cries;

And the years of Might and Mammon Perish in a World's demise.

When the strength of man is shattered And the powers of earth are scattered,

From beneath the ghastly ruin Peace shall rise!”

Without a moral consciousness no man is either leader or hero. In our present national struggle against the democratic world’s common enemy, the strength of the stimulus of the moral conscious-

Digitized by e.ooQle
13

ness should make leaders of us all! With such a moral consciousness, the life of men and women is the most magnificent Adventure that could ever be conceived, and Leadership of some sort becomes the natural, the ordinary thing.

4.	Self-confidence as a condition of leadership means what it says, but greatly more than it says. One trusts his well-tried muscles and nerves because multiform experience has shown him their versatility and their power. But also he realizes that beyond dispute his abilities have no definitely assignable limit over his environment of men and of things, of time and space and circumstance, which often to another are quite out of reach even, to say nothing of his being their master. And the inborn genius that makes a man or child trust himself, makes him, just as certainly, trust the powers of others, since mind is mind and much alike in whatever organism it may be materialized. Thus a characteristic of a true leader is trustworthy ability to pick others who shall be leaders, too. But meanwhile he trusts himself — and partly because he does so, seldom is he disappointed. As has been suggested already (repetition is a valuable pedagogic method) the average child or young person really needs nothing whatever more than he needs to learn how capable his organism is.

5	and 6. Bodily energy and initiative determine leadership in active affairs somewhat as gasoline determines your prompt return home from your week-end in the country. You may have a good time without it — but you'll never “arrive!" Here come we back directly to Physical Education, to that self-respect which understands, intuition, if you will, that however hard it is to comprehend the relations of mind and body, in some way the “organism" and the “mind" are certainly but aspects of a something which is neither, but which eternally is OURSELVES.

We can no longer dare, then, having this knowledge, to neglect our bodies, not so much (if I may not be misunderstood?) because our bodies are “God's temples," as we used to hear, as because they are our own temples — in which mere Life itself, when normal, is almost prayer. Does some famed poet say, ‘The undevout astronomer is mad?" say I: Every man who really strives to understand his own wonderful body and its relations to the energies of this wondrous world and yet is not devout in the only real sense of that term, such has not the intelligence to be mad:—idiots cannot go insane.

I am strenuous, then, for the widespread publication of the sanctions of the flesh, of the philosophy and the body, to the end that after the years are gone and others come, all men and women in general may appreciate this marvel of life — of muscles and nerve and gland — which is loaned them for the cultivation of their leadership! For leadership is its finest apotheosis, the star-ieaching climax of its unimaginable intricacy.

7.	But, lastly, the emotions, the right set of emotions, if you please, condition emergency leadership, and alone make the hero, leader of men, a reality, something more than an optimistic dream. Never in the history of this world, since at least the days of Caligula, and Nero, and Ivan the Terrible, have the leadership-emotions

Digitized by Google
14

been more ready, more natural, more inevitable in the soul of the strong man, zealous for the highest dignity of mankind. And it is emotion and emotion alone that supplies the energy for man’s action.

What more would you have? What set of energetic emotions could out-“move” these? Surprise; Indignation; Scorn; Disgust; Anger; Pity; Sympathy; Fear; Hope — some of the strongest emotions mind can feel — crowd in unruly eagerness into the forefront of our preparedness for leadership. Emotions such as these, indeed for the most part, these very emotions, will save the world once more — for millions with guns or dollars or busy hands, will show leaders if not of others then certainly of themselves — and Civilization, so long, even in this twentieth century, dragged backward on “the road to yesterday,” will again press onward toward its certain goal of universal brotherhood.

And Kipling’s waking lines:

“In the gates of death rejoice!

We see and hold the good—

Bear witness, Earth we have made our choice,

For freedom’s brotherhood.

“Then praise the Lord most high,

Whose strength has saved us whole,

Who bade us choose that the flesh should die,

And not the living soul!”

But, gentlemen, I was not asked here to urge you to enlistment in this vast World-War; rather to talk on the Psychology of Leadership. I would close, then, and properly, with a resume of the psychologic points I have suggested:

Summary

Every normal human being is potentially a leader; and every one should be made to realize it while yet he or she is a child. This is an educational duty.

Intelligence of course underlies ability in leadership.

Initiative, a personal symbol of Evolution, has as a stomach bodily energy; as heart, courage and self-trust; as brain the wisdom of insight.

The public needs to understand the sanctions of the flesh.

Kindliness and optimistic good humor may not be overlooked, from snobbery a whole world apart.

The intention to be a leader must be a flesh-and-blood intention.

Heroes are stoics to whom Life is an Adventure, but always a noble adventure.

Knowledge of “human” nature and of the specific situation are essential.

The Moral Consciousness is always involved in leadership even as is oxygen in our physical living.

It is emotion that leads the world around.

He who can lead himself can lead others also.

Bodily training underlies the indispensable vigor, self-confidence, and initiative of every leadership.

Digitized by Google
15

GENERAL PEDAGOGY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Explanations and Criticism.

(Continued)

No teacher of physical education can accomplish good results quickly unless he possesses the ability to point out accurately the faults occurring in execution and, by a few elucidating remarks directly to the point, remedy them. This is essential in all kinds of work, formal or informal, in the gymnasium, on the playground, or on the athletic field.

Object. Explanations are often necessary to amplify the command and the demonstration in order that pupils receive a clear conception of the desired activity. Criticisms are given to point out faults, so that the individual execution may be improved; to encourage pupils in difficult stunts requiring perseverance or courage, and thus bring out these qualities, and to praise or censure them as the occasion may require. Both explanations and criticisms are used for the purpose of attaining definite gymnastic values by means of some particular activity.

The command or statement of an activity is scarcely sufficient to give the pupils a clear cut mental image of it. Even if re-en-forced by demonstrations the form often remains vague. This is particularly true of children. Their sense of sight has not been so developed as to enable them to see all parts of an exercise distinctly in one or two observations and the command aids but little in obtaining a clear idea of what is wanted, so that explanations must necessarily follow.

There are other reasons for elucidation by verbal instructions. Adults have no difficulty in getting the mental grasp of the exercise but lack of general body control prevents them from doing it. This control is attained by calling attention to the position of the various parts of the body. Frequently a knack is contained in the stunt that can be explained much better than demonstrated. Both of these are, of course, used in the instruction of children as well as adults.

Procedure. The application of explanations is generally as follows. A few words of explanation may be given before attempting an exercise. Thus, when commanding "lower trunk forward,” the words "keep the chest up,” or “keep the back flat,” may be spoken before the command of execution, "lower”; or, as in the straddle vault, the suggestion, “straddle wide and push hard from the hands,” may be given before the class attempts the vault. The use of such preliminary remarks depends largely, however, on the ability of the class and in som^ cases may be omitted. It is well for the young teacher to have a repertoire of such pithy expressions, brief and to the point, .meeting all requirements, and to precede important exercises by the proper ones. They may also be used during and after an execution. It is a common fault with the novice, however, to stand before the class and explain in a long

Digitized by kjOOQle
16

drawn out speech the complete technique of the activity to be attempted much to the disgust of the class members who are anxious for activity. This makes the lesson slow and uninteresting. Keeping a class active should always receive first consideration.

The instructor, furthermore, must strive to attain the ability of constantly offering suggestions and admonitions to the class or a pupil, providing the activity admits of it, while the class or pupil is in action. If a fault frequently recurs he should stop the entire class, get their attention and then explain how this difficulty may be avoided, illustrating his remarks by a polished demonstration. In the case of the straddle vault, he would state the reasons for the necessity of raising the hips high, keeping the legs straight and as far apart as possible and pushing off vigorously from the hands. Thus the most appropriate period for the elucidation of a knack, trick play or part of the technique of an exercise, is undoubtedly after the conclusion of an attempt when the whole class is paying strict attention and the experience is fresh in their minds. There is not the same power of concentration or the same interest before or during an execution on account of the attention being diverted in other directions. A class well under way is able, however, to re-act fairly well to timely interspersed remarks while in action.

To develop good form of a complex performance one should call attention to the main points of the principal activity first, neglecting for the time being the secondary activity. If, however, bad faults are creeping in it is well to correct them at once. This is then followed by centering attention upon the movements of secondary importance. Best results are obtained, and quickest too, by placing emphasis upon — driving home — one thing at a time; by focussing attention upon a single activity of a complex stunt. After that has been fairly mastered the elements of lesser importance are polished so that the whole stunt may be done in good form. Analysis is frequently necessary for this, but it is not always possible. This procedure is illustrated in the coaching of the high jump. The form the instructor wishes to develop in the run, the take-off and the passing over the bar, receive attention first, and later the assistance given by the use of the arms. In the wolf vault the forceful hip and knee flexion of one leg while the other is swung sideward and kept perfectly straight, receive the first attention and later the thrust from the hands, the closing of the legs, the straightening of the body as it clears the apparatus, and the proper alighting. In the pas de basque, in fact, in all dance steps, accuracy of the foot movements is taught first, then the relation of the other parts of the body, trunk, head and arms, come in for attention. The same procedure is used in the coaching of trick plays, one thing being taught at a time.

By this procedure which, as is apparent, demands frequent repetition of the same exercise in a lesson and again at future times, considerable co-ordination can be developed. Motor impulses having again and again travelled over the same nerve paths the inter-play of the muscles involved becomes or closely approaches
17

the automatic. The movements require but little attention and this may now be focussed on the other parts involved in the activity. In a trick play it is the interplay of individuals rather than of muscles that takes place, developing a high degree of co-operation in the team (which might be compared to the co-ordinative power of an individual) which eventually becomes almost automatic.

An occasional digression during an explanation pointing out the good results which are obtained from doing this or that activity arouses and increases interest in the work and gains the co-operation of the pupil. It should never be neglected although it is to be borne in mind that it is better to get results by action than to merely talk about them. Too much time should not be spent upon this.

Information of interest to pupils consists of pointing out the practical values of exercises, the influence they have upon the health, the musculature, posture, carriage, etc., etc., and of occasional reference to records in an athletic event which you happen to be practicing. Remarks of this kind spur pupils on to better efforts and make them anxious to co-operate with the instructor in obtaining results.

Criticism and explanations go hand in hand during instruction. To criticize and make the corrections the instructor must have an accurate knowledge of the technique of the various activities, know the common faults occurring, have the ability to observe an entire class rather than just a part, and be able to quickly discern any deviations from the correct form, i.e., possess the skill to see faults. He usually follows faulty execution by correcting the mistake and explaining briefly, if necessary, how the exercise should be done. .

Methods. Corrections are best made by (1) positive, short and pithy, rather than negative statements, as, keep your head up, lift your feet, straighten the knees, etc., rather than, do not droop the head, don’t slide your feet, don’t bend the knees, etc. Make the pupil think about the thing he is to do and not the opposite. If the instructor knows, as he should, the faults commonly occurring in various activities he will have no difficulty in finding the statements which will correct them and of which he should have a considerable stock on hand. (2) A judicious use of praise and censure during and after an exercise will tend to improve results and should be constantly used. Words of encouragement and praise coming from the instructor spur on the conscientious pupils and create a desire to do better. Extreme and over-abundant

Eraise may, of course, have the opposite effect hence it should e wisely given. Comparison with other classes or of members of the class, pointing to the splendid execution of some one individual can be used to advantage in arousing the instinct of emulation. On the other hand, it-is at times absolutely necessary to censure a class, particularly if the performance is clearly below their average ability, careless and slovenly. On such occasions the instructor should repeat the work and if improvement is obtained, say a few words of encouragement. (3) Improved results are
18

often obtained by repeating a demonstration calling attention to the fault to be corrected, or by demonstrating the fault, at times, in an exaggerated manner. When doing this the instructor must be sure to assume the correct attitude toward his class, being careful to avoid the slightest suggestion of ridicule, or he will fail entirely in his efforts. Repetition after such demonstration improves the mental grasp of the exercise and invariably brings results. (4) If such efforts fail, and at other times when the occasion requires it, the instructor may in many instances, as in free exercises and apparatus work, use manual application by gently placing or forcing the pupil into the correct position. This gives the pupil the muscular feel of the position and is often the quickest way of obtaining a desired result although it is not always practical or even advisable. It must be done with discretion.

Only practice will develop in the young instructor the ability to pick out faults during formal work of an entire class. To do this it is necessary to keep it as a whole in the angle of his vision rather than to observe just a part of it. He must also learn to distinguish between faults made through carelessness and those due to lack of strength and skill. The former call for censure and remarks should be made directly to the guilty ones while the latter calls for encouragement.

Usually remarks bearing on faults and execution are addressed to the class as a whole. Individual faults should be pointed out, however, to the failing pupil so that repetition which should always follow an adverse criticism will give him an opportunity to improve himself while the class as a whole strives for better execution. Expression should follow impression, and corrections stated and not followed by attempts to overcome faults are forgotten and achieve nothing.

UNIFORMITY IN ATHLETICS FOR WOMEN

CARL SCHRADER, Cambridge, Mass.

Running Broad Jump

Whenever we consider the question of athletics for women we are confronted with the fact that there are certain differences which we must recognize when we are aiming to suggest and advance methods which would make athletics more to the taste of the average young woman.

Athletics for women are just coming into their own. A few games such as soccer, hockey, basketball, etc., have already found a permanent place in the curriculum of athletics at the various institutions where girls are supposedly trained and prepared for life. Field and track athletics, on the other hand, are still more or less untouched, at least so far as large numbers are concerned. The several professional schools where teachers are trained to carry on the work of physical education, which naturally includes all form of athletics, are perhaps the best experimental stations for improvements in athletics.

In the Sargent Camp the past season we experimented with



Digitized by C.ooQle
19

the Running Broad Jump. This event which is not particularly popular with men, is less so with women, and this is undoubtedly due to the fact that there are involved many intricate things which make the Broad Jump a tedious event to train for. All those who have ever undertaken to train girls for the various athletic events, will have found that the average girl does not lend herself to as tedious a system of training as does the average man. This is one factor which prompted us to aim at changing certain regulations of events previously discussed, in order to make them more interesting to girls. We found that in our various athletic contests in which large numbers competed, the results in the Running Broad Jump, particularly, were in a large measure failures; either because the take-off was so far in front of the actual measuring line that the actual distance covered was much greater than the jumper received credit for, or, on the other hand, because a large number stepped over the take-off so that the entire jump was lost. In either case the result was practically lost, for in one case the competitor covered a distance she was not given credit for, while in the other the competitor happened to step over the line perhaps a fraction of an inch. There is no denying that it is possible to train down so fine that the average take-off comes pretty close to the measuring edge of the take-off board. It is this very point requiring such fine, minute, and careful training, which discourages the average girl from practicing sufficiently long to make the Running Broad Jump an event of interest. In order to overcome this difficulty we experimented along various lines. The last attempt proved to us the most satisfactory. Instead of having the usual six inch plank as the definite take-off board, we had a square of planks, perhaps three feet square, laid flush with the ground. This surface we covered with a layer of rosin, just enough to give a definite white surface upon which any mark could very easily be seen. The take-off of the jumper was then recorded from the last mark on the board, which in every case was perfectly distinct, and the measurement as usual was taken to the first imprint in the pit, so that the measurement in each case was a definite one, giving full credit for the entire effort made. At first we tried lime, thinking that this might give a sufficiently definite mark to measure from, but we soon found that it was not a success, and rosin was used instead.

I repeat again, it is important that we make our regulations in the various athletic events suitable for the average girl, rather than for the specially fitted girls, who, perhaps, were trained as carefully as the special men. All of our competitions at Camp are carried on by large numbers, and it has proved most successful to have this change* made. Where formerly, when the old method was applied, the great majority of results were failures, no record at all having been received except in the case of those very few who accidentally touched the take-off mark just right, we now are in possession of actual figures which are not only of interest to us as teachers, but which are of interest to the actual performer, simply because she is given credit for the effort in its entirety.

It is a common complaint among the coaches of men that it

Digitized by c^ooQle
20

is very difficult to get out a sufficiently large number to train for the field events, largely because all field events demand a great deal of actual grinding, which is not the case in track events. Inasmuch as the question of track and field athletics for women is an open one at present, and a ccmmittee is at work to standardize such events and the regulations governing them, it seems timely that suggestion and discussions of this type should be carried on and brought before those who have the teaching of athletics to look after.

The three-foot board laid flush with the ground gives no greater advantage, as far as spring in the take-off is concerned, than the six-foot plank now demanded. The advantage that we do gain is simply that the jumper is not forced to carefully measure hei run in order to get her take-cff foot on a narrow surface, and can therefore pay more attention to the force of her run, feeling assured that her take-off, no matter from what part of this larger surface, will give her full credit for her effort.

The Running Broad Jump, as such, is an event which is not as interesting as are most of the other field events. If there is any change in regulations which would popularize this event, I believe that we are justified in suggesting it, in order to make our field and track program a more complete one, not spacializing entirely in running and other track events. Several years ago at the Stadium in Cambridge, a world’s record in the Running Broad Jump was actually broken, but it could not be allowed, because the jumper stepped over the mark an eighth of an inch. Now that is, of course, just, according to rules and regulations; but does it not seem unfair that a man’s supreme and possibly best effort should be lqpt simply because of a technical ruling which throws out his attempts?

There was a time years ago when the Running Broad Jump in every case was measured from toe to heel; but that was finally done away with, simply because of the indefiniteness of the take-off on the ordinary dirt approach which left many cases in doubt. It is a very difficult task at best, for any official to determine just where the last mark is on the dirt in front of the jumping pit, and undoubtedly it was for that very reason that the definite take-off from which all records had to be measured, was instituted. The surfacing as suggested, of this take-off board with rosin does give a field of vision upon which a definite mark is made by every jumper, without replenishing after each jumper the rosin that may have been ground up by the previous jumper. In fact the more the rosin, which has been put on the board very scantily, is ground into the wood, the better does the take-off show, and consequently the more definite is the measurement made from that particular point.

Our experience, as stated above, has been entirely satisfactory and has resulted in severa advantages. First, as already mentioned, each effort, excepting perhaps a few, was measurable, and gave each girl an actual way of telling her gradual improvement. Again, the improvement on the part of all was a rapid one simply because attention could be centered upon the actual form of the

Digitized by v^ooQle
21

Broad Jump, which, as we know, includes the forceful run, the strong take-off, the drawing up of the knees, the use of the arms and body, all of which could be thought of without fear that the take-off would spoil all other efforts. With such an arrangement it is possible to get at a really true average of a large number in a Running Broad Jump event, which otherwise is impossible simply because there are so many failures, both by stepping over the board, and by jumping farther than the measurements wou d indicate. This experiment is offered to the readers merely as a suggestion, and it is hoped that they will give this plan a trial, in order to convince themselves of the advisability of adopting this form of broad jumping for women.

The other important technical points to be considered in the Running Broad Jump are more or less familiar to teachers of physical training. The approach is naturally a longer one than that for a Running High Jump, and a more forceful one, so that the girls who are training for the Broad Jump may well be prepared with the group who are trying out for sprinting. The power of the run naturally increases as the take-off is approached, and at that time the maximum effort is made which must consist of a drawing upward of the knees and the forceful stretching forward of the legs with a forward effort on the part of the entire upper body including the arms, so that any falling after the landing is in favor - of the jumper rather than to his detriment.

It is always difficult for a broad jumper to realize that he must get height in order to get distance, and for that purpose it is a good plan to have, across the pit, a stick, or a string which may be placed at various heights', and must be cleared in the training for broad jumping. This will remind the jumper each time that he must draw up his knees in order to clear the stick. Once the habit of drawing up the knees has been established, the stick should be removed in order not to have the jumper dependent upon this artificial suggestion.

With a jumping pit thoroughly and carefully prepared and kept constantly soft there is practically no danger for girls to do broad jumping. On the other hand Running Broad Jump indoors, or in a pit which is hard, is very inadvisable not only for women but also for men. Fine sawdust and sand is a good mixture for a jumping pit, but even this will have to be spaded up occasionally in order to retain its right properties. The pit should be long enough so that the best jumper, in falling forward her entire length, can still fall on soft ground. The short pit endangers the jumper who lands on a hard surface with the upper part of the body. There is no event in athletics, be it game, track, or field event, that is absolutely without danger. Care must be observed both in the preparation of the equipment and by the competitor. When proper precautions are taken, whatever accidents occur, are such as might happen in the ordinary walks of life, and are not inherent in athletics.

I wish that the readers would consider this publication as a Forum and discuss not only this but other topics which have, and continually will, come up, and need to be thrashed out in order to reach a conclusion which may be followed and adopted by all.
O'

22

<0

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

o	■	■	i	i.	■	i.	—	-1—.	-	i	o

FLAG DRILL FOR BOYS AND GIRLS

Arranged by MATHIAS H. MACHEREY, Assistant Supervisor, Newark Public

Playgrounds.

Each pupil has two flags, which are carried one in each hand, hands on hips, flags pointing upward.

Alignment ‘ Two single files are formed by each playground, one compsoed of girls, the other of boys. The girls are on the right side of the boys.

Distance on the field	Eight feet from side	to side, six feet from front to rear.

Distance in practice has to be modified according to the space available.

Music:	“America Forever” by Paul.

Series I.

Introduction-. Stretch arms forward (1-4) cross flags over head, arms rounded upward, (5-8) stretch arms sideward, (9-12) return hands on hips (13-16).

1.	Stretch arms forward (1-4) fling arms sideward (5-8) 44

D.	A. C. outward (9-12) return hands on hips (13-16). Repeat three more times (17-64).

2.	Stretch arms upward (1-4) lower arms sideward (5-8) 4-4 D. A. C. inward (9-12) return hands on hips (13-16). Repeat three more times (17-64).

3.	Point step forward right, arms sideward (14) charge forward right, cross flags over head (5-8) change knee-bending circle arms inward, flags sideward (9-12) return hands on hips (13-16.) Same beginning left (17-32). Repeat all (1-32).

4.	Place right foot sideward, arms diagonally side upward (1-4). Replace right foot, lower arms inward, cross wrists, flags diagonally side-downward and outward (5-8). Charge forward, keep arms and flags in the same relative position, raise arms forward upward (9-12) return hands on hips (13-16). Same beginning left (17-32). Repeat all (1-32).

Interlude:Mark time 32 counts. At the same time exercise with flags as follows:	Boys	outward, girls inward.

(Boys) Stretch arms upward (14) lower sideward (5-8) lower

(Girls) Stretch arms sideward (14) raise upward (5-8) lower

(Boys) downward (9-12) raise inward to height of shoulders (13-16)

(Girls) inward to height of shoulders (9-12) lower downward (13-16)

Boys and girls reverse their movements (1-16). Return flags on hips (13-16). Stop.

Series II.

Music starts over from the beginning with the introduction. Boys and girls stand still until introduction is played.

1. Point step forward right, arms forward (14) replace right foot, bend arms in front of chest, flags horizontal outside of body

Digitized by LaOOQle
23

(5-8) 4-4 D. A. C. outward, begin upward (9-12) return hands on hips (13-16). Same beginning left (17-32). Repeat all (1-32).

2.	Cross flags in front of chest, bend trunk forward (1-4) straighten trunk, stretch arms sideward (5-8) raise arms upward bend knees (9-12) stretch knees, return hands to hips (13-16) repeat three more times (17-64).

3.	Spring feet sideward, stretch arms diagonally side upward (1-4) wave right flag in figure 8,1. r. 1. r. (5-8) wave left flag in figure 8, r. 1. r. 1. (9-12) spring feet together, return hands on hips (13-16) Repeat three times (17-64).

4.	Raise arms sideward (1-4) charge sideward right, circle

right arm outward to side upward position (5-8) replace right foot, raise left arm upward, bend right arm across chest (9-12) return hand on hips (13-16) Same beginning left (17-32) Repeat all (1-32) Tableaux:	Boys:	Arms sideward (1-8) Arms upward, cross flags

over head (9-16) Arms sideward (17-24) Return (25-32).

Girls: Arms upward (1-8) Kneel on right knee, arms sideward (9-16) Stretch knees, replace foot arms upward (17-24)

Position (25-32).

Abreviation: D. A. C.—Double Arm Circle.

Wanted: No, 72 of Vol. 6 of Mind and Body, Dec. 1901, No. 250, Vol. 23, June 1916, No. 248, Vol. 23, April 1916, No. 255, Vol. 23, Jan. 1917.

CLUBSWINGING. SNAKE SWINGS

From “Sokol Americky”, arranged by Jos. Paskovsky, translated for Mind and Body by Emil F. Hocke, Chicago, III.

Because of its difficulty this form of club swinging is of very little use for mass work. The “snakes” as they are generally termed are, however, a source of great joy to all who have progressed beyond the elementary clubswings.

Grips

Two grips are used for the snake swings.

1.	The full grip. The club is held by the full hand, the head of the club near the little finger or the thumb. (Fig. 1).

2.	Spiral grip. (Fig. 2). The club is held by the second, third and fourth fingers on one side. The thumb is on the Other side and the first finger is placed on top of the head of the club.

The changing from the spiral grip to the common or fundamental grip is executed with a jerk of the hand, and is called a “throw” into the common, or fundamental grip.

For simplifying the terminology, we will call the full grip “grip No. 1” and the spiral grip “grip No. 2. ”

Classification

1. The “snakes” are divided into two groups:

a)	Vertical snakes (front, flank and oblique).

b)	Horizontal snakes (the number of these is limited).

Digitized by VjOOQle
24

2.	Snakes according to directions:

a)	outer snakes (leading outward)

b)	inner snakes (leading inward)

c)	forward snakes (leading forward)

d)	backward snake (leading backward)

3.	Snakes according to position of arms.

a)	arms in upward position

b)	arms in sideward position

c)	arms in forward position

d)	snakes in height of shoulders

e)	snakes in height of hips.

f)	mixed, where each part of the snake is executed in a different position.

4.	The snakes according to the starting movement.

a)	beginning in front of hand

b)	beginning in rear of hand.

c)	beginning outside of hand.

d)	beginning inside of hand.

e)	beginning below the hand.

f)	beginning above the hand.

• 5. Snakes according to combinations.

a)	Simple snakes, which are composed of two circles, one at the beginning and one at the finish.

b)	Double snakes, composed of three circles, one at the beginning, one intermediate, and one at the finish. The finishing circle is like the one at the beginning but it is swung in another position of the hand.

c)	Combined snakes.

d)	Circles around the head.

Vertical Snakes

FIG. 1	FIG.	2

Outer (the directions of the movement of the club in the outer snakes is shown in the engraving by a full line with an arrow.)

Digitized by CaOOQle
25

The cuter snake in the arm position sideward, begins in rear of the hard and finishes in front. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 (Fig. 3) ore flexes the wrist downward and executes a circle in rear of the hand. Now moving the upper arm somewhat forward and simultaneously twisting the wrist inward and extending the same (Fig. 4) one executes a circle in front of the hand and throws the club into grip No. 1.

FIG. 3

FIG. 4

The outer snake in the arm position sideward begins in front of the hand and finishes in rear. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 (Fig. 5) one flexes the wrist downward and inward and executes a circle in the front of the hand. Now turning the wrist upward (Fig. 6) with extending the elbow and simultaneously extending the wrist one executes a circle in rear of the hand and throws the club into grip No. 1.

FIG. 5	FIG.	6

The outer hip snake in rear begins in rear of the hand and finishes in front. Dropping the club, one catches the same in rear of the

Digitized by Google
26

hip with grip No. 2, flexing the wrist inward (Fig. 7) one executes a circle in rear of the hand. Now twisting the wrist inward, palm upward and simultaneously extending the wrist (Fig. 8) one executes a circle in front of the hand and throws the club into grip No. 1.

FIG. 7	FIG.	H

The outer hip snake in rear, begins front of the hand arid finishes in rear. Dropping the club one catches the same in rear of the hip with grip No. 2 (Fig. 8) and flexing the wrist inward one executes a circle in front of the hand. Now twisting the palm upward (Fig. 9) and extending the wrist one executes a circle in rear of the hand and throws the club into grip No. 1.

FIG. 9	FIG.	10

The outer hip snake in front, begins in rear of the hand and finishes in front. Dropping the club, one catches the same in front of the hip with grip No. 2 (Fig. 10) and flexing the wrist upward one executes a circle in rear of the hand. Now turning the palm downward and inward and simultaneously extending the wrist

Digitized by

Google

J
27

(Fig. 11) one executes a circle in front of the hand and throws the dub into grip No. 1.

FIG. 11	FIG.	12

The outer hip snake in front, begins front of the hand and finishes in rear. Cropping the club, one catches the same in front of the hip with grip No. 2 (Fig. 12) and flexing the wrist upward one executes a circle in front of the hand. Now turning the wrist inward and followed immediately by an extension of the same (Fig. 13) one executes a circle in rear of the hand and throws the club into grip No. 1.

FIG. 13	FIG.	14

The outer snake in the arm position upward begins rear of the hand and finishes in front. (This snake is like the one in the arm-position sideward). One catches the club in the arm upward position with grip No. 2 (Fig. 14) and flexes the wrist downward executing a circle in rear of the hand. Now twisting the wrist inward followed immediately by an extension the same (Fig. 15) one executes a circle in front of the hand and throws the club into’ grip No. 1.

Digitized by C,ooQle
FIG. 15

FIG. 16

The outer snake in the arm position upward begins	front of

the hand and finishes in rear. (This snake is identical with the one in the arm position sideward.) One catches the club in the arm position upward with grip No. 2 (Fig. 16) and flexes the wrist downward, executing a circle in front of the hand. Now turning the palm inward and simultaneously extending the wrist one executes a circle in rear of the hand and throws the club into grip No. 1.

Snakes Inward (Inner Snakes)

Corresponding to every outer snake there is an inner snake, executed in the opposite direction (the direction of the inner snakes is shown in the engraving by the broken line of the arrow).

The inner snake in the arm position sideward begins in rear of the hand and finishes in front. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 in the arm position sideward (Fig. 6) one flexes the wrist inward, executing a circle in rear of the hand. Now turning the wrist outward and extending the same (Fig. 5) one executes a circle in front of the hand and throws the club into grip No. 1.

The inner snake in the arm position sideward begins in front of the hand and finishes in rear. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 in the arm position sideward, above the hand (Fig. 4) one flexes the wrist inward, executing a circle in front of the hand. Now turning the wrist downward and simultaneously extending the same (Fig. 3) one executes a circle in rear of the hand and throws the club into grip No. 1.

The inner hip snake in rear, begins in rear of the hand and finishes in front. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 above the hand (Fig. 9) one flexes the wrist upward and executes a circle in rear of the hand. Now turning the wrist downward (Fig. 17) and simultaneously extending the same one executes a circle in front of the hand and throws the club into grip No. 1.

The inner hip snake in rear, begins in front and finishes in rear of the hand. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 above the hand (Fig. 18) one flexes the wrist upward and executes a circle in front of the hand. Now turning the wrist downward and simultaneously ■ extending the same (Fig. 17) one executes a circle in rear of the hand

Digitized by

Google

J
29

FIG. 17	FIG.	18

and throws the club into grip No. 1.

. r t The inner hip snake in front, begins in rear and finishes in , front of the hand. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 (Fig. 10) one flexes the wrist outward and executes, a circle in rear of the hand. Now turning the wrist with palm upward and simultaneously extending the same (Fig. 12) one executes a circle in front of the • band and throws the club into grip No. 1.

The inner hip snake in front beginning in front of the hand and finishing in rear. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 (Fig. 11) one ; flexes the wrist outward and executes a circle in front of the hand. r Now one turns the wrist with palm upward and simultaneously extending the same (Fig. 13) executes a circle in rear of the hand 1 and throws the club into the fundamental grip. r The inner snake in arm position upward beginning in rear of the hand and finishing in front. This snake is similar to the one in the arm position sideward.

-r	The inner snake in the arm position upward beginning in front

of the hand and finishing in rear. This is similar to the snake in the , arm position sideward.

Snakes Backward

The hip snake backward beginning on the outer side of hand aruI finishing on the inner side. Throwing the club into grip No. 2, aim position downward, (this grip is shown in Fig. 6, but arm po-< sition downward and club pointing backward) one flexes the wrist upward and executes a circle on the outer side of the hand. Now turning the wrist downward and simultaneously extending the same, one executes a circle on the inner side of the hand, and throws the club into the fundamental grip.

The hip snake backward beginning on the inner side of the hand and finishing on the outer side. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 in arm position downward one flexes the wrist upward and executing a circle on the inner side of the hand. Now turning the wrist with the palm downward and simultaneously extending the same, one executes a circle on the outer side of the hand and throws the club into the fundamental grip. .

Digitized by Google
30

Snake backward in arm position forward beginning on the outer side of the hand and finishing on the inner side. This snake is similar to the hip snake of like name.

Snake backward in arm position forward beginning at the inner side of the hand and finishing on the outer side. Similar to the previous snake.

Forward Snake

Hip snake forward beginning at outer side of the hand and finishing at the inner side. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 in arm position downward. (The grip as in Fig. 13, arm position downward, club pointing to the rear). One flexes the wrist downward executing a circle on outer side of hand. Now turning the wrist, palm upward and simultaneously extending the same, one executes a circle on the inner side of the hand and throws the club into the fundamental grip.

Hip snake forward beginning at inner side of the hand and finishing at the outer side. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 in arm position downward one flexes the wrist downward executing a circle on the inner side of the hand. Now turning the wrist palm upward and simultaneously extending the same, one executes a circle on the outer side of the hand and throws the club into the fundamental grip.

Forward snake in the arm position forward beginning on the inner side of the hand and finishing on the outer side. This snake is similar to the hip snake only it is executed in the arm position forward.

Forward snake in the arm position forward beginning on the outer side of the hand and finishing on the inner side. Explanation similar to the previous snake.

Horizontal Snakes

Horizontal snake forward in arm position sideward beginning above the hand and finishing below. Throwing the club into grip No. 2, position horizontal (grip as shown in Fig. 3 forearm inclined forward) one flexes the wrist backward and executes a circle above the hand. Now one turns the wrist forward and simultaneously extending the same, executes a circle below the hand and throws the club into the fundamental grip.

Horizontal snake forward in arm position sideward beginning below the hand and finishing above. Throwing the club into grip No. 2, position horizontal (Fig. 3, club below the hand), one flexes the wrist backward and executes a circle below the hand. Now turning the wrist upward and simultaneously extending the same one executes a circle above the hand and throws the club into the fundamental grip.

Horizontal snake backward in arm position sideward, beginning above the hand and finishing below. Throwing the club into grip No. 2 position horizontal (grip as in Fig. 5), one flexes the wrist forward and executes a circle above the hand. Now turning the wrist downward and simultaneously extending the same one executes a circle below the hand and throws the club into the fundamental grip.

Digitized by

Google
31

Horizontal snake backward in arm position sideward beginning belctc the hand and finishing above. Throwing the club into grip No. 2, position horizontal (grip as in Fig. 5), one flexes the wrist forward and executes a circle below the hand. Now turning the wrist upward and simultaneously extending the same one executes a circle above the hand and throws the club into the fundamental grip.

Double Snakes

A double snake is a combination of two simple snakes in the following form: Two snakes of the same name, beginning above and below, or below and above, or in front and in rear of hand, or in rear qjtd in front of hand, or on inner and outer side or vice-versa, are combined in such a way that the finishing circle of one snake is the beginning circle of the second snake. Therefore a double snake consists of three circles: beginning, intermediate and finishing.

Double snakes are as follows, in a straight direction.

Outer double snake in arm position sideward beginning in rear of hand.

Outer double snake in arm position sideward beginning in front of hand.

Outer double hip snake in rear, beginning in rear of hand.

Outer double	hip	snake	in rear,	beginning in front of hand.

Outer double	hip	snake	in front, beginning in rear of hand.

Outer double hip snake in front, beginning in front of hand.

Outer double snake in arm position upward beginning in rear of hand.

Outer double snake in arm position upward beginning in front of hand.

Outer double	hip	snake	forward	beginning on inner side of hand.

Outer double,	hip	snake	forward	beginning on outer side of hand.

Outer double snake forward in arm position forward beginning on inner side.

Outer double snake forward in arm position forward beginning on outer side.

Horizontal double snake forward in arm position sideward beginning above the hand.

Horizontal double snake forward in arm position sideward beginning below the hand.

Horizontal double snake forward in arm position forward beginning above the hand.

Horizontal double snake forward in arm position forward beginning below the hand.

All outer double snakes are executed contrary to the inner double snakes and the forward double snakes are executed contrary to the backward double snakes.

Circles Around the Head Circles around the head are done best with the full grip (Fig. 1) forward and backward.

Circle around the head backward. Throwing the hand above the head, holding the club with full grip (Fig. 19) one circles the

Digitized by
32

FIG. 19	FIG- 20

club above the hand backward. With this circle one best combines an outer snake in the arm position sideward, beginning in front of hand.

Circle	crour.d	the head forward. Throwing the club above the

head with full grip (Fig. 20) one circles the club above the hand forwsrd. With this circle one best combines an outer snake in the arm position sideward beginning in front of hand.

Double circle above the head forward. Execute a circle above the head with the snake grip, then grasp the club with full grip and execute a circle above the head.

If any other combination is to be made it is best to combine the same with a hand circle in rear in the arm position sideward from which the club is easily changed into grip No. 2 for the snakes.

Double circle above the head forward. Execute a circle above the head with full grip, and add the second circle with snake grip. For further combinations combine the same with the oi ter snake in front of hand in the arm position sideward.

Combined Snakes

Combined snakes are such in which each single circle is done in a different plane, the combination thereby assuming the form of a snake.

1.	Execute an outer double snake in arm position sideward beginning in front of the hand. With the first circle one lowers the hand executing a hip circle, then one raises the arm upward and executes the third circle in rear of the shoulder. There are j three circles, 1st, in arm position sideward, 2nd, in rear of hip; 3rd,

in rear of shoulder.

2.	Use the same double snake, but in arm position upward so that its execution will be first in arm position upward, and second, in rear of hip; third in rear of shoulder.

3.	Use the same double snake, but in arm position forward on outer side of hand forward first in arm position forward (outer side of hand); second in rear of hip (front of hand); third in rear of shoulder (rear of hand).

Digitized by UjOOQle


33

4.	Use same double snake, but beginning with front hip circle, inward in front of hand. First front hip circle (in front of hand); second rear hip circle (in front of hand); third in rear of shoulder (rear of hand).

5.	In arm position forward inner circle backward and combine with front hip circle in front of hand and finish with circle in rear of shoulder.

6.	First rear hip circle inward in front of hand; second front hip snake inward in front of hand; third hip circle in rear of shoulder.

7.	First in arm position sideward, circle inward in front of hand; second front hip snake beginning in front of hand, and bringing the hand around the hip backward; third, rear hip snake forward, beginning in front of the hand.

8.	In arm position sideward, first horizontal circle forward below the hand. Second in arm position forward horizontal circle inward above the hand and finish third with vertical snake forward, beginning on inner side of hand.

Combinations

1. Horizontal snake backward in arm position sideward, beginning above the hand, circle above the head backward, and finish with same snake.

2.	Horizontal snake forward in arm position sideward beginning above the hand, circle above the head forward and finish with horizontal snake forward in arm position sideward, below the hand.

3. Horizontal snake backward in arm position sideward, beginning below the hand and outer snake in same position beginning in front of hand.

4.	Horizontal snake forward in arm position sideward, above the hand and outer snake in rear of hand in same position.

5.	Hip snake in rear inward in front of hand, double hip snake in front, in front of hand; the last circle executed in rear of shoulder.

6.	Hip snake in rear outward in rear of hand. (After finishing the second circle of this snake the club returns in the opposite direction). Double hip snake in front, beginning in front of hand; last circle is executed in rear of the shoulder.

7.	Inner hip snake in rear, beginning in rear of hand, and horizontal snake forward beginning above the hand.

8.	Double horizontal snake forward in arm position sideward, beginning above the hand, double circle above the head forward and horizontal snake forward in arm position sideward beginning below the hand.

9.	Horizontal snake backward in arm position sideward above the hand, double circle above the head backward and horizontal snake backward in arm position sideward beginning below the hand.

10.	Snake forward in arm position forward on outer side of hand, (dropping the hand), double hip snake inward in front of hand, last circle is in rear of shoulder.

Digitized by Google
PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

o

■o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

An Ode to Health.—Health of itself makes life a perpetual joy. Nothing daunts, nothing overawes, nothing discourages and nothing overpowers the man and woman possessed of health. Health means not only vigor and energy of body, but also clarity and strength of mind; purity and beauty of soul. The healthy person dominates life instead of allowing life to dominate him. He scarcely thinks of his body as* consisting of parts or as performing separate functions. To him the body is but one harmonious whole. He is a unit, a being, a man; complete, vigorous, perfect. To such a man work is a joy. He regards obstacles as but opportunities for testing his strength. He hardly knows what weariness is. He never experiences exhaustion. Merely to grasp his hand is a pleasure. To gaze into his eyes is a joy. To hear his voice is to feel a thrill pass over one. To peer into his mind serves as a stimulus to higher achievement. Health supplies the courage, the aggressiveness in life. Without health one is bankrupt regardless of what his financial capital may be. He becomes a cipher in the world of real men and women. If you have health, then, friends, cherish it, guard it and treasure it as you treasure life, for out of it are the issues of life—Adapted from Sigmund Beldegreen.

Dietetic and Physical Treatment of Constipation.—Dr.

A. Borgbjaerg in the Ugeskrift for Laeger, Copenhagen, February 1, LXXIX, No. 5, warns that we must not forget that a number of factors may co-operate in producing constipation, such as reduction in the amount of feces, harder consistency, delayed passage through the intestines, infrequent desires, and difficult defecation. The Roentgen rays have shown that mechanical obstacles, such as adhesions, overlong mesentery, enteroptosis and movable cecum do not necessarily entail constipation. The passage through the colon may occur quite normally in spite of them. More important is a weakness of the muscles involved in defecation, or overstrong action of their antagonists. In the great majority of cases there is no mechanical cause to explain the constipation. He has known cases of severe constipation in strict vegetarians and he does not approve of continuing exclusively coarse foods too long. How long the patient can be allowed to go without stool is a question to be decided in the individual case, watching the general condition, exploring the rectum and palpating to see that there is no accumulation of feces. Under these conditions he thinks there I is no risk in letting the patient go a week at least; thirteen days was the longest limit in his experience.	I

He never realized the importance of massage as long as it was applied in the patients' homes and he saw the patients only now and then. But since he has been having the patients under his

Digitized by Google
35

constant supervision in his private clinic, he has become more and' more convinced of its great value as an aid in the treatment of constipation. He always has it combined with gymnastic exercises, especially abdominal breathing exercises. When the constipation is the result of retention of the feces in the sigmoid flexure region or rectum or of inability to expel the feces arriving in the rectum, these measures and dieting do not seen? to do much good. It is possible that benefit might be derived from internal massage of the rectum or vibration treatment or intratrecal faradization, as Boas commends. He has not had much experience with these measures but thinks they are promising. He says further that the normal position for defecation is undoubtedly the squatting position. The depression, lassitude, etc., which are usually ascribed to autointoxication in case of constipation, he thinks are more often merely the result of worry over the supposed evil effects of the defective intestinal functioning.—From “Journ. A. M. A.”

Food Supply and Growth of Population.—The bodily welfare of man is dependent in large degree on a satisfactory solution of the problems of food, clothing and shelter. With the rapid growth of population the need of suitable nutrients increases at a corresponding rate. Economic foresight accordingly leads the critical observer of the increasing number of persons who demand sustenance to inquire whether the sources of supply continue to be adequate and whether they are likely to keep pace with the demands of the expanding nation in the years to come. Prophecies of impending crises have been made from time to time by serious minded scientists and economists. One writer, basing his view on the contention that wheat is the most sustaining food grain of the Caucasian race, has ventured the belief that if prophecies based on population statistics are trustworthy, the crisis will be on us before the end of the century. It must be remembered, however, that the acreage devoted to agriculture is still expanding and that conservation processes as well as other factors, such as improved transportation facilities and changing customs in diet, are helping to improve the outlook. New food possibilities are frequently being brought within the range of present needs. In 1900 the population of the United States was 76 millions; now it is estimated at over 100 millions—a growth of 33 per cent. The latest report of the secretary of agriculture gives some indication of the extent to which the supply of a variety of food products has kept pace with the growing demand occasioned by this increment of population. The total production of most items on the food supply lists, such as poultry, fish, cereals, potatoes, citrus fruits and orchard fruits, during the sixteen years in which 26 millions of persons were added to the numbers to be fed, shows no diminution per capita. The sugar production is the only one showing a significant increase. Meat and diairy products constitute 37 per cent of the average diet, fish 2 per cent cereals 31 per cent, Irish and sweet potatoes 13 per cent, and other vegetables 8 per cent. It is notable that,.

Digitized by kjOOQle
36

notwithstanding the rapid increase in population, the production per capita of the commodities indicated, with the exception of meats and dairy products, has remained approximately the same or has increased.—From Current Comment. The Journal Med. Assn.

The blood in the pujmonary capillaries contains less carbon dioxid during inspiration than during expiration. The alveolar receives a greater amount of carbon dioxid during inspiration than during expiration. The greater amount of the carbon dioxid given off during the respiration cycle occurs at a pressure less than the mean; the less amount is given off at a pressure above mean. The alveolar carbon dioxid tension rises relatively more rapidly during the termination and during the first part of expiration than during the latter part of expiration. This condition is due to the fact that during the first part of expiration the pressure of carbon dioxid is less than in the latter part, inasmuch as the total volume of air is reduced by the expiratory act, and each added increment of carbon dioxid is added to progressively decreasing amounts of air, and accordingly the percentage of carbon dioxid mounts very rapidly; even though the actual evolution of carbon dioxid from the blood is less at high partial pressures of carbon dioxid than at low pressures. The rate of oxygen intake of the blood is practically constant during both phases of the respiration at ordinary barometric pressures. A method based on theoretical grounds is proposed by Pearce for the determination of the gaseous composition of the alveolar air and for. the capacity of the dead space for both oxygen and carbon dioxid. He believes that the results obtained by this method give very accurate values for mean tensions of carbon dioxid and oxygen in the alveolar air. Samples obtained by the Haldane-Priestley method give figures 6 to 15 per cent, higher for carbon dioxid, and 9 to 20 per cent higher for oxygen absorbed than are obtained by this method. The dead space determined by the Haldane-Priestley method, and the dead spaces for oxygen and carbon dioxid are of the same magnitude within the experimental error.

—Abstractions from theJ. A.M.A

Collegiate Athletic Sports. One of the numerous criticisms aimed at college athletics, as practiced among most student bodies at present, relates to their failure to take into account the subsequent needs of the persons involved. To an unbiased observer it cannot fail to appear incongruous that a student should devote months or years to a peculiar sort of physical training, avowedly intended to improve his body and promote his physical wellbeing, only to find himself, on leaving the university, without any form of exercise or healthful recreation that can be followed during after-college life. Certainly the football hero or the member of the winning crew who has developed himself by special efforts into a muscular giant will find little chance to continue his training after graduation. The reaction from the physical stress of severe

IT

Digitized by CjOOQle

I
37

competitive intercollegiate athletics to the physical passivity of a sedentary occupation in the counting-house or the law chambers is one of the real hardships to which young men are yearly being inevitably consigned by the inconsistent and improper application in American colleges of a pernicious sustem of athletic rivalry that ought to be confined to professional athletes.

Wherein competitive sports, in their present abuse, fail to play the wholesome role that systematic bodily exercise and legitimate athletic performance should take in the life of young people has been discussed in The Journal.* In several respects our contentions are in accord with the findings and suggestions of a committee appointed by the National Collegiate Athletic Association to report on the encouragement of intracollegiate and recreative sports. As an outgrowth of the feeling that the present methods do not reach the mass of our students, and do not provide them with practical means for exercise and recreation in after-life, Drs. H. Shindle Wingert of the Ohio State University, Raymond G. Clapp of the University of Nebraska, and Charles E. Hammett of Northwestern University have made an investigation of the practices prevailing in one hundred and fifty collegiate institutions representative of all sizes, locations and degrees of athletic prominence. The undue prominence of the intercollegiate, that is, strenuously competitive, type of games is plainly emphasized. Among the 111,000 students of the institutions under considerations, 18,000 are associated with varsity teams as members or substitutes. From the vagueness of some reports, a definite statement cannot be made as to the number who take part in intramural games, but it appears to be about three times as many as in intercollegiate games. The money expended on intercollegiate sports in 150 colleges is reported as $1,090,000. In some cases, the amount reported is said to include expenditures- also for intramural sports, the proportion not being given. This fact reduces somewhat the expenditure above indicated for intercollegiate sports and makes it impossible to give the exact amount spent for intracollegiate activities. A reasonable inference, however, from the facts submitted would be that not one-tenth as much is spent for intramural as for intercollegiate games.

Despite the fact that the actual numbers participating in intracollegiate sports is about three times greater than those of the more conspicuous group of selected athletes, it is very clear to one who studies the returns from the colleges that only a small fraction of the money spent on intercollegiate games is used to promote general student activities. Surely if the money of the athletic treasury is to be expended for the physical welfare of the general student body rather than for the staging of a few exciting contests which arouse partisan enthusiasm instead of promoting the physique

* See editorials, The Journal A. M. A., Athletic Sports in Relation to Health, March 21, 1913, p. 936; Athletic Sports versus Competitive Athletics, April 4, 1914, p. 1094; The Hygiene of Athletic Sports—Rowing, April 11, 1913, p. 1172.

Digitized by CjOOQle
38

• of the great majority of those concerned, the contribution of the athletic “show" seems unduly prominent. It appears that on intercollegiate sports the large institutions spend the most money per athlete (about $60), but the least per student (about $8), the figures for the medium-sized institutions and the small institutions being respectively $50 and $40 per athlete, and $12 and $13 per student.

After making due allowance for the necessarily approximate character of the reports, the committee is convinced that not more than 50 per cent of the students in college engage in any form of systematic or organized exercise. It feels, moreover, though it has no way of determining to what extent, that 50 per cent is decidedly too high a proportion. The committee calls attention to the necessarily unsystematic and sporadic character of the exercises as participated in by the non-university students. Exercise in any form can be of little value unless taken systematically and regularly. Out of 143 colleges, 53, or 37 per cent, are doing nothing to foster and encourage the types of physical exercise and healthful recreation that the student is likely to use in after-college life; 53 per cent try to create a love of sport by using different games, such as baseball, handball, volley ball, tennis and golf;

21 per cent give corrective exercise; 14 per cent give hygienic lectures; 5 per cent require swimming; 5 per cent have “hikes,” and two colleges teach dancing.

The experts of the National Collegiate Athletic Association believe that intracollegiate sport and recreation should be planned with the constant purpose on view of usefulness in after-life. They are inclined to believe that the conditions revealed by their investigations are due primarily to the lack of appreciation by college authorities and faculties of the vital need of systematic organized instruction in intracollegiate and recreational sports and hygiene.

We are impelled, however, to believe that it is not so much the indifference of collegiate authorities as the dominance of competitive intercollegiate athletics which is responsible for their relative indifference to physical exercise in the very communities in which its value is being taught by lectures and textbooks. The glorification of an overtrained few means their sacrifice in many instances and the diversion of interest from more wholesome but less spectacular sports. As the committee referred to has concluded, the student should be furnished with such ideas of rational exercise and hygiene as will enable him to adapt his habits of er-ercise and modes of living to changing conditions in after-life; that is, he should be trained to think and act of his own initiative in these matters. Some games and exercises can be participated in as intercollegiate sports and can be continued in after-life. Tennis appeals to great numbers in everyday life, but only 65 per cent of the colleges afford the comparatively inexpensive equipment of courts. Baseball requires little equipment; every fairly well-equipped gymnasium can have a swimming pool and each student | should be taught to swim. Social dancing and bowling are especially fitted to the opportunities of after-life. Fencing, wrestling, boxing and Indian club exercises and calisthenics, if made ,

Digitized by v^ooQle
39

interesting and rightly taught, are of substantial value after college; walking and “hiking” can always be indulged in. A period of reconstruction in the whole domain of collegiate athletics is approaching.—Editor, Journal Am. Med. Assoc., June 20, 1914.

THROW AWAY YOUR CARE AT MEAL TIME.

In the process of digestion the mental state is of great importance. As with all the functions of the body, it is necessary to enter into it heartily, i. e., help it along; otherwise, it will be interfered with. This is especially well shown by Pawlow’s experiments on dogs. A lively, hungry dog, which gives its entire attention to its meal, entering into it body and soul, secretes large quantities of gastric juice, while a dog the attention of which is diverted, and which plays about while eating will produce but little of it. The same thing occurs in man; children should, therefore, be strictly forbidden to play while eating — in fact, they should not be at all disturbed during this time. '

For, as has been shown by Pawlow’s'experiments on animals, it is not only upon the gastric digestion that such disturbances act unfavourably, but also upon the digestion which takes place in the intestines, and the propulsion of the food therein. In man one may observe the same effect, and the satisfying of such an imperative demand as that of hunger should be accorded the full attention, if injurious results are to be avoided.

Our Husky City Boys. The result of physical examinations shows that in the National Army the young men from the country are more likely to be rejected as defective than those from the city. This statement was made recently by Dr. J. A. Nydegger, in charge of the United States Public Health Service in Baltimore, as reported in the New York Times. Statistics so far gathered by the Government show, according to Dr. Nydegger, that the number of children and young men defective or in need of medical attention is from 7 to 20 per cent higher in rural districts. While there was an alarming number of instances of poor eyesight, underweight, bad teeth, flat feet, and other defects among young men examined in cities, the results were even more startling in the country, and this was due, says Dr. Nydegger, to the fact that the health of school-children is almost entirely neglected ifi rural schools. Says The Times-.

“While physicians who had made extensive studies of the condition of health and physique of the youth of the country expected the percentage of rejections to be high, few believed that conditions would be as bad as they were shown to be by the medical examinations of drafted men. The showing made by this medical survey will have great moral value in awakening the country to the need for better medical and sanitary care for children in schools, especially in rural schools, Dr. Nydegger said. He added that the United States was behind most European countries in provisions for the health of school-children. In Europe, the

Digitized by UaOOQle
40

need for strong and healthy men for armies has turned the attention of governments to the health of school-children. England was aroused, Dr. Nydegger said, when the medical examination of recruits during the Beer War showed that many were unhealthy and defective and that their troubles in a vast number of cases could be traced to bad physical surroundings and methods in English schools.

“ ‘As soon as the Boer War was over,' Dr. Nydegger said, ‘the British Government proceeded to introduce throughout the United Kingdom a well-devised medical inspection of schools, compulsory athletics, and mild military training to correct, as far as human endeavor was able, the physical defectives. Other European countries arrived at the realization of this defect in their school systems at an even earlier date, and provided systems of athletic training and medical inspection in their schools, beginning with kindergartens.

“ ‘While in this country most of the city schools have adopted medical .inspection, mest of the rural institutions have none. In this lies the fact that the unsanitary conditions in these places produce 75 per cent of the physical defects which are to-day barring men from the United States forces. Defective eyes, ears, teeth, and throats among the youth of rural communities have been found to be due largely to conditions in the rural schools. Improper desks and seats also have caused much spinal curvature, leading to other faulty conditions. These conditions ought to be corrected at once, and school-children all over the country should be examined because defects arising at their period of life as. a rule can not be overcome later.

“ ‘The introduction of a single innovation or procedure is not going to correct all of the physical defects existing in our young men. It must be a gradual process, beginning with an efficient universal medical inspection in our public schools at the age of six years, coupled with a well-devised system of physical training and mild military exercises to harden young men for the more strenuous universal military training which is to follow after schooldays are over.

“ ‘This is a great national problem, and the Federal Government should handle it, or at least cooperate with the States to the extent of seeing that defects are corrected, with the view of remedying conditions, if not for the present generation of young men, for the generations of the future/ ”

DEFECTS AMONG DRAFTED MEN

The November issue of Health News contained a record of the defects found by regular army physicians among volunteers who presumably considered themselves to be well and strong. The examination of recruits for the national army affords a unique opportunity to ascertain the prevalence of physical defects among the general population. The recruits are chosen by lot from the men between the ages of 21 and 30 inclusive, and their number is

Digitized by Google
41

sufficiently large to indicate the prevalence of the defects that exist throughout the adult population.

The exemption of a man from service depends upon two factors:	(1) the discovery of physical signs of defects; and (2)

the examiner's interpretation of the signs. In the second district of Suffolk County, N. Y., four practising physicians living in the district examined 1,200 men in seven days, and exempted 308, or about 25 per cent, for demonstrable defects which the physicians unanimously agreed unfitted the men for the hardships of military service.

The following table gives both the number and percentage of exemptions for the various physical defects:

Tuberculosis of lungs..................

Chest deformities......................

Pott's disease.........................

Hip joint disease......................

Spinal curvature.......................

Heart conditions.......................

Varicose veins.........................

V aricocele............................

Hydrocele..............................

Deformities of extremities.............

Flat foot..............................

Floating cartilage of knee.............

Defective sight........................

Defective hearing......................

Defective teeth........................

Discharging ears.......................

Hernia.................................

Appendix operation, scars tender or weak

Hemorrhoids............................

Active syphilis........................

Fistula................................

Nasal defects..........................

Paralysis of abdominal muscles.........

Depressed fracture of skull............

Mental deficiency......................

Epilepsy...............................

Cnorea.................................

Underweight............................

Overweight.............................

Number	Per Cent
54	4.53
6	0.50
4	0.30
3	0.25
2	0.17
28	2.33
9	0.75
3	0.25
1	0.08
32	2.66
20	1.66
2	0.15
37	3.08
21	1.75
10	0.83
12	1.00
24	2.00
6	0.50
8	0.66
1	0.08
1	0.08
3	0.25
1	0.08
3	0.25
3	0.25
5	0.42
1	0.08
25	2.08
2	0.17

The total is more than the number of persons exempted, for some had two or more defects.

The principal defect, from a public health point of view, was tuberculosis of the lungs. Only 2 persons out of the 54 exempted for that cause had been told by any physician that they might be suffering from the disease, and yet nearly every one was underweight, and every one had lung signs that were found by all four of the examining physicians. One case demonstrated what would probably happen if these men should undergo the physical strain

Digitized by (^.ooQle
42

of war duty. This man was a stout, muscular laborer who, as we were surprised to find, had abundant moist rales in the apices of both lungs. He had been earning about $60 a week by working long hours overtime every day as a carpenter at Camp Upton, and the great physical strain had resulted in reopening latent tubercular spots. He had recently begun to feel overtired, and the advice given to him probably saved him from a complete breakdown.

The percentage of exemption for tuberculosis of the lungs varied in the several districts. The physicians of the first district of Suffolk County exempted 14, or 1.2 per cent, out of about 1,200 examined. The difference in the number of exemptions in the two districts seems to have been due principally to a difference in the interpretation of the seriousness of the physical signs. This opinion is confirmed by the fact that 6.66 per cent of the men examined in the first district were exempted for heart defects, and only 2.33 per cent in the second district.

The number of exemptions on account of poor teeth was no indication of the prevalence of dental defects, for the army standards allowed the acceptance of men who had no upper teeth at all, provided they had plates that fitted well.

The question arises whether or not abnormal heart conditions are preventable by means which are available to practising physicians. Many of the weakened conditions that were discovered were evidently the result of tonsilitis and of over-exertion in athletic sports. It would seem that the relation of these two causes to heart disease should be popularly taught by the Departments of Health and Education.

The great number of preventable and curable defects demonstrates the failure of the present system which leaves their correction entirely to the individuals who are affected. The causes of the failure may be broadly stated to be (1) the inability or unwillingness of people to pay for prolonged treatment; (2) their failure to realize the importance and necessity for persistent care; and (3) the lack of facilities for securing the services of skilled operators and medical advisors. All three of these causes, for example, are usually in operation to prevent the treatment of chronic ear conditions.

Since there is. a failure of private action, the remedy evidently lies in community agencies. The lines of community work are* (1) provision for medical and surgical means of diagnosis and treatment; and (2) the education of the people to accept and seek the means of correction. Both of these lines of work have been begun by the Departments of Health and of Education of New York State, and doubtless will be greatly promoted by the records of the defects revealed by the systematic examination of the army recruits. The immediate result will be to stimulate the thorough and accurate examination of all school children and the treatment of their defects. An ideal development in the future would be the extension of the same system of examination to all adults.

— New York State Health News.

Digitized by v.ooQle
o

43

O'

ATHLETIC NOTES

..... 	11	■■■ ■1	— ■■■	o

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School, New York City.

WORLD'S ROWING CHAMPIONSHIP RACES

Distance Time

Date	Winner	Loser	Where	M.	Yds.	M.S.
1886..	. . W. Beach			.. England . ,	. 4	400	28:29
1886..	. . W. Beach		. W. Rossf		. . England . .	4	400	23:05
1886. .	. . J. Largan		.C. Neilson		. . England ..	. 4	400	27:30
1887..	. ,G. Bubear		. J. A. Ten Eyck..	.. America..	. 3	000	20:16 1-5
1887..	. . G. Bubear		.W. Ross		.. America.. .	3	000	20:00
1887..	. C. E. Courtney.	.G. Bubear		. . Amepca.. ,		ft	19:35
1887..	. . W. Beach		.E. Hanlanf		.. Australia. .	3	440	19:55 4-6
1888. .	. .P. Kemp		.E. Hanlanf		. . Australia. .	3	330	21:36
1888..	. E. Hanlan		.Ed. Trickett		. . Australia. .	-	—	—
1888..	. P. Kemp		E. Hanlanf		. . Australia. .	3	330	21:25
1888..	. . W. Beach		.E. Hanlan		. . Australia..	3	330	21:15
1889..	. . H. Searle		. W. O’Connorf . . .	.. England ..	4	‘440	22:42
1889. .	. N. Matterson,..	.G. Bubear		.. England ..	. 4	440	22:02
1890 .		. W. O’Connorf . . .	.. Australia. .	3	330	22:59
1893 .	. .T. Sullivan		G. Bubear		.. England ..	, 4	440	—
1896..	. C R. Harding. .	T. Sullivan		. . England . .	3	713	21:15
1895..	. C. R. Harding. .	T. Sullivan		.. England . .	4	440	22:59
1896. .		. C. R. Hardingf . .	. .England . .	4	440	21:15
1896. .	.. J. G. Gaudaur. .	. J. Stansburyf. . . .	. .England . .	4	440	23:01
1897 . .	.. Geo. Towns	. W. S. Barry		. .England . .	4	440	22:34
1898..	. .J. G. Gaudaur. .	. R. Johnson		. Vancouver	3	000	20:05 4-5
1901. .	. . G. Towns		. J. G. Gaudaur. . .	..Canada...	3	000	20:30
1905. .		. G. Towns		. . Australia..	3	000	19:50
1910. .	.. R. Amst		. Ernest Barry . . . .	. .Africa . .. .	3	000	19:27 3-5
1912. .	. . Ernest Barry.. .	. R. Arnst		. .England . .	4 1-2 000		23:22
1914. .	. . Ernest Barry .. .	. J. Padden		. . England ..	4 1-2 000		23:14

No races since on account of war.

AMERICAN ROWING CHAMPIONSHIP RACES

Date		Winner	Lose	Distance	Time M. S.
1859—Oct.	11.	.. .Joshua Ward . .	. .T. Daw &c. . .	... 5 miles.	35:10
1862—Aug.	13.	.. . Jas. Hamill. ...	. J. Ward......	.. . 3 miles.	22:27
1862—Aug.	14.	.. .Jas. Hamill. . . .	. .J. Ward		... 5 miles.	37:39
1863—July	23.	. ..J. Ward			... 5 miles.	42:20
1863—Sept •	28.	... J. Hamill		. J. Ward		... 5 miles.	37:38
1864—July	19.	... J. Hamill			... 5 miles.	40:46
1867—May	21.	... W. Brown		. . J. Hamill		. . . 5 miles.	46:30
1867—	Sept.  1868—	June	9.	... J. Hamill		,. . W. Brown . .	... 5 miles.	Sunk
	19.		. .H. Coulter		. .. 5 miles.	37:26.

Digitized by

Google
44

Time

Date		Winner	Lose	Distance	M. S.
1868—Sept.	9. .	. . W. Brown. . . .	. . H. Coulter		t	34:28 1-2
1874—July	8..	. . Geo. Brown...	. . Wm. Scharff... .	. 5 miles.	*
1874—Sept.	26..	. . Geo. Brown . ..	. .E. Morris		. 5 miles.	37:00
1875—Sept.	11..	. ,E. Morris		.. H. Coulter		t	«
1875—Oct.	16..	. .E. Morris		.. H. Coulter		t	35:20
1876—Oct.	21..	. W. Scharff		. E. Morris		. 5 miles.	*
1877—June	9..	. .E. Morris		. . Wm. Schraff. .. .	. 5 miles.	36:45
1877—Oct.	13..	. .E. Morris		. . P. Luther		. 5 miles.	37:05
1878—June	20..	. E. Hanlan		.. E. Morris		. 5 miles.	37:00
1878—Oct.	3..	. .E. Hanlan		.. C. Courtney....	. 5 miles.	—
1885—Oct.	24 .		. .E. Hanlan		. 3 miles.	21:13
1886—June	12. .	.. J. G. Gaudaur.	. . J. Teemer		. 3 miles.	21:20
1887—May	30..	.. J. G. Gaudaur.	. .E. Hanlan		t	19:32
1887—July	23..	. .E. Hanlan		.. J. G. Gaudaur. .	. 3 miles.	20:33
1887—Aug.	13..		. .E. Hanlan		t	19:26
1887—Oct.	28..		.. J. G. Gaudaur . .	. 3 miles.	20:28 2-5
1888—Nov.	24..	.. W. O'Connor..	.. J. Teemer		. 3 miles.	20:33
1893—July	24.	.. J. G. Gaudaur.	. .E. Hanlan		. 3 miles.	19:53

Norse Women Take Indoor Net Titles

Norway has once again triumphed on the tennis courts, for two illustrious players from the North Country, Miss Molla Bjur-stedt and Mrs. Johan Rogge recently won the chief honors in the women's invitation tournament at the Heights Casino in Brooklyn. Miss Bjurstedt, who has established herself as one of the greatest players that the game has produced, displayed her masterly skill in the singles event by defeating Miss Eleanor Goss by a score of 6—1, 6—1. Paired with her fellow-countrywoman, Mrs. Rogge, the Norse girl annexed the doubles final as well. The victims in this instance were Mrs. David C. Mills and Miss Marie Wagner, their defeat being recorded at 6—2, 6—4.

In an exhibition doubles match which followed the women's events, the national doubles team of Frederick B. Alexander and Harold Trockmorton was defeated by two of the leading professional players, Harry McNeal of the Heights Casino and James Bums of the Rockaway Hunting Club, in a sparkling match, with the score, 1—6, 6—4, 11—9, 6—3.

Abington, Mass., Feb. 2. — John L. Sullivan, for ten years America's champion heavyweight fighter and for more than a score of years one of the country's most picturesque characters, died at his home at Abington, Mass., Feb. 1, suddenly, following .an attack of heart disease.

Digitized by Google
O	i	i	i	i

NOTES AND COMMENTS

O —— — —I

THE SOCIAL BENEFITS OF DAYLIGHT SAVING.

Guerrilla methods of committee procedure prevented, during the special session of the present Congress, the enactment of Senator Calder’s daylight-saving bill; the Senate adopted it by unanimous vote but it failed in the House. Hearings on this bill, it has been announced, will be held yearly this year by the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce. Supporters of the movement for turning the clock forward by an hour during the summer months are uniting upon this bill which, having only one house to pass, has a better chance of being enacted than either, of those introduced in the House by Representatives Carlin and Borland.

Similar laws to gain an extra hour of daylight for work and recreation have, during the last two years, become effective in Great Britain, France, Germany, Austria, Italy, Holland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Portugal, Australia and Ireland. While for the most part the respective acts have been in force too short a time to prove conclusively their effect on the economic and social life, this effect, insofar as it has been observed, forms a potent argument for adoption of some such measure here.

The chief source of information on the social effects of daylight saving is a report recently issued by a committee appointed by the British Home Office to enquire into the social and economic results of the summer time act, 1916. “Taking the evidence we have received as a whole,” says this committee, “we can unhesitatingly say that the vast preponderance of opinion throughout Great Britain is enthusiastically in favor of summer time and of its renewal — not only as a war measure, but as a permanent institution.”

In the matter of health, Dr. Frederick Taylor, president of the Royal College of Physicians, after inquiry among fellows of the college, expresses the view that the additional hour of daylight has tended to improve health “from the well-known physiological effects of light upon the biological processes.”

The danger that the arrangement might curtail the number of hours given to sleep with bad effects on health, especially of children, gave occasion to a special investigation; 54 per cent of the English and Welsh education authorities and 20 per cent of the Scottish school boards had evidence confirming the existence of this danger, but the majority reported that only a limited number of children were affected, or that the tendency was confined to the first few weeks before people were fully accustomed to the change.

Warnings were issued to parents, through the school medical services and through care committees, and the committee suggests that action of this kind should be made more effective and more general and that all teachers should be instructed to report to the care committees all cases showing sumptoms of loss of sleep. The Women's Cooperative Guild and many social settlements recorded

I

Digitized by kjOOQle
46

the same tendency to stay up late in the evening and helped in spreading popular education on this point.

Most marked has been the effect of the additional hour of daylight on recreation. The warden of the Robert Browning Settlement in London stated that “in the height of the summer it was as though a Saturday afternoon holiday had been added to each day.” Edward Cadbury, in a report from Boumville, mentioned a great increase in the membership of the athletic club and in the number of persons playing outdoor games. The open air swimming bath was more fully used than ever before, and the gardening classes for boys and girls were able to continue two-hourly meetings a month longer than in previous years.

A consensus of opinion is reported on the part of police authorities to the effect that the general tendency to spend an extra hour of the evening out-of-doors and the easier maintenance of order in daylight had tended to improve the “general moral tone.” In some districts, a distinct lessening of juvenile offenses is attributed by the police in part to the fact that during the operation of the act boys were expected to be home in daylight.

The advantage of the extra daylight to the cultivation of allotments and gardens is obvious. Favorable evidence on this point is very strong.

Space does not permit to reproduce the committee’s evidence on the marked contribution of the scheme to the saving of light and coal and to increased production in industry and agriculture. The estimates of the percentage of reduction in consumption of gas for lighting purposes varied from 2 per cent to 26 per cent, and other economies were equally measurable.— Survey.

Sixth Meeting Capitol District Branch of the New York State Association of Physical Education and Hygiene.

Albany

9:30

9:45

10:00

10:45

11:00

12:00

1:00

1:30

2:15

2:45

High School - - - - 9:30 A.M. - - - February 9th, 1918. Gymnasium Tactics	Dr.	E.	H.	Arnold, Director New

Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

Gymnastic Drill	Mrs.	O.	B.	Bromley.

Address	Dr. E. H. Arnold.

Wand Drill	Dr. E. H. Arnold.

Rhythm Games and Dances Adapted for the Schoolroom. Miss Ruth Slocum, Miss Edythe Hill, Miss Katherine Fleming, Miss Florence Bright.

Luncheon.

Social hour.—Demonstration: Class in Aesthetic Dancing. New York State College for Teachers—Instructor, Miss Jeanne M. Gray.

Discussion of Practical Problems.

Leader, Dr. E. H. Arnold. Games for High School Boys in Small Room with no Desks.

W. C. Bachelor.

Group Work under Squad Leaders. Dr. S. A. MacComber, Charles Kellert, Miss Elizabeth Blake.

Digitized by Google
47

By this time the heating installation in the great army encampments are practically complete, as far as the plans laid out by the Constructing Quartermaster’s office are concerned, but our readers will not fail to notice that where stove heaters have been installed the government officials, as well as heating men generally, have gone on record as stating that this type of heater was used only on account of the exigencies of the situation and that “as a general proposition steam heating would have been favored above furnace heat, but the element of time was the deciding factor.” Again, in the recent discussion in these columns of the substitution of “squad houses” for the regulation army barracks, it is stated that “the best system would be steam heat from a central plant and cast-iron wall radiators in the barracks.”

The barrack buildings constitute the greater part of each cantonment; at Camp Upton, for instance there are 359 barrack buildings.

It is becoming more evident every day that these cantonments are not to be temporary propositions but are to serve as permanent training quarters, not only during the present war, but afterwards, when compulsory military service becomes the law of the land. It is, therefore, of great importance that the makeshift of stove heat for the barracks should be replaced by adequate heating systems as soon as possible and it is none too soon for heating engineers to take up this matter and be prepared, when the first lull comes, to do their part in equipping the camps for permanent service. -—Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

The Commissioner of Education, Dr. P. P. Claxton sent the following letter to some of our well-known physical education teachers.

“The war and the revelations made by the physical examination of volunteers and drafted men have shown clearly the need for the care of the health of our children and young people and for the general use of more effective means of physical training. Out of the interest thus awakened we should get a nation-wide movement for the establishment of health and right-health habits as a part of the education of all children and for such physical training as will give to boys and girls full and complete control of their bodies and limbs and result in a generation of men and women strong and healthy and in every other way physically fit for the duties and tasks of life both in peace and in war.

For a discussion of this subject and ways and means of securing such a movement, I am inviting a few persons whom I know to be especially interested in this matter to meet me in conference at 4:00 p. m., Wednesday, February 27, at the Marlborough-Blenheim Hotel, Atlantic City.

I sincerely hope you can be present and participate in the discussions of the conference.”

The following recommendations were agreed upon at the meeting above mentioned:

Digitized by UaOOQle
1.	That a comprehensive, thorough-going program of health

education and physical education is absolutely needed for all boys and girls, in all elementary and secondary schools, both rural and urban, in every state in the Union.

2.	That legislation, similar in purpose and scope to the provisions

and requirements in the laws recently enacted in New York State and New Jersey, is desirable in every state, to provide authorization and support for state wide programs in the health and physical education field.

3.	That the United States Bureau of Education should be em-

powered by law, and provided with sufficient appropriations, to exert adequate influence and supervision in relation to a nation wide program of instruction in health and physical education.

4.	That it seems most desirable that Congress should give recog-

nition to this vital and neglected phase of education, with a bill and appropriation similar in purpose and scope to the Smith-Hughes law; to give sanction, leadership and support to a national program of health and physical education; and to encourage, standardize and, in part, finance the practical program of constructive work that should be undertaken in every state.

5.	That federal recognition, supervision and support are urgent-

ly needed, as the effective means, under the constitution, to secure that universal training of boys and girls in health and physical fitness which are equally essential to efficiency of all citizens both in peace and in war.

War and the Activation of Health Interests — The

problems of tuberculosis, venereal disease, insanity and recreation which, even with all our highly intelligent and energetic propaganda, have hitherto interested only a handful of specialists, comparatively speaking, have suddenly become the common concern of all the branches of the federal and state governments which have anything to do with the fighting forces, and of everybody who has a son or brother or sweetheart, or even a mere acquaintance, in khaki or serge or linen. The prospects are that the American soldier will be the most “protected” and best cared for individual that the world has ever seen, and that there will be protection and care left over for at least a part of the civil population.—The Survey.

WHERE DO YOU STAND?

Do you Want to Know Nature*! Laws? Are you tired of Disrate and Suffering?

Ignorance of the Law ia no Excuse.

Send 30c cash or stamps for our booklet “HDW I BECAME ACQUAINTED WITH NATURE CURE", by Henry Lindlahr. M. D

NATURE CURE PUBLISHING COMPANY

516 So. Ashland Boul.,	....	CHICAGO,	ILL.