MIND AI^D^DY

Vol. 25	JANUARY,	1919	Nffc

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45^w7jbbn«on St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post of ice at New. Ulm Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

THE DAILY AFTER-SCHOOL ATHLETIC LIFE OF BOYS In the Elementary Schools In the High Schools

By RANDALL D. WARDEN, Newark, N. J.

When the Athenian boy was sent to school he took with him more than likely, the black and blue marks of the contests of the day before. A large part of his schooling was a process, calculated to make a man of him and to cultivate in him a brave, loyal patriotism. To this end he wrestled each morning with his class* mates and afterwards put on the cestus or gloves with his instructor. During the day, besides his rhetoric, he exercised with the shield and sword, practiced with the long bow, hurled the spear, and ran and jumped carrying his accoutrements.

Now, time passes on and the inexorable centuries make their epochs. Then on fields — as of ' The Field of the Cloth of Gold”, lmights and their squires meet in the athletic tournaments of medieval days.

' In the twilight they may sing serenades and write their sonnets which are the belles lettres of the twelfth century curriculum; but in the day time they practice the strenuous arts of knighthood which are to wear bravely a wearysome armor, to joust, to ride, to battle, and to bear silently, for the sake of a rose perchance, incredible hardship.

* Read at the National Convention of the American Physical Education Association Philadelphia, April, 1918.

Digitized by
370

The scene shifts again and at a later day in Merry England we seek our athletic prototype in “Tom Brown at Eton.” Tom is i a modern hero and not more than average in his books, but we admire him because he can win his race and make his fight in the form and at all times play up and play the game.

So athletics of a kind have been featured in all ages and heroism, fortitude, skill at arms, and the noble qualities of sportsmanship have always taken first place in our fiction and in history.

We have thus in our own day only to study the analogy of the past to learn the possibilities of the future. We can assert	i

that athletics may be included as part of education as under the	j

Athenian method or acquired through apprenticeship and serve j as a trade or a profession as in the time of knighthood, or they may be followed as a sport and recreation, as in all Anglo-Saxon countries. '

In America, we shall unquestionably adopt athletics as a necessary part of national preparation henceforth. The striking facts of history have been wars — the battles and fighting of men. j The theory of evolutions has predicated the survival of the fittest. ! In twenty centuries there has been no deviation from the axiom. I When men love ease and comfort and no longer are willing to undergo the hardships of campaigns, the danger of physical encounter or the irksomeness of physical training — then shall others rise to take their places in the infinite struggle.

Will this country learn a lesson from the past? Shall we climb to the front rank of nations only to fail in the end as did Persia, Greece. Carthage and Rome?

Tliis present war has suddenly placed the youth of our nation in training and has brought us up with a shock from our lethargy and indifference to universal physical training. It is imperative that our schools depart from the old American way of carrying on athletics. We must have our entire student body taking part and not have 80 per cent of them sitting on the sidelines.

Already several states have made mass athletics possible as a part of the school curriculum by passing compulsory training ' laws. The following paper deals with after school activities, the daily athletic life of boys in Elementary and High Schools, and I shall attempt to outline the possibilities and the necessity for athletic training.

After school athletics for boys may be classified in four ways:

1.	Competitive sport (team games)	,

2.	Track and Field Athletics (Individual competition)

3.	Competitive Group Games (physiological but not

highly developed in team play)

4.	Efficiency Tests. (Individual measurements for com-

parative classification.)

These can be organized with two general aims:

1.	Compulsory

2.	Voluntary.

It is my belief that athletics should be both compulsory and

voluntary.



Digitized by kjOOQle
371

Let us take up first — compulsory aims. •

Under this heading we must have above all, Efficiency Tests for boys and girls in athletics.

Each pupil must be helped to pass the standard. This can only be done by compulsory training.

Any physical training department can work out an Efficiency Test f6r boys to consist of: a dash, chinning the bar, running high jump, or any similar group which develops speed, strength ,and coordination.

A like test for girls may consist of: a dash, travelling hand over hand on a horizontal ladder, and dancing.

Of course, the girls test will depend on the apparatus available and upon other conditions incident to the locality.

A test having been worked out either on a grade basis or on an age basis or on an age and weight basis or any other basis, the next thing is to have the local Board of Education authorize this as one of the tests of the curriculums and issue a certificate to all pupils successful in passing the test.

This is not a hard proposition to put through if it is handled properly.

Last year, there were ten thousand six hundred and eighty-four pupils given the Efficiency Test in Newark. This is exactly half of the boys and girls in our Grammar grades. Half of our schools took the Efficiency Test and the other half were permitted to take up school gardening as a patriotic measure.

Compulsory training for these Efficiency Tests is very necessary and must be thoroughly organized to bring successful results, but with proper organization, track and field training may also be carried on at the same time.

The following plan is recommended as having been successfully carried on for several years.

At the dismissal at noon, or at 3:30 P. M. the classes march in line to assigned stations for running, jumping, chinning the bar, etc. under the direction of their teachers. These stations may be in courts, halls, basements, yards or streets. The lines, lanes and starting marks are permanently prepared, lines painted, jumping standards permanent, and bars erected, for the events, to be run off exactly as for a meet. Starters, judges and timers chosen from the students or from the faculty take their stations and three minutes after the dismissal bell the races or field events are under way. As soon as each boy has finished his trial and has his record taken by the scorer, (the teacher) he goes off to his home. In this way the lines gradually thin out until all have had a trial. This daily practice together with helpful hints from the coach leads to surprising results. I have seen this organization carried out repeatedly in a school, say of one thousand pupils and twelve minutes after the bell for dismissal, the streets and yards were empty of both pupils and teachers. And what is more to the point, the first school to put this plan in operation won the greatest number of points in the annual athletic meet three years in succession.

Digitized by
372

The records kept are invaluable marks in physical efficiency. Valuable in stimulating effort and showing failure or progress.

The official character and publicity of the records act as a spur to : indifferent performers and skillful performers are rewarded by I being easily sorted out from the mass and given extra training for school teams. The above' organization is simple but thoroughly practical under almost any condition. It requires the leadership of the principal of the school and teachers can be easily brought to see the advantage of training thus gained, through organization.

Certain teachers will show an aptitude and enthusiasm for this virile form of school training, such teachers can be used as coaches. It is the business of the supervisor to hold meetings ' for these teachers ard give them irstruction in "how to teach.” These meetings may also be held for leaders classes among the eighth year boys who may be trained as coaches.	'

For all boys who pass the efficiency test, certificates should be given by the Board of Education. These certificates fill exactly the same function as testimonials for attendance and good scholarship. They shruld be engraved and should set forth the record ‘ of the individual in the various events. The public school athletic association may give in addition, a seal such as is put on a legal document. This stamrs the certificate for special meritorius performance, thus any pupil passing with a higher average than 90 per cent may be given a gold seal, those passing between eighty and ninety per cent may be given a blue seal, while those passing between seventy and eighty per cent may be given a red seal. This adds highly to the value and importance of the certificates in the minds of the pupils.

Another type of athletics which may be listed under the compulsory classification are the competitive group games. These may be handled in much the same manner as the efficiency training. Entire classes can go to the yard in charge of their teachers and carry on such group games as:

(a)	Relays Obstacle relay Vaulting relay Shuttle relay

Pig Back relay etc.

(b)	Team Play Tug-of-war

Progressive Dodge Ball Association Football Battle ball Wicket ball Captain ball Volley ball Newcomb

Where these group games are played it will be necessary to ! have fewer groups and certain classes may be assigned for play on certain days. These games need not be more than twelve j
373

minutes in duration, and the pupils will be dismissed as soon as the game is finished.

Teams may be selected by the teacher as follows:

Note:	Teams	must	be	relatively	equal	in order that one group

shall not always win.

Therefore selection may be made by and in accordance with the boys’ efficiency records. In a relay for instance: the boy with the highest percentage will be captain of the first team, the next highest percentage will be captain of the second team, then the next in order will belong to the second team while the fourth on the list will go to the first; and so on throughout the entire class. After the winners have been determined new combinations of the two teams may be made by denoting the captains. The next below them in percentage of efficiency taking their places as captains and the old captains changing teams. As often as necessary this process of denoting captains and promoting the next in order may be followed out. As the teacher discovers the best captains they can be permanently appointed.

The supervisor should hold regular meetings for the captains and talk should be given these men on leadership, rules in coaching, training and the ethics of sport.

After four weeks of this preliminary preparation inter-room competition should be inaugurated.

When the time comes for inter-room sport the supervisor should enlist the co-operation of the press and on each Monday morning the paper should print the schedules for the yveek. Most local papers will be glad to do this and it will arouse not only public interest in the school sport but will be a real convenience for the teachers. The schedules can be cut out of the paper and posted in each room or on the school bulletin board. The schedule would appear in the paper something after the following manner:

Baseball Schedule

Monday, June 3—Avon Avenue School.

8th	year	Miss	Martin’s	class	vs.	Miss	Carlisle’s	class

7th	“	Miss	Liedtke	“	vs.	Miss	Maurus	“

7th	“	Miss	Decker	“	vs.	Miss	Madison	“

6th	“	Miss	Barclay	“	vs.	Miss	Frank	“

Bergen Street School..

8th year Miss Mohair’s class vs. Miss Smith’s class 7th	“	Miss Wood	“	vs.	Miss	Gerhard	“

7th	“	Mr. Miller	“	vs.	Miss	Ward

6th	“	Miss Lantz	“	vs.	Miss	Preger	“

In this way schedules are made out for all the schools in the system. Where schools cannot play baseball, games must be selected suitable for the conditions. For instance, if baseball cannot be played, possibly pin-ball can be played, or there can be tug-of-war competition, or newcomb, or even dodge ball.

The results of these games are sent to the office of the supervisor and the next week the new schedule is printed in the newspaper. With an eight room league there would be a series of

Digitized by CjOOQle
374

seven games played and the team winning with the highest percentage would win the league.

To make up a schedule in an eight team league proceeds as follows:

(5)	1-2					
	1-3	2 3				
(6)	1-4	2-4	3-4			
(3)	1-5	2-5	3-5 4 5			
	1-6	2 6	3-6 4 6	5-6		
(4)	1-7	2 7	3-7 4-7	5-7	6-7	
(2)	18	2-8	3-8 4-8	5-8	6-8	7-8
	(1)	(3)	(5) (2)	(6)		(4)
(1)	' (2)	(3)	(4)	(5)	(6)	(7)
1-8	1-7	2-8	1-6	3-8	1-4	6-8
2-7	2-6	3-7	2-5	4-7	2-3	5 7
3-6	3-5	4-6	3-4	5-6	5-8	2-4
4-5	4 8	1-5	7-8	1-2	6-7	1-3

These leagues should be under the management of an organization developed in each school. This organization can be built up in imitation of our major league associations with a president, and a board of managers. These officers should select the officials and mete out discipline to the players. Protests should be made to the president in writing and action should be taken by the Board of managers. Captains and players should be fined or suspended for breach of discipline and players showing evidence of sufficient skill should be sent up for trial on the school team, his teacher receiving credit in stars on a service flag which shall be hung in the room. The president of the league should have sole control of the umpires. I believe this would be most excellent training for boys in self-government and organization and better training in civics than many eighth grade teacher gets across in the classroom.

We now see that under organization, compulsory methods may be used to carry on track and field athletics, efficiency tests and competitive group games. We can do this after the regular hours of school, either at the noon hour or after the afternoon session. The method requires a high degree of organization but consumes little time, gives thorough training to all, enables records to be kept, and is a recreation rather than a duty for the teachers.

Newark’s record of athletics is as follows:

Boys	Boys	Boys	Boys	Boys	Boys	Boys	Total

in	in	in	in	in	in	in	boys in

Group	Effi-	Ath-	base-	bas-	Soc-	Pin-	Gram-

Games ciency	letics	ball	ket	cer	Ball	mar

Test Track	ball	grades

School	Field

Abington	196	196	196	100	196	196
Alexander	268	268		18	10 200	268
Avon	338	338	300	200	150	338
375

Belmont	355	355	
Bergen	345	345	300
Berkeley	167	167	80
Burnet	110	294	80
Camden	167	167	75
Carteret	198	198	
Central		298	150
Charlton	468	468	
Chestnut	241	241	
Cleveland	399	399	200
Eliot	204	204	
Fifteenth	246		
Fourteenth	287		150
Franklin	307	307	200
Garfield	211	211	211
Hamburg PI.	281	200	80
Hawkins	65		
Hawthorne	288	288	150
John Catlin	50		
Lafayette			
Lincoln	103		75
Madison			
McKinley			60
Milford	222		
Miller	348	348	100
Monmouth			
Montgomery			
Morton			
Newton	270		200
Ridge	122		100
Robert Treat			
Roseville	45		
South	90		
South 8th			150
So. 10th	217		150
Summer Ave.			30
Sussex			
Warren	165		
Boys’ Voc’l.			
Washington	156		50
Waverly			
Webster	120		
West Side	300		'00

			100	358
200	175	200		345
80		50		167
	75			294
25	75			167
	50		75	198
	77		77	298
100				468
50'	25			241
	200			399
50	50			204
				246
75	50			287
75	75	50	50	307
75	80	30	200	211
80	80			281
			50	65
50	50	150	50	288
				198
				394
100				103
	84		120	319
				368
25	25		50	,222
		75		348
50	50			192
	100		100	336
				164
			100	270
50	75			122
	175			414
				45
25				90
25	50			322
		25		217
30			150	217
75				222
25	75	20		161
	75			
25	50			156
20				86
40	< 1	30		120
				300

Totals

7611

7 1668 2021	826	1272	10912

22398

744

Grand Total____	_____________________

Total Teams

. Schools

It is not practical to organize the high school athletic training as in the grammar schools. The teachers are not as closely associated with the pupils nor are they as enthusiastic about the

Digitized by Google
I

376

general training of the pupil being specialists of some branch of the curriculum, but more than all high school principals do not ask: as much of their teachers as is asked in the‘grammar schools. This tends to more exclusiveness on the part of the teaching corps and the physical training department can get less cooperation.

A hard problem therefore, confronts the physical director who wishes to do his duty by the masses of the pupils under him. The best that can be done is to organize room i teams and play off a schedule of games in each class. Few nigh school physical directors have developed to any marked degree, organizing ability. Of course, there is an excuse for this. They are often too busy with regular class work and too fagged at the end of the day to use up any more energy and gray matter on such a master proposition as organization. Organizers are teachers raised to the nth degree with marked personal magnetism and leadership. They accomplish their plans by making them plausible and influencing other people to carry them out.

A head of department in physical training in the high schools in the future must mean ability to organize the many important features which are to become a part of physical training. High school principals must take a more sympathetic attitude than evei before towards sport and athletics, they ought to realize the importance of physical training as well as mental training, but too few of them do. If the principals of the high schools will give their encouragement and backing to the physical training department afier school training can be carried on in the high schools as well as in the grammar schools; but it must have the firm hand of the principal to coordinate the many conflicting interests. The glee club, the debating club, and the French club must all have, their day too, only the principal can arrange these after school activities so that all will receive their due.

With the principal’s show of interest and influence, it is possible to develop leadership among boys of high school years. This training should be valuable to them. Indeed it might be one of the most valuable preparations for after life that the school could give. With the boys themselves then as a basis, organize your after school athletic training. Leagues should be developed to include the classes of each year in tht high school.

The handicap of lack of facilities will interfere in many instances, but something can be worked out even if it is only a contest of vaulting the horizontal bar for height.

High school boys should have an efficiency test. This test should be part of the work of the gymnasium and the gymnastic period.

Tests are valuable if only to check up the progress classts are making in their gymnasium work. Without them the teacher has no basis for determining the individual’s physical growth and muscular power.

I	venture that much of the high school instruction in gymnastics if analyzed would show no definite measurable result. The training given our soldiers does show results. They can

Digitized by

Google
377

hike a certain distance, they can jump over the top — they can fence with a bayonet. Our gymnasium training should lead to some tangible accomplishment. Until it does we can never hope to have the enthusiastic participation of the pupils or the devoted backing of our principals. When we can promise to teach every boy to play baseball, ride horseback, or turn a handspring, then we shall get plenty of cooperation from everywhere. Therefore, I believe in efficiency tests.

Group Games

. In high school athletics, group games should be carried on just as they are in the grammar schools. Some change may be made iu the list, and the list may be supplemented by:

1.	Push Ball

2.	A fireman drill (this consists of leaping into nets

from ladders of various heights).

3.	Hare and hound races — from one to three miles.

These events can be run off in room competition and a great

deal of interest roused, if the organization is carefully planned.

Voluntary Type of After-School Athletics

In both the elementary and high schools the voluntary type of after school athletics will deal with the teams which are finally chosen to represent the school in inter-school competition. These teams are important.. Every school ought to be represented by players who are the best to be developed under the compulsory training of the classroom leagues. These teams may be given expert coaching. This may be the duty of the physical training department, or one of the qualified teachers of the faculty, but no coaching should be allowed by outsiders brought in simply to turn out winning teams, and under no authority to the school.

Every city should be supplied with open fields where sports can be played. It is advisable that these fields be under the direction of the Board of Education. Cities should be divided into districts and each district should have its own leagues, the winners of these I eagues coming together for a final championship series.

War has established the fact certified to by all of the leading generals that the enlisted athletes have shown superior soldier qualities over the ordinary enlisted man. If it is true, then it is worth while developing compulsory athletics as a part of our national education.

HABIT BENDING

By GEORGE VAN NESS DEARBORN, Cambridge, Massachusetts, Professor of Psychology and Education, Sargent Normal School, Cambridge; Psychologist to the Forsyth Infirmary for Children, Boston, Mass.

If I have succeeded in making myself fairly clear in the three preceding discussions, it must be now understood by my readers that our “philosophy” of habit-control in' children in essence is a real and thorough understanding of habit, plus an insistent self-interested determination to be always master. Real knowledge

Digitized by Google
378

of habit; self-confidence; and a persistent and efficient will— these are the familiar three factors of the plan. The only novelty lies in an insistence that it is practicable for application to very	j

young children, at the one age in fact when self-mastery is of most	!

use. “To be fore-warned is to be fore-armed.” The principle ] of habit formation and habit-control should be as commonplace and as effective in the mind of the child as he grows up as is the obligation to be honest or kind or “polite”. The simple-enough idea that underlies is the insuring for the child an intelligent J self-control from the first, in cold and calm behavior as well as i in emotion or other excitement.

In habit-psychology as elsewhere the sincere intentions or [ motives of the individual are of some account; whether the in- | tentions to perform acts never performed are missiles torn up from the pavement of Avernus, we need not stay to discuss. For what counts most and so far as we actually know wholly, in habit-formation, is the action itself, the deed and not the motive, since habit ! is inconceivable save in a material mechanism. A motive is the	1

meaning of an action, but on the other hand, an act may crystalize	j

and materialize a meaning, bringing it into the range of common life. Thus a habit, an over materialized action often comes to have and to retain a well-defined meaning from which there is little chance that the irrational or uninformed or weak-willed person ever will escape; it is part of the vast law of 1 fe.

It’s indeed “a poor rule that will not work both ways,” and fortunately for the freedom of the human will, the very principle that underlies the fixing of habits underlies also their solution.

As the twig is inclined the tree doth grow, and to straighten it without breaking, to bend it back into the ideal position designed by Nature, is to do something hard to do, but hence all the more worth while. But as habits form with ever-accelerating momentum, so in like increasing ease, do they bend back to naturalness. And in many cases, the bending is at least as rapid as the slow, wrong growth- though how infinitely much harder and less pleasant when the moral victory of conquest gives no compensating joy!

The unfixing of harmful motor habits is the same process and therefore the same problem as the unbending of habits in general, since all of them have a well defined bodily basis—if one can only trace it out. Before we take up in some detail this procedure, let me repeat a paragraph from a recent scientific article,* dealing with generalities:

Physiologically we may think of a motor habit (and probably all habits) as a set of kinesthetic impulses or strains, passing from the parts most concerned into the great cortex. When these strains have continued relatively long without much variation, in some way as yet wholly indefinable, they impress the central nervous system, probably the extremely sensitive and delicate neurones of the cortex in particular, and tend pro tanta to dominate

f G. V. N. Dearborn: “Habit and Malocclusion”. Medical Record," 88, IS, 3 Oct., ’15.
behavior. It is worth noting (and, so far as I know, it has not been noted adequately heretofore) that is not the formation of a motor habit is a pleasant process or one that gives obvious distinct satisfaction, but, on the other hand, that opposition to the habit gives distinct unpleasantness, often of an acute kind. How extremely unpleasant, for example, it is not to frighten away a fly lit on the tip of one’s nose. Here is inhibitory kinesthesia hard to ignore! It would be more accurately scientific to say that the formation gives pleasantness which is, however, largely or wholly subconscious, while opposition to the habitual kinesthetic set causes conscious unpleasantness. A theoretic pessimist might argue pessimism from this:	The	formation of habits gives us no pleasure,

but to break them is f>ain. “Facile est descensus Avemi, sed—,” etc. Many habits, of course, have extraneous pleasure connected with their formation, but intrinsically the process seems regularly to be a subconscious one. As I have elsewhere shown, the actuating phase of kinesthesia is subconscious. On the other hand, the inhibitory kinesthetic strains or impulses are conscious, and when violently opposed may be intensely unpleasant. When the case is one of breaking a habit the unpleasantness may be so great that in practice it dominates the behavior at the time, and oftentimes of course subconsciously, if not deliberately in consciousness, influences the mind of the individual strongly enough to become a permanent motive, preventing the breaking of the habit. Here, then, we see the pure science of the principle, which amounts to a rule of practice, for the overcoming of bad motor habits, especially in older children, to which we shall recur later on:	Do not at-

tempt to break a habit in a bold and direct way; always try to be rid of it by replacing it with another habit quite as persuasive physiologically and mentally, and not injurious. In this way the individual is given whatever of satisfaction or of pleasantness (not to say, sometimes, actual pleasure) accompanies the formation of a habit while, on the other hand, the inhibitory unpleasant kinesthesia is kept at a minimum, the contest being thus a purely neural and physiologic battle, little concerned with the conscious will of the individual, and thus economical.

As an illustration of a habit (to be bent) with a least number of mental elements concerned in it, let us suppose a boy of ten one night finds himself unable to go to sleep, or to compose himself for sleep even, unless he have his arms, or sometimes when he is very tired only one arm, under his head or lying stretched out above it on the pillow. Being an intelligent boy, already interested in his “internal workin’s” physical and mental, just for the fun of the thing and to prove that he’s the master of his own arms and “his own sleep,” he sets out to overcome this almost purely static motor habit. In the first place, he is vastly surprised to find that it was a habit—“he had never noticed that he had to do it,” not indeed until he began to try to show himself that he didn’t have to. Even after his arms had taken their habitual position, he found it perfectly possible, but actually not quite easy, to place his arms along his sides. But what actually

Digitized by i^ooQle
380

amazed Master Bender, was that in about ten seconds or even less this now unaccustomed position of his arms, although in every anatomic respect perfectly natural, became positively unpleasant, ■ so much so, indeed almost painful, that he always was strongly j impelled to put his arms back under his head. And those nights when he did so, “for the experiment,” he knew nothing more, j for he went immediately to sleep, to awaken in the morning not j a little chagrined that for still another night this absurd little harmless habit “kept ahead of him,” and prevented him from being a real “captain” even of his own arms!

But nearly every night this	real personality of a boy	made

an effort to overcome this habit	by deliberately placing his	arms

at his sides, although perhaps as	often as not meanwhille he	went	i

to sleep with them under his head. In about three weeks,	how-	!

ever, of effort only at sleep-time, the unpleasantness of having them elsewhere gradually passed away. Two or three years form- * ing twenty or so intelligent efforts in as many days were sufficient ; in his case to take away from the new muscle-joint (	)	sen-

sations that actual and at first acute unpleasantness which prevented j them from permitting the arm-postures they represented. The ' question as to just what gives these new unhabitual sensations their acute disagreeableness is a pretty question for psychology to answer; especially since the “new” posture gives no unpleasantness save in relation to the bending of this habit, not during the day. The writer’s Leipzig-article on kinesthesia seems to furnish the key to the lock:	the restraining nerve-action is inherently un-

pleasant, and in the cerebral presence of potential pleasant sensa- i tions that are denied reality, becomes so disagreeable as to be only with much difficulty and effort maintained. I believe this to be the psychologic secret of the extraordinary persistence and fixity of some motor habits.

The Bender boy found that the oncoming of sleep at first was the signal for the arms, gradually or more often suddenly, to go up into their long-accustomed position. He found too that any kind of excitement (such as the fire in his school with its tragic results, or the playing of the deciding game in the baseball season the next afternoon) acted just as did sleep coming on to drive out of even his earnest and persistent mind his fine restraining intentions. It was also a very instructive point to our curiosity-impelled boy that the parts of the body such as the limbs, (both legs and arms) so very readily grow, as it will, into fixed tendencies to pose. He found it much like a mass of liquid pure rubber hardened in a mold: easily altered in form, but always quick to return when allowed to do so to the molded shape. We must add in this connection that such tendencies to “set” in a motor sense must be at the bodily basis of all habits whatsoever, only that in the so-called general habits'the basis is less easy to define.

Now let us summarize in a few words our newly acquired facts about the pure psychology of habit-bending and then go on to the more practical side of this important process: The bending out of an old mechanized motor habit involves each time the
381

bending is tried not only a loss of the. pleasantness that comes from making the action (or keeping the posture) in the habitual way, but it involves at the same time the more or less effortful and unpleasant substitution of some other action (or posture) which should be more pleasant, than that restrained. After a few controls, however, the replacing action begins to consciously gain in pleasantness as it too becomes habitual, and so more and more to compete with the proscribed habitual movement. With a strong regardless will behind it the competing new action is sure to win the struggle and that too regardless of pleasantness or its contrary. If we substitute for the habit movements already easy and perhaps pleasant, this supremacy must come all the sooner especially in very young children in whom the will to persist as a voluntary effort is relatively weak.

The actual procedure of bending habits away may be suggested by explaining a bit about nine or ten more or less distinct factors and aspects of the process. These are sure to overlap a little; but on the other hand by so doing they all the more completely cover the ground before us:	Habit-bending	(Their	rela-

tive order has no significance,) 1. Self-interested protection is to be made a rule of conduct. 2. Bad habits, more or less readily bent, should seldom, in children, be "broken.” 3. All fear and worry and all punishment that can shock, are wholly incompatible with habit-hygiene. 4. Continual and explicit encouragement as to ability, progress, etc., is requisite. 5. Bend only one habit at a time. 6. Replace at first a habit, by some harmless and if possible pleasant substitute. 7. Throw over the bending the glow and glory of all human achievement. 8. When necessary, support and enthuse the habit-bending with the vigor of brain and of muscle derived from farm-life or its equivalent.

9.	Habit-control is its own reward yet the gratuities are often princely.

1.	Self interested protection is to be made a rule of conduct. This basal constituent of the method has been already explained and urged at length in the previous articles of this series. It will be recalled that explicit adapted information regarding habit is an important part, and determination based on belief and appreciation another part. The restraint-effort is impressed on the subconscious aspect of the mind as well as on the fully conscious, and so becomes continuous in action and itself a habit. Every normal child will do for his present and his future self as well (in the psychologic, real sense) as he knows how to do; if this be not true, the method fails, but it is true.

2.	Bad habits, more or less readily bent, in children should seldom be “broken”. The contrast intended here between "bent” and "broken” relates to the shock apt to come to the very sensitive nerves of the rapidly growing and naive child from sudden changes, in the established order of nervous events. Children, having more intelligence, are far more adaptable than are the brute animals, but the behavior of even a very knowing dog when any habit-series is suddenly altered has instructive in-
382

I

formation for us all:—he shows signs of mental confusion for he hides under the couch, refuses to be companionable, will take no interest in things external until the depressive emotion has passed. The powers of resistance of children in all sorts of respects have regularly been greatly over-estimated, and their delicacy and fatiguability greatly Underestimated. One common reason for this undoubted fact is that the evil results may come only after months or after years, and therefore are apt not to be associated with their true cause at all. But as all the world knows now, Freud has shown that severe hysteria frequently follows a nervous shock suppressed, twenty or even thirty years after it had been received. The sudden material changing of an established order of nerve-impulses in a child is certainly liable to produce disturbances of a harmful kind. One does not, then, with safety tie the hands of a child, for example to prevent “them” from continuing a bad habit—the human personality of mind and body is all that kind of an organism. Only at a crude period of human wisdom could the advice to cut off the right hand that offends have been given; we now appreciate that it is not the hand that offends but the entire personality. Control to be safe must come from the co-ordinating nerve centers within and never from Even in the hospitals for the insane they are beginning to understand at last this basal principle of personality.

3. All fear and worry and all punishment that can shock, are wholly incompatible with habit hygiene. The psychology of this extremely essential “rule” of habit-bending has just been suggested: Shocks of a severe effect may be inflicted on a child’s mind and show their bad effects only after weeks or months or even many years. Nearly all cases of St. Vitus dance, for example, give a plain history of some kind of fright and probably all would do so could they be uncovered. Goiter at times is now classed as a worry-produced affection. This whole matter of the dire effects of fear and worry (chronic fear) has been set forth so often and so emphatically of late, that we may not repeat the facts, -save that we now know the changes that occur in the actual nerve-cells; they may be plainly seen under the microscope. Habit-bending is incompatible with fear and shock— it is not that kind of a problem at all.

On the other hand, the ingenious mother will make use of. new pleasant emotions and feelings in the conditions substituted for the habit.

4.	Explicit and continual encouragement as to ability, progress, etc., is requisite. One of the two chief reasons for i his is the principle of the sthen-euphoric ratio; and the other is the more direct and explicit control thus suggested over the actual bodily parts concerned, thus bending the habit away more rapidly. The sthen-(“energy”) euphoric (“happiness") ratio or index, not as hard as it sounds at first, points out that life-satisfaction, joy. happiness, is in intimate relation so far as quantity is concerned, with the amount of energy expended and work accom-pli-hed. Happiness makes all life more active and in general

Digitized by kjOOQie
383

more efficient and more productive. This principle of relationship applies as well to habit-bending as to any other work-requiring process of the child. The children as well as the mothers will be gratified when this “rule” is generally put into practice.

5. Bend only one habit at a time. Were habit-bending a reflex process requiring little conscious attention from the boy or girl concerned, this suggestion would be less important than it is, for many reflexions can and do occur simultaneously. But bending away habits requires deliberate attention and effort, is, in technical term a “voluntaiy” movement, and, as we haye already noted in a previous article, only one truly deliberate action can be made at once. Sherrington showed this to the scientific world, but our grandmothers, heaven bless ’em!, have known it, and told us so, all along:	“one thing at a time and that done well”—. A habit-bending effort is a “thing” in the sense of this wise old saw.

6.	Replace a habit by some harmless and if possible pleasant substitute. The habit-concern of the sense-impressions (kinesthesia) arising in the moving parts, we have considered above, but it is here that their chief application becomes explicit. We must as rapidly as possftle raise a competition with the satisfactions of the habitual action and see that the pleasantness of the new movements ( restraints are “movements” in the physiologic sense) soon exceeds that of the forbidden habit-action. Culler (1912) emphasized this principle as the result of actual experiment, and compared the conditions of a habit to a river: it is safer not to completely and eternally dam the habit-action (it should not be “broken”) but rather to divert the impulse into other channels. “Let the reformed resist the temptation to drink by every time taking some light refreshment, which will give a definite response to the stimulation but which will exclude the former,” he says. And as we pass over his work it is interesting to note that his observations quite corroborate our own notions (under “skill”) as to the relation of intelligence and adaptability— for example to the displacing of a bad habit. “The more complex the situation is and the more it calls for adaptability and adjustment in the face of interference, the more does the individual ability appear”.

The parent can use any amount of ingenuity most usefully in choosing or devising substitute activities suited to the habits she wishes to be displaced by her child.	 \

7.	Throw over the bending the glow and glory of all human achievement. This needs little enlargement although of very much importance in the mind of every fine child. All girls and boys wish to be thought able and clever. And now and then there’s one who will stand a touch of “heroics” without receiving harm. This particular bending-precept is valuable at any rate as a reminder of how completely every aspect of the personality, soul and mind and body, is concerned in this fundamental training of the girl and boy, mothers and fathers of women and men, world without (visible) end. Xo purpose whatever else reaches

Digitized by v^.ooQle
.384

in dignity and worth this transcendant privilege of giving and training life.

8.	When	necessary, support and enth.use the habit-	:

bending with	the vigor of brain and of muscle derived from	!

farm life or its equivalent. "Back to the farm!” is one

of the	most prominent "slogans” of the day. To my mind one	!

of the	greatest	problems of our crowded civilization is how to get	j

people, when they have children to raise, to go to "the farm,” oiit into the country where there is absolute necessity of building up a neuro-musculo-glandular system which will not allow itself ; to be beguiled into one-sidedness, into bad habits unworthy the independence of human womanhood and manhood. The ideal place is the New England farm up among the steep hills of Ver- ; mont or New Hampshire, for here every possible variety of movement and crude, health-giving exercise can best be developed; and the interest is manifold even if the variety of food be small!

Out-of-door exercise and plenty of sleep- that is the dual i but shortest road to a strong nervous system. Than to live in some place or in some way so that these are amply available, I do not know any other certain way; in fact I would suggest in every case of bad habit that we should urge on the parents the absolute necessity of the victim getting a long and real vacation in the real country. I believe that ordinarily that will have more immediate benefit than anything else they could do, and be wholly safe and hygienic, and as speedy, too, in its action as the conditions of organic life allow.

A change of location and of surroundings assists in breaking up habits in so far as the changes invigorate the organism. When you travel in Europe, hoping to get away from your worries, you hardly succeed in leaving them behind, but in so far as travel or change invigorates, as it often does, I should say that it would lessen all abnormal functional conditions, so long as it does not tire.

Farm-life or its equivalent on the modern expertly conducted playground, with enough of psychology in its plan, (Ernst Hermann, for example, has much in his], puts boys and girls "on edge”, as the athletes say, strong and keen both at once to do things. And as all parents ought to know, the girls and boys when in this highly normal condition will often invent difficulties to overcome when no real ones oppose their energetic ambition to do things. For bad cases, then, of habits that really impede evolution, this means to busy normality and vigor and enthusiasm to accomplish much, i is sometimes the one saving procedure, and is often worth whatever it may cost.

9.	Habit control is its own reward—yet surely the gratuities are often princely. For a girl to become captain of her soul, and for a boy to become, by his own efforts, master of his fate (to use again Henly's familiar terms) is to win already the best that existence, as we know it, can afford. It is not the character or the million or the high place in life that counts— hut the winning of these in a world where competition is keen. I But habit-bending is for a purpose (like most other contests) seem- I
385

ingly outside itself. Bad habits impede some way or some other way, and to lose them is to make the productive life-machine more efficient, more largely productive of health and wealth and love and happiness.

GENERAL PEDAGOGY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Principles of Progression.

There are a number of rules of progression tho not quite general in nature which may nevertheless be applied to most of the branches of physical education and whose application simplifies instruction and leads to quick results. They aid the teacher to progress in his work step by step, making the learning of new movements and activities easier and at the same time maintaining interest. Their application also enables the instructor to get more effective results than if he were to present his work without any regard for them. He must be able to notice in his pupils a constant increase in skill and co-ordination, a gradual improvement in muscular tone and strength, as well as in speed, endurance and other qualities resulting from physical education work, all of which increase vitality and power of resistance. The following six principles are of importance.

(11 The principle of structure.

\2) The principle of movements with reference to their relation to the parts of the body involved.

(3)	The principle of direction.

(4)	The principle of weight transference.

(5)	The principle of equilibrium, or, base and lever.

(6)	The principle of speed and frequency.

The principle of structure. Most of the activities employed in physical education may be analyzed into their component parts, consisting in their final analysis of simple movements of the single parts of the body. Just as a builder constructs a structure by adding stone upon stone, so the physical educator gradually builds up activities, adding element to element in his teaching process, but only after each single part has been thoroughly mastered. This means a constant increase in co-ordination and skill, thus gradually acquiring control of the entire body. This is true when progressing from simple to complex, of all branches of physical education. To illustrate: in free exercises we progress from .the simple two-movement exercises to alternations, to sequences and to the more complex forms. The same is true in dancing and apparatus work as well as in tactics, in all of which the progression is easily observable if one is familiar with these systems of activities. We also progress from simple to complex in games and athletics, in the former from the simple unorganized group games to those of low and high organization; in the athletics from the simpler events such as are performed by boys and girls, to the difficult, strenuous ones practiced by men and women.

The principle of movements with reference to their relation to the parts of the body involved. This rule also

Digitized by C.ooQle
386



shows the way toward a gradual growth of bodily control, and amplifies the preceding principle. It is more specific in nature and explains more accurately how skill is developed. Thus, it is easier to first teach movements which are similar in their nature and of like parts of the body as, raising both arms or both knees, . than movements which are dissimilar in nature, but of like parts of the body as, raising one arm and bending the other. When considering movements with reference to their relation to one another we must have at least two movements in mind, and these may be either similar or dissimilar. It is quite obvious that progression should be from similar to dissimilar movements regardless of whether they are performed by two like parts of the ' body or by two different parts. Movements with reference to the parts of the body involved progress from like to unlike parts; i. e., it is easier to move like parts of the body as both aims or both legs, than unlike parts of the body as the arm and the trunk. Briefly j stated, the progression is from similar to dissimilar movements of ' like to unlike parts. Although this principle is general in appli- ( cation it is most evident in the free exercises with and without ; hand apparatus and on the apparatus and in dancing.

The principle of direction. This is of considerable value in developing and training the sense of direction, and it is an important factor in the progression of a number of activities. When applied to movements of the body from place the difficulty increases in the order from forward to sideward to backward. In combined activities where movements of more than one body part are performed simultaneously, progression is from like to opposite : to unlike directions; i. e., two different parts are first moved in the 1 same direction, then in opposite direction to each other and finally in different directions to each other: e. g. (1) like direction, arm and foot movements forward: (2) opposite direction, the arms move forward and the foot backward; (3) unlike direction, as in foot moving backward or forward and arms moving sideward. This principle predominates in free exercises and in dancing.

The principle of weight transference. Transference of weight involves consideration of inertia and momentum. Because of this it adds towards the development of bodily control, since quick starts, sudden stops and rapid shifting of body weight are frequently demanded. There are four phases of weight transference which we must consider.

(1)	’ The degree of the transference, as from partial transference to half and whole, as illustrated in striding, stepping and leaping, respectively.

(2)	The frequency or number of transference, as we notice in exercises like the polka when compared to the lunge.

(3)	The distance of the transference, as illustrated in foot placing as compared to the (all-out.

(4)	The speed of transference, as slow traveling forward on a ladder compared to rapid traveling, or in dancing, the closing step compared to the gallop step.

Digitized by
387

These are factors of which the instructor must be aware and carefully observe in the teaching process.

The principle of equilibrium or base and lever. Correct application of this rule results in (1) constant growth in muscle tone and strength, and an increasingly forceful massage effect, from the performance of the various types of trunk exercises, (2) a better development of the sense of balance or equilibrium in the free exercises, dancing and in apparatus work.. It consists of a gradual narrowing of the base as bringing the feet closer together thus tending to make equilibrium more unstable, and a moderate increase in leverage, brought about by changing of arm positions from the sideward to the upward and by adding han^i apparatus. This tends to raise the center of gravity and makes balancing more difficult. It is applied principally in free exercises, dancing and apparatus work. A practical illustration consists of trunk lowering forward in the side straddle stand with arms sideward, compared with trunk lowering forward in the close stand with arms upward. This illustrates two extremes. Progressing from the easy to the difficult should, of course, be gradual and through a number of increasingly difficult positions.

The principle of speed and frequency. This is applied to most of the physical education activities and will greatly develop speed and endurance which will result in a wholesome influence upon heart and lungs. The instructor proceeds from slow rhythm to rapid rhythm as, changing from arm raising to arm swinging; from a slow run to a sprint ;‘from a slow climb to speed climbing; and from slow to fast dance steps, etc., etc. If we add to these accelerated movements an increase in their frequency, that is, if we multiply the number of executions, there will be an additional effect gained. This is frequently done in dancing where steps and combinations are many times repeated for the purpose of developing fluent co-ordination; and in free exercises, as in jumping, arm, leg and trunk movements, repeated principally for the purpose of multiplying the effect of the single movement. Speed should not be employed, however, at the cost of form in execution, and requency should not be used to the extent of fatiguing the pupil. It is well to bear this in mind.

MISTAKEN PSYCHOLOGY IN CHILDREN’S GAMES. '

By EMILY W. ELMORE, Roycemore School, Evanston, 111.

In teaching the great majority of popular games to children, I have been impressed by the fact that the reward or prime object of the game is often something which the child does not desire, and that therefore an effort is made to avoid the “payment” which the winner must claim. Everyone who has dealt with children whether in group games or as individuals, knows that what a child wishes more than almost anything else is to be the center of attraction or the leader, or first and chosen one.

To illustrate: what a child does not desire is to become a part of the circle or group with no especial individuality or distinction

Digitized by CaOOQle
and yet that is almost without exception just what is suggested as the winner’s reward in the games described in the various books on the subject. For example take the numerous games that are played in circles where the object is for the two runners to see which one can get back to the empty place first. The one who proves himself capable of this is almost always “rewarded” by being made to stay in the place while the loser has the proud distinction of going around again or doing whatever that particular game requires of him. I have seen children deliberately fall down or run slowly in order not to get to the vacant place first, as they so infinitely preferred to be leader for the next time. Then in the simpler ball games when the one hit is ?7, both children are eager to try their hand at throwing the ball, so they allow themselves to be hit in order to be able to have the privilege of exercising their skill. In “Every man in his own den” when a child is caught by the owner of another den, instead of immediately identifying himself with that new goal and trying to catch ethers for it, he instead allows himself to be caught ha k to his original den by someone who is there, are) although he may he accused of this and persuaded that it is a thoroughly ursporbsmanfiko thing to d<\ he will insist that such was not the case and that he didn’t mean to be caught, while to the instructor it is perfctly obvious that he did.

In the singing gain ‘ “Jolly is the Miller” at the words “the right step's forward and the left steps hack”, the Miller is supposed to try to get a place in the circle with a partner, but in nine cases out of ten I have discovered* that children prefer to be the Miller, and so will make only a feint to git a place in the circle. Then again in the game ‘Third slap” when the “slapper” is being chased towards the goal, the rule is “should the slapper be caught before he reaches the goal, he must continue as before, but if he succeeds in reaching the goal in safety he changes place with the pursue]* who becomes slapper for the next round”; thus the reward for not catching the slapper is the very position most desired and so there is no incentive to effort.

One might think that the position of “stake guard” in the game of that name would not be a very desirable one and yet 1 have found it to be quite the contrary in the minds of most children. In the beginning of the game the players throw their bean bags towards the stake from a position twenty feet away, the “one whose bag falls farthest from the stake becoming the first guard.” How easy then to throw poorly so that one’s bag will not be near the stake and the position of “guard” be accordingly won.

Since most of the games that I have in mind are familiar to the reader 1 will not describe more of them in detail but will simply give the names of some which have what I consider an undesirable reward, and one which takes away from the spontaneity of the game. For example:	“Spin the platter”, “Slap Catch”, “Pebble

Chase”, “Hunt the Fox”, “High Windows”, “Have you seen my sheep?”, Frog in the middle”, “Ball Chase”, and others. I have changed the reward in all these games that I have taught to children, saying, for instance, that the child who got back to the empty

Digitized by CaOOQie
place in the circle first, might go around again, or that if the runner succeeded in reaching the goal before the chaser as in “third slap”, he might be slapper again, etc., etc. Of course, if one child is successful for three or four times then in order not to have him monopolize the best position, I have him choose another to take his place so that all get a turn eventually, but they feel that they have won it by fair means.

Another type*of game which I feel is also not very practical in one way, is the game in which the one who is tagged is out of the play until all the rest are caught, or the game is over. If the weather is chilly so that it is uncomfortable to sit down or stand still, the children who are out of the game will get cold and lose half of the benefit of the outdoor play; or if it is in the gymnasium they cannot talk loudly on the side lines or run about by themselves as it is too disturbing for the main game. If the game lasts for some time and a child is put out in the very beginning, he has had comparatively little good out of the fifteen or twenty minute period of the class. Some games which have this rule, are, “Catch of fish”, “Fortress”, “Who goes round my stone wall?” etc.

Over against these games are some which are pre-eminently good in making children exert their powers to the utmost and they are always played with the greatest enthusiasm I find. Such games are, “Stealing sticks”, “Ten steps”, “German bat ball”, and others of the same kind.

I should be greatly interested to know if there are other teachers of physical education who have found this same difficulty, and how they have met it. I have taught children on a play ground in one of the poor districts of a large city and also children of wealthy parents in a private school and I have found exactly the same tendency in both types, so I feel that it is quite significant proof that the games do not always follow the laws of child psychology.

Note:	While we do not agree with the author in all her points and deduc-

tions we believe that the article contains much that will interest our readers and that, perhaps, will lead to a discussion of some of the points brought forward by Miss Elmore. Editor.

THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF SWIMMING

By ALEXANDER GOLDSTEIN, Swimming Instructor of the 92nd Street Branch of the Y. M. H. A., New York City

(Concluded)

Side Stroke-underarm and Overarm.

(ieneral Considerations.

This is an ideal long distance stroke. The element of rest in this stroke is exaggerated to the extreme. There are two types to this stroke under and overarm. The overarm stroke is a progression from the underarm and leads to the trudgeon or true overhand. The resistance in this stroke is very low, the efficiency, almost one hundred per cent. The element of balance in the stroke Is fundamental and without it very little distance
390

can be covered. Most men and women who swim this stroke use it for races, omitting the important rest to gain the benefit of the leg drive. They lose from four to six feet on every stroke.

Balance.

Let us take for granted that the pupil finds it more comfortable to rest on his left side than on his right. If the right is preferable, change the yvord right to left and left to right every time it occurs in these paragraphs.

Extend the left arm overhead, palm facing to the left, elbow straight and close to the head; rotate the head to the right until it faces to the extreme right. Place the right arm close to the right side, elbow straight, palm against the side. The feet are close together, knees straight, heels together. Now the pupil lies on his left side maintaining the position just described, body, arms, and legs in one straight line. If the head *s placed correctly, the head will float out of the water up to the eyes; in stout people the whole face is clear of the water. A tendency for the body to roll will be present but will be eliminated very quickly. The customary deviations are incorrect positions of the head and arms, the head not being turned enough to the right side it turns the body; or the arm being out of alignment with the rest of the body, disturbs the balance.

The Mechanics of the underarm side stroke.

1.	Legs. Count one:	In	standing	position, arm extended

above as before, bend the right knee up until at right angles with the thigh.

Count two:	Extend	the right knee forward until the leg is

straight, lowering the leg slightly.

Count three:	Bring	the right leg down to the left leg with

a vigorous, snappy, downward motion.

After each kick, rest three seconds. On entering the water the pupil assumes the same position as in the balance and executes Count One, then Count Two, on which count he extends the left leg slightly backward to increase the distance between the legs; and on Count Three, in snapping both legs together, makes the legs pass each other about six inches. Great care should be taken to preserve the alignment of the body at the end of each kick.

2.	Arms. Count one: At the end of the rest, bring the left arm downward with a breast stroke arm movement, bringing the aim close to the side and quickly bending the elbow. Execute the first count of the arm movement of the breast stroke with the right arm.

Count two:	Extend	both arms upward.

Count three:	With	the right arm, execute a side sweep as in

the third count of the arm movement of the breast stroke. It will be noted that the right arm and leg move simultaneously.

3.	The combination.

Count one:	Both	arms	are	at	the	chest, right leg bent at right,

angles at the knee.

Count two:	Both	arms are extended upward, right leg ex-

tended forward, left leg hyperextends backward.

di

Digitized by

Google
391

Count three. Left arm is stationary; right arm sweeps downward and the legs snap together.

Rest three seconds. Breathe in thru the nose afterjricking and out thru the mouth after the rest.

Psychological Aspects.

In the early part of this stroke, it will be observed that the tendency will be to exaggerate the kick, placing the emphasis on the extension due to the popular belief that this is the proper method. Yet this does not prevent most learners from getting fair results from the kick. The sensation of movement or gliding induces the pupil to hold the rest too long which means that the head will gradually sink and if the mouth is open, which is usually the case, water will be swallowed. There will always be a tendency to change the position of the head which deprives them of adequate breathing position. As this stroke is called the “side” stroke, they think that the head should be on the side and not fully rotated. This stroke is good for all ages as it is easily learned with fair co-ordination and balance. The tendency to hurry must be met at all stages of this stroke as the pupil will not be aware of his relation to his surroundings and does not know just how far he has gone. He is deceived by the rush of water and depends on momentary glimpses of his surroundings for his conception of his position. They will strike the wall of a pool until they acquire a fairly accurate conception of their progress.

Overarm Side Stroke.

It is a more powerful stroke used by long distance swimmers. Those men who have swum the English Channel have used this stroke almost exclus vely with the breast stroke. The only progression required is that instead of placing the right arm on the chest on the first count of the legs, it is raised from the shoulder, elbow higher than the wrist, clear of the water; on the second count, it is extended forward until the arm is fully extended and the hand is in the water; and on the third count, makes a deep stroke downward instead of sideward.

This new movement involves a new effort. The muscles raising the arm above the shoulder are not accustomed to raise it in this position. This will give rise to strains at first which disappear with practise. The same caution must be given on this stroke in regard to hurrying. The maintainance of minimum resistance in this stroke is so essential to its success that the exaggeration of the balance position can be excused if the results justify it.

The Trudgeon.

This is a progression upon the overarm side stroke. Instead of remaining on the side after completing the stroke and resting, the body rolls to the side on which the leg is underneath, in this case, the left, until the body is face downward; as the body rolls, the left arm executes a deep stroke downward to the side of the body. As the left arm passes through the water, the right arm and leg start the first count. At the second count, the left arm leaves the water, lifted over the shoulder, elbow higher than the wrist and enters the water as the right arm completes the second count; on

Digitized by v.ooQle
fount three, the body is first turned on the side then the arm delays its movement iright arm until the leg has completed its first and second count; and the leg and arm complete their third count simultaneously.

Psychological Considerations.

In this stroke, the rolling will greatly disturb the balance, there being a great tendency to lose control and disorganize the coordination on the roll which is usually exaggerated. The lifting of the arms from the water at the proper time is a co-ordination that will take a good deal of time and practise. The position of the head will trouble many as they imagine that it varies; it should be remembered that it is the same as in the side stroke. As a rule, they will become quickly fatigued due to the additional exertion caused by the greater pressure caused by additional pressure surface being exposed to the water. The pressure of the water is often sufficient to straighten out bent elbows and knees. The body-should be kept relaxed and there should be no twisting at the waist which is due to improper inhibition and elementary co-ordination in younger pupils. The air should be expelled under water and inhaled above the water immediately after the kick. Strange to say. it is the popular belief that one should never exhale under water as this will run in and choke you. If the air is exhaled forcibly, no water will enter the mouth.

The Crawl and the Trudgeon Crawl.

General Considerations.

The last fifteen years have seen the development of the Australian crawl in which form the crawl was introduced into this country, developing into the many variations now used by the swimmers of today. At present, there is much discussion as to which is the most efficient as well as the speediest stroke. Opinions differ with the coaches, each having procured results that seem to prompt them to make their statements without having previously considered the other forms of the stroke. The matter of the number of kicks to the stroke seems to be the subject of the most contention. Although many of the instructors are competent, it is quite evident that the personal factor in swimming seems to have been lost. They do not realize the peculiarities that are presented in each individual that tax the wits of the instructors and coaches; “What stroke shall I teach this or that man?”; “Is his stroke best adapted to his physique?”; “Why does he not make progress?”; all these questions remain unanswered and wall remain unanswered until ihe instructors and coaches will familiarize themselves with the essential differences in the various strokes and their variations in ’’elation to their effe< t upon certain types of physique and tem-pe’omcnt.

The Mechanics of the Crawl Stroke.

1 kiln nee.

The balance position of the breast stroke should be assume^ at he begin nine.

1. Legs. To illustrate the movement of the legs most effec-:r.Gy it is necessary to give the pupil land drill first. Seat the

/
pupil on the edge of the pool so the legs will move freely from the hips, grasping the edge of the pool, with the legs extended forward, at right angles to the trunk, toes pointed, heels together, and knees straight. Raise the right leg six inches above the left, then reverse the position of the right and left legs with a snappy motion. This move is executed slowly at first until familiar; after this the pupil enters the water, assumes balance position, and begins the leg movement, first, slowly, then increasing the speed.

2.	Arms. Raise the arms forward until they are at right angles to the shoulder. Turn the palms inward and touch the fingertips, bending at the elbows until both arms form a ring. Now move the arms sideward and outward until the tips of the fingers are about two feet apart. Rotate the arms inward until the elbows are above the wrists and the palms facing downward. In this position, the arms will be somewhat to the side of a line drawn at right angles to the body at thfe shoulder joint. Bring the left arm downward with a sweeping motion until it passes the left side. As the arm sweeps down, the elbow straightens out. Now the left arm bends at the elbow and is raised upward until above the water, elbow above the wrist, the whole arm relaxed. Then the left arm is extended forward until it assumes its first position. As the left arm is extended, the right arm begins the downward sweeping motion after which the left arm begins the downward sweep and the right arm is raised and is extended as the left arm is raised. From this it is evident that the arm motion is a continuous motion, one arm after another varying in time according to the individual.

As the left arm extends, the head rotates to the right and the breath is inhaled through the nose and mouth; as the left arm sweeps down, the head is rotated back to the left and the breath is exhaled forcibly through the mouth.

As the motion of the legs is continuous, the legs may be started at any time during the stroke. It is customary to begin with three kicks to each arm stroke. As the pupil progresses, the beat is varied accordingly. In heavily muscled men, the leg stroke is usually neglected on account of their progress due to their usual strength in the triceps, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. Slighter men will extend their arms too far forward or across the shoulder line. In lengthening a pupil’s stroke, great care should be taken; this will apply to shorter men in particular in whom the extensors of the forearm and the hyperextension muscles of the arm are disproportionate to the flexors. Short men require a rapid leg movement while taller men usually do not need to be told to use a slow kick. The beat of the kick is in direct proportion to the length of the legs and the strength of the flexors and extensors of the thigh and leg.

Psychological Considerations.

In this stroke, the legs present the most difficult co-ordination. Deviations from form produce disturbances in balance; the trunk and arms are twisted by too much space between the legs. As the stress of the kick is down and up and not back and forward, a jerking of the head and straining of the head will indicate the latter
394

condition; this is almost always present in the first stage. The body will roll from time to time on the leg stroke due to kicking at an angle, the probable remains of a side stroke or trudgeon kicking co-ordination. If the legs have not been practised until automatic, the beat will vary and will often be incomplete. The arm movement is by far the easiest to acquire, the eyes giving more assistance in learning to the arms, than to the legs. As the legs are seldom observed under ordinary swimming conditions, the conception is left to the imagination and memory which gives rise to incomplete co-ordinations and reactions. The greatest difficulty of maintaining an easy and smooth co-ordination is the most diffii-cult thing as the crawl, essentially a speed stroke, will vary in every performance except in practise, as a result of the competition which gives rise to fear in some, exaggeration of movements due to anxiety, defective breathing, and fair co-ordination which varies directly in proportion to the experience and practise, taking for granted that temperamental difficulties have been overcome. The matter of final form will ultimately be decided by the pupil and not the instructor. The swimmer finds his form by experience and experiment. Unless the swimmer has absolute confidence in his instructor, which at this stage is usually represented by a desire for “criticism”, and not instruction, the instructor will find it practically impossible to alter the stroke unless the experiment of the swimmer with your suggestion proves successful after a few trials. The crawl swimmers are always seeking the royal road to speed. The secret of speed in the crawl and all other speed strokes is practise, more practise, and then some more practise, not omitting .that wonderful father of progress, “Experiment.”

The Trudgeon-Crawl.

This stroke is merely the trudgeon kick with from two to three small crawl kicks during the resting period. This stroke has been used with varying success and has gained many supporters who claim that it is superior to even the famous crawl. From experiment, I can only say that it is the best all-round speed and long distance stroke. As most crawl swimmers do not swim the trialgeon correctly, they condemn it after what they consider a fair ti ial in spite of the fact that their coaches and instructors have informed them that they cannot or do not swim the fundamental stroke correctly*. The greatest difficulty encountered by the crawl swimmers in learning this stroke is the roll on which the small crawl kicks start. The difference in time between the crawl and the trudgeon-crawl causes no end of confusion. The trudgeon swimmers find little or no difficulty in acquiring it. The instructors and coaches have suddenly discovered that most of the races up to a mile are now being won by swimmers of the trudgeon-crawl and have started to teach it to their pupils contrary to their principles. As to the exact number of kicks to be made between kicks, only experiment will solve; and I venture to prophesy that in the main, it will vary in direct proportion to the strength of the extensors of the leg and ankle. As yet, there is little information if any, to be obtained on this subject except that they must be suf-

Digitized by CiOOQle
395

ficient in number and vigor to keep the swimmer moving and prevent the pause that is usually present in the trudgeon.

CARD SYSTEM FOR THE MASSES AND COMPETITIVE

ATHLETICS.

By MYLES HAVLICEK, Lane Tech. High School, Chicago, Illinois.

In cities where there is inter-school competition many good athletes are lost, because they are slow in getting the proper form, speed, strength or endurance. It is one of these that usually hinders an athlete from qualifying for a team and th£ result is that he is told to report next year. It is this stage of the boy's career that should not be lost, because he has shown part of his qualifications by responding to the instructor's call for athletes. Those who respond, as a rule, are the boys that always make goo<J when given a fair chance, as generally, they are much more dependable than those who have it much easier in qualifying for a team. We should try and develope the initativeness the boy volunteer has shown, rather than discourage it.

The illustrated card system will help instructors to keep a

SWIMMING RECORD OF:........................................

Date of Birth:........ Address:............................

Division Room:........ Phone:..............................

Age:.................. Credits Earned Last Semester:....

What Stroke Do You Use Most?...............................

Where Did You Swim Before?.................................

How Fast Can You Swim 40 Yd?.......................,.......

CANDIDATE FOR (CHECK EVENTS)

Fancy Diving	40 Yd. Crawl	40 Yd. Back

40 Yd. Breast	100 Yd. Crawl	440 Yd. Crawl

100 Yd. Breast	220 Yjd. Crawl	Plunge

NO. 17TRYOUT RECORD NO. 2, 3 & 4 PRACTICE RECORD

Date	1	2	3	4	Date	i	2 3
1 4o yd. back					8 100 yd. breast		
2 40 yd. breast					9 Plain front		
3 40 yd. crawl					10 plain back		
4 plunge					11 front jack		
5 220 yd. crawl					12 back jack		
6 440 yd. crawl					13 special		
7 100 yd. crawl	—				14 special			
39t>

record ol their athletes’ work, although the card is for “Swimming” with a fewr minor changes it can be used for “Field and Track", for “Gymnastics’* or for games of any type.

A record of the athlete should be taken every two weeks, or as often as the instructor thinks it best. The object is to enable the instructor to notice how the individual is progressing in his work. Should the athlete be failing in his work, his record will show it, and the instructor knows that the individual has either-been worked too hard, not enough, or has violated the laws of health. In using this card system, more boys become members of the team, not necessarily competing for the school, but among themselves. It is surprising how the boys watch their records and try to better their mark. The task is much easier in selecting a team, by looking over the individual records.

The other side of the card show’s the record of the meets that the athlete had taken part in; also the total points he has scored for his team, the number of prizes he took, and the events he competed in.

INFORMATION

YEAR IN SCHOOL IB. 1A, 2B, 2A, 3B, 3A, 4B, 4A, REMARKS Grade of Work in School A. B. C. D	Physical	Condition

RECORDS OF MEETS

Location of Meets

Event

Place

Time

Points

Note:	If	swimmer	made	or	holds	record	put	time	in	red	ink.

It is the writer's firm conviction that by using this method in our competitive sports, the masses will be reached and more boys will answer the instructors call for all kinds of competition.

Digitized by C.ooQle
O'

O

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE j

. O-—1 ■ ■'	' I'	1	11 f.	mQ

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.f Newark, N. J.

INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE*

By L. I. HARRIS, M. D., D. P. H., Director, Bureau of Preventable Diseases, New York City Department of Health.

Those of us who were recently following the drive made by the Germans on the western front, were particularly perturbed and alarmed lest they should be successful in dividing the line and thus create a gap between the forces of the English and their French allies. We were particularly anxious to see that the solid front arrayed against the Hun should be kept absolutely free from any break. It is just such a picture of union which should be presented as the ideal for public health work. We can not afford to have some one phase of public health activity receiving intensive and concentrated study, and then allow a great gap between it and another uncorrelated phase of public health work. There ought to be a coherent and well defined program which unites all parts of the defensive line in public health work, and ties child hygiene to the campaign against tuberculosis, and to all other phases of health work, so that they may present a solid front against those forces that are tending to undermine health and that are operating to increase the mortality and morbidity rates.

Industrial hygiene is very intimately and vitally related to child hygiene. If child hygiene work is examined even where it is well organized and where it has been established on a basis which deserves commendation, it will be found that there is a sudden break in its program. When the child receives its working papers, and it is assumed of course that up to this point medical school inspection has been thoroughly done, the community says, in effect “Now we wipe our hands of you, we have cleared ourselves of obligation to you and we will build you beautiful sanatoria for your reception should you in adult life become the victims of social, economic and poor sanitary conditions.” There is no health program that follows the child from that time, and we lose our interest in it as a public health ward. The splendid efforts of those who are trying to put forward a large child hygiene program are to be commended, but we must see that the work is linked up definitely with the supervision of the child when it goes into the industrial field.

The career of the child in the workshop is part of the business of industrial hygiene. We want to know what are the handicaps with relation to dusts and gases and the factors that produce fatigue, and to ill lighting, bad ventilation and the many other environ-

* Read at the Annual Conference of Health Officers at Saratoga Springs, June, 1918.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
398

mental conditions which are incidental to the study of industrial hygiene. Industrial hygiene is an essential feature in public health work which links up with all other health work that is being done.

In our factory work in New York City in the course of nearly lour years we have learned that a host of diseases can be discovered by those who will look for them in our industrial population. They exist there in large numbers. There is a striking parallelism between the number of accidents in industiy and the number of accidents in war; the number of cases of disability due to industrial accidents and disease, and those due to war conditions. In war we have the picture of these presented to us with all the force and emphasis of publicity, and with an intensity, ardor, and fervor of many writers anxious to arouse patriotic sentiment. The conditions existing in times of peace are nearly as tragic. Year in and year out there are innumerable disabilities and accidents of which we scarcely get an inkling. In the report of Dr. Rubinow, February, 1918, for the Red Cross Institute for Crippled and Disabled Men, he states that a conservative estimate of the annual number of accidents occurring to industrial workers in this country is 1,900,000. Over 22,000 deaths are directly attributed to industrial accidents. Who can tell how many cases of industrial disease and death occur, when the many cases in which industry predisposes to disease, are included? As public health officers we have a duty devolving upon us to sift out and discover how much disease is directly due to industrial conditions, and how much is indirectly attributable to it. How much has tuberculosis for its underlying basis conditions in factories? Over 50 per cent of the death benefits paid in the course of one year to the union stoneworkers in New York City was on account of tuberculosis. Among stone cutters tuberculosis is distinctly an occupational disease. It is an occupational disease in many other industries where dust exists, particularly where the dust particles are sharp and irritating. It is our business to find out where those conditions exist, but we must not be led astray in our researches by the host of writers who rush into print on {he basis of compilations and experiences of other men.

Books that should guide us in industrial hygiene frequently describe conditions in industry which are alleged to be dangerous, and which, in reality, are negligible. The subject unfortunately has been left to writers who, in some cases, have too little personal experience in industry. To those undertaking industrial hygienic work, a word of caution as to unreliable text-book guides is appropriate. What is urgently needed in this country is personal investigation and study in factories and in the examination of workers.

We have established occupational clinics in New York City by carrying our clinical equipment in a handbag into the factories and examining the workment during the noon hour, or afternoons and evenings, whenever convenient for the men,—and the discoveries thus made have been well worth while. An independent attitude of mind, one free from bias and preconceived notions, is needed in this study. This is a lesson which we have learned at some expense.

Digitized by e.ooQle
399

Examinations at occupational clinics which are intended merely as a center for lecture and educational work, are the medium through which health officers may not only conduct studies in industrial hygienic work, but educate the workers better to protect themselves. I can only indicate in the most fragmentary fashion, the main essentials of work in industrial hygiene and rather attempt to arouse your curiosity and interest in the study of a subject which is going to be one of the most interesting, one of the vital, and one of a character to make itself felt throughout the country as an agent for the conservation of the man, woman and child power in industry. Public health officials are under obligation to give attention to industrial hygiene, with as much care as they devote to those branches which have become traditionally fixed and definite. Ther£ is a great and inviting field here.

Lack of space prevents a description of the forms of acne among those aniline workers who may not shpw the constitutional effects of exposure to aniline fumes. It is not possible to dwell upon the effects of carbon monoxide and of caisson work as they were observed last winter in New York City, or to outline the interesting phases of lead poisoning, which have come to our attention. Neither is there opportunity to describe such cases as / that of the man who went into the hold of a ship in which had been stored a cargo of molasses intended for an industrial alcohol plant, and who almost immediately died. We found that the first one who went down into the hold in an attempt to rescue this man was overcome. Four men successively were made unconscious. At autopsy it was later disclosed that the man who never recovered consciousness had a dark fluid blood of sweetish odor and congestion of the lungs. Upon further inquiry we were absolutely assured that this was another case of carbon monoxide poisoning similar to those reported out west, where men enter silos for the purpose of cleaning them and are suddenly overcome by CO gas which results from fermentation.

PROGRAM FOR RECONSTRUCTION OF THE RACE.

1.	The teachers themselves should be given better conditions for their own health and fuller instruction in all that has to do with the laws of health.

2.	Every city and country school should be made sanitary and kept so, and the school and its grounds should be as beautiful as possible, not only for the benefit of the teachers and the pupils, but as an example to all other citizens who are beginning to use the school more and more as a community center.

3.	Every child should be regularly weighed, measured and examined and a health record kept, which should accompany him throughout his school life. It should be the duty of the authorities to see that the defects of our young citizens are corrected, and disorders of growth and nutrition remedied. As malnutrition is one of the most serious conditions, a hot luncheon should be made
400

available for every child and every teacher. The health examination should include dental inspection and treatment.

4.	Each school should have adequate provision for physical training, gymnasiums, athletic fields, playgrounds, gardens and shops, together with especially qualified instructors in physical training and vocational fields.

5.	Finally, with the foregoing foundations, there should be a thorough system of instruction in all matters pertaining to health with special emphasis on health problems rather than on disease, in physical and mental habits, in personal hygiene, in public health and sanitation, in methods to avoid communicable diseases, in the responsibilities of parenthood, and in all that relates to nutrition and growth, including foods and food values and food habits.

This is a large program, too large for the inequalities of conscience and consciousness of our multitudinous states. It might be carried cut in a few states soon and in others only after venerations.

This is a scheme for the reconstruction of the whole people. It is a federal j rogram. It is an emergency program. It should have the immediate attention of our foremost teacher in the presidential chair. We need a Hoover for the children a children’s health administrator.

With all this in view and after months of careful planning, the National ( hiid Health Organization has been formed, whose literature is now Wing distributed. Do the first practical thing for a beginning. The teachers can place scales and a measuring rod at once in every school and with the height and weight and age charts that will he sent on request, the campaign can be immediately started against one of the chief evils, namely, malnutrition. The Child Health Organization has some of the best teachers and educators in the country as members, and counts on its board the foremost medical specialists on children and public health. Its publications will be supplied on request to all who desire tht m. ’the office of the Child Health Organization is at 2«S9 Fourth Avenue, New York. Dr. L. Emmett Holt is chairman.

An abstraction of a paper, read before the National Education Association, Pittsburgh, July 3, 1918. by Dr. Frederick Peterson. New York.

Reduce the Protein Intake. Chittenden has shown that when the protein intake is reduced by one-half or less of that which the American appetite suggests, professional men, soldiers and athletes may be maintained in the best physical condition. Lusk, Food in War Time.

Civics and Eugenics. The Summer School of Civics and Eugenics, which will last for nearly a fortnight, was opened at Oxford, England. The opening address was delivered by Prof. J. H. Mairhead of the Birmingham University, who said that civics ment an intelligent interest in the whole organization of

Digitized by C.ooQle
401

civilized society, and especially the society to .which they themselves belonged. This extension of citizenship from devotion to the parish or the neighborhood to the state raised a difficulty in regard to their emphasis on civic education at the present time. He would be asked, Was not this the mistake which Germany had been making, that she had put the state in front of education? The education of the citizen had begun, innocently enough, in the call to look beyond the narrow interests of individual or family egoism, but had it not ended in the creation of another or more terrible egoism the egoism of the state; and had not the state just at the present time tried to impress the idea of citizenship as the leading mark of education? He accepted the warning of a German writer against making the state the supreme object of devotion. Were they making a mistake in emphasizing civic education or citizenship as the oriflamme of their new education? Would it not be better to take as their guiding motto the free personality of the individual, and, instead of emphasizing the education of the citizen into a word like civics, should they not emphasize the freedom of the individual soul, and, perhaps in some new science yet unnamed, the doctrine of freedom? Passing to eugenics, he said it meant moie than a kind of adult hygiene' concerned with inheritance, rather than habits. What he understood by eugenics was a way of looking at their civilization which emphasized the mental and physical inheritance as something which was the result of the long ages of the struggle of mankind on earth. It seemed to him a good omen and a step founded on true insight as to the nature of civics and eugenics that the two societies had united in this school. It was the first effort, he understood, at co-operation between them. From London Letter to “The Journal Am. Med. Assn”

River and Lake Bathing in Winter. Dr. E. E. Faber found albumin and casts in the urine of men after a fifty seconds swimming match in winter. But they promptly disappeared, and he regards them as the manifestation of a transient disturbance in the circulation from the cold water. . He has investigated conditions also in sixty-five men and five wcmefi, from 27 to 65 years old, who are accustomed to out-of-door bathing in winter, staying in the water only from eight to forty-two seconds. All are enthusiastic on the bracing effect of the cold dip, and ascribe their freedom from colds, rheumatism, etc., to this cause. One said that eczema which had resisted specialist treatment for years subsided under these cold baths; another reported the same in regard to a seven-year fistula. One man said he had started the bathing because he always froze in winter, and it had cured him of this sensitiveness to cold. All the winter bathers examined said that vigorous exercise before and after the bathing was felt to be necessary. Faber adds that the hot baths of the Japanese, electric light baths, etc., have the same action, the inducing of a lasting hyperemia in the skin, improving its function.—Abstraction from the “ Ueskrift for Laeger,” Copenhagen June 13, 1918, 80, No. 24.

Digitized by v.ooQle
402

Hurry and Health. Don’t hurry, It wears the system like worry.

Hurry tears out the nerves and the bodily tissues rapidly, puts lines in the face, interferes with digestion and other intestinal action, and in time may produce permanent palpitation of the heart.

Loss of both physical and mental control and a number of varieties of nervous disorders may also result from chronic “hurrying up.”

Hurry exhausts twice the energies in a given time that would be required to accomplish twice the work if undertaken in a leisurely manner.

Don’t hurry at your meals. If you have only a few minutes in which to snatch a bite forego the usual breakfast which requires careful mastication.

Instead take a cup of warm milk or break a couple of raw eggs into a cup. These you may swallow quickly. They will digest easily.

The system can stand an immense amount of physical labor for an indefinite time, but it cannot long withstand the wear of hurry.

Have plenty of exercise. Be alert in ydur work. But don’t wear out before your time hurrying.—From a Newark paper.

Not all health officers in the state appreciate the desirability of keeping the public informed as to the health conditions in the community. In a recent issue of an Amsterdam newspaper the report of Dr. Horace M. Hicks shows that a yearly review of health matters can be made interesting and instructive to the general public. It is worthy of note that Dr. Hicks lays special stress on the deaths from tuberculosis, pneumonia and diseases of the heart and blood vessels. Referring to the last named classification, Dr. Hicks says:

“It will be found to be in the front rank until such time as men and women realize that their existence can only be continued after they reach middle life by modification and letting up in those activities which have marked their earlier years. Lack of rest and the use of the whip and spur to keep up the fast pace is the cause of diseases of the heart and blood vessels occupying twice as prominent a position as tuberculosis or any other listed disease.”— New York State “Health News.”’

Card Rating System for Food Handlers. In Portland,

Ore., the board of health has adopted a system of rating stores handling food products of any kind, with reference to the sanitary

condition of such stores. A store whose sanitary condition, according to the inspection of the health board, averages 90 per cent or better is given and is required to display a card showing that its rating is “A". Shops averaging only up to 80 per cent are required to display a "15” card, and those rating under 80 per cent a “C”. The card must be displayed so that every patron may see it. and

Digitized by kjOOQle
403

the regulation is enforced by frequent inspections. As might be expected a noticeable improvement has been made in all shops, each merchant being anxious to get an “A” rating. An advertising point is made by the merchant of a good rating, and customers profit by improved sanitary conditions.

Undernutrition Among Schoolchildren. As a result of the report of the bureau of child hygiene to the effect that between 12 and 15 per cent of the school children of the city are underfed, Frank A. Manny undertook a detailed and intimate study of health and nutrition 'Conditions among two schools in the Grammferly district. The children were classified on the basis of the Dumfer-line scale, which places each child in one of four nutrition grades: (1) superior condition; (2) passable condition; (3) requiring supervision ; (4) requring medical treatment. Of 2,535 children examined, one-third of the total were in each of the first two grades, and the remaining third was divided between the other two. There were found three distinct height and weight measurements corresponding to the three larger nutrition grades, Grades 3 and 4 being taken together and containing one-third of the whole. The average of the low nutrition cases fell below the passable group to about the same extent as the latter group fell below those of the superior group. The height and weight of the medium group was practically the same as the figures of the Boas—Burk tables of height and weight for American children. The heights and weights for the children of the superior grade followed closely the average figures for more than 30,000 children in private schools in New York City and Chicago, tabulated by Professor Baldwin. The conclusions are that, in this average industrial district, a third approximate closely the average of children whose parents can afford to pay tuition rates; a second third represents the average of American children, and the remaining third is seriously underdeveloped, being in many cases several years under the measurements proper to their ages under a reasonable standard of living. It has been shown that under conditions of abundant nutrition, exercise, air and sleep, stunted children in summer camps in the majority of cases improve rapidly up to the required average. The answer is that better parental incomes are necessary to prevent this undernutrition and substandard development.

Health and Ethics. The basis of ethics, then, is the health of the community. That fact we know, but we do not know it fully; we have not exhausted its riches. We have improved sanitation; we have improved the conditions of labor both as regards positive risks and the character of buildings. In these things the best and most efficient have proved identical; so far economics has supported ethics. But economic production and efficiency are liable to be dangerous allies; we must not be led astray by a false ideal o£ industrial growth. Nor must we suppose that our duty ends with the physical welfare of the population. Already there are ample proofs that we shall be ca ried from external to

Digitized by t^ooQle
404

internal conditions, from individual to racial questions, from health of body to health of mind. And by health of mind must be understood much more than crude questions of insanity, crime ^nd feeblemindedness. The human race tends to emphasize more and more its own peculiar feature; its consciousness becomes more acute and more comprehensive; it cannot, like the animal, merely eat and drink and sleep; while we teach prudence and thrift we are developing, if I may so put it, the organs of worry and anxiety. This too will have its pathology, personal and social, an evil which is far from imaginary and has its witness in much of the present unrest. All these things must be included in our idea of the “public health” and we must organize for nothing less comprehensive.— G. S. Brett, Public Health Journal, August, 1918.

PUBLIC HEALTH.

By O. B. STAPLES, Director of Extension Work, Grand Junction, Colo.

Recent estimates by United States Government Statisticians indicate that approximately four hundred thousand civilians in the United States have died of the influenza within the last three or four months, and the death rate from this disease is still high in many localities. Moreover, many thoughtful citizens including many prominent physicians incline to the view that this dread epidemic will persist perhaps until spring or summer.

What are we red-blooded Americans going to do about it? In the very nature of things we cannot indefinitely postpone all sorts of public meetings. Too many interests vital to the welfare and progress of society would suffer irremediably.

When the United States Government declared war against Germany and Congress passed the Conscription Act which brought millions of our young men before our best physicians for physical examination, the whole country was shocked at the large number rejected as physically unfit for military service because of disease or physical defect.

As a result there has been an arousal of interest throughout the nation in matters of health education. In the higher institutions of learning especially, provision has been made for more effective teaching of hygiene and health. Educational leaders have recognized the futility of athletics as heretofore conducted to benefit any considerable proportion of their student bodies. One of the strongest evidences that there is definite recognition of a vital need for larger attention to physical education is found in a bill prepared by the National Education Association Officials and introduced in Congress by Senator Hoke Smith to create a Department of Education, and providing among other important features that $200,000,000.00 be appropriated annually “for physical education and recreation, and medical and dental examination of children of school age, the determination of mental and physical defects in such children, the employment of school nurses, the establishment and maintenance of school dental clinics, and the instruction of people in the principles of health and sanitation.”
405

While there is every reason to believe this bill will in due process become law, it will very naturally be several years before its result will become very effective.

Is there not in the meantime something practical that we can do to correct at least in a measure the conditions which render our people so susceptible to tuberculosis, pneumonia, influenza, etc.?

Among the many lessons taught us by the war is one which we are prone too soon to forget, namely that as a nation we were fast becoming a luxury-loving people. Automobiles, confectionery, movies, late hours, overeating, etc. were fast making us easy marks for diabetes, cancer, arteriosclerosis, tuberculosis, neurasthenia, etc.

If the startling revelations disclosed by the physical examination of our young men for the selective draft and the alarming mortality of the influenza epidemic are not sufficient to stir us to action in matters of health and hygiene—then our case would seem to be hopeless.

Our chief difficulty to be sure lies in the fact that we are creatures of habit and once our habits are formed it is next to impossible for us to change them. And this condition is peculiarly true in matters of health which issue almost altogether as a result of our many, many little habits of daily living, habits which in adults have been fixed for years, and habits which very few adults will make the strenuous effort to change.

Take the matter of eating which is necessarily such a vital factor in the life of every individual. The human body is composed of certain definite chemical elements and therefore requires for the replacement of its daily waste thru wear.and tear, certain definite' chemical food elements. But how many of us know whether a given food is a proteid, fat, carbo-hydrate, or sugar? And if we happen to know the chemical class to which a food belongs, do we know the relative proportions of these several foods which our bodies under different conditions require for proper nutrition? Most of us doubtless have gone on the supposition that our appetites are adequate guides in these matters. And if our bodies were perfectly normal in every respect, perhaps our appetites would be fairly safe criteria of our food requirements; but expert insurance actuaries tell us that less than 3 per cent of all the adults examined for life insurance are physically normal. We are therefore forced to the conclusion that we should depend upon our intelligence, just as we do in matters of business, rather than upon our diseased, perverted, abnormal appetites for guidance in our eating.

Our state and federal governments have within recent years spent large sums in establishing experiment stations of various kinds to determine the most scientific rations for cows, hogs, and various other live stock. And we are beginning to see the wisdom of this work in improved animals; but are we content with a less scientific standard of rearing the human race than is being developed for raising animals for commercial purposes?
406

Since it is next to impossible for the average adult to change many of fyis personal habits of living, the only logical prodecure is for us to turn our attention to the children whose habits are in the formative stage. Moreover, the most effective avenue of influencing parents is thru their children.

But here again we are too often confronted with an obstacle in the person of the teacher who, while she may know more about matters of health than the average adult, usually follows about the same unscientific routine of living as do her fellow adults. Like others, she went thru a course of study where the only reference to health was incidentally mentioned in connection with the subject of temperance, as presented in her physiology class.

The present contention of leading university biologists and medical hygienists is that most of the time heretofore spent in the schools on physiology has been wasted. Of what value is it to a child or adult to know the number of the bones, teeth, and muscles of the body, the size and location of his heart, stomach, kidneys, etc., and yet be ignorant of the proper care of these and other vital organs and parts of the body? In other words, our teaching of physiology, like our teaching of most other subjects has been traditional rather than rational, technical rather than practical and vital. Something must be done to jar our teachers out of these ruts and stimulate them to adapt their instruction to every day, twentieth-century, hard-headed facts and conditions as we find them all about us in society.

Instead of technical physiology we need practical, concrete, personal, and public hygiene. Instead of studying about the number and nam^s of the teeth, our children need to have their teeth examined and treated, and then taught how to care for them. Instead of studying about the size and location of the stomach, they need to know more about the food requirements of the stomach and the food values of what they put into it. x

Then there is the long list of almost indefinitely detailed study * of such vital hygienic matters as ventilation, exercise, sleep, elimination of waste, recreation, cleanliness, to say nothing of public hygiene.

Not until hygiene takes its rightful place in all our school programs from the kindergarten through the university, shall we have laid the proper basis for safeguarding our people against such conditions as have been disclosed by the war and the influenza epidemic.

In order that we may each determine more or less accurately our own standing with reference to what the best modern authorities among the federal army and navy surgeons declare to be proper hygienic standards, I herewith submit a list of twenty-five practical questions on personal hygiene. Read these carefully; and for each of them which you can truthfully answer affirmatively give yourself a credit of 4. If you find your total grade to be less than 75—90 per cent, you should make an effort to change such a number of your habits as would give you some such grade.

Digitized by Google
407

1.	Do you eat fresh fruit every day?

2.	Do you eat succulent vegetables daily?

3.	Are your meals properly balanced as to proteids, fats, carbo-hydrates, and sugar?

4.	Do you eat regularly and are your meals at least five hours apart?

5.	Do you eat slowly and masticate thoroughly?

6.	Do you know you do not eat too much?

7.	Do you know that all your teeth are in a healthy condition?

8.	Do you brush your teeth thoroughly at least twice a day?

9.	Do you cleanse your nose and throat at least twice a day with some antiseptic solution?

10.	Do you know the temperature of the room in which you spend most of your waking hours is 66—70 degrees?

11.	Do you sleep in a room which is well ventilated regardless of weather conditions?

12.	Do you sleep at least eight hours in 24?

13.	Do you spend at least two hours every day out of doors?

.	14. Do you walk at least two miles every day in the open

air?

15.	Do you bathe your entire body at least twice a week?

16.	Do you follow your warm bath with a quick cold sponge?

17.	Dq you drink at least two quarts of water daily?

18.	Do your organs of elimination function regularly without artificial stimulation?

19.	Do you know that you are not underweight or overweight?

10.	Do you know that your eyes may note be causing some nervous disorder?

21.	Do you know that you do not have diseased tonsils or adenoids?

22.	Do you absolutely abstain from spitting on sidewalks, streets, and other public places?

23.	Do you scrupulously refrain from using the same drinking cup and towel as others, even in your own family?

24.	Have you had a complete, thorough-going, scientific medical examination during the past year?

25.	Are you a consistent, persistent optimist?

The University of Colorado, the State Teachers College, and ( the State Normal School will presently offer the teachers and any other interested persons on the Western Slope of Colorado thru their co-operative Extension Classes a course in Hygiene and Health, v^hich is designed to cover somewhat extensively all the practical, vital phases of every day, healthful living. The course will include an acquaintanceship with the most recent and authoritative literature produced on the subject. The specific purpose of the course is to assist teachers in becoming more capable and sensitive in directing the health education of the children under their instruction.

Digitized by CjOOQle
r

408

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

O—"' 1 ■	—— .........................   ■	J

CHILDREN’S DANCE.

By JESSIE E. FARUP, Valley City, N. D.

Music :“Tantoli" or any good polka.

Formation—Any number of children formed in a double circle.

Part I. Grasp inside hands and hold them shoulder high, outside hands on hips—8 polka steps around circle—8 measures.

Part II. Those standing on the inner side of the circle, about face. Give right hand to partner. “Step-hop" twice around partner. Hands on hips and step-hop forward twice to next partner. Do this eight (8) times—16 measures.

Part III. Inner circle about face. Hands on hips. All polka forward twice. Outer circle begin with right foot and inner circle begin with left foot. All take one polka step sideward. Outer circle moves toward outside. Inner circle moves toward inside. All take one polka step sideward, partners moving back to each other. Do this, moving forward and sideward, 4 times.

Part IV. Same as part I.

AESTHETIC GROUP DANCE.

By MABEL BARTON, St. Mary’s School, Raleigh, N. C.

Music:—“Sari"—Victor Record, price $1.25.

Formation—The dancers are formed in small flank circles, four in a circle. They may be clothed in a Grecian costume.

Pait I, 32 messures

The dancers move around in the circle left with the following step:

, Measure 1 Point left forward, arms in first position.

Measure 2 Point left backward, move arms to fifth position.

Measure 3-4 Repeat above.

Measure 5-6-7 Beginning with left foot, three walking steps forward (keeping the circular formation), arms in third position.

Measure 8 Point right foot forward.

Repeat all three times, right, left, and right. The dancers then should have returned to the first position in circle.

Part II, 32 measures.

All face centre of circle and move toward centre.

Measure 1 Hop on left foot, raising right leg backward (balance-hop), left arm in fifth, right hand on hip.

Measure 2 Hop on right foot, extending left leg forward (swing-hop,)

Measure 3-4 Repeat.

Measure 5 6-7 Hands on hips, take three skipping steps toward centre beginning with left foot.

Measure 8 Point right foot forward.

Digitized by LaOOQle
409

Repeat all, beginning with right foot but skipping backward. Repeat all, forward and backward.

Part III, 32 measures.

Dancers still facing centre.

Measure 1-2 Pas de basque forward left.

Measure 3-4 Pas de basque forward right.

Measure 5-8 All join left hands in centre, pointing left foot and hold.

Repeat above, but going backward, arms in fifth position on hold.

Repeat all.

Part IV, 40 measures.

Dancers still facing centre.

Measures 1-2 Step left sideward, bring right foot behind and bend knees, letting right foot take the weight, hands are on hipls. Measures 3-4 Repeat.

Measures 5-6 Step on left foot and hop, raising right foot forward (swing-hop).

Measures 7-8 Step back on right foot and pirouette right, arms in fifth.

Repeat all four times, right, left, right, left, leaving right foot

free.

Part V, 32 measures.

i. 1

Dancers face each other thus:	1	i	Number	one	changes

e i

places with number two, number three with number four, and back again with following step:—

Measure 1 Point right heel forward.

Measure 2 Point right toe backward.

Measure 3 Beginning with right foot, three running steps, high on toes.

Measure 4 Hold.

Repeat beginning with left foot.

Repeat all three times.

Part VI, 32 measures.

Repeat Part I but beginning with right foot.

Part VII, 32 measures.

Dancers face each other as in Part V.

Measures 1-5 Number one and number two step to their right make deep courtesy to each other. Number three and four do the same.

Measures 5-9 Repeat courtesy, stepping on left foot. Measures 9-10 Balance right.

Measures 11-12 Balance left.

Measures 13-14 Pirouette right.

Measures 15-16 Pirouette left.

Repeat all.

Finale:	8	measures.

Measures 1-2 Balance right.

Measures 3-4 Balance left.

Measures 5-8 All courtesy to the front forming a semicircle.

Digitized by LaOOQle
410

THE EDUCATIONAL BILL, S. 4987, NOW BEFORE

CONGRESS.

On October 10, 1918, Senator Hoke Smith of Georgia introduced into the United States Senate the most comprehensive and important educational measure that has ever been put before Congress. The Bill provides for an annual appropriation of $100,000,000 provided that sums in equal amount be appropriated by the several states, for the purpose of aiding the states to carry on more successfully certain types of education which most vitally concern our national welfare. The main provisions of the Bill (S 4987) are as follows:

1.	For the removal of illiteracy, $7,500,000 annually.

2.	For the Americanization of foreigners, $7,500,000 annually.

3.	For the equalization of educational opportunities within the several states, particularly in rural and village schools, $50,-000,000 annually.

4.	To co-operate with the states in the promotion of physical and health education and recreation, $20,000,000 annually.

5.	To extend and improve the facilities for the preparation of teachers for public schools, and particularly the rural schools, $15,000,000 annually.

6.	The creation of an Executive Department known as the Department of Education, with a Secretary in the President's Cabinet. This Department is to administer the educational work of the government which is assigned to it.

As will be seen under item 4, the bill provides $20,000,000 annually by Congress “to co-operate with the States in the promotion of physical and health education and recreation/' including “the medical and dental examination of children of school age, the determination of mental and physical defects in such children, the employment of school nufses, the establishment and maintenance of school dental clinics, and the instruction of the people in the principles of health and sanitation."

The States are to be allotted shares of the appropriation on the basis of total population according to the last census. This provides a federal appropriation of 21 3-4 cents for each person and requires an equal amount from the state, making a total of 43 1-2 cents for each person. This is a small per capita amount, but for each State there is a substantial sum.

Item 5 refers to the preparation of teachers. Natural talent must be prepared for teaching just as it is prepared for law, medicine, or engineering. No State in the Union has gone far enough in a teacher - preparation program to supply its schools with good teachers. More than 100,000 teachers, out of 522,000 in the elementary schools, are nineteen years of age or younger. More than 50,000 have had no schooling beyond the eighth grade. More than 100,000 teachers begin teaching each September and jess than one-third of these have had any special preparation for

Digitized by CjOOQle
411

their work. These immature, unprepared teachers naturally go to the schools that pay the lowest salaries—the rural and village schools. .

Our Democracy can not boast equality of opportunity as long as the facts cited above are true of our public school teachers. The Nation is vitally interested and the States ought to be encouraged and helped by the Nation to go on until there is a good teacher in every school.

The Bill provides $15,000,000 annually, and demands an equal amount by the States, “to co-operate with the States in preparing teachers for the schools, particularly rural schbols”—“to prepare teachers, to encourage a more nearly universal preparation of prospective teachers, to extend the facilities for the improvement of teachers already in service, to encourge through the establishment of scholarships and otherwise a greater number of talented young people to make adequate preparation for public-school service, and otherwise to provide an increased number of trained and competent teachers.” This money is to be apportioned on the public school teacher basis, and amounts to $24.10 per teacher for the promotion of teacher-preparation.

Item 6 creates a national department of education. The administration of the funds appropriated by S 4987 involves not only clerical work, but also judgment, discretion, and executive capacity. It ought to be carried forward in a manner befitting the Nation’s interest in these types of education. For these reasons, the Bill provides for the creation of an Executive Department of the Government, to be known as the Department of Education, with a Secretary in the President’s Cabinet. The Bill also provides for three assistant secretaries, for the transfer of the Bureau of Education to the Department of Education, for the transfer of other educational work of the government to the Department of Education by Congress or by the President, defines the duties and powers of the Secretary, and provides funds for the expenses of the Department.

The Bill further provides for the designation or creation by the State Legislatures of the machinery necessary within each State for the co-operative administration of the provisions of the Bill, and sets up certain necessary safegurds, such as systems of accounting and auditing.

Dr. C. Ward Crampton, Director of Physical Training, New York Public Schools, has been given a leave of absence for a much needed change of scene and rest. He has gone to the Battle Creek Sanitarium, and will take charge of their Normal School of Physical Education and will conduct a series of researches.

Digitized by

Google
, ■ r- t—c—— . ■■	>.« — — i ■ ■>■■■■ — « 3

NOTES AND COMMENTS

, r ———« ' —■— ■“	■■	O

National Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, Ind.

The North American Gymnastic Union owes its origin to the political refugees from Germany and Austria who settled in this country after the failure of the revolutionary movement of 1848 49 to throw off the yoke of monarchy and militarism.

Originally they were hopeful, in the event of a renewal of the revolution, of returning to Germany and of assisting in the struggle against their oppressors. Since, however, the reactionary element at home retained the upper hand, they, renouncing all old country allegiance, pledged to the land of the Declaration of Independence their enthusiasm for liberty and founded Turnvereins for the purpose of physical education and the strengthening and promoting of political and religious freedom.

The spirit of 1848 has survived in the Gymnastic Union to the present day. While the members of the organization have taken great interest in the achievements of the German people in the fields of art, science, literature and music and, especially, education and economic administration, the organization has steadfastly refrained from any contact with political Germany. In the world war as well as in every other crisis of our country, the Turners have unflinchingly fulfilled their duty as Americans.

The ideal of a free government of the people of Germany, for which the founders of the Gymnastic Union erstwhile risked their very existence, seems about to be realized as a result of the disastrous world war. At the present time, this realization was possible only through a military defeat. With irresponsible re:k-. lessnss, the controlling powers of Germany and Austria gambled with the happiness of their people. They have lost their criminal game. The death struggle of monarchy, the last act in the bloody drama of the world war, ended with a victory for democracy. Out of the ruins of the German Empire rises the German Republic.

The Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union speaks in behalf of its entire membership when it hereby expresses its satisfaction because of the efforts of the German and Austrian revolutionaries for their emancipation and the founding of a Republic. May there develop, out of the conflicting opinions and varied interests existing in Central Europe, a political order consistent with the demands of the new era.

Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union Theodore Stempfel, President;	Richard Lieber

Peter Scherer, Vice-President; Albert E. Metzger H. Steichmann, Corr. Secretary; Leo. M. Rappaport Eugene Mueller, Rec.-Secy.;	Henry Suder

Armin Bohn Carl J. Gutzwiller Carl H. Lieber

Curt Toll Franklin Vonnegut George Vonnegut

Digitized by

Google
413

To those of us who for many years have stood for a broad interpretation of what is to be understood by physical training there is a certain satisfaction in noting the changed attitude of many toward what we have been doing for years. Or, perhaps, we had better say tnany who are now rushing into print in magazines, books, pamphlets, etc. are exhibiting a tendency to mislead the general public into the belief that individual and mass contests are an entirley new contribution in physical training work. One unfamiliar with jwhat always has been embraced under the term physical training, or by gymnastics (for both terms are interchangeable), is recently being led to believe that mass contests, fighting plays* group games, etc., are something entirely new. It needs but a hasty glance into the physical training books published, ten, twenty or thirty years ago to show that this is an error.

Again, even the application of these contests as a part of military training is not new as can be demonstrated amply by referring to the work done at West Point under the guidance of Major H. J. Kcehler during the last thirty years.

But, be this as it may, we are glad that the value of individual and mass contests is being recognized. Let us hope that the pendulum may not swing too far in this direction and rob us of other types of exercise that also have their places in a well balanced system

o.	gymnastics.

One of the most encouraging signs showing that the value of recreation centers, playgrounds, pools, etc. and other institutions designed for the welfare of our citizens is slowly but surely being appreciated is the designation of sudh institutions as proper memorials. For instance Governor Edge of the state of New Jersey, said:

“I believe the memorials should be of a useful type—that is, taking the form of necessary public works, such as bridges, highways, schools, hospitals, libraries and the like, instead of merely shafts. I would not urge that public moneys be expended unnecessarily, as no doubt there are many public improvements absolutely necessary and already under comtemplation which could be constructed as memorials and containing, of course, the roll of honor and other designations to make them sufficiently characteristic.”

And in the news items of December 14 we find the following:

Finding such a public demand for a memorial that can be utilized by the “living heroes” when they come home, a citizens’ committee appointed to make a canvass of Woodstown and Piles-grove, New Jersey township, this week to raise $7500 for the proposed marble shaft, has halted its drive and another town meeting has been called for next Monday evening to further consider the project. The committee reported that in making their rounds they found many persons opposed to a marble shaft, but were promised liberal contributions if a community house or some other recreational centre were substituted.

Digitized by Google
414

And in an editorial in the Philadelphia Record Dec. 15th we find the following:

If the Logan Improvement Association of Philadelphia which is^ reported to be planning, a memorial costing from $75,000 to $100,000 in honor Of its war heroes, Wishes to do something really useful it will not put this money into stone or bronze. The country is already threatened with a vast number of such effigies, rivaling the civil war monuments in hideousness and poor taste. Let the memorial take the form of a park or a playground, which will be a source of pleasure and benefit to untold generations yet to come. The territory around Logan, which is building up rapidly, has no park, and needs one. The opportunity to secure one is at hand in several beautiful pieces of woodland now threatened by the speculative builder. If one of these could be obtained in time and be dedicated to the memory of the soldiers and sailors who have fallen in the war, Logan would be a great gainer and the heroic dead would have the finest sort of a memorial.

In the “Philadelphia Record” we find the following sensible editorial relative to the resolutions adopted by the National collegiate athletic association:

If all the reforms suggested by the National Collegiate Athletic Association at its annual convention in New York during the Christmas vacation were put into operation the millennium would be here as far as intercollegiate athletics are concerned. At one stroke they would put the professional athletic coach on the basis where he would do a greater good and his capacity for evil restricted. They would likewise furnish supervision for undergraduate sports and on the whole would be a lasting blessing.

The most important resolution adopted by the N. C. A. A. was that the one-sport specialist professional coach should either be discontinued as such or as quickly as possible be placed on an all-year basis, provided he could coach more than one sport. The purpose of this resolution was not to attack the professional because he is a professional, as some critics imagine. No sensible person can object to a professional athletic instructor any more than he should object to any other professional on the faculty. Both men teach college students and both do so for a livelihood. The object of the resolution was to bring the professional coach under the direct supervision of the scholastic authorities qnd thus to eliminate the dangers incident to giving to him full sway.

Of course, a good many college professors have objected, and properly so, to the high salaries paid most football coaches. At virtually all the big universities the football coach has received a salary of between $4000 and $5000, The term of most football coaches is for a period of not more than three months, so that to pay such high salaries to these men is inexcusable while so many college professors working all the year around find it almost impossible to live decently on the salaries they receive.

In the Middle West they have solved this inequality pretty generally by engaging as their athletic instructors men who could

Digitized by e.ooQie
415

coach football, and one or two other sports, so that they could be kept busy the entire year. When a man is selected on this basis and given a faculty rating he can become one of the most useful and influential men on the teaching force. What the colleges need o do under the circumstances is to more carefully select their athletic coaches and in particular to get men of all-around skill.

It will be interesting to see how colleges represented at the N. C. A. A. observe this particular recommendation. The resolutions adopted by this association are not mandatory upon its members. They are merely recommendations to be acted upon favorably or not, as the individual college sees fit. At the same time, when the representatives of a university vote for these resolutions, as most of them did, it would seem that they would be in honor bound to put them into operation as soon as possible.

A faithful interpretation would involve two classes of men. It would virtually eliminate the football coach who devoted most of his time to his regular business and then coached a gridiron team between two and three months in the fall. On the other hand, it would make a position on the faculty very attractive to a man who had the ability to instruct in more than one branch of sport and realized that he would be retaining his position irrespective of the championship teams he turned out.

In the past too much has been made of football from the financial standpoint. This was more or less natural, because football has had to finance nearly all the other sports. So it has come to pass that a winning football team was necessary or the whole athletic system would go to smash. This explains why in the past successful football coach has been able to command a big salary.

In the interest excited over the suggestion about the professional coach most persons seem to have lost sight entirely of the suggestion (made at the same time) that all colleges should provide a definite hour in their daily classroom rosters for participation in athletics and other forms of recreation. At many universities, particularly those with professional schools, the students are expected to find time for their practice as best they can, the usual result being that practice is restricted to an hour or less at the close of the day. The advocates of this resolution contend and properly so, that a student's athletics, when properly supervised constitutes the most important part of his daily life. It follows that the time allotted for his physical development should be that period which will do him the most good. This is undoubtedly at a time when he will have the advantage of the daylight.

What ought to happen is the setting aside of an hour every afternoon during which no recitations or lectures should be held and during which every student would be obliged to take some sort of exercise in the open air. The result would be a much better type of physical manhood.

The third recommendation of the convention was that the training table should not be revived and that it, together with preliminary training for football and other teams, was contrary

Digitized by v.ooQle
416

to true amateurism. These recommendations, like the are merely suggestions, but any college which refuses to put into practice will have some difficulty explaining to its oppon why it refuses.

Since the N. C. A. A. has no way to enforce the reforms just mentioned those colleges which put them into practice have biA one alternative in the case of rebellious institutions. They w3t refuse to continue athletic relations. In other words, any college which persists in maintaining training tables for its athletics and what is known as “summer football” practice, will find itself out* lawed. Enforcing these suggestions may prove embarrassing to some colleges, but the time is at hand when they must show whet* they stand.

As the meeting of the council of the American Pnysical Education Association held at the Hotel Astor, New York City December 28, the wish was expressed that the Chicago meeting of the association be held in conjunction with the meeting of the superintendents department of the National Education Association. Dr. Dudley B. Reed of the University of Chicago, chairman of the program committee was asked to get in touch with the proper committee of the superintendents’ meeting and arrange for a joint meeting if this be possible. This unofficial notice is given at this time to allow our readers time to prepare for the Chicago meeting should it be possible to hold it during the last week of February.

“325 Group Contests for the Army, Navy and School" by

William J. Cromie. 96 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Fully illustrated. Published by the MacMillan Company, New York. Price $1.25.

In this booklet Mr. Cromie who is instructor in physical education at the University of Pennsylvania presents 325 forms of exercise that may be used for competitive ends. In his presentation Mr. Cromie returns to the all-possibility‘method. To the experienced teacher this may not prove a handicap, but for the inexperienced teacher “less would have been more.”

The book nevertheless should be welcome to teachers. In a subsequent edition it would be a great improvement to have the essential contests in each type of activity presented first. Then, as an addition, the many variations might be elaborated upon. If presented in this manner the book would be of greater value to the teaching novice.

BOOK REVIEW

Digitized by

Google