MIND AND BODY

Vol.30	JUNE,	1923	No.	319

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14., /p/d, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, i8yp.

« ---------------------------------------

Original articles and reprint^

«►-------------------------------------<•

NATIONAL CONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN PHYfICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

President’s Address.

By Carl L. Schrader.

There is never a time so important as the present and in speaking to you for and of our association I feel no hesitancy in expressing the conviction that the present is the moment of greatest significance for our work as a whole, for the association, and for you individually. Not of greatest significance because of what has been achieved in the past, even though that be far reaching, but rather because of what lies ahead, rather what those who have the welfare of the Nation at heart believe may be achieved through our particular contribution to Education. Education the world over is in a turmoil, and of new theories and systems there is no end. But if one reads correctly, there is one general objective, one general hope which permeates all, and that is, that the individual shall have equal opportunity to reach his possible goal, rather than that all have an equal chance for a common, often impossible, goal. That the road to this goal shall at all times lie within view of the realities of life making con-

Digitized by booQ le
98

tact all along the way. This objective, this hope is not dependent upon new educational materials, on new tools, but it is solely relying on the awakening to a different and more human application, where the pupil rather than the lesson is taught and where sympathy rather than sternness and rigidity reigns. To what extent is Physical Education affected by this general reorganization? It may be well here to dwell for a moment on the significance of the term Physical Education as differing in meaning from Physical Training or Health Education or, the, let us hope now obsolete, term Physical Culture. It is in the first term, in Physical Education, that all generally accepted objectives find expression. The other terms limit the scope to a particular end, do, therefore, not suggest the close relationship with education in general. That is, they do not convey the idea that more than mere physical proficiency is striven for, that more than mere health is the aim or that more than relief from mental work is the object. It is all of these plus something more vital, it is much else, that we must cause people to recognize when we speak of Physical Education. In the one general and fundamental objective, that of teaching how to live, particularly how to live with others, our particular phase of education shares the responsibility of achieving it, yes, more than that, it opens opportunities far greater than many other educational factors, and possesses means far more effective. More effective because these means are of genuine interest to the pupil and command voluntary attention and whole-hearted participation. We have but to tie up these interests with purposes which lie within the range of their understanding, but which are at the same time the counterpart of the purposes in real living toward which they are being led. This teaching how to live with others, which involves all those acts and behaviors of individuals upon which true democracy is built, places great and new demands upon the teacher. To enumerate all the qualities and traits and behaviors involved in successful society would carry us too far afield. May they in brief be drawn under the one term of character. Character in the narrowest as well as in the widest sense is based upon habit, and habit is the result of oft repeated acts.

James Bryce in his remarkable book on democracy makes the statement that “Democracy is successful in so far as it is based on the integrity of the individual.” This objective of character training is one which cannot be taught directly in a specific course, nor can it be the province of a single teacher, any more than hygiene or posture can be brought to a fruitful end by one particular teacher. Every teacher must share in it and must find the approach in ho* own particular subject. The more a subject is naturally of a social nature, and all subjects can be made more so than they are, the closer and the more effective will be the approach. It is here in this light that physical education accepts a position of singular strategical advantage. It is because of the gradual and general recognition of this strategical advantage that educators turn to us for substantial aid in realizing what is perhaps the most essential objective in all education. This contact, then, the teachers of physical education
99

must aim to establish with their work. They must acquire this mastery of the art of teaching in addition to the mastery in the artistry of the technique. The technique gives them the best medium, the best tools with which to gain the desired end. But if these tools are handled clumsily and aimlessly, if the means are ends in themselves, training is all that results, but not education, contact has not been made. It is necessary, therefore, that the physical education normal schools and departments must grapple with this problem. They, meaning all, must re-adjust their program with special emphasis on a live pedagogy which will interpret the practical means into this new and bigger prospect. They must keep abreast with the general advance in Education in order to prepare the outgoing teachers not only to share intelligently in these newer aspects ana responsibilities, but to make definite contributions when definite changes are being made. Not a blind acceptance of every fancy and frill, but a careful consideration of all for its worth. With the creation of the Junior High School, for example, certainly a drastic change in school administration, there has come to us a singular big opportunity for a constructive piece of work. The equipment of some of these new junior high schools in some instances surpasses that of many high schools. How prepared were the teachers of physical education to make this new contribution? In some places to be sure splendid balanced programs were put into operation, but in ever so many communities where vision was lacking either the evils of the high school athletics were extended to the junior high school, or the program remained the stilted type of the lower grades. In brief the news had not reached them. Instead of wasting time on trying to determine whether this or that particular type of activity is or is not the only correct one and accordingly put in the discard this and herald as panacea that activity, let us exercise greater care in handling the tools and I care not what they are. If one proves a better approach than the others by all means use it. But let us not forget that we are teaching the pupil and not the lesson. Let us not overlook the fact that we, when dealing with numbers, must recognize the differing tastes in this, our particular field, as a situation which is common to all learning, that is, the varying likes and dislikes for the subject taught. The difference in taste for the various types of exercises is as great as is the difference in taste for types of music, for literature, or for the drama. In the case of these latter we wisely aim in our education to cultivate a wide and increasingly satisfying taste for better music, literature or art without arbitrarily determining before hand what the pupil must like. The motive of any arbitrary selection, therefore, of a selected few activities in physical education to constitute thedefiniteprogram is unsound. Every distinct type of activity attracts a distinct type of gymnasts, pole vaulters, high jumpers, or fencers and vice versa. The field hockey or basket ball type of girl is rarely among the aesthetic dancers and vice versa. In this relationship of type to the activity, we may be justified to speak of natural activities, meaning thereby the inclination of the individual to his or her particular type of activity. But it is again unsound to make an arbitrary distinction
between the types of activities as such into natural and unnatural ones. Who is to determine which is and which is not a natural activity? Surely only the one who practices in it and who in the effort of mastery finds either statisfaction or annoyance. The classification of sports into major and minor sports which comes to us from the College is as unfortunate as it is arbitrary; and has led to the general conception that any sport which is not a major sport, so called, is merely a sort of “also sport” and of little importance. Inasmuch as none of the team sports last much beyond the school or college career, there is nothing but the large variety of minor sports “so called” left for the professional man and woman to indulge in. In these minor sports, so called, are involved many of the big muscle activities that call for and are the means of developing muscle tone, a condition of muscle that is fundamental, whether the objective be grace, or skill, or endurance, or good posture or good health in general. Hence we are not only justified but logically led to acquaint all those who come to be instructed with the many various types of activities so that eventually a choice may be made intelligently, based upon experience. All specialization in education must be based on generalization, both to be intelligent and tQ be safe. To be intelligent it must be the result of actual experience in varied activities so as to enable the individual to discern from which one the greatest satisfaction has resulted. To be safe it must be the result of effort made in such variety of activities as will insure a balance of development upon which only specialization may thrive without detriment.

What is the contact, then, that we must make in teaching our particular work? What bearing has the active life which we bring to the pupil on character development? Are the qualities we usually enumerate such as loyalty, good sportsmanship, fair play, magnanimity, etc., automatically absorbed by the pupil? Do these qualities become a permanent possession by merely reading or reciting a code of ethics to the pupils occasionally? Hardly! “Mere good will is no substitute for trained self-possession either in physical or moral activities.” These qualities must be earned and lived in order to be possessed. We find invariably that where these traits manifest themselves unconsciously in the presence of serious responsibilities that there has been some one who in his teaching and through his personality has succeeded in establishing contacts with the inner man and has made these qualities permanent possessions. Professor Hocking of Harvard has defined character thus: “Character is condition of the inner man, good character is good condition of the inner man.”

To make these contacts is even more the business of the teacher of the elementary and grammar school than that of the teacher in the high school. "As the twig is bent so the tree is inclined.” The physical education activities in the elementary school though simple ana tame when compared with those of the high school and the college nevertheless are basic in the development of those habits which later are to express themselves in such conduct as will earn the approval of society. It is therefore essential that the child in its

Digitized by L^ooQle
IOI

gradually increasing social relationship gradually assume the responsibility for its actions, learn from the consequences, which behavior gives satisfaction and which annoyance. In the world of make believe in which the child lives, it is so easy to find the purposes that it can understand and for the accomplishing of which it is ready to work with wholehearted effort. The teacher possessed of imagination can lead the child through this maze of ever new experiences and link these experiences up with the real problem of living. All the above enumerated character qualities may be properly awakened and fostered in this age period whereas it is practically too late to begin in high school or college. The reform which we have in mind ana for which we hope in athletics will come from the elementary school upward rather than from the college and high school downward. It might not be amiss for our association to declare itself as of one mind, that it considers the physical education program of far greater significance in the elementary school than in the high school. More significant, first, because whatever contact may be made by means of such a program toward character training ana emotional control is made best in these early years, when habits may be led; and second, because the bulk of boys and girls never reach the high school and thus are permitted to enter upon man and womanhood with emotions running rampant. The question may well be raised by what logic we spend 2 1-2 times more for the education of the 15 year old than we spend for the 6 year old. We can accomplish our task provided we do not let false values stand in the way of true objectives, provided we as teachers consider the long period of preparation as more important than the brief period of contest, provided again that we look upon our workingmaterial,our subject, as so many means for definite ends rather than ends in themselves. If we but succeed to regain and retain the element of play which once was basic in all our sport, but which now no longer is ours in rivalry; if we can equip the rivalling individuals or groups with experiences which will cause them to play hard to win, but without feeling the defeat as disgrace, we will have taken a long step toward a better morale. When the generation now in the making and so trained becomes the mass of spectators of tomorrow it will observe the contest with greater intelligence and truer sportsmanship because it can share with the contending groups in the arena all their emotions, and their anxiety. It can sympathize with the officials to whom has been assigned the judgeship of the combat, which then will be governed more by an unconsciously manifested sportsmanlike behavior rather than by a volume of ever increasing rules that aim to find the proper penalty for all possible breaches of right conduct to which the morally weak contestant, under stress, may be prone. Good sportsmanship must prevail in the bleechers as well as in the arena before we can boast of real loyalty.

Unless the effect of our particular contribution to education is felt to manifest itself in a better social behavior we have failed. The evils attending athletics can be rooted out only by creating a different and healthier attitude on the part of the pupil. This is expected of us. May we not be found wanting in rendering this service.

Digitized by
102

OBJECTIVES IN DANCING FOR COLLEGE WOMEN.

By Gertrude A. Baker, University of Minnesota.

Before discussing values, it is necessary first to tell you a little of the nature of the dancing which permits these objectives. Some of you will understand something of the character of the work when I tell you that after a year’s contact with the enthusiasm and inspiration of Margaret H’Doubler of the University of Wisconsin, the work that I am doing is very similar to hers, in aim, somewhat similar in method, but in result as yet quite far removed from hers, I fear. To those of you who are unacquainted with either Miss H’Doubler or her work, I shall give a brief description of the dancing.

It is one expression of the already wide-spread movement against the type of dancing in which everyone does exactly the same thing at the same time and as nearly like the teacher as possible. Contrary to some opinions, the work has a definite technique—it is composed of co-ordinations which vary from big generalized movements in which trunk, arms, and legs participate, i. e., the roll to sharply localized movements of a given part of the body, i. e., leg lifting backward. These co-ordinations are carefully analyzed for the class and the verbal analysis is supplemented as far as possible by references to charts and the bony skeleton showing the relations of muscles and bones. The principles involved in the execution of these co-ordinations are chiefly relaxation and a control which begins with the fundamental muscles. The realization of both of these principles is made possible by progressing carefully and slowly, from work done with a broad base to work done from

[)ositions in which the base is gradually made smaller, i. e., half ying, half sitting, kneeling, standing on one foot, etc. At first the lying position is used extensively because, since the influence of gravity is at a minium in this position, there is not only the greatest opportunity for relaxation, but the conditions are right for helping an individual to enervate and gradually acquire better control of the trunk muscles. The improved control of these fundamental muscles is highly important to successful localization of movement in the other parts of the body and to the freedom of movement generally. Simple forms of locomotion such as skipping, sliding, etc. are presented very early and the class is assisted in developing a repertoire of movement in locomotion. The variety of these co-ordinations depends in the main upon the teacher’s understanding of anatomy and kinesiology and always, of course, her appreciation of the needs of her classes. The main point that is being made in explaining this part of the work is to make clear the fact that there is a definite technique and that the class is helped to direct their movements consciously as is always necessary in developing the kinesthetic sense. *

* Read at the convention of the Middle Western Section of the American Physical Education Association, Chicago, April 1923.

Digitized by Google
103

Another part of the work which is preparatory to dancing is that in which the structure of the music is studied for evenness or unevenness, for tempo, and for phrasing in order to develop further appreciation for the universal art principles of contrast, unity, and balance in order to apply these principles to the pattern of the dance.

The third part of the work is concerned with the application of the technique of movement and the appreciation of musical form to the dance itself. Now the individual is using her body as a medium to express an idea, a situation, or perhaps, just a mood. The ex-

Eression is at first guided by the verbal suggestion from the teacher, ut as soon as possible it should be motivated by the music itself; sometimes the whole class will benefit by the suggestion from one in the class whose imagination has been stirred. The important point here is that the manner of expressing the idea or situation in the case of one girl is as different from the expressions of other individuals in the group as the girl herself is different by heredity and the particular environment to which she has been exposed.

In brief, then, the work consists of three parts—the study of coordinations, the study of the structure of music, and then of dancing itself.

But all of this description of the nature of this dance form is introductory to the subject of the paper. It is essential however to your understanding of the objectives of the work.

I.	Neuro-muscular Objectives.

Improved control of the fundamental muscles. This control is manifested in: (a) The control of the arms and legs in such a way as to bring about a regulation of the amount of muscular contraction which is desired in the accomplishment of movement in those parts, i. e., degrees of enervation of the muscles causing abduction in the shoulder joint. This discrimation of degrees of range which is necessary to fine analysis of different degrees of intensity in selections, is simply another way of saying that the power to localize movement is enormously benefited by emphasizing fundamental muscular control, i. e., we think of an arm movement as being a localized movement when the upper back arm muscles are enervated and muscular action in the rest of the body is inhibited. A finer degree of localization is not only conceivable but is demonstratable fairly early in the training which emphasizes fundamental control plus relaxation. Let us have the localization referred to a moment ago—abduction of the arm with movement inhibited elsewhere than in the upper back; then in addition, relaxation of all fibres in the arm excepting those in the upper part of those upper arm muscles which act in conjunction with the upper back muscles. In this kind of localization, there is a conservation of nerve energy beyond that in the localization of which we ordinarily conceive.

Not only is there a fine discrimination in the amount of enervation of the muscles of the arm in degrees of range, but there is at the same time a greater freedom, i. e., a development of range itself plus economy of nervous energy.

Digitized by
104

All that has been said of the control of the arm applies to the control of the leg also and any part of the trunk. Applied to the parts of the trunk i. e., upper back and pelvis, such power of localization brings about an understanding and utilization of bodily mechanics that results in an easy erectness that places the posture value of this work on a very high plane.

(b) The effect of fundamental muscular control is further manifested in locomotion. For example take ordinary walking. If there is a free swing from the hip as is the case where the lower back, hip, and upper thigh muscles have had their related actions strengthened by such localization as last described, the stride is freer; the lower knee is not snapped back as is the case where one hasn’t the proper relaxation of tne lower leg. Lastly since the work is done without shoes or stockings, the training given the foot for improved muscular tone, improved position, and weight distribution carries over into the gait and appears there as increased buoyancy that comes from the use of the toes, and increased endurance which is the natural result of correct transference of the weight thru the parts of the foot.

II.	Appreciation Objectives.

Another aspect of the technical training or the preparation for dancing consists in the development of an elementary understanding of the form of music. The class beats out tempos and phrases, and in various group formations or as individuals, they work for motor activities which are satisfying in that selection, i. e., they experiment with different activities until they find the combination which suits that tempo.

Then the motifs are arranged in patterns which are made interesting by change of direction and changes of formation, changes in the position of other parts of the body, and change of motif. In this way, the mechanics of musical structure are studied, and a basis is established for impromptu pattern making which later may be quite secondary to the theme of the dance. Such experimentation with the structure of music in the form of movement is, in the case of many of the girls, the only first-hand experience other than that which they have in their English courses with the laws of unity, contrast, balance—universal laws which t one must understand m order to appreciate any form of art.

While the study of the mechanics of music is still going on, there is gradually built up a finer appreciation of music—an increased sensitivity to the mood of the selection. The interpretation of these moods depends upon the amount of musical appreciation already possessed by the class, and the amount of self-consciousness that is present to inhibit the interpretation. Even in one term, the average college girl, she who has had little or no opportunity for expression thru tne medium of the body and who has a large amount of self-consciousness, develops not only an understanding of the structure of music so that she can apply that knowledge in a dance form but she acquires some appreciation of mood which enables her to express in movement at least the lighter moods. The girls themselves often speak of the pleasure they take in the good music that
IOJ

they hear in the dancing classes and of their unproved ability to enjoy it because of the class work. They especially like to lie and listen to it when tired. One of the biggest values that the work can give them is ability to relax. As they do this their acquaintance with, and their appreciation for, good music are both being enlarged.

In the concentration on the form and content of the music and their relation to the dance is found one key to the problem of self-consciousness, which is perhaps the largest problem in the work with adults. In the case of some girls who have repressed their tendency to expression in a motor way, the throwing off of inhibitions which

Iuevent freedom of outlet of ideas and emotions in the dance, is a ong process; the average girl however does make appreciable progress by the end of two terms, and often by the end of one term.

III.	Recreational.

The recreational aspect of the work in the popular sense—the enjoyment that the classes take in the work—is practically a foregone conclusion. This recreational value ranks high in the estimation of the student and is very important, but it is a logical by-product.

The objectives in dancing for college women are of a highly educational nature. In brief, the dance brings to the college girl

1)	Neuro-muscular control which is based quite logically, evolutionally speaking, upon the trunk muscles; because of this source, movements have freedom and, therefore, involve conservation of nerve energy; this increased fundamental control is manifested by an easy erectness and increased buoyancy in movement.

2)	Organic vigor is increased since the music encourages longer and more continuous activity.

3)	In the breaking down of self-consciousness, a new initiative is developed—a willingness and an enjoyment in expressing an idea regardless of the presence of others.

4)	The dance brings to the college girl a greater appreciation of music and experience with the universal art Taws that should increase her appreciation of all art.

In the extensive field of poetry and other forms of literature upon which we draw for dance themes, we have still other means of increasing appreciation of the beautiful.

5)	In the most prolific source of dance material, life itself, there is not only an opportunity for pointing out beauty in the commonplace incidents, but there may be real character building in the moral interpretations of the every day experiences.

6)	From these two sources especially, literature and experiences in life, the girl receives stimulation to her creative imuplse.

7)	Everyone needs an emotional outlet of some sort; as the girl's facility with this medium of expression is developed, her emotional balance should have increasing stability.

We may summarize very briefly by saying that this form of dancing sharpens the kinesthetic sense in a very practical way, increases organic vigor, stimulates the aesthetic impulse, and from the nature of the work cannot help but be recreational.

This last word is in the nature of a digression. Perhaps, it is because of the repeated injunction of a friend of mine that I De sure

Digitized by v^ooQle
io6

to discriminate between dancing as a form of Physical Education and as a form of Art and, perhaps, it is because I wish to encourage the enlargement of your appreciation of the dance that I should like to add a final comment.

To my mind, there is no conflict between dancing as an agency in Physical Education and as a form of art. The former, dancing as an agency in Physical Education, is essential to the realization of the latter, dancing as an Art.

THE FOUR S’S — A PROJECT.

By Alice M. Cahill, Second Grade Teacher, Old Mather School, Boston,

Massachusetts.

Can you swim? How do you leave the yellow sands with its ever critically present audience? Do you dash through the flying spray and plunge head first into a very mountain of a wave, later to emerge laughing and shining as the very people of the underseas? Or do you enter the water gingerly, toe by toe, and, after a gasp or two, by the time the liquid blue nas struck your more vital parts, duck ungracefully and protestingly and stonelike in a stiffly vertical position until the neck line is reached?

How is the rest of your watery visit spent? Are you one of the enviable cirowd on the raft who hold pleasant converse in chummy groups of two and three as they swing suspended by a finger or two, or who leave the spring board in almost heart-breaking curves of beauty, or who dance on the swaying boards in sheer exhilaration of living? Pehaps you are one of these favored few or perhaps the raft and its joys are as remote and as unattainable to you as the golden summer sun itself. Maybe you stand knee-deep and talk about the increase of taxes or the best way of pickling pears. Most likely you totter if a seven-inch wave approaches without a herald. Occasionally you bob up and down like a gentle Jumping Jack but show no sign of Jack’s ever-present grin. Perhaps, if courage be stirring, you sink again to the neck line and flap about with two hands and one foot, the other foot prehensilely attached o la Darwin to the sands beneath. At a distance—a long distance (you are quite deceiving)—you look as if you were swimming. But you fool no one—least of all yourself. Your eyes are seagreen and your heart is heavy with regret and your American sense of fair play and equal opportunities for all rebels, because you can’t do what the others can do and you know you could do it as well as the next one had you learned it at the pedagogically psychological moment!

But that moment is long since past. The merry and somehwat crazy rush of everyday living is such that often the thirties and forties and fifties are reached before we truly mourn for the tricks that are second nature to the young dog, but can never be learned by him in his old age. We of advanced years may bravely strive to learn the

•From The Journal of the National Education Association.

Digitized by Google
Four Sports, to swim or to skate, or to dance, or to play tennis, but out performance is as wooden, as purposeless, and as lacking in spontaneity and snap as our frozen pudding of the present era.

If we steal the time and attempt the initial steps in skating our muscles and joints are stiffened by the thought that a broken leg would keep us in the hospital for weeks. Our consciousness of bystanders makes us more awkward than nature ever could. Our ageing circulation chills us through and through and we die a thousand deaths antici one tumble.

To the uninit____ earning to swim and dive is lackeyed by even

greater possibilities of danger—even the loss of life itself. Why intelligent, well-read people will not believe in the buoyancy of water (as applicable to themselves) is more than I can understand. Dancing and tennis when learned late in life do not present such menacing hazards as skating and swimming, but here again, the thought of the onloker, the consciousness of weight, shape, or clothing, the astonished heart, the involved breathing, and the general rebellion of an unexpectedly overtaxed system are all drawbacks to real success. Real success does not come to the forty-year-old—a semblance may— but not the carefree, devil-may-care, and second nature success that youth attains. And then we must remember that for every one

Sown up who attempts to learn in the sport line what he should have imed before his teens were upon him, there are at least nine others who stand back, wistfully and inertly, truthfully laying the blame on conditions that they had little or no control over—namely, conditions as they were in their childhood.

You know these conditions as well as I. You may have experienced some one or more of them even as I. And these same conditions exist today. Some children themselves are apathetic as far as vigorous sports are concerned—they much prefer the quieter, more sedentary pastimes. Are they the best judges, however, of what their stretching young bodies need? Some children are enigmatically and firmly opposed to learning to read, to write, and to spell. Is that reason sufficient for them growing up "know-nothings?”	Do we recognize it and abide by it?	Children's preferences

are interestingly indicative, but unless guided along the lines of well-established society are apt to prove somewhat subversive of law and order. Other children are naturally diffident and even somewhat nervous. As a rule, nerves do not decrease in crankiness as they age, so why not smooth them down early in life? Eight-year-old high-strung Henrietta will sail over the hazards of skating much more equably than Henrietta when she has shortened her skirts again to celebrate her thirty-eighth birthday. And saddest of all, unskilled Henrietta of second childhood may never even guess what she is missing—this is almost as sad as realizing the loss as so many of us so poignantly do.

Again the excessive parental love of some mothers (fathers are not so often to blame) prevents their children from learning to skate and swim. With their grown-up intelligence threaded through with crotchety nerves, these mothers foresee in skating strained muscles and broken legs and concussion of the brain and, of course,

Digitized by Google
io8

death by drowning if swimming is attempted. They do not stop to realize that Ferdinand may just as easily break his legs while going to the store for tapioca and may drown because of the fact that he didn’t learn to swim. Should children suffer because of the diseased imaginations of their guardians? Should their health-giving enjoyments of later years be curtailed by minds that have long since passed to a clearer understanding?

Relative to dancing there is sometimes a religious or ethical objection on the part of the parents. Few, however, frown on folk dancing—so here is the opening wedge for the rhythm-loving souls that most of us own.

Affecting the larger percentage of children are two conditions that are peculiar to so-called home environment. Some families actually lack funds for the purchase of skates, tennis racquets, and swimming togs. Other homes have no facilities for these sports near at hand. So more boys and girls fail to get what should be naturally and healthfully theirs. And because of these several conditions you and I and a few more thousands have to say, “No, I don’t swim,” and “Sorry I can’t join your party, but I don't skate,” and sit soulfully with the matrons during toe-tickling jazz times and think the tennis players are going past all limits of decorum when they scream out "Deuce” or feelingly attract their partner’s attention with “Fifteen Love!”

Now what	can we do about it?	And what shaU we do about it?

We have learned that nothing is impossible and that the most ridiculously improbable happening may even now be waiting at our own back door. The civilized peoples of the twentieth century engaged in a four years’war of barbarian horrors; smoking cars were actually taken off the Elevated for a few weeks this year; Prohibition stalks our wayward land; and the Nation’s women helped elect Harding So nothing, absolutely nothing, is impossible. As for the public funds necessary to any widespread movement, these are always accessible for any purpose and at any time providing you can buttonhole the right man or men.

I	take it for granted that everyone agrees with me that skating, swimming, tennis, and dancing should be caught while one is young. Like children’s diseases they go mighty hard with grownups. I know that my contemporaries who have had these four accomplishments since childhood would not, now part with them for Midas’ touch. So I am positive of their co-operation. As for the stunted mortals who have reached middle life with nary a one in their bag o’ tricks I know even more positively that they will not only agree but will vehemently demand that the children of today be not passed by as they themselves were.

So here we are all together and all headed for the one goal— to build up in the Mid that which will be sane, legitimate, and healthgiving recreation for him, straight through to his three score years and ten.

Individually we could see to it that some two or three young Americans should become, willy-nilly, letter perfect in the Four S’s. But this individual effort, though worthy indeed, is not com-

Digitized by Google
lop

prehensively far-reaching. How then can we plan that aU the growing boys and girls of our progressive land be initiated? How will they aU get what they should get in spite of individual preferences and idiosyncrasies, in spite of parental prejudices, and in spite of the various circumstances of home environment?

In order that every one may answer this question in the one and only way it should be answered, I am going to ask one other and the answer to both is irrefutably the same. How do aU the children of	all the people learn the Three R's? In the schools.

As soon as a reasonable quota of accomplishment in the Four S's as well as the Three R’s is a condition for an elementary-school diploma then so soon will our growing Americans have a normal childhood, a virile youth, and an older life of many pleasantly healthful possibilities.

The schools already spend large sums in teaching a select few such sports as baseball and football. These are not primarily for the benefit of the individual, but are engaged in from a viewpoint of inter-school competition. A football squad of eleven and a baseball team of nine even with the customary second teams does not seem like a democratically even spreading of butter on the prosaic bread of life—does it? And even after a splendidly intensive training in these two pastimes how many business men motor out in the good old day-light-saving-time to run bases or kick the pigskin about? Where would he ever pick up the complementary eight or ten to fill up the team, to ignore entirely the vitally necessary numbers for the opposing squad? It is easy enough at times to tie up with one friend or possibly two for an hour’s enjoyment, but these busy days of ours do not encourage the frequent rounding-up of the "whole gang.”

Accordingly the money spent on these two sports in the schools is not exactly far-reaching. But the very fact that it is being spent is indicative that with the right impetus a similar amount or even a lesser amount per pupil might be used for the four million as well as the four hundred of school society. Without going statistically into the matter, I am confident that a comparatively small outlay of funds would secure results.

Of a certainty a city would have to buy or rent some conveniently located vacant lots for use as tennis courts in the mild weather and later as skating areas. An extra gymasium building or two might be necessary. A certain sum would have to be spent on skates, racquets, and suits to lend to those who could not get them for themselves and there would be salaries for instructors and funds for general upkeep. But I doubt if the increased expenditure when reduced to actual cost per child (and per grown-up, too, for that matter) would be anywhere near as great as the sum now being spent on a few male high-school students in the pursuit of football and baseball. And I am confident again that if the city spent its money in these directions it would spend noticeably less in its respective departments in handling fires, following up thefts, settling cases of unruly children, and meting out punishment in general for the seven times forty-seven varieties of indiscretions that adolescent youth and hardened age are capable of. To be conservative, as a result of

Digitized by v^ooQle
I IO

dexterity in the Four S’s, at least of the city’s population would plan a more wholesome use of those idle moments that Satan views with such speculative eyes.

Little or no instruction would be necessary. A child could take the entire elementary stretch of nine years to qualify or he might present himself for examination in any one or more of the four sports as soon as he felt he could creditably pass. I should not advise examining children for diploma records until they had reached the seventh grade, but from that time on to actual graduation time the following-up of non-qualified pupils would have to be as much of the school program as any of its now-accepted subjects. However, I believe that given the right opportunities, under pleasant conditions, seventy-five per cent of the children would have qualified creditably by the time the seventh grade was reached. To urge the remaining twenty-five per cent along with a stretch of three years in which to do it does not seem a herculean task. The great, great majority of children would learn almost instinctively outside of school. The playgrounds and municipal buildings already so beneficially established would have an increased patronage—the patronage of those who would not use these city privileges unless bound to do so by an elementary diploma's requirements. Here the children would gain proficiency in the Four S’s by observation, by competition, by encouragement, by an occasional word from the instructor, and by actual enjoyment and inclination. If a little fellow, as soon as he enters school^ has access to the various equipment necessary for success and if his interest is jogged off and on (in the case of the apathetic ones) by his grade teacher, I again say, that the opportunity given, there will be little or no need of pedagogical pressure or exertion.	g

The interesting possibilities of interschool or even inter-city contests, of pageants and of carnivals as a result of city-wide accomplishments in these sports, is not to be disregarded. Competition is usually a successful master. Accomplishment and recognition are delightful side partners. Without a doubt the city’s expense per pupil might be most agreeably lowered by these same contests, pageants, and carnivals.

The advantages of adding the Four S’s to the elementary diploma requirements are so many and so obvious and so far-reaching into life that it seems almost belittling to the reader's intelligence to name them over. They fit in so admirably with the growing popularity of week-ending in the open. Health for the child, and logically hearth for the man. Legitimate pleasure for all creeds, colors, sexes, and ages. Grace—there is no sin in being beautiful as well as good. Life itself—consider the drowning accidents to bathers and canoeists who cannot swim. That sense of power and accomplishment which sends comforting prickles up and down one’s back and straightens the shoulders and holds the head high. And the bending of the twigs, away from the questionable shadows of a Police Record to the pleasant sunlight of law and order.

Just at present many of the educational world are agog over so-called project work. This up-to-the-minute interest consists in

Digitized by v^.ooQle
Ill

linking up the doings of school life with the outside world and proving to the children by means as concrete as possible that everything in school has a practical purpose, a world value. The four arithmetic

Erocesses may, according to “project,” be pleasantly learned by aving a store in the schoolroom. The handling of make-believe money for buying and selling would prove the value and actual need of absolutely correct adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing. As may be readily seen, this is a delightful method in many respects and reaching out as it does into later life or immediate life itself outside of school—I am thrilled to know that all true advocates of Project will greet me and my Four S’s as a real sister spirit.

When reading Mendel E. Branom’s “Project Method in Education” I was much elated to find several quotable passages relative to the avocations of one’s leisure moments that have strengthened my faith in myself and in my Four S’s. He says “It is essential that children shall be given the requisite knowledge and attitudes that will persist in the after-school days in functioning in the life of the child so that he will continue to grow in the direction of becoming more and more proficient in industrial work, so that he will select harmless forms of recreation, and so that he will be a positive social force in	society.” Believing as you do in my project what can you

do and what will you do to help?

STADARDIZATION OF TRACK ATHLETICS FOR THE ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOL GROUPS.*

By B. Janet Walter, Philadelphia.

Educational tests and measurements are being broadcasted everywhere. Standards are being demanded in all fields, not only in educational work, but in other fields where it is desirable to measure efficiency. Of recent years, as teachers we have come in contact with the standard of the College Degree, set by Boards of Education, as a requirement for certain positions or for salary increases. This has been much discussed and its value questioned. In itself it has no value, but it is quite right to have such a standard, for in striving for this aim, teachers get much that is of great value. Just as in the production of some chemical compounds, the byproducts are more valuable than the compound we started out to produce, so the attainments along the line are of more value than the degree itself. It seems there are standards in the air, where formerly the only ones we knew were those of weights and measures.

In Physical Education we cannot afford to be behind the times. Nor have we been. We know that many efforts are being made, and have been made for some years to work out standards of track and field events to use as measuring rods for individuals, teams, and classes. There are still some who scoff, but those of us who have

* Read at the National Convention of the American Physical Education Association, Springfield. Mass., April 1923.

Digitized by Google
112

used standards extensively know that they have a very practical value. If a girl is told to jump as far as she can, her effort and achievement will not be so great as when she knows that at least a five foot jump is expected of a girl of her age. She will practice throwing the ball to reach the standard required of her and keep on practicing with something in view to conquer. If in establishing aims, then, we have furnished an incentive for more exercise, we have accomplished something dynamic.

There has been much discussion as to the basis of these standards, and as yet there is no widespread solidarity of opinion. I can best put before you my standing on the question by giving a history of what we have done in Philadelphia. At least you can rest assured that it is not some fantastical theory, but something that is in actual practice. Physical Education has been a required subject in elementary and high schools under the direction of Mr. Stecher for sixteen years. In the beginning of his work there, he started his corps of supervisors working on standards for track and field events. As I was one of the original group of supervisors, I have had the opportunity of seeing his ideas put into operation.

We took age as the basis: first, because it was the easiest with which to work and could be obtained without any additional effort. These standards were to be used by the grade teachers who were conducting the physical training work and an age basis was possible for practical use in a large system, where a complicated plan would not have been. We still use age because of the largeness of our system and the numbers concerned in keeping records. We have no quarrel with those who can administer an age-weight-height system, but such a system is impossible in dealing with 260,-000 pupils. Furthermore, we believe that we do not go far wrong with such a basis, for if we allow 15 per cent above and below normal weight for any age, we include 90 per cent of the total number of cases in that group. In a study of the performances (in a dash jump and throw) of two thousand high school girls, I found that there was little variation in the curve obtained when based upon age alone, from that based upon height alone, and when based upon weight there was a decrease in performance only for girls who were above 120 pounds. The percent of error involved in using age only as a basis, is compensated for by the amount of work accomplished, which would be impossible if an age-height-weight plan were used.

In the early days, when we first started to get standards, we, supervisors, were divided into groups in order to have as little variation as possible in results. We spent some months in collecting data. In getting the thousands of records necessary, we had many interesting experiences. Each supervisor could tell a tale of the stop watches that were brought, broken, and repaired, of the energy expended, the reams of paper used, the interested audiences shouting the only standards they knew, “Run like the cop was after you,” or “you jump like a cow.’’

The mean of the thousands of records obtained in each age was found. Taking a figure slightly above this mean, we formed our "age-aim.” This process had to be done for each event, so that

Digitized by LjOOQle
”3

when we finished we had quite a comprehensive working scale. The age-aim chart shows what each boy or girl is expected to do in different events according to his or her age. It has been necessary every few years to make changes in our standards so that the ones we are using to-day represent the result of years of experience.

To get this in the hands of the teachers and in use in the schools was a gradual process. But in this we have succeeded so that to-day in every elementary school we have our track and field work conducted along the following lines. Each class from the 4A grade up is divided at the beginning of each term into four teams: a girls’ red team, a girls’ white team, a boys’ red team, and a boys’ white team. Each team elects a captain. Dining the period for track and field work of the class the captain takes charge of the team. She has a printed “Captain’s Sheet” for her team’s record. This sheet is ruled so that the team can be listed by age. There are columns for recording height and weight, but these are used only for research purposes. There are four other columns, one for the jump, one for the throw, one for the dash (50 yards—40 or 30 where 50 is not possible^), and one for knee raising (on the boys’ sheet the fourth column is for chinning). Each column is sub-divided so that there are five spaces. In the first, is placed the aim; the four remaining spaces are for the recording of achievements. On the back of the sheet is printed the age-aim chart, so that the captain has all her material on one sheet. At intervals during the month, the captain records each of her team mates’ accomplishments in the various events. In the dash the captain records only, the teachers or supervisors take the time. In the other events, however, the captains are trained to judge. To facilitate matters we have our school yards properly marked off for each event, so that distances are easy to judge.

If the performance of a girl equals or betters that on the age-aim chart in a particular event, she passes in that event. At the end of the term, the teacher checks up on a “control sheet,” passed or failed in each event, opposite each name. Team, class, and school percentages can easily be obtained from these sheets. Class percentages are charted by the supervisors. In this way it can be seen where each class stands in comparison with the other classes. In such a plan, we have not only the pupils competing with the standards or age-aims, but we have competition between the teams, between the boys and girls and between classes.

In the Junior and Senior High Schools, the "captain sheets” are somewhat different, having six columns, five for events—jump, throw, dash, apparatus, game, and a sixth for rating. In the apparatus column, so far, rope climbing has been recorded for girls, and in the game column whether or not the student has a playing knowledge of the game, - the game played during a given report period. The column for rating has been added to record the number of events in which the student has passed. A rating is given, dependent upon the number of activities passed. Passing in five activities is excellent; in 4, good; in 3, fair; in 2, poor; and in 1, deficient.

Digitized by LjOOQle
We must, I think go a step further and give numerical value to accomplishments so that each individual can count his average and get credit for what he does over and above his age aims. The system of class divisions described by Dr. Jesse F. Williams and Miss Myrtle Hummer in the article in Teachers College Record, May, 1922, is very good, except that it is based on grade. There is so much variation of age within a given grade that if one factor only is used, it should be age. Otherwise, the average girl in a grade has a great advantage.

At the present time, we are using Athletic Ability Tests as a stimulus for further improvement for those who have passed their “age-aim” requirements. We have three of these tests for pupils under sixteen years of age, and one in the process of making for those over sixteen. The first test has four events, the second five, and the third, six. Certificates are awarded to all who pass these tests; bronze, red, and blue, for the first, second, and third, respectively. Last year we had 1904 boys and 946 girls pass the first test; 605 boys and 213 girls, the second; and 11 boys and 2 girls, the third.

We have, by putting this plan in operation, increased the interest of girls and boys in athletic events. We have stimulated competition in teams and classes, and by so stimulating interest, have evolved a method of getting the individual to take more exercise along the lines of the fundamental activities, - jumping, throwing, and running. This I claim we have done and also claim that it is no mean accomplishment, in spite of the fact that in the article before mentioned, Dr. William and Miss Hummer say that “up to the present time experiments have accomplished little of importance, have been mainly a tabulation of what children of certain ages could do in certain motor acts.” I am compelled to disagree, for our age-aims are decidedly more than a tabulation of what children can do. They represent standards to be attained and create a striving for increased ability. This phase of the work aids in making the girls strong, wholesome, vigorous animals.

AN ANSWER FROM DR. JESSE F. WILLIAMS.

To the Editor of Mind and Body:

I do not know that all of the criticisms are in but now that the three cities mentioned in my book have been heard from, may I have the opportunity of replying in the columns of Mind and Body?

I have read with interest the letters from Dr. Ziegler, Mr. Wittich and Mr. Kindervater. The letter from Dr. Ziegler was supplemented with one to me that contained a letter from Superin-intendent Condon commending Dr. Ziegler for his restraint. I am sure that restraint is a very admirable quality.

Concerning all the criticisms made of my discussion on pages seven and eight of the book “The Organization and Administration of Physical Education,” this one request to my critics is made: read the first eight pages again. The argument intended to make clear the following position: if German Gymnastics (this applies

Digitized by v^ooQle
1 *5

also to Swedish Gymnastics) as a system of physical education has any special out-standing characteristics, unusual qualities of excellence, or exceptional virtues, then one would expect to find in Cincinnati, Milwaukee and St. Louis where physical education is directed by capable representatives of German Gymnastics, the signs that mark such a system as superior. To me no such signs were evident (and I assure Mr. Wittich, that my observation on this point is not based upon hearsay nor handbooks) and in comparison with certain other cities, the program, material and spirit seem less satisfactory.

I realize that many people will not agree with my judgment in this matter; that is of no particular importance. They do not agree, because they are not judging by the same standards. Moreover, it is not essential that my view be accepted; the important thing is to get people to think about these things, to form judgments themselves, to ask questions that shall lead to an understanding of the educational pholosophy which should guide physical education in America.

There has been a good deal of misunderstanding concerning the use of the phrase “ ‘Tumverein type’ of instructor.” If my critics will notice the use of quotation marks in the text, they will observe that the phrase is not my own. I am reporting in this expression a term and a feeling I have often heard expressed against a certain type of instructor in physical education. While I am not unmindful of the influence of the Tumverein organization in physical education in this country, of the early pioneer work of Lieber, Beck, and Follen, of the splendid work of Brosius and many of his contemporaries, I am willing to advise schoolmen and educators every where that the graduate of a Tumverein is not the best prepared in everyway to conduct a program of modem physical education. It is beside the point to indicate that many splendid men have had Tumverein training.

I am sure that I have voiced the sentiment of many teachers of physical education when I say that graduates of high school with two years of normal training are not prepared to take a place in the school or college that they should take in the light of the importance of their program. A Tumverein training is inadequate, because it is too narrow and is too highly technical. Whether there are six or sixty teachers of physical education in Cincinnati with high high school training is only of relative importance. More significant is the attitude of our leaders of physical education with regard to illy prepared teachers. For example, I know of a state where one of the State Supervisors has only a high school education and has received all of his professional training in a Tumverein. It does not seem to me that by training he is prepared for supervising a state program of physical education.

One difficulty in discussing problems of this kind is the liability of being misunderstood; thus some may construe preceding sentences as an attack on German people, German customs and everything German. I suppose one must ran such risks in an attempt to state points of view. It is true however that there is no racial prejudice

Digitized by LjOoq ie
x 16

in this attempt to evaluate programs and to emphasize things of relative worth. My own immediate ancestry is German.

The reader of Mr. Wittich’s “criticism” will of course note a distinct difference between the educational philosophy as expressed in his letter and the one expressed in my book. We do not speak the same language when educational objectives are concerned, nor I am glad to say when letters are written to the Editor. It would seem that the discipline to come from formal training has not functioned for Mr. Wittich to the extent that would make for controlled and courteous expression.

I am sure we are all glad to know that Mr. Kindervater is rapidly changing the physical training in the St. Louis schools. In fairness to him, I ought to say that I have not seen the work in St. Louis for several years.

There seems to be among my critics a feeling of contempt for the theorist and idealist, and considerable self-satisfaction with the qualities of the practical man. The practical man is frequently one who accepts traditional practice and continues the customs and learned experience of the race. He is very valuable for getting done certain routine work. But he has ever been and ever will be the slave of ideas. Practical virtues are extremely useful but they fulfill their chief function in doing what has been done before. Practical men are Status quo ante men. The theorist and idealist deals essentially with ideas. The most renowned educational philosopher of our day does not direct a city school system, but his ideas are profoundly influencing the scope and methods of public education. The foremost psychologist since William James is not a teacher of children, but his psychology of learning has had more to do with changing educational methods than the “practical virtues” of all the “practical teachers” in the land. This fetish of the “practical person” is a laudatory contemplation of his own likeness. He forgets the place and function of the theorist and the idealist. He neglects to value ideas.

This problem that has arisen out of the letters to the Editor deals primarily with the meaning and significance of physical education in the life of boys and girls, men and women. In the last analysis it turns on the theory of formal discipline and the kind of physical education that boys and girls ought to have. It is a mistake to develop a theory of physical education based upon unwholesome and undesirable school environment.

The kind of physical education which my critics are talking about makes claim to a great many values which have only been assumed, which have never been proven, and in the light of numerous investigations are of questionable validity.

Let it be plainly understood that this discussion can not be restricted to personalities; the individual is of no importance in a matter of this kind, and his ideas gain attention only if they stand the test of experience and experiment. What we as individual men think about physical education is significant only to the extent that

Digitized by


U7

our ideas may serve as foci from which will develop newer, more wholesome and more serviceable types of physical education.

I am,

Yours very truly

Jesse F. Williams.

THE RELATION OF INTERNAL SECRETION TO PHYSICAL

EFFICIENCY.

By Frank A. Hartman, Professor of Physiology, University of Buffalo.

Let me caution you not to expect too much of the internal secretions. Expect less from our knowledge of them. We are merely at the beginning of a solution of this problem.

Internal secretions are products of ductless glands. A ductless gland pours its secretion directly into the blood-stream coursing through its tissue. In this way the secretion can be carried to all parts of the body, acting upon various tissues. Some of the ductless glands exercise such a profound influence that their removal produces death in a short time. All of the ductless glands play an important part in the control of the organism.

Indirectly, perhaps all of them affect muscular efficiency. But directly, possibly three exercise some function in this respect, viz., the pituitary, thyroid and adrenals.

You will be interested in the normal action of these glands but in some instances this can only be determined indirectly, i. e., by studying the results of removal of the gland or by studying the conditions resulting from a gland rendered deficient Dy disease. This is true of the pituitary.

Unfortunately we know little that is specific concerning the pituitary in relation to physical efficiency. When the activity of this gland is below normal, as in thyroid and adrenal deficiency there is a loss in physical power. In mild cases physical power may be merely subnormal. If more severe, movements become sluggish and slight exertion causes fatigue. In extreme cases this weakness may become so pronounced that the subject requires support when standing. On the other hand unusual physical strength is sometimes attributed to overactivity of the pituitary.

We should like to know more concerning the milder forms of underactivity and overactivity of the pituitary, but in this we are hindered by the difficulty of identification of disease so early.

Judging from the more pronounced cases, a healthy pituitary function seems necessary for normal muscular activity, but we are not justified in going beyond this.

We know more concerning the thyroid because of the easier detection of its disease. *

* Read at the national convention of the American Physical Education Association Springfield, Mass., April 1923

Digitized by Google
118

Suppose you find an individual with a sluggish nervous and muscular response. It is quite possible that his thyroid is at fault. If this is true his physician can remedy the condition by the giving of thyroxin or iodine. It has been shown that a lack of iodine in the food is frequently responsible for a reduced thyroid activity. Thus such cases are more plentiful inland away from the sea, the main source of supply of iodine. Thyroid insufficiency in school children has been reduced strikingly in these by the feeding of iodine for several days during the spring and fall. Muscular weakness is one of the first symptoms of thyroid deficiency. Fatigue develops easily and frequently the subject becomes unfit for work. It is necessary to point out the extreme condition only insofar as it demonstrates the efficacy of treatment. In cretins, individuals who have never possessed a normal thyroid, the whole growth is stunted. Muscular and mental powers are feeble. Feeding of thyroid causes the muscles to harden and agility of movement is developed. In time the individual may become nearly normal, provided treatment is maintained.

Finally we come to the adrenal glands which appear to be most important of all in muscular efficiency.

Removal of both adrenals in animals leads in a relatively short time (except in an occasional rabbit or rat) to a characteristic muscular weakness. An individual affected in this way tires readily on slight exertion and evinces a growing inclination to avoid physical effort.

Further evidence that the adrenals play some role in muscular activity is found upon microscopic examination of the adrenals after intense prolonged muscular exercise. They present a picture of great overactivity approaching exhaustion. The fatlike bodies (lipoids) which are normally so abundant, are absent or scant in amount.

In addition there seems to be a close relationship between the relative size of the adrenals and muscular development.

Elliott and Tuckett found that higher in the scale of animal life the adrenals became relatively larger. Likewise the musculature is better developed the higher one goes in the scale of life. Moreover it seems that the adrenals are better developed in animals which are very active. For Watson has found that the weight of the adrenals in wild rats is between two and three times greater than in tame rats. The extremely active muscules of the wild animal as compared to those of the tame animal may account for the difference.

What does the adrenal produce which would be of use in muscular activity! Epinephrin, sometimes known by the proprietary name of adrenalin, is the only substance known to be produced by this gland.

Part of the epinephrin is stored in the central portion of the gland to be released in time of emergency. It has been shown that strong stimuli of various sorts will increase the output of epinephrin in normal animals. Painful stimulation, immersion in

Digitized by

Google
”9

a cold bath, the excitement produced by shutting off the air to the lungs for forty seconds or less, all cause a very marked increase in the epinephrin poured into the blood stream. Muscular activity will produce a similar increase as we shall show.

If one removes a small ganglion (superior cervical ganglion) which controls some of the nerve fibers to the iris, in a few days, the iris becomes very sensitive to epinephrin. Under these conditions, if the epinephrin in the blood is increased beyond a certain amount, the sensitized pupil dilates. If the epinephrin is further augmented the pupil enlarges more. Thus the sensitized pupil may be used as a test for increased epinephrin in the blood.

The effect of exercise on the epinephrin output was studied in cats with a sensitized pupil. It was found that from 1 1-2 to 3 minutes of vigorous work in a treadmill caused sufficient increase in the epinephrin to dilate the sensitive pupil. In that time the cat had travelled from 40 to 180 meters. If the animal worked slowly it took much longer for the epinephrin increase to appear. This applies in animals starting from a long period of rest. If the animal had been exercised only a short time before and had rested only long enough for the sensitized pupil to return to normal, it seemed to require a shorter period of exercise to cause a detectable increase in epinephrin (dilatation of pupil).

As exercise in the treadmill was continued the epinephrin output became greater and greater until the pupil might become almost maximally dilated. The magnitude of this increased output seemed to depend upon the intensity and duration of the exercise particularly the former as the following illustration shows:

Two cats lead around the room at a moderate pace for 20 minutes showed a small increase in epinephrin output, one of these however, showed no increase until 500 meters had been passed. The same cats exercised more vigorously in the treadmill showed an increase in the epinephrin output in 3 and 6 minutes respectively.

Following the cessation of vigorous exercise the increased outpouring of epinephrin persists for periods of time ranging from a few minutes to a few hours. It is known that epinephrin increases the rate of metabolism in the body. Therefore the increased discharge of epinephrin into the blood stream following vigorous exercise may aid the body by stimulation of otherwise sluggish tissues. Everyone has experienced the benefit, especially if his occupation is sedentary, of a short period of vigorous exercise. The increased secretion of epinephrin is probably a smaller amount of epinephrin released.

That epinephrin plays an essential part in muscular activity is indicated by certain experiments of ours.

In rare instances we found cats which did not show any increase in epinephrin during their first test in the treadmill. At this time the cats were not able to travel so far as they were when epinephrin was secreted. One cat showed no increase in epinephrin. It was able to travel only 741 m. because of the

Digitized by
120

appearance of convulsions. But on the afternoon of the same day, the cat when tried in the treadmill gave a decided increase in the epinephrin output and travelled three times as far. In fact it could have gone farther.

The epinephrin output increased more and more as the work progressed until the stage of marked increase was reached. Spurts of work were attended by sudden increases in the epinephrin output.

We have also been able to show that injections (intransmus-cular) of epineplmn enable an animal to work better. This is particularly true if the nerves to the adrenals have been cut so that increased secretion from the glands cannot take place.

Gruber and others pointed out a few years ago that large amounts of epinephrin when injected into a fatigued muscle would cause the disappearance of the fatigue for a time. Thus a muscle which had almost ceased to contract would recover and go on contracting for some time.

It was not known at that time that epinephrin is increased normally during exercise.

The beneficial effect of epinephrin is produced in two ways. First, it causes a shifting of the blood from the skin and organs of the abdomen to the muscles by vascular constriction in the former and vascular dilatation in the latter. Thus the oxygen and food supply becomes more plentiful while the waste products can be more readily removed. Second, it benefits the muscle directly in some way not understood. (Martin.)

Earlier in our discussion we mentioned that an increase in epinephrin could be obtained more easily if the animal had been working a short time before. This suggests that an epinephrin increase may be an important factor in the so-called “warming up” process employed just preceding athletic contests. “Warming up” is particularly useful preceding races and tests of supreme effort. It not only speeds up the circulation but increases the epinephrin output. The latter further increases the circulation to the muscles and delays the onset of fatigue. The muscles then are ready to work most efficiently and the athlete does his best.

It will also be of interest to you that the development of “second wind” is frequently accompanied by a decided increase in epinephrin. Thus an animal may be travelling along at a certain pace, suddenly he seems to gain renewed energy, showing a burst of speed which may be sustained for some time. Simultaneously there is a great increase in the amount of epinephrin which is being secreted. Knowing the effect of epinephrin on physical efficiency, it is very reasonable to suppose that the increased output of epinephrin aids materially in the production of “second wind.”

It has already been mentioned that anything which arouses the major emotions such as pain or asphyxia increase the epinephrin output decidedly. It seems that it is the intense excitement which accomplishes this, as we found in partial asphyxia.

Digitized by L^ooQle
Ill

We have made a practise in our tests of cutting off the air to the lungs for forty seconds by holding a rubber glove tightly against the nose and mouth. If the animal does not become excited during this period as is occasionally the case, there is no increase in epinephrin. Again during another test of equal duration, the same animal becomes excited, then the epinephrin output is increased. Therefore it is the excitement and not the lack of oxygen which really stimulates the adrenals.

In exciting games it is quite probable that more epinephrin is secreted than would be in a listless contest. This increase would undoubtedly be a factor in producing greater physical efficiency.

In conclusion we may say that the secretions of the pituitary, thyroid and adrenal are important factors in promoting physical efficiency. But of the three whether in quiet life or in extreme tests of physical endurance, the adrenal gland appears to be especially fitted to control muscular efficiency.

A SIMPLE TEST FOR GROUPING STUDENTS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION CLASSES.

By Fred E. Foertsch, Pittsburgh, Pa.

With the introduction of the daily program of physical education at the Schenley High School of Pittsburgh, Pa., there came the necessity of classifying the students of each school grade. Heretofore the report room teacher scattered her pupils among several classes and we had to accept whatever was placed in the classes, regardless of the physical efficiency of the pupils. The classification was based upon the grade of the pupil. Under the new scheme we received all the first semester freshmen in one period and likewise the students of the other grades. This gave us the opportunity to divide each class into several groups.

During the early days of the semester, when the classes were enrolling, we devised a plan whereby each student passed through a test consisting of three exercises, one of climbing, one of vaulting and the other a stunt in the form of mat-work. Pupils of the higher grades received more difficult tests. Since it was impossible, under the conditions, to follow-up the records of all of the 1300 boys we have confined our observation mainly to the freshmen class. What we have found among the freshmen is generally true of the other classes.

The test given the freshmen consisted of climbing a 20 foot rope, starting from a sitting position. The time was taken, recorded and afterward translated into points. The second exercise consisted of a squat vault over the side horse, the horse being kept waist high for each pupil. Those who were but able to mount without being able to raise the knees high enough to get the feet into the saddle were given one or two points, depending upon the effort made. To

Digitized by v^oosle
131

get the feet up to the saddle but not into it, was valued at 3 or 4 points. Five or six points were given to those who could get the feet into the saddle and manage to squeeze through. To execute the vault with difficulty was equal to seven or eight points, and to clear the horse with ease meant nine or ten points. The third exercise consisted of a plain roll forward on the mat and rising to a stand, all to be executed in one fluent movement. A few steps start was allowed. Those who could not roll forward but were able to make some kind of a turn were given one or two points. Those who rolled forward but could not get to their feet were given three or four points. Coming to a stand with considerable ease with the use of the hands was valued at 7 to 8 points and those who came to a stand, holding their knees with the hands during the roll and finishing with ease were given 9 or 10 points. The points made from the three exercises were totaled, giving us the score of each pupil in the test. To avoid any discrepancy in judgment the same instructor judged all pupils on the same exercise.

With the score of every pupil complete we divided the class into four equal groups, giving us one poor group, two medium groups and one good group. The best group we shall call “A”, the second best "B”, the third “C”, and the poorest group “D”.

From this class we have chosen our leaders, four coming from group "A", two each from groups “B” and “C” and only one from group D.

In the playing of games group A is decidedly superior. Groups B and C are fairly well matched while group D is always the loser when competing against one of the other groups. We have matched these groups in various ways in order to observe what differences exist, using such games as volley ball, battle ball, base-dodge-ball, field ball and other contests. With but very few exceptions we have found results as indicated above. We find also that group “A” is able to cover almost three times as much material as the poorest group in the same amount of time. From group “A” five boys have earned membership on athletic teams. Three from group “B” and two from group “C” have earned the right to participate on some athletic squad. From group “D” not a single boy was able to qualify.

In conjunction with the regular work, records of various activities have been kept. The results thus far obtained all point to the reliability of the original test for classifying the pupils. Three tests have been made. The results are as tabulated below.

Table showing Average of each group.

	Test I		Test II			Test III
Group	No. of cases	50 yd. dash	No. of cases	No. of pull-ups	No. of cases	Bar vault for height
A	57	7 1-5 sec.	53	6	45	4 ft. 5 in.
B	60	7 3-5	55	4.2	49	4 ft.
C	55	7 4-5	58	3.18	57	3 ft. 6 in.
D	57	7 45	59	2.2	55	3 ft. 4 in.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
123

POSTURE IN THE LIGHT OF SCIENCE.

By E. H. Arnold, M. D.

Everyone of you is aware of the fact that you see many cases of so called “round shoulders” in boys and girls of ages eleven to sixteen. You are likewise aware that these children are subject to postural admonition by parents, general and special teachers, ad nauseam. Parents ana general teacher finally give up their corrective advice in despair. The special teacher perhaps ffatters himself into believing that he has benefitted the children by his admonition, and exercise. The general experience, however, is that at nineteen or twenty, other things being equal, the greatest majority of these cases of round shoulders have disappeared. In the years from 1891 to 1905 I was an enthusiast on the treatment of lateral curvature by exercises, postural apparatus, and braces. I did a great deal of this work, having a nearly national clientele. At the present time and for some ten years past, I cannot recall having more than one case, most of the time no case, of lateral curvature, under treatment by exercise or posture. As I go about the country, I find that corrective exercises, so called, special classes for such exercises, special clinics for such exercises, are on the increase. Recalling a recent convention at which there was a demonstration of such postural effort, I have still a big and incredulous smile running over my face when I classify most of the cases as not needing corrective exercises and a considerable of the numbers remaining as real deformities, where exercise would do no good. I think it, therefore, timely to bring to your attention some of the things that Physiology of to-day teaches us in regard to posture.

In the lower animals, such as for instance clams, a differentiation of muscular work exists. There are some muscles that tend to active movement while there are some muscles that might be considered to tend to posture. A mollusk, when taken from the water, will open and close its shell several times, finally to close it very tight. If a stick be placed between the shells just as they are closing, the shell will close upon the stick with vise-like power. The stick can be coaxed out of this vise when the shells will remain immovable at the thickness of the stick. Efforts at enlarging this gap will meet with tremendous resistance. On the other hand, slight pressure will close the gap to any smaller distance at which distance it will again become fixed. If a weight be attached to this half open shell, no increased metabolism and no fatigue would be demonstrated in the muscles even after days. The muscle can hold a considerable weight which it is perfectly unable to raise. The position or posture of tne shell is not dependent upon active muscular contraction but is dependent upon tonus. Tonus is the slight persistent tension which is characteristic of healthy muscle and its loss or diminution are shown by alteration of the normal attitude or gait of the animal.

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association Convention, Public Schools Section, Springfield, Mass., April 1923.

Digitized by

Google
114

In the lower animals we have then, evidently tonus muscles which hold a position for a long time without fatigue, while we have muscles which concern themselves with movement and will fatigue readily. In the higher animals, vertebrates for instance, where no differentiation of movement and posture is had, the differentiation is one of double function within the same muscle. Nor is this function necessarily equally distributed in all muscles, some muscles having more of the tonus posture function while others have more of the contractile movement function. As an example of the former, sphincters may serve. The skeletal muscles have both functions and it is their tonus function which is largely responsible for posture. The question of whence the nerve impulses that govern tonicity emanate from is, of course, the important one in our consideration. It must be at once apparent to the psychologically trained person that tonus cannot depend upon impusles coming from the higher conscious motor centers of the brain, nor from the reflex centers of the spine. For any such arrangement would make fatigue appear so quickly that posture could not be maintained.

It has been found as early as 1860 that some of the impulses which are the source of the tonicity of the muscles of the limb originate in the limb itself. If animals be decerebrated so as to leave respiration and pulse unaffected certain groups of muscles go into a persistent tonic spasm. The removal of the brain destroys the motor control of the higher and spinal motor centers and, therefore, the impulses rising in the limb itself have full sway on the muscular tonic function which is now uncontrolled. This tonicity is not evenly distributed through the skeletal muscles, it predominates in all those muscles that produce the normal attitude of our body. We find it, then in the muscles which keep the vertebral column erect in standing; in the muscles of the neck that hold up the head; the muscles that close the jaw. In general, then it is found in those muscles which counteract gravity and which might, with some propriety, be called antigravity muscles. Muscles that work with gravity, generally speaking the muscles of the front of the trunk, the flexors, do not possess it. (Here we have the first refutation of postural teaching which would urge the development of the muscles of the front of the trunk for postural effect.)

The tonus of these antigravity muscles is regulated by impulses caused by different attitudes of the head. In destroying motor control by removal of the cerebrum and even the cerebellum we leave the labyrinth intact. If you raise the head of the decerebrate dog he will extend his forelegs and sink in on the hind ones. Vice-versa, if you will lower his head so as to make it look on the floor, his front legs will cave in while the rear ones will extend. The like is true when the head is turned to the left or right, when compensation in the spinal column will take place. It is then manifest that the position of the head determines to a large extent posture. The question whence these impulses emanate from one has tried to solve by experiments, by the destruction of the labyrinth by encasing the head, neck, and upper part of the animal in plaster paris, eliminating then the neck muscular reflexes. The labyrinth controls changes of

Digitized by Google
I2J

gravity relation and adjusts the head and the eyes as well as the jaws to the vertical. The neck muscle reflexes have to do with the movement of the head relative to the body. It may be stated here, that torsion of the head controls the attitude of the rest of the body much more in animals than in man for in the latter, the control by the higher centers and compensation is more effective.

Now let us see what all this may mean as applied to postural teaching in gymnastics. In the first place, it means that the tonus of the antigravity muscles is the main and important factor. The efficiency of this tonus depends once, upon the health and state of nutrition of the muscle itself; secondly, upon the health and efficiency of the labyrinth. The nutrition of the individual, and, of course, the state of nutrition of the muscles would be the factor of first importance in posture. Here is where, on the one hand, positive nutrition, on the other hand, negative nutrition, conservation of energy, rest, would come in for consideration and would explain why in the second period of accelerated growth where circulatory power for the nutrition of the peripheral parts of the body is poor, tonus might be poor and postural deficiencies make their appearance. Gn the other hand, the labyrinth, its state of health and its functional efficiency are, of course, paramount. How important this second element is, present day investigators can only surmise, yet the following experiments are highly significant and point the way.

Rats and Guinea Pigs, being placed on rotating tables were rotated at such speed and for such length of time that the labyrinthine function was unable to control posture. After considerable time, the animals being released, showed permanent lateral curves to the left or right, according to which way the rotation had been.

The strange thing about these curves and which is as yet unex-

Iilained, is that these curves transmitted one or two generations at east. It was discovered that in quite a few of these animals, discharges from the ear had taken place and these discharges were found coming from the inner ear, the labyrinth. On the basis of this evidence we may assume that a great many of the so called lateral curves, slight bends to the left or right without much rib deformity or rotation, are due, in all likelihood to a labyrinthine disturbance of one kind or another, and that unless these labyrinthine changes can be recognized as to'their nature and remedied, the spinal curvatures will be permanent, and will withstand all treatment by movement. Such is, of course, the general experience of Orthopedists and should be the experience of physical training people, if they follow their cases long enough and carefully. As wilfulmotor control in man is present more than in animals, it stands to reason that one may teach a child to wilfully compensate such a curve, as long as it has no bony changes as yet and that it may maintain the corrected attitude just as long as its will or the voluntary contraction of the muscles is not overcome by fatigue. But just as soon as fatigue sets in, the curve as dictated by labyrinthine conditions, will appear again. As the extent and permanence of the curve are dictated by the condition of the labyrinth it is, of course, an utter waste

Digitized by L^ooQle
126

of time and energy to try to do away with it by vo untary control. Most of these cases are of small extent and perfectly benign, that is not progressive, they stay in the same condition for years without any change whatever and they can then, from the standpoint of gymnastics be utterly disregarded. Their prognosis depends, of course, upon the labyrinthine disorder. If this be stationary, the curve will be so, if it be progressive, the curve will be so, and nothing that you can possibly devise in the way of exercises or retention apparatus will do the slightest amount of good. One occasionally runs against one of those cases which test one’s ingenuity, one’s patience, and one’s self-confidence to the utmost. It is somewhat different when it comes to the control of posture, especially of the spine, as far as it depends upon the reflexes that rise within the neck muscles. The state of nutrition is here, of course, as important as before. It must, however, be rememberd that postural reflexes that rise within the muscle may be fortified by wilful control. Gymnastically this means that movements of the head as controlled by the neck muscles are of the utmost importance both in as far as nutrition of the muscles will be enhanced by function, nutritional facilities being equal otherwise, and secondly, that by frequent movement and assumption of attitude the habit of augmenting and assisting neck muscle reflexes can be established. Movements of the head by themselves or in combination with the movement of the arm and shoulders in formal free gymnastics are of the utmost postural importance, the preachers against formal work and for natural movement notwithstanding. I have recalled since these investigations have come to my notice, with a great deal of pleasure, the fact that in the manual in which I published exercises in free gymnastics for use in public schools, I was severely criticised for having exercises of the head for, said my critic, what skill can anyone attain by these; what influence on the circulatory and respiratory functions will they have? Very little, we say, but I am very proud that I had the foresight thirty years ago to insist on this kind of exercise.

If there is anything in the generally existing belief that function makes the organ, it would seem that function of the labyrinth as far as it controls the position of the eye to the vertical and horizontal should be one of the forms of exercise with which postural endeavor ought to occupy itself. This kind of work is largely had in balancing exercises. Balancing on the one hand one’s own body, then foreign bodies. In the first category we are very apt to think of exercise on the balancing board mainly. It must, however, not be forgotten that all exercises on apparatus, especially if good form, be insisted on, all vaulting or jumping, of whatever kind, where form is insisted on, will serve the same purpose. Contrast here for a moment, an athletic jump with a gymnastic one. In an athletic jump you try to get as far or high as you can and then fall all over yourself for all the record cares. No equilibrator exercise is had. In a gymnastic jump we insist that when landing, the body should be balanced immovable for a short time. Fixation of the eye upon a

Digitized by

Google
127

certain point is one of the essential things. Here you have equilib-rator exercise, posture exercise, par excellence.

If quick and long continued rotation of an animal destroys the equilibrator efforts, it stands to reason that turning exercises, if done occasionally at comparatively low speed, and with not too many repetitions, so that the equilibrator can adjust itself to rate of speed and duration of the rotation, will serve to improve the equilibrator function. Here is a recommendation of exercises on apparatus: of jumping with turning around long or broad axes, and of the quick turns of well done tactics of the individual, exercises of which we rarely think in the nature of postural exercise.

A final and last investigation into the matter of posture came about recently through the endeavor of Orthopedists to determine the reason and origin of the peculiar distribution of weight in the human foot. The weight line falls between big and second toe. This weight distribution is characteristic of the anthropoid apes, who practically all are arboreal animals. The monkeys of the terrestrial kind show a distribution of weight more to the outside, that s, through the middle toe, or between the third and fourth. When the mechanical reasons for these different distributions were looked into, it was found that a peculiar torsion of the metatarsus and of the tibia existed in arboreal apes which threw the weight that way. The same kind of a torsion, perhaps less in degree, but nevertheless distinctly traceable was found to be present in man. The torsion is lacking in the terrestrial monkeys. In the arboreal animals torsion seemed to be necessary in order to allow the use of big finger or toe as a thumb against second finger or toe in climbing. Grasping between these two fingers in climbing, of necessity distributed the weight between them. In the terrestrial monkeys, mainly living on the ground, no such adjustment was necessary. The conclusion then is that arboreal anthropoid apes as well as man were four-handed, and that the latter evolved the lower extremity into a foot, which shows the weight distribution of a hand between thumb and index finger. It then likewise follows that the erect posture of apes, as well as man, does not proceed from the lower extremity upward more, nor in fact as much, as from the upper extremity downward, for in arboreal life there is no question that hanging is the predominating position and method of locomotion; that walking on all fours is comparitively infrequent, and certainly more infrequent than walking on the lower extremity with or without assistance of the upper.

Two gymnastic indications follow of necessity. First, that postural work must include exercises wherein the body is suspended in part, or entirely, from the upper extremity. This means, of course, all kinds of hanging from all kinds of apparatus. It should include hang lying and hang standing, but is largely to consist of free hanging and exercises therein. Climbing generally, as tree trunk climbing, has some use. Climbing on poles and ropes, has only limited use in this scheme. The other gymnastic application relates to

Digitized by v^ooQie
128

the matter of prevention and treatment of conditions rising out of the wrong distribution of weight through the foot in standing and walking. Flat foot, in its various forms and varieties and under its various names is here mainly to be had in mind. To the routine and stock exercises that are so well known, should be added all such exercises where more or less grasping is done with big and second toe. Work on the balancing boards with shoes, and perhaps even stockings removed, work on the rounds of ladders, under like conditions should prove efficacious. In pole climbing, such climbing where the sole of the foot is applied to the pole for climbing purposes, rather than where the ordinary entwining grip is had with the legs.

Summing up, we would formulate the following conclusions for postural work:

1.	The human upright posture depends largely upon the tonus and to a very small extent on voluntary muscular contraction.

2.	The tonus of the muscle depends upon the health and nutrition of the muscle.

3.	The impulses causing the tonus rise in the limb itself.

4.	Controlling impulses emanate from the labyrinth and as reflexes of the neck muscles.

5.	The healthy condition of the inner ear and labyrinth is of prime importance.

6.	In man, the impulses from labyrinth and neck muscles can be assisted to a greater extent by voluntary muscular control, than in animals.

7.	The upright posture of man has proceeded to a greater extent from the upper extremity down than from the lower extremity upward.

Health conclusions: A general status of good nutrition of the individual should vouchsafe a good nutritional condition of the muscle and good tonus. In periods when rapid growth uses up a great deal of the nutritional facilities of the individual motor rest is indicated. The prevention of middle ear diseases and thereby to a certain extent prevention of harm to the inner ear is important.

Gymnastic Conclusions: Voluntary postural work can only be an adjuvant to tonus. In the absence of the latter it is of no value. Function of the postural antigravity muscles in general may increase the nutrition and the tonus and thereby be a help to postural work. Balance exercises to increase labyrinthine function and thereby tonus control, are of great value. Exercises in which the body rotates around an axis increases the labyrinthine function. Exercises of the head to further tonus controlling reflexes from the neck muscles are indicated. Exercises in hanging on apparatus are excellent postural work. Exercises in which the foot grasps are good flat foot exercises.

Digitized by v^ooQle
129

YMNASIUM AND PLATGROUN

FRED F01RTSCH, Ptttabtm, Ffc.

MODEL EXERCISES.

By Carl J. Mettler.

Iron Wand Drill, twenty Actives and Dance Combination, sixteen Ladies, Dayton Turners Association.

Music: “Beautiful Ohio,” by Mary Earl.

Play as written but 2nd. and 3rd. time omit introduction.

A. Wand Exercises:—Actives.

First 6 measures, fundamental position wand on the right side, on the 7 and 8 measures lower wand to horizontal position in front. Exercise 1.

Raise wand fore-upward............................... 1	M.

Circle wand left to sideward position, on left side, right hand over head, left hand on hip.......................... 1	M.

Straighten left arm sideward and lower right hand in front of left shoulder.................................... 1	M.

Lower wand to starting position...................... 1	M.

Repeat all beginning right, left and right...........12	M.

16 M.

Exercise 2.

Raise wand fore-upward................................... 1	M.

Circle wand left, turn trunk left and place right hand

over left in front of shoulder................................ 1	M.

Straighten left arm backward............................. 1	M.

Lower wand to starting position.......................... 1	M.

Repeat all beginning right,-left and right...................12	M.

16 M.

Exercise 3.

Raise wand fore-upward................................. 1	M.

Circle wand left to upward position on right side (left

hand in front of right shoulder) and bend trunk forward.... 1 M.

Straighten trunk and move wand forward................. 1	M.

Lower wand to starting position........................ 1	M.

Repeat right, left and right...........................12	M.

16 M.

Exercise 4.

Raise wand fore-upward.............................. 1	M.

Circle wand left and bend trunk sideward............ 1	M.

Circle wand left and bend trunk sideward, place right

end of wand near left toe................................ 1	M.

Swing wand fore-upward.............................. 1	M.

Digitized by Google
130

Lower wand to starting position,........................ 1	M.

Repeat all right, left and right........................12	M.

16 M.

Intermediate Exercise.

Jump to side stride stand, wand fore-upward....... 1	M.

Bend trunk forward ............................... 1	M.

Straighten trunk and wand fore-upward............. 1	M.

Lower wand backward............................... 1	M.

Raise wand upward................................. 1	M.

Bend trunk foreward............................... 1	M.

Straighten trunk ................................. 1	M.

Lower wand ....................................... 1	M.

Repeat all.........................................8	M.

16 M.

Exercise 5.

Step left sideward and raise wand left sideward...... 2	M.

Lunge left sideward, swing wand upward and right sideward .................................................. 2	M.

Close left to right, bend knee and move wand forward. 2 M.

Straighten knee and lower wand to starting position,.. 2 M.

Repeat all right, left and right.........................24	M.

32 M.

Exercise 6.

Step left forward place wand in horizontal position forward, on the right side, left hand on right shoulder....... 2	M.

Lunge left forward and raise wand fore-upward......... 2	M.

Bend trunk forward and lower wand right sideward..... 2 M.

Straighten trunk and lower to starting position.......... 2	M.

Repeat all right, left and right.........................24	M.

32 M.

Exercise 7.

Step obliquely left forward and raise wand left side upward ........................................................2	M.

Lunge obliquely left forward outward, move wand obliquely backward on right side.............................  2	M.

Swing right end of wand obliquely left forward and bend

trunk forward ............................................. 2	M.

Close left to starting position........................ 2	M.

Repeat all right, left and right,......................24	M.

32 M.

Exercise 8.

Step left sideward swing wand left over right hand... 2 M.

Lunge left sideward untwist wand, straighten arms upward incircle left to right side-upward position and bend trunk left ................................................2	M.

Digitized by CaOOQle
i3I

Change knee bending position, circle wand right to left

side-upward position and bend trunk right sideward....... 2	M.

Return to starting position.......................... 2	M.

Repeat all right, left and right.....................24	M.

32 M.

Exercise 9.

Lay-out left inward raise left arm upward and right arm

side-ward ............................................... 2	M.

Lunge obliquely left forward outward and raise wand left

sidewward right hand in front of left shoulder........... 2	M.

Change knee bending position swing wand right side-ward

and bend trunk forward................................... 2	M.

Starting position ................................... 2	M.

Repeat all right, left and right.....................24	M.

32 M.

B. Gymnastic Dance: - Ladies.

Introduction 8 Measures.

Raise arms in 2nd. position.......................... 1	M.

Move arms into 1st position...............................1	M.

Move arms into 2nd position.......................... 1	M.

Move arms into 5th position.......................... 1	M.

Lower arms into 2nd position......................... 1	M.

Move arms forward ................................... 1	M.

Arms sideward and lower.............................. 2	M.

8 M.

Part 1.

Waltz balance left and right, repeat, (move arms into

lateral position) .............................................4	M.

Step swing left and right, (arms in 3rd position), glide balance pose left, (arms in amplified position)....................4	M.

Repeat all beginning right, left and right................24	M.

32 M.

Part 2.

Step left and point right, step right and point left, (arms

in 4th position) ..............................................4	M.

Pirouette left, (arms in 5th position).................... 2	M.

Leap left and right, step left and close, (arms in lateral

position) .................................................... 2	M.

Repeat all beginning right, left and right................24	M.

32 M.

Interlude.

Step in 2nd and move arms in 2nd.......................... 1	M.

Move left arm to 1st position............................. 1	M.

Move left arm to 2nd position............................. 1	M.

Move left arm to 4th position............................. 1	M.

Digitized by Google
i3i

Move left arm to 2nd position........................... 1	M.

Move left arm to 1st position........................... 1	M.

Move left arm to 2nd position........................... 1	M.

Close left and lower both arms.......................... 1	M.

Repeat all beginning right.............................. 8	M.

16 M.

Part 3.

Waltz turn left backward in two waltz steps, (Arms in 4th

position) ..*.............................................. 2	M.

Waltz balance left and right, (Arms in lateral position). 2	M.

Step swing left and right, (Arms in 3rd position)...... 2	M.

Step left and point right, (Left arm in 2nd and right arm

in 1st position)........................................... 2	M.

Repeat right moving forward............................ 8	M.

Repeat all.............................................16	M.

32 M.

Part 4.

Encircle men in 8 glide hops beginning left, (Arms in

amplified position) ..............................................8	M.

Waltz balance left and right, (Arms in lateral position).... 2 M.

Step swing left and right, (Aims in 3rd position).........2	M.

Pirouette left, (arms in 5th position)..................... 2M.

Leap left, right and left, (arms in lateral position), step

right and close left, (arms in 2nd and lower)................ 2	M.

Repeat all beginning right...................................16	M.

32 M.

Part 5.

Walk 3 steps forward, (arms in 2nd position) point right,

(arms in 4th position)......................................4	M.

Repeat right moving backward............................4	M.

Step courtesy left, right, left, step right and close left

(arms in lateral position)..................................8	M.

Repeat all beginning right.............................16	M.

32 M.

Part 6.

Glide balance left and right (arms in amplified position).... 2 M.

Step swing left and right, (arms in 3rd position).......... 2	M.

Waltz balance left and right, (arms in lateral position)..2 M.

Glide balance turn left and pose, (arms in amplified position) .......................................................... 2	M.

Repeat all beginning right, left and right.................24	M.

32 M.

Part 7.

Step swing left and right, (arms in 3rd position)......... 2	M.

Glide balance hop turn left, (arms in amplified position).. 2 M.

Digitized by

Google
i33

Leap hop left and right, (arms in lateral petition).......2	M.

3	running steps forward, (arms in 2nd position)............. 2	M.

Repeat all beginning right, left and right...................24	M.

32 M.

MODEL EXERCISES FOR THE LADIES CLASS OF THE AURORA TURN VEREIN CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

Arranged by Edward A. Strobel.

Free Exercises.

Formation: Ranks of four in open order.

Music: “Vienna Forever” by Johan Schrammel. Introduction: 8 counts or 4 measures.

Note: Each exercise is performed left, right and repeat.

First Group.

Exercise 1.

a)	Raise arms forward upward ........................... 1-

b)	Bend arms horizontal in front of chest...............2-

c)	Lunge left forward and straighten arms sideward .....3- 4

d)	Layout left backward, double arm circle outward to

sideward position.....................................5- 8

e)	Close left foot and raise arms upward ...............9-

f)	As “B”...............................................10-

g) Lower trunk forward and straighten arms sideward .....11-12

h) Straighten trunk and move arms forward ...............13-

i)	Lower arms to starting position......................14-16

Exercise 2.

a)	Raise arms left sideward ............................ 1-

b)	Raise arms upward ................................... 2-

c)	Lunge left sideward and lower arms right sideward....3-	4

d)	Layout left backward inward, double arm circle right,

left arm upward, right arm is sideward, head turned right................................................ 5-	8

e)	Close left arms left sideward........................9-

f)	As “B” ......................................,.......10-

g)	Bend trunk left sideward and bend arms with hands

placed in rear of head ..............................11-12

h)	straighten trunk,	arms	sideward......................13-

i)	Lower arms to	starting position......................14-16

Exercise 3.

a)	Swing arms fore-upward .............................. 1-

b)	Bend arms to strike over shoulders...................2-

c)	Lunge left backward, and straighten arms sideward

(palms up) ........................................3-	4

d)	Layout left forward, double arm circle inward to strike

over head ...........................................5-8

e)	Close left and straighten arms upward................9-

f)	as "B”...............................................10-

Digitized by Google
134

g)	Bend upper trunk backward and straighten arms sideward (palms up) ......................................11-12

h) Straighten trunk and raise arms upward ................13-

i) Lower arms forward down to starting position...........14-16

GROUP I.

Exercise 4, (Dancing Combination).

a)	Schottische step left sideward, arms in 2nd to 3rd position ..................................................1- 4

b)	Two swing hops in place with a whole turn left, arms

left and right 4th position............................6- 8

c)	Repeat “A” & “Br beginning right ......................3-16

d)	Pas de Basque left and right sideward, arms left to right

lateral ..............................................1- 4

e)	Jump to cross stride 5, sidestride 6, close 7, pause 8,

arms in 2nd position..................................5- 8

f)	Same as D & E beginning right.........................3-16

Repeat all beginning right............................ 1-32

SECOND GROUP

Exercise 1.

e)	Straighten body, 1-8 turn right, stride right sideward

and bend arms upward ................................. 3-10

f)	Lower trunk forward, and straighten arms sideward.....11-12

g)	Straighten body raise left leg sideward and arms forward ..13-

h)	Close and lower arms to starting position ............14-16

Exercise 2.

a)	Place left foot sideward and raise arms sideward ..... 1-

b)	Raise arms upward .................................... 2-

c)	Lunge left sideward, lower arms right	sideward........3- 4

d)	Straighten left leg, lower body sideward to a balance stand double arm circle right, left arm upward, right

arm downward or at side of body ...................... 5- 8

e)	1-8 turn right, lunge right forward, left arm obliquely

forward upward, right arm opposite ................... 3-10

f)	1-4 turn left change knee-bending and bend trunk left sideward and bend left arm in rear of body, right arm

bent over head, head turned right (hands are clinched) 11-12

g)	Transfer weight to right and raise left foot and arms

sideward..............................................13-

h)	Close left and lower arms to starting position........14-16

Exercise 3 (Dancing)

a) Same as exercise 3 of Group 1 in divided order.

Files 1 and 3 begin on count 1 and repeat exercise left right and left.

Files 2 and 4 begin on count 5 and repeat exercise right and left. NOTE: On last 16 counts, file 1 and 3 execute first 4 counts beginning right, then pause till the 13th count.

File 2 and 4 pause on 3th to 12th count.

Exercise 4 (Dancing Combination)

a)	Glide closing step left sideward, arms in second position 1- 2

b)	Tour de Basque left sideward, arms in 5th position ... 3-	4

Google
*35

c)	Glide left obliquely forward, count 1 cut right forward 2 step hop left forward. 3-4 arms in 2nd position

on count 1-2, and left 3rd on ct. 3-4.................. 5- 8

d)	Repeat A. B. & C beginning right........................9-16

e)	forward Pas de basque left ana right arms left and right

lateral ............................................... 1- 4

f)	Leap left and right sideward, arms in 2nd position .... 5- 6

g)	Jump to a side stride position and close arms in 2nd position .................................................7- 8

h)	Repeat E. F. & G. beginning right.......................9-16

Repeat all beginning right............................. 1-32

<> ■ - ■

NOTES AND COMMENTS

♦ ,, ANOTHER PROTEST.

Meditation of “One of the Mentally Muscle Bound.” By J. Cermak, Medill School, Chicago

Many years ago a picture was on exhibition in the Paris Salon, where it created an unprecedented enthusiasm. It represented a rural scene after a storm. In the distance could be seen the departing black clouds, leaving terrible havoc behind— uprooted trees, demolished houses and little rivulets swelled into destructive torrents. "It is not a picture, it is a reality!” was the universal judgment of the learned critics, and the painter was hailed as the foremost artist of the age. A common peasant with his 16 year old son was seen one day standing before the picture, but to all appearances the wonderful piece of art did not make very deep impression on these two people. The peasant shook his head and the boy smiled. “Dad,” said he after a while, "I never saw our wheat or oats stand up so straight in our fields after so great a storm.” "Neither did I”, replied the father, “but what do these artists know about such things?” And the next day the wonderful picture disappeared from the wall.

I recall this little incident each time when I read some of the elaborate criticism and condemnation of so-called “Formal Gymnastic Work”. For in the beautifully drawn phrases and richly colored metaphors even the “mentally muscle-bound” (the epitaph so kindly applied to us) can, like the peasant boy, detect some surprising flaws, which mar the otherwise valuable piece of work. We see at a glance a beautiful picture, eliciting an avalanche of praise and approval, but if we study it closely, we can easily see nere and there a touch of ill-concealed prejudice, with its inseparable companion, unmerited injustice.

Let us take for instance the contention that “the boys hate the gymnasium, when taught formal gymnastics” and “that they

Digitized by L^ooQie
13*

get out of it whenever they can.” Reading this, one feels like saying with the old peasant: “What do these literary artists know about our work:” If this assertion is based on personal observation, should not an individual teacher be the object of such a severe criticism? Do we not hear remarks, how the students dread English, abhor Mathematics and how they try to get out of History whenever they can? Should we condemn these subjects simply because some of the students do not like them? There are, I admit, individual boys, who do not like formal gymnastic work, but these belong to the following type: 1) victims of malnutrition, who dislike all kinds of physical exertion; 2) unfortunate boys, with some defect in their physical and mental make-up, so that they lack even the most natural instinct of a child, the instinct to play; 3) able-bodied boys, who come to a school gymnasium from a place where the gymnastic work consisted of basket-ball only, and where they were petted and allowed all kinds of privileges because they were “stars”, or "point-winners”. To such a boy when he discovers that before the eyes of a Gymnastic Instructor "all boys are born eoual,” the Gymnasium loses all attraction. Sometimes, also, a boy, who comes to school with a reputation as an athlete, but who excells in one athletic event only and hates to show his weakness and his awkwardness in regular gymnastic work in the presence of many of his admirers. But these are individual cases. Talking of the boys as a class (and also the girls, for that matter) allow me to recall one of my experiences. Some years ago tardiness in our school was causing so much annoyance, that my former principal made a rule that all tardy pupils (in those days both sexes were under our instruction) would be punished by being excluded from the Gymnasium during that week. The epidemic of tardiness was checked immediately. I know that many of my colleagues had similar experiences and in view of these facts, can we justly say, that the boys hate Gymnasium work? We maintain that the Gymnasium period, even with its formal work, should be the happiest period in our children’s school life, and if there are some teachers who are not able or who do not care to make it such then I do not hesitate to say that they have missed their vocation.

Our critics are not more ardent proponents of games than are we, for we believe that the organized games give boys something that formal gymnastic work can not give them, but we also believe that only systematic gymnastic work can give them strength and symmetrical development and that the formal gymnastic work is the basic work for all their future activities. We can point to many of our flat-chested basket-ball stars, with their protruding shoulder blades and pitifully thin arms who, as animated exclamation points, emphasize tins assertion.

Somebody will perhaps say: “and why do we need muscular arms?” for, as one of our learned critics said some years ago;

"....a man does not need any more strength in his arms than

what he needs in his every day vocation.” And to this assertion

Digitized by v^ooQle
137

I have only this reply: Heaven be merciful to that country in the hour of danger, whose thousands and thousands of clerks, salesmen, teachers, businessmen and men of leisure have no more strength in their arms than what they need in their every day vocation! It sounds rather paradoxical but it seems to be true that experience teaches us that people do not learn anything from experience.

That patriotic Jahn and idealistic Ling did not take the child into consideration as we do at the present time, we admit. But do we not know—or do we not want to know?—■ that world-famed pedagogues have amplified the gymnastic material, have adapted it to the needs of the child, to the needs of the woman, and that the rich material was so classified by them that it is adapted not only to the physical ability, but also to the mental capacity and inclination of children of different ages? Should modern medical science be condemned simply because all the latest discoveries and the results of the latest researches were unknown to the scientists fifty or a hundred years ago? And, last but not least, allow me to add that our profession could contribute a great sharfe to the good citizenship of our future generations, if all gymnastic instructors would possess some of the idealism of the European apostles of Physical Education, who inscribed on their banners the noble principle that “Physical Education does not mean physical perfection only, but it means also

mental and moral elevation of every man and every woman........'

and that “.....the objectives of Physical Education are to make

the Nation strong by giving its people Health, Strength, Morality and Patriotism!”

Yes—Patriotism! How I long to see every one of our young men filled with this noble ideal, an ideal for which more people have sacrificed their lives than for any other cause! I may be mistaken, and I sincerely wish I were—but when I read that "loyalty to a team may veiy well be the beginning of loyalty to the Nation,” I wonder if it is true? Is it not planting in the plastic minds of our youths what may be termed only a “local patriotism,” which teaches the boy to be loyal to his team only, to his school only, to his city only, to his state only? And seeing this “local patriotism” in practice, whereby one city or state uses all means in trying to frustrate proposed plans which would greatly benefit a neighboring city or state, seeing how even the interests of a political party are placed high above the most sacred interests of the Nation, and of humanity as a whole, are we not justified in doubting tne wisdom of planting the seed of such a superficial patriotism in the hearts of our future citizens?

Although not bom in this country, I yield to no one in American spirit, in American feeling or pride—but when, at times I see an exhibition of what I have termed “local patriotism”, then —using the words of Washington Irving—I say to myself: the teaching of such patriotism is a nauseating piece of business!

Digitized by <^.ooQle
'3»

COMMENT ON “STANDARDS FOR JUDGING PHYSICAL EDUCATION PRACTICE.”

Editor, Mind and Body:

I noticed that you also commented on the fact that a good dose of compulsion is valuable. While what James says relative to muscular or motor response resulting from every sensory stimulus is in large measure acceptable, yet we must not forget tnat inhibition is one of the greatest traitsof the race and that training in it is as necessary as in the other required traits of man.

Williams seems to forget, or does not believe, that there is developmental value in doing something that is distasteful — particularly distasteful, as Guyer says. High standards of conduct caiuiot be developed otherwise. A man raised on a system of reacting unrestrainedly to every sensory impulse would not fit in our society and furthermore, we could not hold him responsible for his conduct.

Considering the paper as a whole the teacher will be inclined to say, “well, what are we to do in physical education?” It means that after all the biggest factor in the success of a physical education program will be the personality and knowledge of the teacher who is guided by the rational aims of which Williams speaks.

R. W. Goll, Philadelphia.

Shall Children Gain by Pounds or by Inches?

By William A Stecher.

With a realization of the value of a good physique if the regular work of the classroom teacher is to bear adequate fruits, there has come an increased interest in corrective measures of all types, in nutrition classes, in open air schools, in dental clinics, etc., etc. With most teachers the relation of weight to height has been the index according to which the need for more or for better food has been determined. A recent editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association may prove to be a disturbing factor in the assurance that teachers now have as to the reliability of the height-weight ratio so far as under-nourishment is concerned. This editorial says that “growth” is the foremost physiologic function characteristic of childhood. This fact is becoming recognized more extensively than ever, particularly as a result of the unprecedented activities in behalf of child welfare.

Difficulties have arisen, however, in the attempts to formulate norms of growth. What is growth? What shall be the index of adequate increments of size? Shall it be body weight or height or some appropriate interelation of these measurements by pounds and inches? Much attention has been devoted of late to secure some satisfactory expression of a normal relation between

Digitized by v^ooQle
139

weight and height. The usual argument has intended to show that growth is satisfactory when a body is properly “rounded out’' for its stature.

In an elaborate study, Porter of the Harvard Medical School has taken exception to current tendencies to proclaim “the supreme importance of weight in relation to height.” The emphasis he asserts, is overdone in that it tends to lessen the attention paid to growth in height. Porter proclaims the doctrine “secure the inches in healthy children, for the pounds will look after themselves.” Loss of weight through sickness is, of course, in a different category. Porter reminds us that a world in which every human being had the correct number of pounds for each inch in height would be the best possible world for adults, in whom skeletal growth is hopelessly finished. But, says he, it would be a very poor world for public school children, the majority of whom have been deprived of their rightful number of inches. It is our duty, he adds, to make our children reasonably tall. Again and again it has been proved that life is more difficult for undersized men and women than for those who are somewhat taller than the average.

Consequently, Porter says, the parental and social imcompe-tence which produces stunted children does not repair its fault by making the pounds of a defective boy bear the customary ratio to his defective inches. Those who deal with the practical aspects of the subject would probably conclude that in specific cases it is no easier to get the pounds than the inches—when the causes of retarded growth are not apparent. Before prescription, therefore, we should have a correct diagnosis. Has the child his height based upon his age? If not, why not? Then would come the question, has he the correct weight based upon his height, and if not, why not?

The meeting of the Hygiene and Physical Education Section of the Education Association of Western Pennsylvania held March 24,1923 at Schenley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa. was very interesting and instructive.

Dr. W. F. Donaldson, President of the Allegheny County Medical Society enlightened us as to the “Purpose of the County Medical Society.” Their aim - prevention of disease, thus adding comfort to life, by visiting stables and cow bams at unexpected hours to see that the milk supply is clean and sanitary. Some of their work is done by committee, as the committee on Health Legislation, who see that good health laws are made and also kept as statute law, as for example the law for vaccination. The committee on Hygiene are ready to give lectures in various places to enlighten and help the public toward better health and health conditions.

The next address by Dr. Eben W. Fiske on the Detection and Physical Treatment of Postural Defects in school children, was as good and even better, for here we work with the children themselves. Dr. Fiske stated that postural defects are due to muscular in-

Digitized by v^ooQle
140

sufficiency, or primary skeleton deformity, or to both. He showed how to detect some deformities by standing children up in single file. One can easily find the drooped shoulder, the pushed-out abdomen, hollow chest etc. He Explained how these can be remedied by certain exercises and games; but, he continued, we must not exercise too long at one period for fatigued muscles can only be strengthened after rest.

One very pertinent and important thought was given us by Dr. Fiske which probably outweighs all others, that is, if you contract your abdominal muscles, holding them there, your posture will be good, for then you cannot let the shoulders drop or the chest fall in and you will have an incentive to hold your head high. If one retains a good posture the inner organs will not sag, the circulation is good and thus health is assured.

Following this lecture Dr. C. J. Vaux, Director of Department of Public Health in Pittsburgh in his address on Preventive Medicine urged all to use the preventive measures as given by the Medical Society and by following the directions of responsible expert physicians in whom you should have faith. He also spoke of the work of nurses, and of the laws regarding prevention of contagious diseases. Dr. Vaux further quoted statistics showing the death rate of those dying from smallpox as compared with those vaccinated, as out of 850 cases in Denver from November 1921 to 1922 263 died, of whom 240 had not been vaccinated - these were adults, as the children had been vaccinated in accordance with the school law, - thus giving convincing proof of preventive medicine.

The chair next introduced Dr. Chas. H. Keene, Director of Bureau of Health Education, Harrisburg, who gave a complete report of the aims of this department, the work done by the doctors, the number of pupils per nurse. He also showed how teacher and pupil were being benefited by better surroundings and under healthful conditions.

J. F. Landis, Chairman. Bertha A. Goetter, Secretary.

From one of the most successful of the Real Estate Men of America.

Mr. H. S. Braucher, Secretary,

Playground & Recreation Association of America,

315 Fourth Avenue,

New York City.

My dear Mr. Braucher:

I know of no legislative enactment that would add more to the betterment of our residential and suburban developments over the country than a mandatory requirement that certain portions of each subdivision be dedicated to the public for park and playground purposes.

There is absolutely nothing radical about this requirement. It is exactly in line with the necessity of complying with existing or contemplated street layouts over adjoining property as is now in-

Digitized by
141

sisted upon in all up to date communities. The fact that some of these subdivisions are outside the city limits imposes the obligation of additional care, for it is self evident that such properties are expected by the promoters to be taken ultimately into the city and as a matter of history are.

The setting aside of 10 per cent of the area of a tract for park and recreational purposes need entail no hardship to the subdivider. It has in fact striking advertising value for people are looking ahead more and more to recreational insurance for their children. If the land is set aside for park purposes, the loss can be made up by increasing the price of adjoining lots. If for playground, by distributing the value of the playground area over the whole tract. We have done it and are now carrying out this policy in all our newer subdivisions and it is to my poignant regret that we did not have vision enough to see the wisdom of this policy thirty years ago. It is humiliating to visit old subdivisions of from 500 to 1,000 lots and find a house set on every plot and not an inch of play or park area reserved for the use of the community. My excuse is ignorance. Had we adopted a more generous course our profits would have been equally great, and our finished product would have ultimately commanded a higher price, a wider market and a better class of citizens.

Very truly yours,

(Signed) Wm. E. Harmon.

In Bulletin No. 854 of Community Service, New York we find the following interesting account upon the Work of the Backyard Playground Association of New York City. The Backyard Playgrounds Association has had nine years experience in New York City, leasing tenement property in crowded sections, re-letting the flats above the first floor to regular tenants, throwing together from two to five backyards to form a playground and utilizing the first floor of the buildings as a community center. A caretaker who in every case lives in one of the flats or at least within the city block has charge of the center and playground. While these persons are not trained recreation workers, they are reported to be people of intelligence and character and are able to conduct classes in English, cobbling, dress making and the like as well as handle the children who use the playgrounds. The success of these backyard playgrounds has had a direct relation to the capacity of the caretaker.

An essential characteristic of the plan has been that the equipment and appearance of the centers are quite similar to that of the homes in the neighborhood. Purposely the appearance of having things too nice or gilt-edged has been consistently avoided. The caretaker, too, is always one of the people, is never an up-town person or an outsider. Playground equipment includes swings, hammocks for babies and very small children, teeter-boards, sand boxes, basketball courts and in some cases flooring for dances. The aim is to have the family as a whole utilize the backyard playground. One advantage of the plan is that many mothers can send their children

Digitized by Google
14*

to the playground and then can go ahead with their work at home, now and then looking out from the kitchen of the flat and seeing their children at play below. At a census at one of the centers last Christmas, it was found that nine hundred families had tickets for the use of the playground. These tickets are not charged for, but the people have an opportunity to share in the expense of the work by taking out annual memberships of 25 cents. The bulk of the cost in maintaining the work is secured by general public subscription. According to the report of the Association, the cost of operating a play yard center serving some nine hundred people for one month ranges from $75 to $100, expenses being distributed as

follows:

Rent.........................................$15.00

Gas........................................... 5.00

Caretaker.....................................40.00

Cobbling material............................. 6.00

Knitting...................................... 4.00

Repairs ..................................... 25.00

The playgrounds-are operated summer and winter and a typical program includes housekeeping, knitting, sewing, darning, dancing, clubs, cobbling, classes in English spealang, athletics, social activities, self-government training, free medical clinics, and playground games.

The following circular letter sent to the heads of departments in the Philadelphia schools may be of interest to our readers.

A recent survey of teachers’ weaknesses brought forth the following list. Perhaps a check against one or several of these items allowing some teachers to see themselves as others see them, will help your teachers and thus lead to better physical education work.

W. A. Stecher,

Director of Physical Education.

Personal Qualities.

1.	Uninspiring personality.

2.	Untidy dress or habits.

3.	Lack of vigor.

4.	Exalted opinion of himself or herself.

5.	Lack of understanding of racial and environmental problems.

6.	Lack of touch with world problems.

7.	Lack of broad general training.

8.	Unwillingness to undertake extra, although essential work

Personal Methods.

1.	Poor arrangement or division of class.

2.	Failure to arrange apparatus so as to conserve time and decrease trouble.

3.	Poor use of voice.

4.	Failure to demand good form and accuracy.

5.	Failure to see the beginnings of trouble.

6.	Failure to employ pupil-leaders.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
143

7.	Failure to emphasize practical application.

8.	Inability to use every day life of pupils.

Problems of Administration.

1.	No attempt to train leaders.

2.	Too many other assignments.

3.	Lack of opportunity for pupils to consult teachers.

4.	Too large classes.

5.	Too many teaching periods.

BOOK RHV1HWB.

“Apparatus Work for Boys and Girls”, by Leopold F. Zwarg. 139 pages, 6 1-2 by 9 1-2 inches, fully illustrated. Published by John J. McVey, Philadelphia. Price $2.25.

While there have been several books dealing with apparatus work for men, in recent years there has been an increasing demand for a book on apparatus work that could be used in the physical training work for children. This want was felt not only by normal schools that are training teachers, but also by the teachers in schools, clubs, recreation centers, Y. M. C. A’s, etc., in fact, by teachers in all institutions that train children.

Mr. Zwarg’s book is designed to meet this demand. Stunts on the floor, on mats, or on apparatus are again coming into their rights. This book, with its 144 excellent half tone illustrations and its clear descriptions of exercises on the horizontal bar, parallel bars, horse, rings, ladders, stallbars, giant stride, poles and ropes, buck and tumbling will be a great help to teachers who are looking for help. The selection of exercises and the arranging of them in three age groups, that is, exercises for children that are in school grades one, two, and three, then for those in grades four, five and six, and last for those in the upper grades, is good.

The chapter on methods, tests, plans, definitions, while short, is to the point. In reading the book one always has the feeling that it is the result of the work of a successful teacher. The book is warmly recommended.

William A. Stecher.

Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Apparatus Steel Lockers

WRITE FOR CATALOG

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.

ST. LOUIS, MO.

Branch Offices—Nsw York, Chicago, Kansas City, San Francisco

Digitized by Google
A New Book on Basket Ball

By one of the greatest coaches of the game in America.

DR. W. E. MEANWELL, UNIVERSITY OF WIS.

In tan years. Dr. Mean wall's teams hare played 173 games and b-v * won 154 of them*

The *'Wisconsin System” of basket ball is widely known for its effectiveness. This system was evolved by the author of this new book in which the author gives to the public, his methods and their application.

Cloth Bound—200 pages—packed full of real information, invaluable to the coach of any team. 70 diagrams and illustrations. Intensely practical.

Price: $2.60 plus 20 cents for postage and insurance.!

Order Thru MIND AND BODY New Ulm, Minn.\

PURITZ CODE BOOK

Order from MIND & BODY New Ulm, Minn.

INTERNATIONAL Y. M. C. A. COLLEGE SUMMER^SESSION—July 2—31, 1923.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND ATHLETIC COACHING

School of Coaching

Football by Rockne of Notre Dame.

Baseball by Berry of Springfield.

Track by Rockne of Norte Dame and Otto of Springfield.

Basketball by Otto of Springfield.

Swimming, Soccer, Boxing, Wrestling.

School of Gymnastics. Tactics, Calisthenics, Dancing, Apparatus Games and Practice Teaching.

Y. M. C. A. Directors. A graded four year course begins in 1923 leading to a certificate.

Public School Directors. A graded four year course begins in 1928 leading to a Certificate.

Theoretical Courses in Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene, Physical Diagnosis, Anthropometry etc. of an intensive, double period character giving full credit toward the Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Physical Education.

Information and Bulletin.

Address ELMER BERRY, Director Summer School.

Springfield, Massachusetts.

Digitized by t^ooQle