MIND

Voi. rf

LFr/.irz

Vvt	It y oi kLUuUtfWfc

AND BODY

APRIL 1920	No.	287

mititil By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, Now Ula, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAT, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D„

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Maas. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phils. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ufan, Minnesota.

Bnitrtd as sscond-ciass matter October 14,1916, at the portoffice at Now Ulm, Minnesota, under tk* Act o' March 8, 1879.

THE VALUE OF ORGANIZED PLAY IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By C. M. UNDERWOOD, Prin. Fanning School, St. Louis, Mo.

We are rapidly coming to a system of physical education for the public schools, which will be based upon the play activities of childhood. Years ago, when physical training was first introduced as a separate subject in the curriculum, it naturally inherited some of the formal aspects characteristic of the work in general at that time. Very formal calisthenics or gymnastics constituted the only activities used or approved.

Gradually, under the influence of the kindergarten movement, and as the value of interest and play as important factors in the education of children, came to be more and more realized and recognized, and the methods in other subjects came to be affected thereby, physical training also fell under the spell, and fundamental conceptions of the aims and the activities, were drastically reorganized. The accent passed from formal activities to play activities, such formal activities as bore a direct relation to the play activities, or properly supplemented them, being retained. Where-ever facilities can be provided for them, the basis of the present day course in physical education is play activities.

We have had a growing estimate on the part of the public as to the value of health, and our health departments have accomplished much in the way of disease prevention, thru quarantine regulations, medical supervision in the schools, and the like,

'	^	Digitized	by	Google
s

but I fear we have not what we should have in the way of positive health measures—measures to build up vitality—resistance to contagions, as well as measures of prevention or cure. These measures will involve an adequate provision for physical education of the right sort.

It is shown by Professor Ehler’s studies, and those made by other investigators in this field, notably Dr. Curtis and Superintendent Johnson, that the children of our large cities today do not get in their customary work or play, the kind of vigorous physical exercise needed in the development of the quality of vitality and organic power which will insure good health, and be the greatest bulwark of defense against the encroachments of disease. This can be provided, as held by these investigators, only by provision in the curriculum and in the training of teachers, for the introduction of an adequate program of play activities, including dancing, athletics, and the best types of games and sports, involving vigorous physical activity, into the daily school program.

A child will develop strong heart and lungs only by vigorous activity of the elemental muscles. This activity can come most naturally in the vigorous group games; and only as it comes naturally, will it have its best results. Strong heart and lungs and digestive system are essential to health. All these are dependent upon vigorous muscular life in early years. Hence the fundamental essentiality of these vigorous activities during this period, for the positive values involved, is clearly apparent.

The appeal of play activities is natural, spontaneous and instinctive. Hence, attention of the involuntary type is involved. The greatest quantity and the best quality of exercise can thus be secured thru these activities, with the least mental strain. Clearly this is the most economical means of securing hygienic benefits. Calisthenics and gymnastics involve forced attention, and, altho they have certain values, they are not to be compared with those activities arising out of the natural situations of play.

So much for the development of physical powers and health, which should be the first concern in any scheme of physical education. Even in this particular, play activities show their superiority. But there are other outcomes of play activities, not to be found in other types of physical exercise, which clearly place them upon full equality with any activity of the school. I refer to the development of character—certain specific mental and moral qualities of great value in our daily life—such as alertness, quick and accurate thinking, courage, self-confidence, perseverance, cooperation, team-work, self-control, self-subordination, courtesy, ideal and habit of fairness, honesty, loyalty, initiative, leadership, comradeship, good sportsmanship, and a democratic spirit. It will be clear to anyone familiar with the operation of organized play and sports, under proper leadership, that all these values are not only inherent in but naturally developed thru these activities, under wise leadership. Their value in daily life needs no comment.

Much could be said in detail, as to the development of each of the qualities, above listed. I shall not at this time, take more

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
8

of your time for this purpose. Such a single game as base ball, for example, involves in high degree, under proper coaching, everyone of these qualities, and is a fair example of the sort of activities that should be in the daily program of the school. Of course very few schools have sufficient space for the regulation game, but many schools have room enough for the variation known as “playground base ball,” best played with a soft 12-inch ball,'under the regulation rules. This is a thoroly satisfactory substitute for the regulation game, when this is necessary. As time goes on, and more and more labor saving devices are discovered and that activity involved in labor is more and more specialized, the need will increase for some all around physical activity, if health and mental balance are to be maintained for the nation. The only solution, it seems to me, is the development of a taste for and habits of physical recreation for leisure hours. This can only be accomplished thru the proper training in these activities during the school period. The physical work in the home required of children, especially in the cities, has diminished to almost nothing, and the need is here felt, even more than in adult life, if this could be possible, for the provision for all around vigorous muscular activity, and mental and physical recreation.

Grover Cleveland said that every man should carry thru life some form of sport, as this constitutes the sole means of making him a good comrade. After all, both for ourselves and others, is . not comradeship one of the great blessings of life? Is it not worth while? The winning of the battle of Waterloo was attributed on good authority, to the initiative and leadership developed on the *r foot ball field at Rugby. Numerous examples could be cited to ^ show the transfer of the qualities developed thru play, during the school period, into permanent values of incalculable service, in the N^iffairs of practical life. What a recommendation for a man is it ? lobe able to say of him that he is a true sportsman! Sportsman-y ship involves all the qualities most desired for satisfactory life. sS.with our fellow man. At what effort and to what expense should we not be willing to go, in the introduction of supervised play into ^wthe curriculum, for the purpose of developing true sportsmanship «~alone!

Vj It has long been recognized that the play ground is the most democratizing influence in the life of the nation, and rightly so. t VThere, the rich and poor, catholic and protestant, jew and gentile, V are all equal. Each must make his own adjustments, and is re-JZ warded in terms of his achievements. In order to play, children v^giust be friendly, and friendship promotes play. They thus learn ,' to appreciate each other, and to learn the invaluable lessons of team--V. work, justice, and social co-operation, fundamental to the existence -^of a democracy.

It is my high faith and belief, that if we can develop in our ^children in their play at school, these high qualities herein noted, o^jthey will not desert them when they come to enter the great game of lue itself in the broadest and deepest significance.

1097614
4

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR ORTHOGENIC CLASSES.*

By WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia.

Physical Training Lessons for the Upper Grade.

Many of the pupils of the upper grade are retarded mentally , because of some, physical defect. If this defect can be removed they rapidly progress physically and mentally. With this in mind the physical training teacher should demand work closely approximating that of normal pupils. It can readily be seen that much of the work of the two lower grades is usable for this grade; the demands as to finish, promptness, endurance, etc., simply should be increased. FIRST TERM. September to February.

Lesson 1.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

Arrange the class as outlined in Lesson 1 of the lower grade. When marching to their place in the yard they should be formed in ranks of four. These ranks are opened from the center by marching sideward. Toward the end of the year this opening (and also the closing) of the ranks should be performed in six counts as outlined for the physical training work of the third grade.

1.	Arm to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward. Count 1, 2, 3, 4.

2.	Arm for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	a. Hands on hips - place. Straighten arms forward - 1; re-

turn - 2; bend trunk fore-downward - 3; return - 4.

b.	Hands on hips — place. Bend trunk fore-downward and straighten arms downward - 1; return - 2.

4.	Hands on hips - place. Raise left leg forward - 1; return - 2;

raise right leg forward - 3; return - 4.

Part 2. Aim:	Prompt Response.

1.	Three steps forward - march (in four counts). Face to left and

repeat several times.

2.	Three steps backward - march (in four counts). Repeat several

times.

3.	Arms forward - raise. One step forward - march. Arms -

ower.

These movements are to be taken only upon command. A sharp vigorous execution should be striven for.

Part 3. Aim: Alertness, Quick Reaction, Social Development.

Arrange the pupils in a circle and play “Cat and Mouse.” After playing for some time increase the difficulty of the game by forming two concentric circles and playing as formerly. Another form of playing this game would be to have the pupils form four or more small circles and play as formerly. After a few lessons take up one of the events mentioned on page 13.

Lesson 2.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

Arrange the class and open the ranks as outlined in Lesson 1.

1.	Arm to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward.

* Continued from March.

Digitized by

Google
5

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise chest upward - 1; lower - 2. b. Hands on shoulders - place. Straighten arms sideward

-	1; return - 2. bend trunk left - 3; return - 4.

The same exercise bending right sideward.

4.	Hands behind neck - place. Raise left leg sideward - 1; return

-	2. Raise right leg sideward - 3; return - 4.

Review the exercises of Lesson 1.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

These movements are to be taken only upon command.

1.	Two steps left sideward - march (in four counts). The same exercise right sideward.

2.	Mark time-march. Repeat clapping hands on the first of three counts (Mazurka Rhythm).

3.	Arms sideward - raise. Trunk left sideward - bend. Position. Perform also with a bend right sideward. The arms always must be in line with the shoulders.

Part 3. Aim: Quick Reaction, Skill, Co-operation. Track Event. A Running Race.

Arrange the pupils in two teams, one standing on each side of the yard. Measure off a definite distance. (By the end of the year these pupils should be able to run 50 yards in fair time. See the Age Aims Chart on page 36. Have one or two players from each team toe the “scratch line.” You, as teacher, stand at the finish. Command: “Get on your marks-get ready-run.” Credit the team with its winners, and at the end announce which side has won the race.

At another lesson take a hopping race, the distance to be about 8 yards. The “Potato Race” described for the Middle Grade is also a splendid team game.

Pupils in the upper grade should be able to run a relay race. In schoolyards the most usable form of a relay is the “shuttle.” In a shuttle race one half of the team stands at one end of the track and the second half at the other end.

H-H-

7 5 3 1

H-l-h

7 53 1

FIRST TEAM

■> «

* SECOND TEAM*

ttn

un

Player No. 1 of the first half runs across the intervening space and hands a stick (or flag) to the first player No. 2 on the other side. As soon as this player No. 2 has the stick he runs back across the space and hands the stick to the next player No. 3 of the side, and so on until each player on the team has run once. The runners always must toe the scratch line, and they are not allowed to leave this line until they have secured the stick from one of their team mates.

Digitized by v^ooQle
6

Lesson 3.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

Arrange the class in open order as indicated in Lesson 1.

1. Arms	to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale - 1; lower arms side-down-

ward and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise the chest upward - 1; lower

-2.

b.	Raise the chest and hands on hips - place. Straighten left arm upward - 1; return - 2; straighten right arm upward

-	3; return - 4.

c.	Arms sideward - raise. Bend trunk left - 1; return - 2.

Bend right - 3; return - 4.

5. Hands behind neck - place. Alternately raise left and right leg backward.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	Quarter and half turns left and right while marching in place.

Left - face. Right - face.

2.	In four steps, left - face. In four steps, right - face.

3.	In four steps, left about - face. In four steps, right about

-	face.

4.	Hands on hips - place; arms sideward - straighten; trunk left sideward - bend. Position.

Part 3. Aim: Skill, Courage, Co-operation.

Long Jump Rope.—The teacher swings the rope headward. The object is to run mto the rope, jump a specified number of times and then run out. At first this is done singly and at will. Example: 1, Run in, jump four times and run out. 2, Rim in at the fourth swing, jump three times and run out. 3, Rim in at the third swing, jump twice and run out. 4, as 1, 2, and 3, but by pairs, by threes or by fours.

A Game. Day or Night.

For this game the class is divided into two teams, one named Day and the other Night. The teacher, secures a flat piece of wood about 2 by 6 inches, one side of which is white - “Day,” and the other black - “Night.” The two teams are lined up in the middle of the yard standing about two steps apart. The teacher, standing at one end of the lines, thereupon tosses the piece of wood up in such manner that it shall fall between the lines. If the “white” side lands uppermost the white side runs back toward its goal at its end of the yard pursued by the “black.” Who is tagged in this pursuit is a prisoner and is out of the game. After the teams have again lined up in the center the procedure is repeated until all of one side have been caught.

If cold weather makes it inadvisable to have prisoners stand at the side lines, the teacher counts the number of prisoners made at each running and announces the winners after a definite number of prisoners have been caught. While not as exciting as the former manner of playing this form has the advantage of keeping every player in action.

Digitized by v^ooQle
7

Chinning and Knee Raising.—If it is possible to erect one or two horizontal bars “chinning” and “knee raising” are two forms of exercise that may be indulged in at any time before or after school. The bars should be erected in the doorway high enough so as not to interfere with the marching in and out of the room.

Lesson 4.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale - 1; lower arms side down-

ward and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Stride left sideward and hands on hips - place. Straighten

arms sideward - 1; return - 2; turn trunk left - 3; return - 4. The same exercise right. > fe? 8$%$$

b.	Hands on shoulders - place. Turn trunk left and straighten arms sideward - 1; return - 2. The same exercise right.

c.	Stride left sideward, turn trunk left and hands on tops - place.

Straighten arms sideward - 1; return - 2. The same exercise right.

5.	Hands on shoulders - place. Straighten arms sideward and raise

left leg sideward - 1; return - 2. The same exercise right. Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

Arrange the class in a column of fours.

1.	Marching, halting upon command. Forward - march. After the class has taken from six to eight steps, command: Halt. Repeat this several times, gradually decreasing the number of steps before halting.

2.	Left about - face. Right about - face.

3.	With clapping hand left about - face. Also right about. Perform this facing with clapping hands twice.

4.	Bend trunk fore-downward and hands on hips - place. Straighten trunk and hands on shoulders - place. Position.

Part 3. Aim: Co-operation.

A Song Game. The Carrousel.

Words and music should be taught in the school room.

“Pretty children, sweet and gay.

Carrousel is running.

It will run ’till evening,

Little ones a nickel, big ones a dime.

Hurry up, get a mate, or you’ll surely be too late.”' Chorus-

“Ha, ha, ha, happy are we.

Carrousel is running, running so merrily.”

The players form two concentric circles, facing inward. The players of the inner circle grasp hands, those in the outer circle place their hands on the shoulders of those in front of them. While ringing, both circles move left sideward, with follow-steps. During the chorus the players glide left sideward (gallop), and when repeating the “Ha, ha, ha,” etc., they glide right sideward. At the end of the song the players change places and the play is repeated.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
8

A Song Game. “I See You.” (Peek-a-Boo).

Words and music should be taught in the schoolroom.

“I see you, I see you,

Ti ral-la, ral-la, lal-la-la,

I see you, I see you,

Ti ral-la, lal-la-la.

You see me and I see you,

And you take me and I take you;

You see me and I see you.

And you take me and I take you.”

The pupils are formed in two divisions, standing four steps apart, facing toward the center. Each division is divided into pain, one pupil standing behind the other. Those in front have hands on hips, those ih rear place hands on shoulders of those in front.

1.	“I see you, I see you,

Ti-ralla-ralla-lalla-la,

I see you, I see you,

T'i-^ollo lolo In ”

While singing the first line those standing in rear alternately bend their heads once left and right. While singing the second line the head is bent four times (thus playing “peek-a-boo” with their opposites). Repeat during the last two lines.

2.	“You see me and I see you,

And you take me and I take you.

You see me and I see you,

And you take me and I take you.”

Beginning the fifth line, all clap hands, then those in rear skip forward (to the left), grasp both hands of these coming from the opposite division, and while singing the sixth line swing them around. At the seventh line all clap hands, grasp both hands of their partners and swing them around.

At the end of the eighth line the two divisions are again formed, the partners changing places.

A Tag Game. Three Deep.

Arrange the players in a large circle, standing two deep (one behind the other). Now select one pair as a runner and a catcher. The runner runs around the outside of the circle and places himself in front of a pair, thereby forming a rank of three, “three deep.” This must never be. The last one of these three, therefore, runs and places himself in front of some other pair, again forming three, etc. In the meantime the catcher is chasing the runner, trying to tag him before he places himself in front of a pair. As soon as the runner is tagged he becomes chaser, and the former catcher is the runner. The game then continues. In order to have a splendid game, note the following: Do not allow any running through the circle; insist that the players always run around the outside. Do not allow the playing of “partners,” and encourage short runs outside, so as to get quick changes. If some players persist in running around the circle once or oltener, put them in the center of the circle to watch and learn how the game ought to be played. Do not allow the boys to indulge in hard slapping.

Digitized by
9

To make the game more difficult have the pairs in the circle face each other. The runner now must run between a pair and place himself in front of one of the players. This player is the “third” and runs from the chaser.

To make the game easier, also when teaching it to young children, form a circle only “one deep.” When the runner now places himself in front of some one they stand “two deep.” The second one now runs as described above.

Second Term. February to July.

Lesson S.

1.

2.

3.

4.

6.

1.

2.

3.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward. Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

Raise arms fore-upward and inhale - 1; lower arms side-downward and exhale - 2.

a.	Hands on hips - place. Bend trunk fore-downward and straighten arms downward - 1; return - 2.

b.	Stride left sideward and hands on shoulders - place. Bend

trunk left and straighten arms sideward - 1; return - 2. The same exercise right.

c.	Stride left sideward, bend trunk left and hands on shoulders

- place. Straighten left arm sideward - 1; return - 2; straighten right arm sideward - 3; return - 4.

The same exercise right.

Hands on hips - place. Lower trunk forward and raise left leg backward - 1 (leg and trunk must be in line) return 2. The same exercise right.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

The class is arranged in open order.

Face left and three steps forward - march (4 counts).

Face right and three steps forward - march.

Raise arms sideward ana trunk left sideward - bend. Position.

Part 3. Aim: Co-operation, Determination.

A Field Event. Progressive Standing Broad Jump.

Arrange the class in teams.

In a progressive jump the first pupil on a team takes his place cm the scratch line ana performs a standing broad jump. The place where he lands is marked by a new scratch line, and it is from this line that the second team member jumps. The third jumps from where the second landed, and so on until all have jumped.

In the meantime the second team also has been jumping and progressing, and the excitement runs high as one or the other teams is overtaken. The last jump decides who is the winner.

A Game. Catch Me.

The players are arranged in a front circle.

Have the players form one or two circles. Choose one child as the first tagger. This child runs around the outside of the circle, faflpng some one. The child tagged pursues the tagger, trying to catch him before he reaches the place vacated by the one tagged. Hie one tagged now becomes tagger and the game proceeds as before.

Digitized by v^ooQle
10

Call for lively running and prompt tagging—and do not allow the "playing of partners," so that all get a chance to run. As a variation, have the runners run around or touch an object some distance from the circle before finishing. Another variation is to have the players skip instead of run. Still another is to have the players stand by twos or threes, who must all run when the last one is tagged. The one left over continues the game.

Lesson 6.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms	to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale - 1; lower arms'side down-

ward and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise the chest - 1; return - 2.

b.	Stride left forward and hands on shoulders - place. Turn

trunk left - 1; return - 2. Straighten arm? sideward - 3; return - 4. The same exercise right.

c.	Stride left forward, turn trunk left and hands on shoulders

- place. Straighten arms sideward - 1; return - 2. The same exercise right.

5.	Hands on hips - place. Raise left leg forward - 1; bend right

knee - 2; return - 3-4. The same exercise right.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	Three steps forward and face left - march (4 counts).

2.	Three steps forward and face right - march.

3.	Bend knees and arms sideward - raise. Bend trunk fore-downward and hands on hips - place. Position.

k	Part	3.	Aim:	Determination,	Courage.

Two Antagonistic Events. Hop and Pull.

Divide the class into teams standing on opposite sides of the yard. The first one of each team steps to the center and grasps the right hand of his opponent. The object of the contest is while both players are hopping, to pull your opponent over to your side. If a player sets his free foot on the ground he is lost, and a point is awarded to his opponent. After the contest is once understood four or more pairs may compete at once.

Pull Over A Line.

In this event a pair steps to the center, grasps the opponent's wrist, and upon command tries to pull the player over a line that lies about six or eight feet behind the center.

A Game. Ball Relay Over and Under.

The teams are arranged in a flank rank, one player behind the other. Upon command the ball is passed backward, fir& overhead to the next player and by him underneath to the next, and so on. For detailed description see page 445, (March.)

Lesson 7.

Part 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

Digitized by
11

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale -1; lower arms side down-

ward and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Hands on hips - place. Raise chest upward -1; return - 2.

b.	Stride left backward and arms fore-upward - raise. Bend

upper trunk backward - 1; return - 2.

c.	Stride right backward and arms fore-upward - raise. Bend

upper trunk backward and place hands on shoulders -1; return -2.

5.	Hands on hips - place. Raise left leg backward - 1; bend right

knee - 2; return 3, 4. The same exercise right.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

The class is arranged in open order.

1.	Three steps forward (4 counts) and three steps backward (4

counts).

2.	Three steps backward and three steps forward.

3.	One step forward and raise arms fore-upward (2 counts).

4.	One step left sideward and face right - march.

Part 3. Aim: Quick Reaction.

A Game. Fox and Chickens.

Divide the players into ranks of sevens. Six, representing the chickens, stand behind one another, catching around each other’s waists; the one in front with outspread arms (wings) shoos off the fox (the seventh pupil) who tries to tag the last one in the rank. When the last one in the rank is tagged, the one in front becomes fox. The former fox takes his place at the end of the rank. This is a good cold weather game.

Third Tag and Run.

Divide the class into two teams standing at opposite sides of the yard. One player from one side crosses over to his opponents to give the three tags. Their hands must be held forward to receive his tag, of which three are given to the same or to different persons. As soon as the third tag is given the one giving it turns and runs to a goal behind him (previously decided upon—usually his own line) while the one receiving the third tag pursues him. If caught before reaching the goal, the runner is out of the game. The teacher then chooses the next tagger.

Catch the Wand.

For description of this game see page 447 (March). Increase the difficulty of the game by having the player who is called clap hands once or oftener before catching the wand.

Lesson 8.

Paurt 1. Aim: Physical Development.

The class is arranged in open order.

L Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust alternately sideward and upward.

2.	Arms for running - bend. In place - run.

3.	Raise arms fore-upward and inhale - 1; lower arms side-down-

ward and exhale - 2.

4.	a. Arms to thrust - bend. Thrust upward -1; return - 2.

Lower trunk forward - 3; return - 4.

b.	Stride left forward and arms to thrust - bend. Turn trunk left - 1; return - 2; thrust upward - 3; return - 4.

The same exercise right.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
12

c.	Stride left forward and arms to thrust - bend. Turn trunk

left and thrust upward - 1; return - 2. The same exercise right.

d.	Stride left forward, turn trunk left and arms to thrust - bend.

Thrust alternately sideward and upward, 1-4. The same exercise right.

5.	Hands on hips-place. Raise left leg sideward -1; Bend right knee - 2; return 3, 4. The same exercise right.

Part 2. Aim: Prompt Response.

1.	Marching in a square. Four steps forward, and at the fourth

count face left - march. Repeat the movement four times.

2.	As 1, with hand clapping on each first step in a new direction.

Part 3. Aim: Determination.

A Field Event. Basketball Farthrow Overhead Forward.

The throwing to be to and fro in such manner that a player of one team throws and thereupon a player from the other team returns the throw from where the ball landed. This is a form of team competition that creates great excitement. It is wise, therefore, to have both teams lined up on opposite sides of the yard, and to have only the two who are to throw next out in the field.

A Game. Hop Scotch.

Hop Scotch is an interesting individual, hopping game, which can be played either in a very simple or in a v*»ry intricate form.

It is suited to a small number (4 to 8) of boys or girls, from 7 to 14 years of age. The simpler forms are used for young children.

	ID			N	-

Every player has a flat piece of flagstone or a wooden disc. For the simplest form of the game mark out a space 24 feet long by 4 feet wide, which is divided by five transverse lines into six equal 4-foot squares. Number the squares consecutively 1 to 6. (See Diagram). This size is recommended so that the ordinary cement blocks or squares in the pavement may be used.

The games consist in kicking or pushing the disc with the hoping foot, out of each square back to the starting point.

The first player stands in front of square No. 1, and tosses his disc into square No. 1. He then hops into square No. 1, kicks the disc back (with hopping foot) and hops to the starting place without stepping on the line. He then tosses the disc into square No. 2, hops into square No. 1, then into 2. He then kicks the disc out in the same way through square No. 1 to the starting place, and so on to No. 6.

If a player fails to throw his disc wholly within the next square, or if in hopping he steps on any line, or if he kicks the disc on or out of the side lines he is out and the next player takes his turn.

When each player has had a turn, the first player starts again by throwing the disc into the square in which he last failed. The one who completes the six squares first wins.

Digitized by v^oogle
13

Additional Material for the Upper Grade.

a.	Tag games like Hand Tag, Squat Tag, Skip Tag, Pussy Wants a Comer, Lame Tag.

b.	Racing, eventually up to 50 yards; also hopping over distances up to 15 yards.

c.	Walking, forward, backward and sideward on low balance boards; also with added arm and leg movements.

Jumping over the low balance boards.

d.	Additional song games and folk dances found in the regular handbooks.

Games and Contests.

The difficulty of many games and contests may be increased in various ways. A game is made more difficult by increasing either the physical or the mental requirements. Under increased physical requirements usable in ordinary schoolwork, the following may be mentioned:

a.	Increasing the distance to be ran,

b.	Increasing the size or the weight of the object to be thrown or caught,

c.	Increasing both distance and weight or size,

d.	Hopping instead of running.

There are, however, also instances where decreasing the size or shape of the thrown object increases the difficulty. For instance, a ball is more difficult to catch than a bean bag; and, within reason, a small ball is more difficult to catch than a large ball.

It can readily be seen that the course of work outlined in these lessons can be made to fit many conditions if the above statements are understood, and if the teacher is capable of modifying the lessons to meet the conditions. Before attempting any supplementary work the prescribed lesson, however, should be performed in a satisfactory manner.

CHART SHOWING AGE-AIMS IN TRACK AND FIELD EVENTS. Elementary Schools—8 to 16 years inclusive.

	Years	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
80 Yard Dash, (in seconds and	Girls	.... 6.3	6.3	6.2	6.0	5.4	5.4	5.4	5.4
fifths)		..Boys	.... 6.1	6.0	5.4	5.3	5.2	5.2	5.1	5.0
40 Yard Dash (in seconds and	Girls	.... 8.2	8.1	8.0	7.3	7.2	7.2	7.2	7.2
fifths)				 7.4	7.3	7.2	7.1	7.0	6.4	6.3	6.2
50 Yard Dash (in seconds and 		..Girls	.... 9.3	9.2	9.1	9.0	8.4	8.3	8.3	8.8
fifths)		..Boys .		 9.0	8.4	8.3	8.2	8.1	8.0	7.4	7.3
Standing Broad Jump (in feet and Girls		.... 3.0	3.2	3.4	3.6	3.8	310	4.0	4.1
inches)					.-BoyB .		 3.4	3.8	4.0	4.3	4.6	4.9	5.0	5.8
Basketball Overhead Farthrow	Girls	.... 12	14	16	16	19	21	22	23
(feet) ..					..BoyB .		 14	16	18	20	23	24	27	29
Chinning (times) 				..Boys.		 0	0	0	1	2	3	4	4
Knee Hairing (times)		..Girls	.... 4	8	12	16	25	28	30	30

Digitized by t^oooLe
14

CONDENSED OUTLINE OF WORK

Games, Track and Field Events.

First Term.

Grade 1.	2	3
1. Cat and Mouse	Cat and Mouse Two cats	Cat and Mouse Two concentric circles Many circles
2. Running Race Follow the leader	Running Race Hopping Race Potato Race	Running and hopping races Potato Race Relay Race
3. Long Jump Rope	Long Jump Rope Blackman	Long Jump Rope Day or Night Chinning, Knee raising
4. Oats, Peas, Beans and Barley Grow	Muffin Man Two Deep	I See You Carrousel Three Deep
5. Standing Broad Jump Follow the Leader	Second Term.  Stand Broad Jump Follow the Leader	Progressive Standing Broad Jump Catch Me
6. Bean Bag Catch	Ball Relay Overhead and Underneath	Ball Relay Over and under Hop and Pull Pull over the Line
7. Did you Ever See a Lassie?  Spin the Plate	Jolly is the Miller Catch the Wand	Third Tag and Run Fox and Chickens Catch the Wand
8. Basketball, Farthrow, overhead	Basketball Farthrow	Basketball Farthrow Hop Scotch
Extra a. Tag Games Hand Tag Squat Tag Skip Tag  b.	Racing  c.	Walking on balance  boards Jumping over balance boards  d.	Additional song  games found in the regular handbooks.	a.	Tag Games as 1 Pussy wants a Corner Third Tag and run  b.	Racing 30 & 40 yards  c.	Apparatus as 1  d.	Additional song  games found in the regular handbooks	a.	Tag Games as 1 and 2  b.	Racing 50 yards  Relay Hopping  c.	Apparatus as 1 and 2  d.	Additional song games  and folk dances found in the regular handbooks.

Digitized by

Google
16

Rmpodm Worftu A. Marching B. Free Exercises. Facing.

First Term.

Grade 1.	2	3
1. One step forward with hand dapping-counting	One step forward-Two steps forward B. Raise arms	Three steps forward Three steps backward B. Raise arms and one step alternately
2. One step sideward B. Raise arms-Place hands	One step sideward  Mark time  One step forward one step sideward with hand clapping.  B. Arm and trunk exercises	Two steps sideward Mark time B. Arm and trunk exercises
3. Three steps forward  B. Raise and move arms	Face left and right Face left in four steps Right face in four steps B. Arm and trunk exercises	Face left and right Face left about in four steps Right about in four steps B. Trunk and arm exercises
4. While marching, halt upon command Marching and hand clapping	While marching halt upon command Facing with hand clapping  B. Arm and trunk movements	Marching and halting upon command.  Facing with hand clapping  Face about with hand clapping  Arm and trunk exercises
6. Left face, right face  with hand clapping	Second Term.  Left face, Three steps forward Right face, Three steps forward B. Arm and trunk movements	With face left three steps forward <4 counts)  Face right and three steps forward (4 counts)  B. Arm and trunk movements
6. Mark time  Mark time 8 steps B. Raise and straighten arms	Three steps forward, left face  Three steps forward, Right face B. Arm and trunk movements	Three steps forward and face right Three steps forward and face left B. Arm and trunk movements
7. One step forward One step backward Facing  B. Raise and straighten arms	One step backward (2 counts)  Three steps backward \4 counts)  B. Face and raise arms	Three steps forward and Three steps backward (8 counts)  B. Face and straighten arms

Digitized by i^.ooQle
16

8. One step forward and

One step forward and March forward in a one step backward square with clapping hands Four steps forward and on 1 and 8 (4 counts) on four face left, repeat B. Arm movements. three times.

backward (4 counts)

with hand clapping on the first count

One step sideward and return (4 counts) with hand clapping on first count.

Later with hand clapping on each first step in a new direction.

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS.

In Part 1 of each lesson, the breathing exercise, “Raise arms fore-upward,” etc., is not a preparatory command, and accordingly is not italicized as all such commands are throughout the course. It would be well to take the chest expansion of each pupil occasionally and keep it on record to encourage improvement.

The keeping of monthly records for each pupil in the Standing Broad Jump, in the Overhead Basketball Farthrow and other track and field events has been found to be of great value in encouraging boys and girls to extend interest in their physical improvement into their play hours.

The Age-Aims Chart on page 13 is based on the performances of normal children. Mentally retarded pupils, however, have attained these normal averages, and in some cases, have exceeded them.

The music for the song games in Part 3 of the Lower, Middle, and Upper Grade lessons may be found in ‘Games and Dances,” Stecher.

In choosing additional folk dances, care should be taken to select those providing for the activity of many pupils rather than a few.

Additional folk dances may be found in “Games and Dances,” Stecher; “Folk and School Dances,” 1919, published by the Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis; “Folk Dances and Singing Games,” and “Dances of the People,” both by Burchenal; “Children’s Singing Games,” and “Popular Folk Games and Dances,” both by Hofer.

Digitized by

Google
17

A NEW FIELD FOR PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS.

A. GERTRUDE JACOB, Jamaica High School, Jamaica, Long Island, N. Y.

Year by year as fresh experience is gained thru the personal contact with students and adults, is not the fact borne home to all physical training teachers that we fall very far short of attaining the ideals of our work? We are ready to study anything that pertains to exercise itself. We discuss the everburning question of military drill; the best ways to conduct athletics; the newest dances; mimetics; the value of the physical examination and many other things. Yet, in spite of our most conscientious efforts, our students continue to leave school poorly equipped physically for their life work. Nothing perhaps shows this more graphically than the high percentage of men who were found to be unfit for military service.

Some years ago, while giving a lecture in Philadelphia, Dr. W.

G.	Anderson of Yale expressed the thought that children were being sent out of school with round shoulders and hollow chests, knowing how to dance, but knowing little else of physical training. May not the same criticism hold true in many cases today? Stand in front of any elementary school at dismissal and see how many of the children you would classify as straight. Take the entering class of any high school and note the woefully small per cent with even approximately good carriage. Attend the athletic meets and count on your fingers the boys who maintain erect posture thoughout the events.

Go further. Notice the carriage of the students whom the high schools send into training schools, normal schools, colleges, yes and normal schools of physical training. Then follow the finished teachers into the class rooms and even gymnasia. Apply psychology.

Is it right that children should have the daily example of poor posture in so many of those who exert such a powerful influence at the critical formative age of school life?

After many years of experience in teaching girls, I have become convinced that in many cases, poor posture is a sign of poor health, and, that where students are not reached by the physical training teacher in ordinary work, there is something wrong.

In dealing with posture there are several things to be borne in mind. A student must know when the body is erect before she can maintain habitually good posture. A mirror is a great aid toward gaining good carriage. Since mirrors are never furnished in sufficient numbers to meet school needs however, we must give some simple infalliable test that students may apply at all times. Upon the carriage of the head more than upon anything else good posture depends. It is sound psychology to direct attention to that part of the body that controls the whole. Therefore, the importance of the upright position of the head should be emphasized continually. A student may be satisfied that she is in correct posture if she is standing with the weight over the balls of the feet, the chest raised

Digitized by L^OOQle
18

so that the interclavicular hollow is directly underneath the chin, the head pressed upward and the chin held parallel to the floor.

It has been said that calling attention to the carriage of the head creates a strained position. Several years of experimentation on the method outlined has convinced me, that the strain is less than in many of the so-called postural exercises, and that the tendency to increase the lumbar curve is obliterated. However strained their initial effort, the stiffness passes away when the student learns the principles involved and gams poise.

At the Jamaica High School we have been trying for years to find a way in which every case of poor posture amongst the girls might be effectively reached. While the method outlined above has produced better results than anything else, it had not reached every student.

In September, 1915, therefore, another experiment was begun. We used Dr. C. Ward Crampton's suggestion of class division on the basis of posture as a groundwork. Each class was separated into five groups. In group one we placed all those who habitually carried themselves well. In group two, those who generally did but were caught unawares once in a while. In group three those with fairly good posture. In group four those whose carriage was decidedly poor. In group five the cases so bad that even by a strong effort of the will, good posture could not be attained.

At the beginning of the term the girls were notified that, according to their own efforts to overcome their defects, they might be promoted or demoted at any time, but that only the girls who were m group three or above would be eligible to take the final examination at the end of the term. In other words, that a girl who could not make group three with five months of instruction should fail of promotion on the ground that she did not put into practice what she was taught in the gymnasium. Other teachers demand home work, surely physical training teachers should have the same right. The short time allotted to physical training and the large size of the classes make individual attention impossible.

The home must cooperate with the school if results are to be attained. So, while every effort was made to arouse interest, the girls were fully warned that they themselves would have to do the work, and they were continually reminded that if they did not try hard to practice what they had been taught as a means of overcoming poor posture, they ran the chance of being marked failures in physical training.

At the opening of a lesson the class assembled according to posture groups. This gave the teacher a chance to watch closely the worst cases. Publicity was given to either promotion or demotion for its psychological importance. Regular postural exercises were given with each lesson so that the girls knew them thoroughly. Also, we had found so many girls lacking in lung capacity that some time before this we had begun giving definite credit for improvement in this important direction, and had emphasized the fact that good carriage increased the size of the chest and thus lung capacity indi-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
19

rectly. Annually we had also awarded a pin to the girl showing the greatest gain in lung capacity for the year. A number of girls became interested in this way and worked hard to see how big an increase they could make.

Before September 1919 our average of failures had been about seven percent. At the end of the first term of the experiment it jumped to twenty-five per cent. It was therefore, safe to assume that, in spite of all our efforts, eighteen per cent had failed on account of poor posture. This was discouraging.

Toward the end of the spring term in 1917 through additional help to the teaching force we were able to extend the instruction.

We added one period a day for corrective work alone. Into these periods were placed nearly every girl in posture groups four and five for at least one extra lesson a week. Many girls asked to be allowed to come to our special classes oftener, showing that they appreciated our efforts. The end term ratings showed twenty per cent of failures, a decrease of five per cent over the first half of the school year, but still thirteen per cent for posture alone.

During the school year of 1916-17 we conducted a more vigorous campaign along the same general lines. Owing to a poor entering class our failures rose again to twenty-three per cent in January but dropped to sixteen and one half per cent in June. This meant nine and a half per cent for posture as compared to thirteen per cent the previous June. Nine and a half per cent for poor posture left us very far from satisfied, for it showed conclusively that something was still lacking.

Unlike many other New York high schools we have the advantage of country surroundings. Although the physical training work is carried on under crowded and unhygienic conditions, the girls are not handicapped by homes in congested tenement house districts as are those in so many other parts of our big city.

Moreover, nearly all of our students have had the advantage of systemized physical training throughout both the elementary and grammar schools. As a rule only the more ambitious students ever reach high school. Since defective posture then, is a common fault with high school students, it is safe to assume that it would be found in even larger proportions amongst those who never enter high school. Evidently then, there is some influence which physical training teachers have not been able to reach.

Who are these sixteen and one-half per cent failures? They are the girls who lack will power; stamina; who are nervous and enervated; who in a word are physically unfit. In all probability they fail also along their other lines of work.

Can a physical training teacher create backbone or give vitality to an aenemic child? Can she overcome the effects of undernourishment by exercise? Can she prescribe exercises to eliminate the poisons which are induced by a weakened condition of the intestinal tract? Can she remedy the evils which produce too frequent menstruation in from eight to twelve per cent of high school girls? Certainly no teacher would assume the responsibility without being able to regulate the living conditions of the student.

Digitized by CjOOQle
20

In trying to do so even with the full cooperation of the home she would probably fail. Why? Because as a class we physical trainers know a great deal of external hygienic conditions, but little or nothing of those internal ones which are vital to good health.

We would insist, and rightly so, on a proper amount of fresh air, rest, exercise, sunlight, proper food and clothing and many other proper things. Of the underlying cause of autointoxication however, and the diet to overcome it with its accompanying weaknesses we know next to nothing. For our comfort let it be said that neither does the average physician.

In common with other members of the pedagogical profession, few physical training teachers reach middle life with really good health. We do not like to admit the fact and resent the oft repeated remark, "you are a physical training teacher and ought not to be ill.” That our work is very taxing was recognized by Dr. C. Ward Crampton, Director of Physical Training for New York City, when in his annual report to the Board of Education for 1914, he made the following statement: “Teaching physical training adds to the ordinary labor of academic instruction a physical strain of considerable seventy. For this reason I recommend that the age limit for license be reduced from forty to thirty-five years and that the age of retirement be similarly reduced five years.’

No, we ought not to be ill, but, how can we overcome the effects of this constant strain? Often we have to take four times the amount of exercise that nature requires per day, to say nothing of the detail and clerical work that make such demands on vitality.

We do so at the expense of something else, which is generally the nervous system. We are ignorant of, or, we ignore the counteracting influences. We tax digestion by eating when tired; eat at irregular times; rush to lectures when we ought to be preparing for our next day’s work by resting; attend dancing classes when physically exhausted; are called to teachers meetings at the close of school days when nerves are worn to a frazzle; study in the evenings when tired nature should be recuperating, and in many other ways we are continually breaking the laws which should insure us good health.

Finally when help must be had we turn to the medical profession, keep right on with our wrong methods of living and expect drugs to overcome the effects of our indiscretions.

To. Dr. Alonza Clark of the New York College of Physicians and Surgeons is attributed the statement that —"all of our curative agents are poisons, and as a consequence, every dose diminishes the patient’s vitality.” To Dr. J. Smith of the same school—"All medicines which enter the circulation poison the blood in the same manner as do the poisons that produce disease.”

Few patients however, would be satisfied if a physician were to prescribe hygienic measures alone. Physical training teachers ought to know the truth in regard to the harmful after effects of drugs. Their poisonous effects must be eliminated, thereby taxing organs already weakened by combating the poisons which led to having to resort to drugs, or, if allowed to remain in the system they are

Digitized by CjOOQle
21

likely to produce untoward effects later on. For example, salivation is one of the results of mercurial poisoning. It is common knowledge that in order to guard against its bad after effects, Calomel which is a mild mercurous choride, should always be taken with, or followed by, an alkaline laxative.

We have not fully grasped the fact that the most frequent cause of disease may be traced either directly or indirectly to disturbances of digestion and the accompanying absorption of poison from decomposing food in the intestinal tract. This affects all mucus surfaces and by thus preparing them as a hot bed for germs renders the subject an easy prey to disease by; infection through weakened resistance. Our sphere of usefulness is therefore limited by our lack of knowledge on this vital subject of autointoxication, as well as by the influences over which we have no control.

We may tell our girls to retire early, but so long as the course of study compels them to sit up late with their home work, the conscientious ones will continue to undermine health by doing so.

We may talk of proper diet but so long as improper acid-forming foods are temptingly displayed on the school lunch counters we cannot prevent their purchase. We are powerless to regulate dress except for actual work in the gymnasium, so fashion and not hygiene will continue to rule.

After years of thought on the subject of getting at the fundamentals of poor health, I have become convinced that physical training teachers should branch out into a complete study of dietetics.

It would open up a new, and in a measure, an unexplored field for our profession. We need to know more of the normal food requirements, the importance of minerals as supplied by nature and the effects of habit and environment on the vital bodily processes. In spite of our limitations, we could accomplish much more in the interests of health were we prepared to intelligently advise along dietetic lines.

In times of great excitement food does not digest, yet how many of us would be willing to recommend that a high school girl should take a Regents' examination on an empty stomach? Again, take that “mother of all disease” constipation. Our routine prescription besides hygiene and exercise is to tell the sufferer to eat plenty of course bulky food to aid peristalsis and to drink plenty of water. Now constipation is a disturbance of the ailmentary canal and very often shows a weak digestion. Persons suffering from weak digestions often cannot take care of coarse foods, hence they remain undigested in the intestines if not stomach, and add to the trouble by generating poisons through decomposition. Too much water-drinking throws the work of elimination onto the kidneys and renders the intestinal tract more sluggish still. I have watched with interest several cases of chronic constipation in adults where stopping all water drinking helped materially to overcome this well-nigh universal disease.

Water should never be taken after the digestion of a meal has well started until it is completed. It has its best effect on an empty

Digitized by L^ooQle
22

stomach. How many of us warn against washing food down half masticated or prescribe reducing the diet and skipping meals when nature gives us a danger signal by “no appetite”?

We agree that upon food depends the growth of the body. Of the right food combinations we know less than a farmer does of the food for his crops. He acknowledges that certain kinds of minerals in soil will produce certain results in plant life. I venture to say that no normal school of physical training, hospital or even medical college in the country ever gave a course on the right mineral substances for the best growth of children.

A race horse must have exercise but back of that its trainer sees that the horse has proper food. In colleges too, the students who are preparing for athletic events are given a particular diet, w hy not carry it further? If training requires a well regulated diet for its best results surely we should be able to prescribe the diet for the child who is training for the greatest athletic event—the battle of life.

If exercise and hygiene alone produced health, physical training teachers would never be ill. It is our business to deal with those conditions which keep the body in health, and we ought to be living examples of what we preach.

But are we? In common with thousands of others in all professions do not many of us suffer from indigestion? That this disease is so universal is a sufficient proof that something is wrong.

I myself, was no exception to the rule. Left with a weak digestion from an attack of Typhoid Fever when five years of age, I have earnestly sought to overcome the trouble through many years of experience as a physical training teacher. I felt so strongly that if I could not find the counteracting influence for myself, I could scarcely expect to prescribe for others the way to attain that perfect health, which by right belongs to us, and which we all so greatly desire.

Therefore, the study of food has interested me from a two-fold standpoint. I wanted to find what was best for myself as well as for those who came under my supervision. To gain this knowledge I used every means at my command. I consulted some of the best specialists in the country; read articles and theories galore on food values; took a professional course on dietetics at one of our leading universities; noted the food served in hospitals and gathered what I could from practical experience in sanitariums where special attention is given to diet. According to science I could evolve a well-balanced diet in calories of protein, carbo-hydrates and fats for every occupation and walk of life. For the young and the old, for the rich and the poor, for the size of the pocket book made no difference. I could find the constitutents as tabulated in cheap as well as in expensive foods, and working out the scientific requirements of the body apply the never failing formula. Finally, I tried upon myself nearly everything that medicine has prescribed in the way of diet, with the utmost faithfulness, and I may add, with the utmost failure to obtain the desired results..

Then Alfred McCann's articles in the New Globe, dealing

Digitized by C^ooQLe
23

with food values arrested my attention. Through them I learned some enlightening facts. That the Kronprinz Wilhelm after roaming the seas for two hundred and fifty-five days, put into port with one hundred and ten of her crew of fivehundred completely prostrated and with many others on the verge of prostration from starvation. Yet, the vessel was well supplied with white flour, sugar, canned goods, coffee and other supposed staples. I also learned that four thousand laborers lost their lives in the Madeira-Mamore poison squad in South America when forced to work under sinilar dietetic conditions, and that the interned German sailors suffered so intensely from being fed on devitalized foods that outside help had to be sought and radical changes made.

From these facts I drew the conclusion with Mr. McCann that mineral matters must play an important role in the body. A large part of this mineral matter absent in white flour and destroyed during the canning and refining processes in other foods, is as essential to the human body as it is to growing plants. It can only be assimilated in the form in which nature provides it in fresh fruits and vegetables and perhaps fresh unpasteurized milk.

Said the authorities "Eat a well-balanced diet of proteins, carbohydrates and fats and the mineral matters will take care of themselves.” Now horses and cows had been experimented upon. A scientifically balanced diet had not produced the results expected, the animals lost strength and had to be put back on food such as native provides in green grass.

Girls in our school apparently suffering from the same form of indigestion were treated very differently by different physicians. My own conviction was strengthened. The body is either built or destroyed by what we eat and how we eat it. There is a common dietetic fault if we could only determine just what it is. That the minerals play an important part I was convinced, but I did not know where to turn for further enlightenment.

It was just at this critical point that I incidentally heard of the Tilden School of Health in Denver and that the basis of its work was health from the standpoint of dietetics and rational living.

I decided to investigate at once, and spent a month for two summers in doing so. The experience was a continual education, a true leading out from old ideas into new.

Dr. J. H. Tilden, the founder of this unique institution began his career as a successful country practitioner, and then followed it with equal sucess as a surgeon. After twenty-five years of searching for the underlying cause of disease, he realized that it had not been found and he broke away from existing systems. For sixteen years now. Dr. Tilden has been formulating and giving to the public the ideas that have been the result of intensive study as well as practical experience in dealing with disease. He has drawn several fundamental conclusions.

That the basis of all disease is auto-intoxication or self-poisoning. This is due to improper methods of living. Anything that lowers vitality interferes with digestion. When food is not properly digest-
24

ed it remains in the alimentary canal and decomposes. The poisons of this decomposition are reabsorbed and through weakened resistance allow germs a foothold. Disease develops according to whatever germ gets the upper hand. The body must be fit soil for the germ or it will not take root.

The cure of autointoxication lies first in fasting and then in eating the uncooked foods which assist elimination. Baths and exercise are also prescribed for those able to take them. During the fast however, when elimination takes place most quickly patients are asked to remain in bed and keep warm, as the heart ana other organs are apt to be affected by the effort of nature to get the poisons out of the system.

Acidosis is a manifestation of starch poison. The normal alkaline fluids of the body become acid. Starch is potentially acid while fresh fruit is potentially alkaline. Therefore, contrary to popular opinion, fresh fruit is an antidote for rheumatism if the food combinations are properly made. There are no uric acid forming foods. Uric acid is a by-product of metabolism due to dietetic faults or a weak digestion. The habit of eating starchy foods with combinations of protein, eggs, meat or fish is a bad one. They call forth different enzymes for digestion. Fresh fruit may be taken with anything but preferably the dairy products, milk and cheese in any form.

The digestive organs cannot take care of food beyond their capacity. Autointoxication is almost sure to result from overeating. A person who keeps the poisons of decomposition eliminated need have no fear of disease in any form.

Dr. Tilden’s rules of health are simple and direct.

1.	Never eat when feeling badly.

2.	Never eat without a keen relish.

3.	Always avoid overeating.

4.	Thoroughly masticate and insalivate your food.

5.	Keep warm.

6.	Bowels must move daily.

One could not talk with the members of the family gathered at the Tilden School, without being convinced of the value of the work being done there. North, south, east and west send their representatives many of them hopeless sufferers. If they do not leave the institution cured they, if faithful, are greatly benefitted and go away with a new lease of life. Depression is a symptom of autointoxication and when the poison is driven out of the system a feeling of happiness takes its place. It is not my desire to enter into a discussion of Dr. Tilden’s methods for his books speak for themselves, but I wish that we could grasp the great thought that underlies his work, and apply it to our own.

Is it not true that excess in drinking leads in time to bodily collapse? Should we not realize that if excess in eating is slower it is none the less sure?, Dr. Tilden has proved beyond question that bodily health can be maintained and disease cured by diet and correct living. The medical profession is awakening to the ravages of

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
26

autointoxication. Drugs and serums are being used, but hospitals and sanitariums continue to be full to overflowing. Healing cults attract countless numbers. The patent medicine vendor grows rich, and still humanity suffers.

It is our business to teach how to keep the body healthy. Thus far we have failed to reach a oertain per cent of our students along the ordinary lines. May not this vital question of food and poison elimination touch the point of contact?

In a recent examination by the school physician fifty-seven and a half per cent of our entering class were found to be defective physically. In another class there were eighty out of two hundred girls who had teeth needing attention. I have seen more than one case where the second set of teeth had been destroyed by drugs. Just think of the life handicap! The nurse who comes to our high school also visits the grammar schools in our vicinity. She has recognized girl after girl. They have had dental supervision before. Some have had their teeth filled only to find it necessary to have the work done over again in a short space of time. To have strong teeth a child must have the material out of which to make them strong. Poisons must be eliminated or germ culture on the teeth will continue to be a menace. Filling teeth does not remove the cause of decay. Children will go on having poor teeth and failing in school if that failure be due to lack of correct nourishment.

Since I first started to write this article, it has been my privilege to spend a year in France with the Friends’ Reconstruction Unit of the Red Cross. Our work was confined to the civilian population in war devastated areas, or with those who had been Germafi rrisoners or refugees. My experience was principally in hospitals and with women and children.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
26

No words of mine could describe more vividly than does the picture the condition in which many of the little patients came to us. Never have I seen so many cases of knock-knee and flat-foot, spinal curvature and pigeon breast and other orthopedic deformities as were crowded into the small area in the Marne district in which one of our hospitals was situated. It-is needless to add that there was scarcely a patient with good teeth, for fresh food containing vitamines and unchanged mineral matter could hardly be had, even in the farming region where we were. The inhabitants old and young subsisted chiefly on war bread and black coffee. The bread was so indigestible that I could not eat it, and had it not been for supplies from home and the fact that some one had generously donated a quantity of dried fruit, I am sure that we should all have suffered worse than we did.

We were in the midst of disease all the time. Influenza broke out long before it reached this country, And in a village near us grew so bad that the Government evacuated the soldiers that were quartered there. The rigors of the elimate of northern France in mid-winter are a severe tax even under normal conditions. In war time they were well-nigh unbearable to those of us who had come from a country where home comforts are looked upon as necessities rather than luxuries. The English not being used to heated houses stood it better.

The old chateau which we used as a hospital was bitterly cold. The floors were bare and cheerless and were seamed with great cracks through which the drafts came up in all directions, making it almost impossible to keep the feet warm. For weeks at a stretch we hardly saw the sun, until everything became so damp that even our beds partook of the musty odor. The strain of caring for the sick while trying to talk to them in a strange tongue told on our nerves.

The distant firing of cannon, the nearer dropping of bombs from the air, the search lights and the noise of the anti-air craft guns near us all added their quota to this strain. That I was the only nurse during the six months that I was in that hospital, that did not have to .lose time on account of personal illness, was perhaps a finishing touch in convincing me that Dr. Tilden is right and that we can all avoid sickness if we learn how to live, even under apparently impossible conditions.

One of the saddest cases that came under my care was that of a little girl. She was practically a skeleton. At four and a half years of age she weighed less than fourteen pounds. She seemed unable to digest anything and was literally starving to death. Her mother said that the family were emigrants and that after being four days without water in their wanderings, they found a well and drank of the water which proved to have been poisoned. Since that time Antoinette had been ill. Be the story as it may, the child was very ill. She could not stand aolne when she first came to us and was suffering from diarrhoea to such an extent that food passed right through without being digested. It was some time after she entered the hospital before she came under my full control. Then her case seemed hopeless. I obtained permission to take entire charge

Digitized by Google
27

of her and immediately resorted to fruit juices and scraped apple. Once the diarrhoea was under control she began to gain and was able to take more nourishment. She grew well enough to walk around and even play in the sand pile with the other children. But she needed such unremitting care that she had several bad setbacks. Finally her mother took her home because the family were going to move away, and in eleven days Antoinette was ready to be placed with the other war victims under the poppies. She could not survive the change in diet and the lack of care in her home.

Another case was that of a young Alsatian woman twenty-eight years of age. She had the most repulsive mouth that I have ever seen from advanced pyorrhoea. Dentist, doctor and hospital matron agreed that her teeth would have to be removed. I begged to be allowed to regulate her life and treat her by diet for two weeks, before such radical measures were tried. I had found that dried fruit was very palatable if soaked in water from twenty-four to forty-eight hours and then some of the fruit was mashed to thicken the juice. So after my patient had taken the regulation fast of two or three days I fed her on nothing but fruit. The effect was immediate. In ten days the inflammation had so far subsided that when the dentist came he only removed the few teeth that were actually decayed. In a month’s time he was able to take the tartar off and clean up the others. By that time the young woman was a different looking individual and was quite proud of what were really a fine looking set of teeth.

Her case was the more remarkable because she afterwards died from what proved to be an inherited syphilitic infection.

Hospitals are good workshops because one can have complete control of the patient. Results can never be so encouraging in limited glimpses of patients. However, I have found that where there is a real desire to overcome weakness instructions are likely to be followed.

A few months ago a girl came to me with her face covered with Exzema. She had doctored without avail, and was so mortified at her own appearance that she was quite self-conscious. I put her at once on a restricted eliminating diet and one that would overcome the acidity which was causing the trouble. It was hard for her to stick to it closely, but she did the best that she could and in a short space of time improvement was marked. At the end of a month the girl was most happy over the change for the better in her appearance.

Another case was one outside of school and an adult. The patient was so constipated that for five years it had been necessary to take a laxative every day or else an enema. After ten days of following instructions natural movements began and as long I have been able to keep in touch with the patient since then, there has been no relapse except when rules have been broken.

I firmly believe therefore, that a new field is opening up to us if we but grasp our opportunities. Our work should extend beyond class exercise and athletics and carry correct ideas of living into the home. Many parents know little or nothing of dietetics, and

Digitized by L.ooQle
28

would welcome an opportunity to learn what food combinations would be best suited to insure health to their boys and girls. Thedeep interest shown where I have addressed meetings on the subject of diatetics has convinced me that there is a real desire for knowledge, not only in the study itself but in its possibility of helping to reduce the high cost of living by simpler but more thoroughly nourishing menus.

There are many food theories. Only those that have stood the test of practice are of any value. Dietetics should be taught at our normal school of physical training. Also, I believe that the time has come when we as a profession should seriously discuss at our meetings this subject. After all, it is what fuel we supply to the fire that creates the steam to make the engine go. A fire does not bum when clogged up with cinders.

That which is in line with our work, that can not only bring relief to suffering humanity, but actually prevent the spread of disease through increased resistive power, and that helps in maintaining perfect health is worthy of our most painstaking and conscientious investigation.

——■ —-	- —	tl

N OTES AND COMMENT^

...—	..... -	ii

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION CONVENTION PROGRAM, TENTATIVE FINAL,

NEW YORK CITY.

April, 7-10, 1920.

Waldorf-Astoria and McAlpin Hotels.

Wednesday, April 7.

Morning and Afternoon—Registration and Visitation trips.

7:30 P. M.—Music and Reception.

Welcome Address—Dr. John Finley.

Presidential Address—Dr. Dudley B. Reed.

Folk Dancing by Delegates—Elizabeth Burchenal in charge.

Thursday, April 8.

9:30 A. M.—Public School Section meeting.

Topic: PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY. William A. Stecher, Philadelphia, Chairman.

(a)	What do we understand by it?

(b)	What are the best means (activities) for getting it?

(c)	How do we know that we are progressing?

1.	In Rural Schools—F. W. Maroney, M. D. Director of Physical

Education, State of New Jersey.

2.	In City Elementary Schools—George Wittich, Director of

Physical Education, Public Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by
29

3.	In City High Schools—

(a)	For Boys—George J. Altman, Technical High School, Springfield, Mass.

(b)	For Girls—Jessie Whitham, Central High School, Detroit, Mich.

Discussion led by Carl Schrader, Sargent Normal School, Cambridge, Mass.

8:00 P. M—Pageant as provided by New York Society.

Friday, April 9.

9:30 A. M.—General Meeting.

Problems in Recruiting Teachers in Physical Educa-cation—Prof. Elmer Berry.

Educational Tests for Physical Efficiency—Prof. E. L. Thorndike.

Health and the High Cost of Living—Prof. Irving Fischer.

2:30 P. M.—General Meeting.

Progress in Physical Education Legislation.—Dr.

Martin G. Brumbaugh.

Address—Prof. E. S. Lee, Columbia.

Relation of Physical Education to Leisure Time in Industry—Dr. Geo. E. Vincent—Pres. Rockefeller Foundation.

6:45 P. M.—Convention

Col. Campbell—“Physical Training at Aldershot." Address: Dr. Eliott, Dr. Butler.

Toasts: Dr. D. A. Sargent, Dr. T. A. Storey. Saturday, April 10.

9:30 A. M.—General Meeting.	t

The Place of Physical Education in the General Scheme of Education—Dr. Snedden, Pres, of National Ass'n., for Vocational Training.

Discussion of Printed Reports.

Business meeting and Adjournment of Convention.

12 KX)—	A. P. E. A. Council Meeting.

The department of Physical Training at La Crosse, Wisconsin State Normal School started out the new semester with an enrollment of 20 new students, 10 men and 10 women. This makes the total membership of the department nearly 150.

The new building will be ready for use in about two weeks.

At a meeting of the Phi Ed Club Feb. 12, Dr. Elsom of the University of Wisconsin gave an illustrated lecture on Reconstruction and its relation to Physical Education. The lecture was accompanied by slides showing what is being done for our boys who lost limbs or were otherwise mutilated in the Great War.

Mr. Walter Wittich has been appointed by Governor Phillips as delegate to the Twenty-fourth Convention of the American Physical Education Association to be held in New York City, April 7-10, 1920.

Digitized by LjOOQle
T H L E T I C

EMANUEL HAUG, New York City

OLYMPIC GAMES.

PROGRAM

August j 4—Official opening of Olympic Stadium.

August 15-23- Olympic track and field championships in stadium. Six entries per nation for each event. Not more than four to start. Entries close July 14.

Individual Events—100, 200, 400, 800, 1,500, 5,000 and 10,000 meter track runs; Marathon race, 26 1-2 miles, approximately; 110 and 400 meter hurdles; 3,000 meter steeplechase, 3,000 and

1,000	meter walks; running high and running broad jumps; running hop, step and jump; pole vault; javelin; discus and hammer; throwing 56 pound weight; putting 16 pound shot.

Team Competitions—One entry per nation—400 meter relay (teams of four, with two substitutes); 1,600 meter relay (teams of four with two substitutes); 3,000 meter run (five starters, three to score); tug of war (teams of eight, with four substitutes).

Cross Country Run—10,000 meters, individual and team contest combined; individual, six entries, four to start; team, eight entries, six to start; three best competitors of each nation to make a team and the sum of their place numbers will determine team ranking.

Weight Lifting, August 23-28—Lifting dumbbell one hand, throwing with other; throwing bar, two hands, in following weight classes: Feather, light, middle, light-heavy and heavy; three entries, two competitors. Entries close July 22.

Shooting, July 22-31—Military arms; hunting guns, revolvers and pistols; three positions; fixed and movable targets; seven entries, five contestants. Entries close June 21.

Modem Pentathlon, August 24-27—Twenty shots, pistol or revolver, at silhouette target, 25 meters distant; 300 meter swim, free style; duelling swords; 5,000 meter horseback ride, 4,000 meter cross country walk; six entries, four starters. Entries close July 23.

Ancient Pentathlon, August 15-23—200 and 1,500 meter runs; running broad jump; javelin and discus throws; six entries, four competitors. Entries close July 14.

Decathlon, August 15-23.—100, 400 and 1,500 meter runs; 110 meter hurdles; running broad and running high jumps; pole vault; 16 pound shotput, discus and javelin throws; six entries and four competitors. Entries close July 14.

Rowing, August 27-29—Single sculls, double sculls; pairs, fours and eight oared shells, with coxswain; distance, one and one-

Snarter miles. One entry per nation per event. Entries ose July 5.

Digitized by Google
31

Swimming, August 22-29—Events for men—100 meter free style,. 100 meter back stroke, 200 meter breast stroke, 400 meter free style, 400 meter 1 reast stroke, 1,500 meter free style. Diving—Ordinary, fancy and springboard.

Swimming—Events for women—100 meter and 300 meter free style, ordinary and springboard diving; six entries; four starters.

Swimming—Team events, men—800 meter relay race; six entries, including two substitutes; water polo, teams of seven, with seven substitutes. Women—400 meter relay; six entries, with two substitutes. All swimming entries close July 21.

Cycling, August 9-12—Track events—1,000 meters; 2,000 meters, tandem; 50 kilometers (31 miles); team pursuit race, 4,000 meters; road race, 175 kilometers (108 miles); team score, total time of four competitors; six entries; four starters. Entries close July 8.

Gymnastics, August 22-29—Maximum limit, six individual entries and one team entry; time allowance for competition, or exhibition, one hour. Entries close July 21.

Fencing, August 15-28—Ten entries, eight participants; individual foil, sword and sabre; team tests, one entry per nation. Entries close July 14.

Wrestling, August 15-26—Greco-Roman—Feather, light, middle, light heavy and heavy weight classes. Entries close July

14.	Three entries; two to compete.

Wrestling—Catch as catch can, August 27-31—Same classes. Entries close July 26. Three entries; two to compete.

Boxing, August 15-26—Flyweight, bantam, feather, light, welter, middle, light-heavy, and heavyweight classes; three entries, two competitors; International Boxing Federation rules. Entries close July 26.

Lawn Tennis, August 15-23—Singles and doubles, men and women mixed doubles; six entries; for competitors. Entries close July 14.

Football (Soccer), August 29 to September 5—One entry per nation, eleven substitutes. Entry closes July 28.

Rugby, August 30 to September 5—One entry per nation; fifteen man team and fifteen substitutes. Entry closes July 29.

Hockey (Ice), April 20 to 30—One team per nation; seven man team and seven substitutes. Entries close March 19.

Hockey (Grass), September 1 to 5—One team per nation; eleven man team and eleven substitues. Entries close July 31.

Figure Skating, April 20 to 30—Six entries and four competitors per nation. Entries close March 19.

Polo, July 15 to August 2—One team per nation; four players and four substitutes. Entries close June 23.

Archery, August 3 to 8—Cradle targets, men and women, 28, 33 and 50 meters; eight archers and two substitutes. Entries close July 2.

Archery, August 22 to 29—Small object shooting; one team of six, with two substitutes, per nation. Entries close July 21.

Golf, Uncertain. Depends on entries.

Digitized by CjOOQle
32

Equestrian Games. September 6 to 12—Individual and team competition combined; 5 kilometer road run, with five kilometers over rough country; 20 kilometer road run, within one horn, immediately followed by 4,000 meter steeplechase; obstacle race over four foot hurdles; team and individual contests in horse training and jumping, bareback gymnastics; six individual entries and teams of four. Entries close August 5.

Yachting, July 7 to 10—Contests under international rules adopted at London Congress in 1919. Entries will be accepted and races arranged for the following classses: 6, 8, 10 and 12 meter rating, new international rule; 6, 7, 8, 9,10 and 12 meter rating, old international rule; 6 1-2, and 8 1-2 meter rating (French classes); 30 and 40 square meter rating, sail area, international (Swedish) classes; 18 foot raters, international (Boat Racing Association) class; 12 foot international (Boat Racing Association) one design dinghy class.

STADIUM TRACK AT ANTWERP.

The Antwerp stadium track, where the Olympic games are to be held this year, is 410 meters in circumference, about twenty-five feet over a quarter-mile to the lap. In width it is twelve meters, nearly forty feet. It will be possible for twelve men to run in heats in the sprints. The straightaway in front of the tribune is 120 meters. The swimming pool is 100 meters long, nearly 110 yards.

PRESIDENT WILSON ACCEPTS THE HONORARY PRESIDENCY OF THE AMERICAN OLYMPIC COMMITTEE.

Official government sanction and support for the team which will represent the United States in the Olympic games at Antwerp next summer was obtained by the Olympic committee in a series of conferences with high officials of the government when the position of ho orary president of the American Olympic Committee was accepted provisionally by Secretary Tumulty on behalf of President Wilson.

Secretaries Baker and Daniels were made honorary vice-presi-ents of the committee, and under-secretary of State Polk agreed to serve as a member of the committee.

The Olympic committee also met a number of officers of the army and navy in a conference at which the assistance and cooperation of both branches of the service was pledged.

Tentative plans were discussed for the inclusion of athletes from both the army and navy in the team of more than 200 which sail from New \ ork in July, and ways and means were considered for the formation of the team. Further action along these lines will be taken up in the near future.

“When business interferes with pleasure—give up business.” England seems to be facing this problem as only last January the

Digitized by Google
33

manufacturers organized opposition to the playing of cup ties and league games in soccer football, the national game, in midweek. On January 19th, 50,000 people witnessed a replayed English cup tie between Sheffield and Darlington and the loss resulting in the absence from work was estimated at $125,000 in wages and $500,000 in trade loss.

Robert McLean of Chicago, the world's ice skating cha pion was defeated by Oscar Mathiesen of Christiana, Norway last February by winning three out of four events as follows:

Event	Won by	Time.

1.	500 metres	Mathiesen	43 3-10 secs, (new world's

record)

2.	5000 metres	McLean	8 min. 53 7-10 sec.

3.	1500 metres	Mathiesen	2 min. 27 4-5 sec.

4.	10000 metres	Mathiesen	18 min. 39 1-10 sec.

Dr. John H. Finley, Commissioner of Education for the State of New York has recently been elected President of the newly formed Adirondack Association of the A. A. U.

CLASS ATHLETICS.—New York City.

Class Athletics in the Elementary Schools of New York City consist of broad jumping, chinning and running. Owng to the great number participating the events are scheduled to be run off as follows: Broad Jumping in the fall, Chinning in March and Running in May.

The rules governing these competitions are:

1.	80% of the entire class must participate and the average

of	all constitutes the record.

2.	In broad jumping and chinning three trials are allowed. The best made by each is aggregated and averaged.

3.	In running the boys are lined up behind the mark. As the first boy crosses the finishing line the second starts on signal from the judge and so on until all have finished. The ti e taken by the entire class is divided by the number of boys running and the result constitutes the class record.

1917-18.

Jumping Chinnin Running

No. schools competing ..................... 130	125	103

No. classes competing .................... 2093	1926	1452

No. boys competing....................... 556E7	50627	36406

Best Performances

Broad Jump Chinning Running

5th year.............6ft.	6 in.	10.28 times	40yd.-6.15 sec.

6th year.............6ft.	3in.	10.7 times	50yd.-7.31 se .

7th year.............6ft.	6in.	17.88 times	60yd.-8.33 sec.

8th year.............7ft.	3in.	17.29 times	80yd.-9.96 sec.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Universal Military Training.—The general trend of opinion •on Universal Military Training everywhere in the U. S. A. seems to lean toward the object of securing a stronger, healthier race. The Massachusetts Medical Society and The Massachusetts Homeopathic Medical Society on February 10 endorsed the bill now before congress and it is their opinion that “the detection of diseases and defects through physical examination, their relief by appropriate measures, and the betterment of health and physique through out-of-door life and exercise must inevitably improve greatly the physical condition of the young men throughout the country/'

We also find in The Journal of the American Medical Association, February 21, 1920, a most admirable article by the Surgeon General, U. S. Army, Dr. Merritte W. Ireland, who states, among many other assertions, that “universal military training would have manifold benefits: 1. Improvement in physical development as a result of outdoor life, good food, regular exercise and strenuous physical training. Alertness, activity, strength, endurance and discipline, combined with a body free from disease, are the first requirements of a soldier. These qualities are largely obtained by gradual and well regulated physical training. The beneficial results of physical exercise during training are supplemented by outdoor life, the regular hours required, the plain, simple food, the good sanitary surroundings, and the many other features that promote the development of a high type of physical manhood, the improvement in the physical development of the young man in the Army was most striking. The men, when they entered the camps were awkward, narrow-chested, with flabby muscles and often with a stoop. During demobilization these selfsame men were bronzed, erect, broad-chested soldiers with fine muscular development and a characteristically alert and selfconfident air. The average gain in weight in the first year of military service is from 15 to 20 pounds. There is no doubt that this gain in the soldiers’ weight was almost entirely muscular tissue. 2. Detection and cure of many obscure and latent pathologic conditions. Many of the disabilities detected would not be disqualifying for military service, but could be remedied during the period of training.

3.	A determination by examination of the actual physical condition of the adult male population of military age, and a consequent awakening of the nation to the necessity for efforts directed toward limiting the possibility for the continued evolution of physically defective citizens.

Only fifty-three per cent were accepted as fully meeting the physical standard, with no defects recorded.

4.	Instruction in sanitation and personal hygiene gained by both precept and practice in camp. A great part of this acquired knowledge the discharged soldier will take back to his home and transmit to his family and fellow citizens.

Digitized by Google
86

5.	Education in sex relation and in the matter of protection from the dangers of illicit sexual indulgence. This subject is of so great importance that it is given a special heading.

6.	Training in discipline and the development in the soldier of respect for authority.

Among those promoted to commissioned and noncommissioned grades, there was developed the faculty to command and exact obedience. I am certain it is accepted by all that in recent years the tendency of the American youth has been in the direction of disrespect for authority, whether parental, municipal or national. I think the discipline of military life has had a most wholesome effect on the American soldier, and will in a marked degree make him better material for citizenship. The experience which these men gained will be of inestimable value in civil life.

7.	Protection, by vaccination, of 5,000,000 men against the danger of contracting typhoid, paratyphoid and smallpox for several years to come.

The statements that I have made refer to the good the Army did the American soldier during the world war. There is every reason why this could be multiplied with the youth of the land by universal military training. It would give us a wonderful opportunity to make a physical survey each year of the youth of the land. It would enable us to detect physical disabilities that could be remedied and would make the man economically more valuable for the rest of his life. Many of the disabilities which men carry through life ani which interfere with their value as citizens are. remediable. At one time during the war, 10,000 cases of hernia were awaiting operation. All of these disabilities could be corrected during the period of military training. Defective vision could be corrected; men with weak feet and weak backs could be relieved. The mental defectives could be classified; the young man would be given an object lesson in discipline and be taught respect for authority—the good that could be accomplished unlimit-ed.

“The good that could be accomplished is unlimited,” says our Surgeon General. This hits the nail right on the head. But, are we not in danger that we begin at the wrong end? You must take the bull by the horns, is an old saying. The trend of these times is, prevention, rather than cure, and the two highest professions, that of the educator and that of the doctor of medicine, are striving for the creation of an improved human race. Surgeon General Dr. Ireland, as well as all others who are in favor of universal military training, present arguments in its favor that point to the same thing. Nothing is said except that benefits accrue from systematic physical training and preventive medicine, and, to some extent, the cure of defects. Should not these defects be prevented early in life? Should they not be eradicated in their incipiency? Why wait until they are well established? Also, why limit these benefits to the boys that have attained the age of young manhood? Have young women less need of these benefits? The arguments used by the propagandists for military training are all arguments in favor of physical training, or, better still, physical education. They refrain from calling attention to the bad effect of universal military
86

training experienced in European countries. They .never say a word about the economic, industrial and commercial effect and handicaps. Why is it that England does not even so much as discuss the subject? Is it because they have learned a lesson from their neighbors?

The military training bill now before Congress has been shelved until after the presidential election, that is, until the session of the next Congress in December. We also leam thru the press that bills have been introduced in Congress demanding universal physical education. One was introduced by Senator Capper, Republican, Kansas, February 23. The measure, which was referred to the Education Committee would appropriate $10,000,000 for the work, which would be carried out through the Bureau of Education of the Department of Labor.

“I believe universal physical education in the schools will give the youth of the country most of the practical benefits argued for military training without the insidious undesirable effects of compulsory military training,'' said Senator Capper.

The other is reported to us in “Medical News, The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc.” of February 28, as follows:

Legislation for Physical Education.- A bill for the promotion of physical education through cooperation of the federal government with the states has been introduced by Congressman Fess of Ohio. It provides for the employment of supervisors and teachers of physical education, including medical examiners and nurses. The work is to be conducted under the direction of the National Bureau of Education and the Public Health Service. The bill appropriates $10,500,000 for 1921, and $1 per year thereafter for each child of school age, the money to be apportioned to those states which shall appropriate an equal amount. Its provisions include a comprehensive course of physical activities, periodical physical examination, health supervision of schools, and schoolchildren; practical instruction in the care of the body and in the principles of health. The bill also provides for the establishment in the Public Health Service of a division of child hygiene. This bureau is to be in the charge of a commissioned officer of the Public Health Service who shall select other employees to assist him in his duties. These duties shall be to study and investigate the problems of child hygiene, to cooperate with state boards of health in medical research and practical administrative demonstrations relating to the health of women, children and to child bearing, and shall cooperate with the children’s bureau of the bureau of education in matters relating to health conservation of children and mothers. An elaborate plan for cooperation with state authorities is formulated in the measure.

If we have men physically fit it is not difficult to make soldiers of them in a short space of time. “What the country needs is men and women who are physically strong and healthy,” is as true today as ever. Militarism and true democratism do not agree. Do the people want it? We have adequate proof that they do not. Do the people want physical education, an education for the elevation of mankind to a higher level of proficiency and greater happiness?

Digitized by i^ooQle
37

Thi: is the one thing the people want and need, they crave for it and we hope they will get it thru the -id of those whom they have elected to decide problems for the goo! of the Nation, who have been given a seat in ongress.

MODERN TREATMENT OF THE WEAK FOOT.

SUMMARY:

The points which I wish to make in the rational treatment of the weak foot are these:

1.	The average weak foot may be cured.

2.	It may be cured in three ways:

(a)	By proper shoes, plus a rigid supervision of the patient’s daily exercise, gait and posture.

(b)	By prolonged rest in plaster of Paris with the foot in the overcorrected attitude, plus or minus operative procedure, followed by exercises, etc.

(c)	By the application of a proper brace, combined with daily exercises, etc.

I wish to establish a line of demarcation between the treatment of the weak foot and the treatment by palliative measures of the symptoms arising therefrom.

I do not expect that the average practitioner or specialist will depart from his present practice, or that any large proportion of patients will make the esthetic sacrifice of abandoning the footwear that to them seems beautiful or the lifelong habits of walking and standing that have descended to them from generations of dancing masters. I do now believe, however, that the late wide experience of the war has awakened a large number of physicians, and a much larger number of laymen, to an interest in the foot and its disabilities. I believe that from now on there will be a steady improvement in the shape of footwear, particularly in men’s shoes, and that the rising generation, in view of the possibility of universal military training, will be anxious to avoid the stigma of being physically unfit, and will therefore seek and require constantly better advice on the subject of foot management. I do not quarrel with long established measures for relieving symptoms which have in the past and will in the future satisfy large numbers of patients and practitioners.

I hope that eventually when a patient appeals to a surgeon few the relief of symptoms arising from a weak foot, the first point to be established will be whether that patient is to be treated for the relief of symptoms or for the cure of their underlying cause. I believe that no matter how enthusiastic a patient and physician may be at the outset, without military discipline it will always be difficult to effect a cure without applying a support. I hope that if a support is applied it will be a rational one, painstakingly fitted by a competent person, and applied with a perfectly clear mutual understanding of its purpose and of its temporary character.—From article in “The Journal” A. M. A. Jan. 17, 1920.

Digitized by Tooele
88

YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN

FRED FOERTSCH. Philadelphia

A NOMENCLATURE OF DANCING.

However sensible and systematic Zorn’s nomenclature of dancing may be, its adoption as a standard would prove to be as great a stumbling block in our program of physical education as any one of the present systems used by the various professional schools of dancing. If the nomenclature, for which we are striving, is to become a mere technicality, a mere means of communication between the members of our profession, then any set of terms arbitrarily chosen might serve our purpose. Even in this case, no matter how logical and systematic the arrangement might be, I doubt whether we should allow it to live long.

Let us see how such an arbitrary system may be set up. Suppose we choose words with which we are already familiar and attach to them ideas which have no bearing on their original meanings. How long do you suppose human thought would be willing to follow such a perversion? I am quite sure that a procedure of this kind could not even find a beginning. If we consider the coining of new words we should be asking, do the circumstances demand it?—are we dealing with a discovery or an invention?—is the art of dancing so totally strange and new that it bears no relation to forms of movement already known, for which we have well established terms? On the contrary, the art of movement is so old and so well known, that in any language a sufficient number of terms may be found, which will cover almost every possibility. Descriptions of dances are not wanting in literature; even individual performances, including the relation of the individual to the surroundings, as well as the various parts of the body to each other, are often detailed.

Acknowledging this we can no longer have a claim on a system, the terms of which are arbitrarily chosen. All number systems must be discarded and the number of terms, which are not descriptive, must be reduced to a minimum. There can be only one rational course for us to follow, namely:—the construction of the nomenclature in accordance with the principles of our own language.

Whenever we adopt such terms, the meanings of which are already known, which are common to all, and embody these in correctly constructed sentences, just then shall we have a standard nomenclature of dancing. Our nomenclature will then have much in common with that of gymnastics. Our terms will be discriptive and will afford better means of communication between the members of our profession. Our pupils will be given a better opportunity to interpret logically constructed word-pictures, inducing accurate thought and precision of movement. For actual purposes of teaching, our nomenclature will be of much greater value, and it. will not only be regarded as a means to an end but as an end in itself

Digitized by Google	j
39

44THE DISCOVERY OF AMERICA.”

A Pantomime in Three Parts, With Drills end Dances. Suitable lor* Entertainments and Carnivals in Schools and Associations.

By L. ZWARG, Philadelphia, Pa.

I.	Scene, Deck aboard Columbus' ship.

Some sailors are at work, others are standing about; some are lying lazily on deck; two are looking through telescopes, still others are repairing sails. A gong sounds four times, the mate's whistle, and all sailors quit work and group* themselves for a dance. (See description.) At the end of the dance the whistle again sounds, and all return to their work. The watches are again looking through the telescopes and shake their heads; they call others to look, and they do likewise. No land can be seen. Finally all become excited and congregate to plot, making their way to the cabin (emphatic music). Columbus appears and is threatened by the sailors. His majestic manner and silence, however, is sufficient, to pacify the mutineers. Suddenly the watches with the telescopes cry out: “Land." The sailors are overcome by emotion, and there are outbursts of joy. Some sailors are thrown into a frenzy; still others begin to pray. Columbus alone is silent. He takes a telescope, looks through it, and acknowledges the discovery. A tableau is formed: Columbus surrounded by the sailors in different poses. Curtain.

Requisites: Telescopes, a large sail; a gong; whistles; some small benches.. stick for the mutinous sailors.

Personnel: Columbus. Ship's mates. Sailors.

“Sailors Dance.” (for 16 men).

Music: A fast Polka, Gallop, or Hornpipe Music.

Formation: Ranks of four in open order, the files numbered 1,2,1,2. (See figure I).

SA1LOR8 DANCE Cl) SPANISH WALTZ (1)

I	2	12

Ht.l

Digitized by <^.ooQle
40

PART I. 32 Measures.

(Hauling in the Anchor.)

Lunge left sideward and grasp with both hands toward right foot-1. Straighten left knee, draw right foot toward left and pull hands toward hips -2............................. 1	M.

Repeat three times........................................ 3	M.

Face left about and run to starting place in four running steps,

clapping hands on the first count.................... 2	M.

Run left about in four more running steps, clapping hands as

before.............................................   2	M.

Repeat all three times....................................24	M.

Total

32 M.

PART II. 32 Measures.

(Hoisting the Sail.)

In eight counts walk right about in a small circle, on heels, with knees stiff, looking up, the hands reaching overhead and pulling down the line hand over hand. On every step left the left hand pulls down, on right step the right hand, two steps to each measure........................... 4	M.

Run backward with circling the hands in front of the chest, as

if winding up the line.............................4 M.

Repeat Jill three times on the lines of a square, so that the backward running each time is in a new direction. This is done by facing (left or right) either on the first or last count of the exercise.....................................24	M.

Total ...............................................32	M.

PART III. 32 Measures.

(Washing the Deck.)

With imaginary scrubber in hand, right hand down, one step left obliquely backward-1. Draw right foot toward left -2, making a scrubbing motion right obliquely forward with each foot movement; the knees are kept slightly bent 1 M.

Repeat three times......................................... 3	M.

As if mopping, grasp mop with both hands between knees, and take eight steps backward in the side-straddle position knees flexed, and mop sideward left on stepping left, right on stepping right.................................... 4	M.

Repeat all four times in three different directions, as in part II, but the last time the audience should be faced. During the last eight counts the sailors form a column of front couples in eight running steps, the members of the outer files forming in front of those of the inner files; all facing toward the front (See figure 2.)...........................24	M.

Total ...............................................32	M.

Digitized by kjOOQle


BAILORS DANCE a)

PART IV. 32 Measures.

(Rowing.)

Bend knees to squatting position, hands outside of legs,-l. Straighten both legs forward to sitting position-2. Pull up left sleeve with right hand-3. Pull up right sleeve with left hand-4. Repeat -5 -6. Hold fists over toes as

if grasping an oar -7 -8.............................4	M.

Lean bock as u pulling an oar -1 -2, lean forward, hands over

toes -3 -4......................................... 2	M.

Repeat last two movements three	times................. 6	M.

Jump to squatting position -1, to fundamental position -2.

Jump to side stride stand, arms sideward -3. Jump to closed position and clasp hands against chest, arms crossed -4......................................... 2	M.

Repeat movements of last measure	twice................. 2	M.

Repeat all; during the last six counts the sailors return in eight running steps to ranks of four in open order, as in part I..................................................16	M.

Total .............................................32	M.

PART V. 32 Measures.

(Swimming.)

Bend knees deeply, straighten arms forward, and move arms

sideward -1. (Breast stroke movement). Straighten

knees and bring hands in front of chest -2........ 1	M.

Repeat three times.................................... 3	M

With 1-4 turn step-hop left, right leg extended backward,

hands pull at trousers as if hitching them........ 1	M.

Repeat right with 1-4 turn left....................... 1	M.

Repeat left and right, each time with 1-4 turn left... 2	M.

Repeat all three times................................24	M.

Total ..............................................32	M.

Digitized by LiOOQle
42

PART VI. 32 Measures.

(Lookout.)

One whole turn left in place in eight steps, holding closed hands in front of eyes as if looking through telescope,

walking high on toes..................................4	M.

Extend left leg sideward with a kick -1. Hop on right foot -2 1 M.

Repeat right, left and right..............................3	M.

Repeat all three times...................................24	M.

Total ..............................................32	M.

PART VII. 32 Measures.

(Boxing.)

On the first count file number 1 faces toward file number 2. (See fig. 3). Stride right obliquely backward, outward,

I		I	
1-	-1	h	
l	i	I	
I		I	H

l	Z	12

Fig. 3

SPANISH WALTZ (2) SAILORS DANCE (8)

left arm extended toward opponent, right arm in front of stomach pit, knees and arms slightly bent, (boxing position) -1. Pause -2. Thrust right arm forward and bend left arm in front of body, leaning well forward -3.

Pause -4. Change position as in first movement -5 -6. Change again as in three -7 -8........................4	M.

Repeat the foregoing movements in quick time, i. e., one thrust to each count; on the last count return to fundamental position .......................................... 4	M.

Repeat all left, right, and left, on the very last two measures

shaking hands four times with the opponent...........24	M.

Total

.32 M.

Digitized by Google
43

PART VIII. 8 or more Measures.

(Spinning a Yam.)

In four step-hops the sailors form a semi-circle (the places

must be designated beforehand. (See fig. 4.).............4	M.

rut

In three more step-hops one whole turn left, sitting down on the last measure, legs crossed, and arms folded in front of the chest.....................................................4 M.

One of tiie sailors now hops toward and begins a solo-dance.

He should act as if telling a story all the while dancing.

He may repeat the former steps, or show some new steps.

The sitting sailors accompany the dancer with suitable actions, as holding the hands to the ears, nodding the head, swaying the body, and clapping the hands. But all these actions should be uniform and in time with the music. The mate’s whistle breaks up the dance.

II.	Scene, Primeval Forest at Island San Salvadore.

An Indian camp. Squaws are at work near wigwam, preparing a meal, while the men sit about smoking. Some are trying their weapons. A medicine-man appears and a religious ceremony takes place. The chief of the tribe then rises and gives the signal for a dance. The Indians form a ring around their chief. (See description of dance.) Tom-toms are used by the Indians not dancing, and all join in weird Indian songs, to which the dancers perform. After the dance is ended, and while the peace-pipe is handed around, one Indian, who has stood watch, gives a yell and points in a certain direction. All jump to their feet to look—and stand aghast; then with wild howls they run in all directions.

The strains of a march are heard faintly, and then louder and closer. Spanish soldiers arrive; headed by Columbus, a standard-bearer, and a priest. The soldiers perform a march. (See description.)

Gradually the Indians, who have by this time lost their fear, come out of the bushes and boldly watch the march. Suddenly, as the march ends, the Indians are captured by the soldiers and marched off. Curtain.

Requisites: Tom-toms, dubs, bows and arrows, knives, tomahawks, Royal banner of Spain, crucifix.

Personnel: Columbus in armor. Priest. Standard-bearer. Spanish sol-diem. Indians.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
44

Indian Dance, (for 16 men)

Music: Tom-toms and Indian Songs. Suggestions may be ! from various Indian-Song books, or from victor and Colunc records. A Polka or Gallop also may be used. Formation: Circle, the performers are numbered 1, 2, 1, 2 < (See figure 5).

		Z	
	\  y<	/	x#
			X'
1			•] N INDIAN DANCE (1)
			y.
	/	.  2 '	
		Pig. 6.	

Tomahawks, carried in right hand, are swung over head dur the dance, and scalping-knivesarecarried in the left hand. Tt weapons should be made of papier-mache or other light matei The arm-movements, although wild, should be well studied i uniformly executed. Clubs may be used instead of tomahav PART I. 16 Counts.

Skipping about the circle with high knee-raising, swinging tomahawks over head, left hand with knife obliquely

backward,................................................16

PART II. 16 Counts.

The Couples 1 and 2 lock left arms and walk with high-kneeraising one whole wheel left, hand with knife on hip.... 8 Change arm-hold, and a whole wheel right, changing

tomahawks to left	hand............................ 8

Total .............................................16

PART III. 16 Counts.

Repeat Part 1..........................................16

PART IV. 16 Counts.

Three running steps forward to centre of circle, lunge right on the fourth count, right arm obliquely upward (tomahawks meet), left arm opposite........................... 4

Three running steps backward............................. 4

Digitized by kjOOQle
45

Number I encircles number 2 in eight skipping steps, threatening number 2 with tomahawks; number 2 kneels, knife raised in defense....................................... 8	C.

PART V. 16 Counts.

As Part IV but number 2 encircles number 1...............16	C.

PART VI. 16 Counts.

Gallop left sideward around the circle, facing inward, swinging tomahawks and knives overhead.......................16	C.

PART VII. 32 Counts.

Number I four running steps forward, face left about and kneel, raising knife overhead in position of defense. Number 2 lunge right forward and raise right arm overhead, (as if throwing tomahawk), left arm with knife obliquely back-backward. (See fig. 6)...................................8	C.

\	z	/	
h T	~~r~	0  0	
X :  «	4  0	0  f	v  \
/ V  # \ y	-JU	X"	% e*
»t- N		h	, -1“  \
V			X	%  %  * » •v
		A	' ^
X		i  •  •	y
* -		i	

INDIAN DANCE (2)

He. 9

Number 2 repeats the part of number I, number I jumps up, four running steps forward, face left about and lunge

right (as number 2 before)................................8	C.

Repeat all .................................................. 16	C.

Total ................................................  32	C.

PART VIII. 32 Counts.

The inner circle (No. 2) repeats Part VI facing outward. Number 2 crawls forward toward centre on hands and knees (as if sneaking toward enemy), knife raised forward, in 8 counts, backward	in 8 counts..........................16	C.

Number 2 remains in half lying position, head turned upward, dropping weapons, number I runs forward toward number 2 in four steps and encircles number 2 in four more running steps....................................................... 8	C.

Digitized by
46

Number I, now drops tomahawk, and performs the motion of

scalping number 2,...................................8	C.

Total ...............................................32	C.

PART IX. 32 Counts.

All pick up weapons and repeat Part VI facing outward.... 8	C.

Face about and repeat in the opposite direction.......... 8	C.

All run four step forward toward centre of circle.........4	C.

Four steps backward.......................................4	C.

Four steps forward........................................4	C.

Four steps backward and with a final whoop the Indians sit

down with their legs crossed..........................4	C.

PART X.

32 C.

The peace-pipe is handed about.

March of The Spaniards.

Music: Soldiers' Chorus from Gounod's Faust. Victor Record.

PART I. 32 Counts.

Enter from each side of the stage, single file, and march to

centre, .................................................8	C.

Through the centre, single file............................. 8	C.

Outward left and right alternating, single file............. 8	C.

Toward rear, (See fig. 7)....................................8	C.

Total ............................

Pig. 1

H-H-H-H--*-.....................,.-

•	i

i	*

i	*

a	:

i	i

•	i

•	i

i	«

i	i

*.....<—“...........->

.........................32	C.

i

i

i

A

«

MARCH OF THE SPANIARDS (1)

PART II. 32 Counts.

Repat the whole figure, this time forming twos when marching through the centre, (See fig. 8)...........................32	C»

MARCH OF THE SPANIARDS (2)

Pit. 8

Digitized by i^ooQLe
47

PART III. 64 Counts.

Repeat the figure, this time forming fours when marching

through the centre, (See fig. 9)..................48	C.

i- I* h—n ,--------4	4	'4

h h l- > » f * *r H 4 4

MARCH OF THE SPANIARDS Q>

Fig.8

Again towards centre, and by fours through the centre to the

middle of the stage.......................................16	C.

PART IV. 32 Counts.

The first rank one whole wheel left, the other ranks forward to pivot point, and follow wheeling until a cross is formed,

(See fig. 10).............................................16	C.

/ H \

V	H

MARCH OP THE SPANIARDS (4)	4

T T "T ^ ^

\ h f

I*

%	■	0

h--'

Fit. 10

The cross one whole wheel left.............................16	C.

PART V. 32 Counts.

Forward to front of stage, outward by fours, left and right

alternating, and toward rear of stage..................32	C.

PART VI. 32 Counts.

Toward centre and by eights through the centre.............32	C.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
48

PART VIII. 32 Counts.

The ranks of four, one whole wheel outward, (See fig. 11)..16	C.

MARCH OF THE SPANIARDS (5)

Fig. 11

Repeat, but only 3-4 wheel outward, (Two front lines now

face each other, eight steps apart. (See fig. 12)..............12	C.

MARCH OF THE SPANIARDS (6)

	
h	H
h	■\
h	-\
h	H
h	
h	
h	H

Fig. 12

Four steps forward............................................. 4	C.

PART VIII. 40 Counts.

Eight steps backward and eight steps forward....................16	C.

Eight steps backward and eight steps forward....................16	C.

Eight steps backward face about and seize Indians............... 8	C.

Ill. S'ene, The reception of Columbus in the castle of Ferdinand and Isabella

of Spain.

The King and Queen are surrounded by the courtiers and ladies of honor. The court marshal announces the arrival of Columbus. Columbus appears, followed by his sailors; the courtiers bow low before him. He brings forth charts of his voyage, and a map of the New World, which are examined with great admiration. He then beckons the waiting soldiers to march in. They go through a march. (Repeat march from II. Scene) and then align themselves at the sides. The Indians are now brought in and are the objects of wonder and curiosity. The Indians* war-dance is shown (Repeat dance from II. Scene), after which the Indians cower down in front of the soldiers. Spanish girls now come forward for a dance. (See description of dance) after they finish their dance final tableau is

Digitized by L.ooQle
49

(orated: Soldier*, Sailor*, Indiana and the Dancer* at both tide*, the King, Queen and Columbus in the center. In the background Columbia is visible with the Star* and Stripes, and the curtain (alls as the Star-Spangled Banner is played.

Requisites: Charts. New World Map. Golden Chain. U. S. Flag.

Personnel: King; Queen; Columbus; Columbia; Marshal; Pages; Ladies of Honor; courtiers, and all participants in the tableau.

“Spanish Waltz.'* (for 16 women)

Music: From Egpana by Waldteufel. (Victor and Columbia Records).

First formation: Ranks of four in open order, the files numbered one and two. (See fig. 1.)

Numbers one carry tambourines in left hand, numbers two use castanets, and all accompany the music with these instruments.

PART I. 32 Measures.

Waltz balance-step left and right, arms in lateral position. 2 M.

Waltz turn left with arms curved overhead................ 2	M.

Waltz balance-step left and right, arms lateral...........2	M.

Cross-step-turn left with stamping on the last count of the first measure and first count of the last measure, arms

curved overhead.....................................  2	M.

Repeat all right, left and right.........................24	M.

Total ...............................................32	M.

PART II. 32 Measures.

Four swing-hops left diagonally forward beginning left, arms

in high lateral position............................ 4	M.

Two draw-steps to the left, arms in left lateral position,

stamping on first count of each measure............. 2	M.

Cross-step-tum right (as in Part I)..................... 2	M.

Repeat all right.........................................8	M.

Repeat all left and right, moving diagonally backward...16 M.

Total

32 M.

PART III. 32 Measures.

Repeat Part I, but the files one and two face each other. (See fig. 3).

PART IV. 32 Measures.

AD face to front again. Three draw-steps to left, arms in

left lateral position............................... 3	M.

Swing-hop right, arms lateral........................... 1	M.

Waltz-balance left and right, arms in lateral position.. 2	M.

Cross-step-turn left (as in Part I)..................... 2	M.

Repeat right, left, and right, during the last four measures the members of the inner files waltz in front of those of the outer files, and aU face toward the centre.
60

Two front lines are now formed which face each other. (See

fig. 13) ................................................24	M.

h

I-

f-

'^4

I	SPANISH	WALTZ	(3)

H

Fif. 18

Part V. 32 Measures.

Repeat Part II, going forward and backward instead of diagonally. With the steps of the last eight measures, the numbers one form a circle facing outward, the twos form a larger circle facing numbers one (See fig. 14)..............32	M.

SPANISH WALTZ (4)

x

I-

y

X

\

y

Fie. 14

PART VI. 32 Measures.

Repeat Part IV in the new (circle) formation. During the last

four measures all waltz into one large circle facing inward 32 M.

PART VII. 32 Measures.

Four swing-hops in place with one whole turn left, arms in high lateral position, (facing left on the first count of each measure) .............................................4	M.
61

Step left obliquely backward, bend left knee, and bend trunk

forward over right foot, arms curved over head..... 1	M.

Straighten left knee, circle trunk and arms left, and bend

upper trunk backward............................... 1	M.

Cross-step-turn left .................................   2	M.

Repeat right, left and right. During the last eight measures

Fit 16

V-

*	X

,	*	x

* x	x \

SPANISH WALTZ (6)

the dancers waltz in position for a grouping in a semicircle formation,	(See fig. 15.).......................24	M.

Total ............................................32	M.

SUGGESTIONS.

The foregoing description of the play may be regarded as a mere outline; the detailed execution must be left to the teacher. The performers, if given a cooperative part, will bring many ideas and suggestions which should be followed whenever possible. The participants will then enter the joyful spirit which is essential not only to the successful presentation of the play, but also to the many hours of necessary practicing and drilling. In all the drills more or less than the number of participants given may be employed.

Where a large stage or other space is available, and where more people can be had for the play, it will look better if about twice the number of performers are used. In such a case the formation of the dance may have to be changed, and in the march more counts must be allowed for each part. The dances and marches described are written for school children, but may well be used for adults.

It is well to determine the cost of costuming before the scope of the play is decided upon. The costumes of the Sailors, Indians and Spanish Dancers can easily be made or borrowed by the participants, and even the uniforms of the Spanish soldiers could be cheaply constructed. For helps in this direction study the painting: “The Landing of Columbus” by John Vanderlyn (Engraving by John C. MaRae), also other historical studies.

The groupings and tableaus will be most effective if well studied as to composition, lighting and color. Information on these topics can be had from such bookB as “Festivals and Plays” by Percival Chubb, and others; also from theatrical people.

As there is no speaking during the play, the success of the production depends upon the dramatic action of the players. Appropriate music will help to interpret certain actions. There should be at least one rehearsal in costumes, and with full orchestra, in order to arrange for the final effects.

Digitized by
Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Equipment Steel Lockers

Years of intensive specializing in these particular lines have made MED ART products pre-eminent—the first choice of those who know—and who consider quality and permanence as well as price.

Write For Catalog “L“

It is ft recognized guide on Gymnasium, Playground, Swimming Pool and Locker Room planning, equipment and operation. Sent on request to those who are intereeted. Write lor it en your letterhead.

Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

3MS Dtblb St., St, Louis, Mo.

Established

1873

THE CHICA60 NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATIOH

FOR WOMEN ONLY	ESTABLISHED 1903

FRANCES MUSSELMAN, Principal YEAH NORMAL COURSE—REGISTRATION SEPTEMBER M and FEBRUARY t Had hr State Department of Public Instruction. Theoretics! and practical taainfaq^L cfcee of phjsical education, preparing young women to bocotne Directors of Physienl in Public and Private Schools, Collages and UnJverrities, Young Womei and Playgrounds. A strong faculty of teachers with a national reputation, graduates are holding responsible positions in the best institutions of the < fine dormitory for non-retident students.

SIX WEEKS SUMMER TERM for 1920 opens JUNE 2fi SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN Foe catalogs address Registrar, 420 S. Wabash Arc., Chicago.

CATALOG UPON REQUEST

CHICAGO

Gymnasium Equipment

COMPANY

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND OUTFITTERS

THEO. A. GROSS, President 1040 W. Lake St	CHICAGO

$

$

J