MIND AND BODY

MAY, 1907.

Yol. 14,

No 159

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Bos on Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University. Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STF.CHER, 120 Pomona St , Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Since the hygienic aims of all forms of bodily exercises are being studied and brought more in the foreground, it is natural that that hygienic exercise ‘‘par excellence*’, i. e. swimming, is being given intelligent consideration by all progressive teachers of physical training. The reasons for this are many. Aside from the practical everyday value of swimming, the effect of this ideal exercise upon the formation of character, it being one of the main arts that develop courage, is being pointed out by psychologists. Then again physiologists tell us of the most beneficial effect of cold water upon the nervous and the circulatory systems, while those of us who have studied the effect of swimming, especially that of the so-called breaststroke, upon muscular development, find that no other exercise has a better effect upon the great groups of muscles of the back, which help so much to secure an upright carriage. Then again, we know' of no other single exercise which so favorable affects the development of the thorax with its contents, especially the lungs and heart. Surely, this is quite an array of good psychic and physical effects for the accomplishment we have under consideration.

Those of 11s who as hoys lived near a small stream or pond, arid whose parents did not enter a strong veto when swimming was mentioned, usually learned swimming without further instruction than that given by the older boys, which was “paddle with your Hands and kick’*. Now, undoubtedly this paddling and kicking eventually led to being able to keep above water and to some sort of propulsion. The general experience, however, has been that unless hoys who had learned to keep above w'ater wrere led by favorable circumstances to try and acquire some good swimming stroke and thereby really develop into swimmers, they seldom dared to go from the shore more than a few feet, for they were afraid as soon as they knew' that they were beyond their depth.

About a generation ago instruction in swimming took a strong bold on us on account of the increasing number of summer resorts offering

THE ART OF SWIMMING.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

Digitized by

Google
-74-

swimming facilities. The teachers of swimming at these resorts, often cx-soldiers, gave their lessons to single pupils. About this time natato-riums also were built in quite a number of the larger cities. These greatly aided the art of swimming and helped to make it more popular,, especially as many of them set aside special days for women. But it remained for that country which first systematized school gymnastics, i. e. Germany, to come forward with the demand that swimming be made a part of the physical education of every school child. Like all innovations this new departure had many antagonists, and the advancement of the art in Germany was slow. In some cities the teachers of gymnastics volunteered to serve as teachers of swimming. Their efforts were crowned with success, and so the movement grew. But it soon became evident that if the great mass of children were to be instructed the method in vogue, i. e. individual instruction was out of question on account of the great number of teachers it would require. Then came the first attempts at mass instruction in the water, and it was found that the results were far better than was anticipated. Later the idea came—and experience demonstrated its practicability—.that this mass instruction could be made more effective and time gained if the children were taught the swimming movements on land. The arm and leg movements were then taught as a part of regular calisthenics in the schools. Then came the primitive forms of taking the movements lying on tire floor, or on balance boards, horses, bucks, etc. The favorable results shown by these rather crude forms of instruction convinced the experimentors that they were on the right road. Different kinds of belts were then tried which were hung up on horizontal ladders and on parallel bars. In this experimental manner various devices were developed until now a form of apparatus called a swimming buck is generally used for this mass instruction.

Teaching this art has become so certain in its results that swimming instruction has taken its place as a recognized form of applied gymnastics in many schools of Germany. It need only be mentioned that, in a small way, the city of Frankfort on the Main began this instruction of boys in the year of 1844, that is, sixty three years ago, to convince one that this is no fad in German school gymnastics. It is interesting to find that now nearly all cities, large and small,are vieing with each other to offer swimming facilities not only during the summer, but also during the winter. Beside this enrichment of the gymnastic curriculum it is of further interest to us as teachers of gymnastics to hear that in Germany the newest demand along progressive lines is a demand that one afternoon a week be taken from school work and devoted to play, games, swimming, excursions on foot, etc.

THE THEORY OF INSTRUCTION IN SWIMMING.

Swimming is a natural means of locomotion in the water by which one's body is kept from sinking and is also moved from place. In order to s<*e that it is no very difficult feat for one to keep from sinking it is only

Digitized by CjOOQle
necessary to recall the fact that the human body is but slightly heavier than the volume of water it-displaces. The specific gravity of the body changes according to the volume of air in the lungs. After exhaling, the specific gravity of the body is about 1.05, that is, the body is then slightly heavier than the water; when the lungs are filled with air it is 0.937, showing that when the lungs are filled the body cannot sink. Now, it is true that the muscles and bones of all people are not of like structure and density, and that the hard muscles of a trained gymnast will weigh more than a like bulk of the flesh of a non-trained man. Wo sometimes,, therefore, find that men with strongly developed muscles can not float, although when lying in the water on their hacks a very slight movement of their hands will keep them up. Experience also has shown that women on account of softer muscles and lighter hones, as a rule, float much easier than men do, in fact, it is not unusual for many to float before they can swim.

By means of suitable movements of the arms, hands, logs and feet we find that we are able to keep from sinking and that we can propel the body forward. Looking at tlie swimming-stroke as a whole and analyzing it we find that while swimming the body continually changes from a position in which it is stretched out at full length in the water to a sort of crouching attitude, which again gives way to the straight position. We find the arms moving sideward, then being bent and brought under the chest, and lastly, straightened out again into the starting position. In tlic meantime, while the arms are being bent, the knees are raised obliquely fonvard, then the legs are straightened sideward and immediately closed into the starting position. It is well at this time to call particular attention to the fact that the main propelling forces in swimming are the leg movements, not the aim movements. Attention should also be called to the fact that not clearly recognizing this increases the difficulty in teaching swimming to grown * people, especially to men. Adults usually having well developed arms, they begin to use these as propellers and soon find that they can move themselves forward. They are delighted that they can swim	a	fewr	feet, and	then after weeks and

sometimes months of exertion they	are	disgusted	because they can not

:*w’iin any farther. If you watch them carefully you will find that they generally fill their lungs and hold their breath, which, as has been shown above, is of itself enough to keep them above water, and then they use their arms as oars to push themselves forward. (You sometimes find teachers who unconsciously added to their labors hv telling their pupils to use their arms “to push'themselves forward." Now, what happens to pupils who try to learn in this manner? After making about a half dozen rapid arm strokes your pupil gasps for breath; if ho succeeds in getting air lie may continue his arm movements until again forced to breathe.	By	this time he • is usually so

diort of wind and exhausted	that	he must	stop. If he does

not, but keeps on trying you may safely count on the fact that he will get a. nose or a mouth full of water which will set him to blowing

Digitized by C.ooQle
and sputtering, and should it happen that he is a few feet from shore and, therefore, becomes afraid, you may prepare yourself to jump in and haul him to shore. As there seems to be some misunderstanding or lack of clearness as to the manner of breathing it is well that this is spoken of now. Experience has demonstrated that during swimming it is best to breathe through the mouth. The reason for this exception to the recognized rule is: Should water enter the mouth with the air, this may easily he ejected and cause you no inconvenience; should you, however, breathe through the nostrils and water enter them, this will choke you and cause great discomfort. Now, it should be distinctly understood that nothing in the foregoing statement should be construed into forbidding anyone to breathe through the nostrils, should the water he is swimming in, or the pace he is pursuing allow this The objections that are rightly raised against mouth-breathing on land lose most, if not all, of their validity during swimming. The air is usually warm where one swims, and nowhere is the air purer and more dustless than immediately above the surface of the water. In fact, this is one of the ideal places for lung gymnastics.

MASS INSTRUCTION* IN THE GYMNASIUM FOR THE BREAST STROKE.

The pupils are arranged in open order in the gymnasium as for calisthenics. At the command they assume the ‘‘Starting Position,’’ i. e. the arms are raised obliquely fore-upward, palms to the front, fingers extended and together, chest forward, heels closed.

The Three Arm Movements.

1)	Slowly move the extended arms sideward, palms down (until the arms are in line with the shoulders). The head must be held high and not allowed to droop forward.

2)	Bend the arms, and in the shortest wav bring the palms together in front of the upper chest, the fingers pointing obliquely fore-upward.

3)	Straighten the arms obliquely fore-upward, gradually turning the palms forward (into the starting position).

After these movements are executed correctly, combine them with breathing (in the gymnasium breathe through the nostrils) as follows: 1) Move the arms sideward, lower the head backward and inhale; 2) Hands under the chest and continue to inhale: 3) Straighten the arms, i a iso the head and exhale.

The Swim Rhythm. The foregoing three movements are not of the same time-value, the second being much shorter than the first and third. After the combined movements are harned the correct swim-rhythm must be cultivated so that your pupils will learn to execute long, smooth strokes. In counting the first and third counts must be drawn out, and the second one must be short.

As the pupils become more proficient the three movements are gradual!} merged into one continuuous movement with a short pause after three (the end of the stroke).

Digitized by CaOOQle
The Three Leg Movements.

Starting position:	Hands on hips, chest forward, head erect, heels

closed. 1) Raise the left knee obliquely forward, the thigh horizontal* the toes pointing obliquely downward, the heel close to the right leg. (The muscles of the leg must not be strongly contracted in order that no stiff movements result). 2) Straighten the left leg sideward (out as far as possible without leaning over to the right), the toes drawn upward. 3) Move the left leg to the right.

Practice the same movements with the right leg and. Infer, alternately. See that the leg-straightening is directly sideward and not obliquely backward, as this latter hiovement will result in a kicking out of the water when the pupils are in a horizontal position.

The Leg Movements in Two Counts.

As soon as the leg movements are thoroughly learned the second and third movements are combined. The count is now changed so as to harmonize with the swim-rhythm spoken of above, as the knee-raising is a short movement, and the straightening sideward and the closing needs more time. In order to accustom the pupils to the same number of counts it is advisable to count one, two, and three as during the arm movements. The execution of the leg movements will then be as follows:

1)	Xo leg movement; 2) Raise the left knee; 3) Quickly straighten the left leg sideward and immediately close it to the right.

Repeat the movement with the right leg and, later, alternately.

Movements with Both Legs Simultaneously.

The only manner in which (in the*vertical position) an approximately correct movement of both legs may be acquired is by letting the pupils hang by their hands from a horizontal ladder, or a suspended bar or beam. For this use the same count as before: 1) Xo leg movement;

2)	Raise both knees obliquely forward (see that the knees are not drawn up too high, for it is a waste of effort to draw them up higher than is necessary in order that a good, wide side-straightening will result). The heels should be closed when the knees are raised; 3) Quickly straighten both leg* sideward as far as possible and immediately close them.

After the pupils have a correct idea of the separate movements dis continue the pause between two and three, as these movements are bin parts of one. Especial attention must be paid to the leg movements that they do not become stiff and angular. A correct swimming stroke is a smooth movement; and never forget that the leg movements are of the greatest importance if you expect to develop a swimmer. The legs propel the body forward by means of whip-like movements executed vigorously against the resisting water.

Combined Arm and Leg Movements—Standing.

Raise the arms to the starting position. 1) Move the arms sideward; 2) Bend the arms, the hands in front of the chest and raise the left knee obliquely forward; 3) Straighten the arms obliquely fore-up-

Digitized by C.ooQle
ward and straighten the left leg sidevard, immediately closing it to the right.

Practice these movements left and right alternately; later practice them with the head movements and breathing. Be sure that you get the correct rhythm, and work for even, smooth movements: allow no movements of a jerky nature.

ON THE SWIMMING BUCK.

After the pupils have a fair knowledge of the separate movements they are placed on the swimming buck. This is an apparatus constructed on the principle of a saw-buck with a belt-like support for the chest and the lower abdomen. It allows the free use of the arms and legs. As it may be folded and stored when not in use it is a very handy piece of apparatus for schools. Schools intending to introduce mass instruction in swimming should have from six to twelve of these bucks.

By this time your pupils should be so well grounded in the separate movements that it will be advisable immediately to begin the combined arm and leg movements. In the beginning do not count too fast, and always insist upon*a correct execution of the movements. The swimming position on the bucks is quite exhausting on account of the vigorous manner in which the musculature of the back is brought into activity, and pupils must, therefore, not be kept on it too long. Give the pupils frequent rest periods. In the water this position is not so severe as the water helps to carry the body.

IN THE WATER ON THE ROPE.

As soon as the pupils have correct movements they are allowed to go into the water on the rope. The suspended rope, having a snap book

Digitized by CjOOQle
-7U-

at the lower end, is fastened to a beam about six to eight feet above the water. The pupil is put into a belt, and then the belt is fastened to the snap hook. You will find now that some of your pupils lack the courage to stretch themselves out horizontally in the water. Be patient and do not force or crowd them. As they begin to feel themselves more at home in the strange element their courage will grow, and remember that courage like all other attributes of the mind is of slow growth. If your rope is close enough to the shore or pier that the timid pupils may grasp hold of something during their first lesson you will save yourself much talking and progress more rapidly.

Leg Movements.

In the water it is preferable to take the leg movements first, partly on account of the timid ones, and, also, because these movements need most practice. Let them be taken in the same manner as when hanging from the ladder. 1) No leg movement; 2) Raise the knees. See that the back is not humped, and that the knees are far apart, have your pupil keep In's body as flat as possible; 3) Straighten the legs outward as far as possible and quickly close them. This last movement is THE Swimming movement, and it must be practiced until the pupil notices that every time he executes it his body moves forward.

Arm Movements.

The movements are practiced exactly as on the buck. The hands are a few inches under the surface of the water. See that the head is thrown well backward when the arms move sideward and under the client, and now begin to instruct your pupil to breathe through the mouth.

Combined Arm and Leg Movements.

The combined leg and arm movements are practiced as on the

Digitized by CjOOQle
-80-

buck. Take all movements slowly and insist upon a correct execution. “Make haste slowly” is a motto which has full value in the teaching of this art.

OX WATER WINGS. .

As soon as you see that a pupil's leg movements propel him forward he may he put on the fully inflated water wings. In mass instruction it is advisable to wait until several of your pupils arc far enough advanced before putting them on the wings so that you may oversee a number of them at the same time. It is advisable to let one get into the water at one end of the basin or pier and have him swim along the side while you walk along and criticize him. When he rests the next begins, and so on. Later let them swim along the side one after the other while you stand at the side and criticize them. When your pupils gradually become more proficient let them use the wings only half inflated, and soon they will be able to take care of themselves without any artificial aid.

All rights reserved.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CHICAGO SCHOOL OF EDUCATION.

II.

Dr. Angus M. Frew, entrusted with the direction of the athletics and games of the Universitv High School, writes in the “Tniversitv High School Weekly”:

•‘‘The modern gymnasium is one of the most beneficent agencies during the preparatory school period. Its functions extend into the moral, hygienic and educational aspects of the student's life, and should be shared alike bv all.

“The work proper in the Tniversitv High School is designated de-'velopmental and recreative, remedial and medical. The latter deals with various physical defects and certain pathological conditions, the discussion of which has no part here.

“The development of the body is only an end to the means* by which the functions of the different parts may be so trained and developed, that they will react rhe concepts of the brain quicker than the undeveloped body. As the functions develop, so must the structure grow to meet these new demands of strains and leverages, and we find, that the tendons and muscles grow, the bones become denser, thus proving nature's unfailing physiological laws.

“The dream of many a youth is that his upper arms, his neck and calves may become the same size, and, if by chance they do, he will expend countless hours in trying to keep them so, with a resulting detriment to the rest of his body.

“The only use that the word symmetry should have in the gymnasium is symmetry of action. Both sides of the body should have the

Digitized by C.ooQle
-81-

same amount of work, and the tape-line should never he seen outside of the medical examiner's office. Regulated physical training, with the emphasis on self-control, has its distinct moral effect, it is this which principally interests us.

“The proper carriage of the body* for instance, is one of the most important things to be emphasized. By it the moral attitude of the hov is judged, his physical health depends upon it, and by it his success in the world is greatly determined. The involuted posture is usually accompanied by a depressed state of mind, while the erect carriage brings with it a buoyancy and courageousness much to be desired. Slovenly dressed boys are apt to be sloven of thought, their actions careless. It is interesting to judge the work of the different boys in the gymnasium by the wav they dress. The carefully dressed hoy, while perhaps physically inferior to his more carelessly dressed neighbor, will show in his work that careful thought and execution of detail which invariably makes him the superior. The carelessly dressed bov, usually of the carefree type, will do his work with a dash, but with the utmost disregard for start or finish, thus losing the moral and educational effects of his lessons.

“I)o we teach physical training for the development of the body, or i craving after symmetry, or for the proper carriage of the body? Primarily, no. Ultimately* yes. It is primarily to be considered as a prophylactic, a preventive of disease. Disease may be warded off by certain, medical precautionary methods and with a care to hygienic conditions, but these all go for naught if the bodily resistance is allowed to sink below the danger line. There is a battle being waged at all times within our bodies between the disease germs and certain cells, whose functions are to protect us. The greater the advantage thse cells may have over the disease genus, just so much the stronger will be our power of resistance. It should be our aim, therefore, to raise our bodily vigor to the highest standard, so that we may offer the maximum of resistance io our common enemy/’

ORGANIZATION.

The work-organization of physical training and athletics is based on the U. H. S. regulations, the distribution of the various sections throughout the High School and the Technical Department, their needs and the schedules governing attendance. The regulations, published in the regular announcements, may be summarized in the following statements:

“All students entering the University High School are required to pass a physical examination* conducted bv one of the medical members of the physical training staff, who may make such examination a basis •for recommendation to parents or for prescribed physical exercises. All students arc required to take the prescribed physical training.

“The physical training proper is administered with a view to developing that .-ide of the student which becomes essential to his success in life. The athletics of the High School are recreative and competitive. The

Digitized by v^ooQle
-ir-

respective members of the physical training staff in charge of this branch of physical culture have the responsibility of training the teams, the oversight of all outdoor games, and the care for the general athletic interests of the school. The athletic director, with the Board of Control, has the supervision of the schedules of games between classes, departments, and with other schools, the composition of the teams, and the athletic fund.

“The athletics of the University High School are regarded as an important element in the life of the students, which, however, are to be governed by the Faculty of the school with the same care that is bestowed upon the more strictly scholastic work. Students whose work, therefore, is unsatisfactory are debarred from taking part in any public contests.

“Candidates for athletic teams must pass a special examination to test their fitness to participate in athletic contests/'

Dr. Frew writes us: The organization of the team activities promises a gradual realization of the demands of the department. The prerequisites of an examination and a conscientious preparation have eliminated he “class choice,” and the “class spirit'’ in consequence is directed toward the maintenance of a better standard of athletics. Football, the predominating interest in the Fall, includes the team organization in the “class-series” (inter-class competition), and those styled the “U. H. S.” teams, a first and second. These teams are under the direct supervision of the athletic director and the assisting coaches appointed by the Board of Control. Thirty players represent the school teams and some eighty represent the inter-class teams—the “school teams” being under heavy study requirements—the “inter-class teams'’ being offered every incentive to practice. Golf, tennis, hockey and other outdoor activities are also encouraged by the granting of school emblems. In the winter the indoor track work* including the basket ball games, swimming and skating, are conducted on a similar system of class and school teams, the “school-teams,'’ however, predominating on account of the inadequacy of the present facilities.

The present track squad comprises about twenty-five boys, basket ball teams some fifty, swimming teams some fifteen or twenty boys. Skating and winter sports on the magnificent Midway stretches are indulged in by perhaps a majority of the school members.

In the Spring the outdoor track-work, base ball, tennis, golf and hockey, holds the interest of the boys as well as the girls, large numbers enrolling for the. several activities. Last spring one hundred and fifty students comprised the various teams.

Emphasis is placed at all times on the rules prescribing that all team activities shall be the outcome of the regular physical training, and* •that all who may be deficient in any way, or lack the gymnastic training prescribed* will be referred to later team organizations. Good form, poise and bearing, general activitv and response, genuineness and trustworthiness, determine the standing, or rank the students in the physical
—83—

training classes, “A” students ranking first in the clashes, with “B'\ “C”, ‘:l)v and “E” students following in their respective order. An “E" student may he a late-comer, tardy, or a new-comer; a “Cv or “D” student may he one who can't make time to don his “Gym. togs/’ who is constantly losing his gymnastic shoes or locker key. He may he as good as the “A” gymnast, blit his record will speak for him in that it assigns him credit for promotion, or class or individual work yet to he done.

The medical examination includes an examination of the ears* nose, eyes, teeth, throat, heart, lungs, spine (back) and abdomen. Attention is ixiven to the general posture of the body, any subnormality being noted and the probable cause carefully sought for, whether it he due to environment, too rapid growth, overstudy or hereditary tendencies. In addition the usual measurements are taken, as weight, height, standing and sitting, the girth of the chest and ninth rib (exdated' inflated and normal), also the girth of the arms, legs and parts of the body, the capacity of the lungs and a few strength tests.

The card of each student is carefully gone over, and if special attention is required, the parents are notified, recommending the case to the family physician.

Of the first sixty measured the past quarter, twenty-six required no corrective gymnastics; 19 had home work recommended to them, with special attention to bearing and carriage; four were recommended to their family physicians; five were deficient in hearing and six were ordered into the corrective class.

The work in the corrective classes during the first hours of the day, from 8:00 to 9:00 o’clock, is wholly individual. It is under the supervision of the full physical training staff and has been highly successful in overcoming existing weaknesses. A record of individual defects discloses many interesting cases of deformity, undeveloped physiqnes, deficient control and sense-perceptions. Perhaps no other work so readily quickens the latter as appropriate gymnastic work.

The general outline in physical training prescribed during the four vears of High School is as follows:

I.	APPARATUS GYMNASTICS. Exercises for dexterity- involving quick coordination, and leading to skill and control. The various springing exercises, as jumping, vaulting and hurdling, with especial attention to execution and form. (Avoidance of over-exertion.)

GAMES. Indoor base ball, basket ball, relay-racing, games of alertness, swimming.

Rhythmi c exercises to improve grace and ease of movement— dancing calisthenics.

II.	APPARATUS GYMNASTICS. Exercises for strength and

skill; increased demands in coordinate activities in various combinations of typical exercises, leading to endurance. Training for track and field exercises:	starting,	running,	jumping,	broad	and	high,	hurdling. Swing-

ing of grip-balls and light weights; ball throwing.

Dancing. Swimming.

Digitized by

Google
III.	GYMNASIUM AND FIELD WORK. Training for con-dition. Gymnastic ang Athletic Games. Practice of special forms—pole vaulting; sprinting* hop, step and jump, hurdle practice. Throwing the hammer, putting the shot.

Defensive exercises—stick and foil fencing; boxing.

Dancing. Swimming.

IV.	GYMNASIUM, FIELD AND TRACK WORK. Forms of defensive and antagonistic exercises—wrestling and boxing. Preparations for competitive gymnastics and athletics between classes and teams. Field and track athletics—games and sports.

Dancing. Swimming and Water Sports.

Four 45 minute periods per week are scheduled for all classes. The first 10 minutes of every period are devoted to prescribed free gymnastics, a set of progressive exercises, designed to develop the whole body. These exercises are followed by climbing and jumping exercises, executed under the supervision of instructors, but without formal alignment—as individual, and not as class-work. They are executed in concert only when failure to properly observe this rule, affecting all students alike, is in any way disregarded.

MASS ENCAMPMENTS AT GYMNASTIC FESTIVALS,

By CAPTAIN M. B. STEWART, U. S. Army.

(Concluded.^

INDIVIDUAL VACATION CAMPS FOR MEN AND BOYS.

In the discussion of vacation or pleasure camps I find myself viewing the subject of camping from a new and somewhat unfamiliar standpoint. I have spent, on an average, three months per year under canvas for the past forteen years, but have never come to think of it as anything to be regarded as a treat. However, I am not insensible to the pleasures and benefits of camp life and I can readily understand the joy with which the city dweller breaks awav from the heat and noise of the town for a period of recreation close to nature.

To breathe plenty of fresh air, to go to rest under the broad canopy of heaven, lulled to sleep by nature’s slumber song, to enjoy the luxury of an appetite whetted to the point of ravenousness are luxuries worth the few discomforts they cost.

As medicine, camping and all that goes with camp life, is far superior to anything a doctor can otherwise prescribe. There is no tonic like exercise in fresh, pure air. There is no other restorative for worn-out nerves and tired bodies like the unrestrained freedom, the rest and quiet of camp.

Furthermore, camping opens to many a new and startling experience. Many have lived all their lives in cities. They have been surrounded by every convenience which ingenuity can devise and money provide. Electricity and steam have replaced nature’s means of locomotion, or reduced its means to the minimum. The arms and hands have lost their cunning, and their natural functions have been replaced

Digitized by CaOOQle
-85 -

by a maze of mechanical ingenuity. The wild scramble for wealth and power has obliterated from the mind the fact that there is anything line or desirable outside of their possession. It is in camp, with its primitive comforts and natural surroundings, that one becomes acquainted wfith the use of his body and its members. He finds them to be useful members and not mere appendages. He experiences the delight of doing things with his own hands, of providing for his own wants, and with that knowledge comes an exhilarating sense of independence and freedom. His body grows strong with healthy exercise. Worn and flaccid tissue is re-aniraated or replaced. Tinder the tonic effects of pure air, the lungs expand, the shoulders and chest broaden and deepen. Red blood corpuscles multiply prolifically, and good red blood coursts through the body bringing a return of youthful energy and enthusiasm, displaying on the cheeks nature’s signal flags of health. The crows’ feet of care vanish under rest and quiet. The eyes strained with the daily labor and burden of life become bright and healthy.

In the end, the one who thus secludes himself for a period to that intimacy with nature which is every man’s heritage, finds himself stronger physically, re-animated, more independent of the toils of modern existence, more confident in his ability to meet the world and to wrest his share of its goods from the reluctant grasp.

What this maj’ be to a boy we may only conjecture. If, fortunately, we have the faculty of recalling the days of our youth, we may realize to some small degree the joy with which a boy casts off the hated restraints, the despised luxuries, the unnecessary conventions of a washed and combed state of immaculacy, and revels in the delights of camp.

The whole great scheme of nature is the rightful inheritance of youth which we can deny a child only at the cost of making him narrow and weakly, mentally and physically, with all the disagreeable traits of character to be expected in company with such a body. You, gentlemen, know better than I what an important part this may play in the physic allife of a boy, and it is hardly necessary for me to dilate further on a subject to whose importance you must be so fully alive.

The selection of sites for vacation camps must be governed by the same principles as laid down for larger camps. However, on account of the size, greater latitude may be exercized in the selection. Being smaller, the sanitary supervision becomes less difficult and more attention can be given to the details. A reasonable amount of shade is not objectionable from a sanitary standpoint in small camps and it adds greatly to the comfort of the camp. It should not, however, be extensive enough to give rise to the danger of dampness. A wooded knoll free from underbrush makes an excellent site for a small pleasure camp. No fixed rule may be laid down for such a selection, but the dangers of dampness should always be borne in mind.

The water supply is an important factor in the selection of a small camp. It is always desirable to camp along a stream if the water is fit for use. If this can be done the pleasure of camping is greatly added to by the increased bathing facilities. Great care must, however, be exercised to prevent the supply from becoming contaminated from the

Digitized by v^ooQle
-86-

camp. Upon fixing the site for the camp, places in the camp should at once be designated for securing the drinking and cooking water, watering stock and bathing. The place selected for the drinking water should be up the stream, well above the camp; below this comes the place for watering animals and last comes the place set aside for washing and bathing. If the stream is small, a sufficient stream of water may be obtained bv a series of small dams. If the water supply comes from a spring, it should be carefully attended to as soon as possible. The spring should be dug out and lined with a barrel or tub or even a box from which both ends have been removed and the space around the receptacle filled with clay to prevent surface seepage. For the same reason the top of the receptacle should extend above the level of the ground. If these precautions do not suffice to furnish a supply of clear pure water, a simple filter may be devised of a barrel or keg. A small hole is bored in the bottom and stopped by a sponge or other material which will admit the passage of the water. A layer of clean, rather coarse sand, three or four inches deep, is then placed in the bottom of the barrel; this is followed by a similar one of pounded charcoal, then by another of sand and, finally, by one of coarse gravel. All of these materials should be clean when used. If additional precautions are desired the water may be boiled after having been thus filtered.

In this connection the subject of tentage admits of much the same treatment as in the case of mass festival camps. The tent recommended in that case is very well adapted for pleasure camps. Much of the pleasure of such an expedition consists in the pitching and breaking of camp, and these tetfts can be easily handled by two or three men or boys. This type of tent has another decided advantage. For the ground space occupied it has a greater cubic air space,than almost any other type, thus being the most sanitary type.

As to the arrangement of the camp I thould say that the remarks in connection with arrangement and government of larger encampments would hold with equal force in this case. This, however, is a matter which must be left to the judgment of the individuals composing the encampment.

It is a difficult matter to say just what will add to the comfort of an individual in camp. Individual ingenuity can be depended upon to devise much in the wav of camp furniture and I shall not enter into a discussion of that matter. Two things, however, should not be neglected. They are: a cot, or some kind of support to keep the bedding from contact with the ground. If nothing better can be obtained, the boughs of trees may be arranged to answer the purpose. In default of this a rubber blanket, rubber side down, or a piece of heavy canvas should be placed between the bedding and the ground to guard against dampness. The appearance of the ground should never be permitted to deceive anyone as to the amount of moisture it may contain. The other thing is a floor of some kind for the tent. If possible, a board floor is of course desirable. If not, its place may be taken by a piece of heavy canvas covering the floor and pegged down at the corners to hold it flat. In either case this floor should be frequently removed and the ground below thoroughly sunned.

Digitized

i

a by Google	I
-87-

The subject of food is one which cannot be treated except with the general remarks in a former part of this discussion. It may be said, however, that a competent cook adds greatly to the pleasure of camping, for the preparation and cooking of food, though at first immensely entertaining, wiM soon become a drudgery. In making out a list of supplies to be purchased for such an occasion, it would be well to include a limited amount of canned prepared food to be used for emergencies. As to the cooking of the food it would always be advisable to take a cook stove along if possible. Camp fire cooking is a har-zardous on the part of one not experienced. In any event, an oil stove should be provided for use in inclement weather when cooking out-of-doors is impossible.

Camp fire arrangements for cooking are infinite in their variety. The simplest form consists of a trench in the ground of such width that pots and kettles may be placed over it, resting on the ground. Another form is an open fire on the ground with the pots suspended from a pole which is supported at each end by a forked stick. When fuel is scarce the trench is best, as it is more economical of fuel. If possible, it should be dug in the direction of the wind. It may then be covered with flat rocks and sod except for the spaces to be occupied by the pots. A good draft may be obtained through this fire by building a chimney of rocks and sod at the leeward end and enlarging the windward end. When fuel is plentiful the arrangement with forked sticks and the cross pole is simplest and best.

Ovens for baking may be made by digging into a clay bank and fashioning an oven of any size and shape. If this is not practicable, a barrel, bundle of sticks or hay may be laid on the ground and a covering of moist clay six inches to a foot in thickness placed over it, one end being left uncovered and a hole about six inches in diameter being left over the covered end. With a hot fire the barrel, or sticks or hay is burned out, baking the clay and forming an extemporized oven.

One thing which contributes greatly to the comfort of a camp, especially when the tentage is not plentiful or the shade is poor, is a bower or shade. This may be constructed of a few poles and green boughs. Four forked sticks are set for the corner poles. Cross poles are laid in the crotches and other poles laid across them. The whole is then covered with green boughs. The sides may be easily closed in a similar manner and the results will be a pleasant lounging or dining place. If the tents are not shaded a bower of this kind over them will lower their temperature perceptibly.

For hunting, canoeing, tramping or fishing trips the shelter tent in use in the army is perhaps the most convenient form for shelter. It consists of two equal parts with small poles and pins, the whole easily transportable in a light roll. This tent complete weighs about nine pounds.

INFANTRY SOLDIER’S CAMP AND MESS EQUIPMENT.

In the plate acompanying this article are shown all the articles of the infantry soldier’s camping and messing equipment. Figure 1 shows the shelter tent roll. This roll contains the soldier’s blanket, tent pole,

Digitized by CjOOQie
-88-

pins, extra clothing, etc. It is conveniently carried by slipping the head and right arm through the roll, thus bearing the weight on the left shoulder. In figure 2 is shown the cartridge belt and method of carrying the haversack and canteen. In the haversack is carried the food. This arrangement is a comfortable one, much superior to that old one of suspending the canteen and haversack by means of straps over the shoulders. Figure 3 shows the method of carrying the intrenching tool. This method is easily adaptable to carrying a small camp axe or hatchet.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-89-

In the same cut are shown the articles of mess equipment which the soldier carries and which for compactness, lightness and durability can not be excelled.

HO TO PITCH THE SHELTER TENT.

Place the two halves on the ground as shown in the diagram and button them together along the inner edges. Join up the tent poles and insert one in the eyelet at either end of the buttoned seam. Raise the poles to a vertical position and peg down the four corners, stretching the canvas taut. Button the two triangular ends together and peg down both loops with one peg.

—Human ostrich operated on. A man who earned his living by swallowing coins and other articles had to be operated on at the London hospital the other day and surgeons found in him 25 pieces of cork, 20 pieces of tinfoil, a leaden bullet, a piece of string 18 inches long, 18 cents in small change, a piece of leather 9 inches long with a hook at each end, several pieces of clay pipestem and portions of a newspaper.

—European gymnastic organizations. The various gymnastic organizations are reported as follows: Belgium, 16,95*5 members: Sokol, Bohemia, 56,000; Sokol. Germany, 5,4-82; Sokol, Galizia. 17,72*5; Denmark, 3,000; France, 250,000; Italv, 20171; Luxembourg, 1,875; Hungary,. 10,000; Switzerland, 51,666; Netherland, 14,571 ; Norway, 8,500; Sweden, 2,200; Germany, 867,507.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-90-

AMERICAN GYMNASTS.

Hy B. M., “London Physical Education".

It is ii recognized fact that the American is a busy man. or. as usually termed, a hustler, and from an experience that extended over six years' acquaintance with him on his native soil, I fully indorse that opinion; hut, all the same, he does not hustle for the love of it—the object for his display of superabundant energie is for some substantial reward. To put it baldly, he hustles for money, and, when he has not that object in view, there is no one more fond of his ease than the typical American. And the same applies to his sports. Compared to this country lie makes a poor show in that respect. Football, baseball, and athletics are not much seen outside of colleges. When his college course is completed his athletic career finishes. The sterner business of hunting the dollars takes its place. There may he a few baseball clubs among the younger men of the larger cities, but sport amongst the masses as we know it in this country practically does not exist. The Y.M.C.A.'s have most of them well-appointed gymnasia, and are provided on a more liberal scale with fine hot and cold baths, showers and douches, etc.- than, with notable exceptions, is the case in this country. I have said that the American works for payment. To go to a gymnasium and put in an evening's hard work for the mere love of it would not suit his ideas at all. If he attend a gym!, it is because he is looking for results. His doctor may tell him it is necessary that he should have some physical work if he expects to keep his health, which to him means dollars, and so he attends a class, not. as many Englishmen do, for amusement and recreation, hut for serious business.

I see him now as he enters the gym., walking straight to the pulling machine, then from that to one of the other machines with which the American gym. is so profusely fitted. He takes his position in the drill in the same methodical, serious manner. Dumbbells a ltd clubs are mostly used. The dumbbell exercises are of the simplest, while the clubs are short, of the soda water bottle shape. The exercises are arranged for the lower arm and wrists, the body being kept rigid. A few very elementary exercises on the horizontal bar, parallels, or vaulting horse may be added, and he finishes usually with a run around the track with which most American gymnasia are supplied. A game of basket ball will be played sometimes, if there are enough to play.

The American instructor has little chance of obtaining any position of importance unless he can affix M.D. to his signature, lli- abilities as •i teacher count for little unless he has that qualification, which, in my (•pinion, is the chief cause of so many quack physical culturists and their noisome literature, with which the country is flooded, and with which we to a lesser extent are afflicted. These M.D. professors, with exceptions where we find them holding high positions as directors of physical work in the colleges, are not trained gymnasts such as we find in our gymnasia, and, so far as I could see, music was very seldom used as accompaniment

Digitized by C.ooQLe
-Ill-

for the drills, certainly not in any way as we see it used in this country at tin* present day. While in the State of Maine, one winter I attended a Y.M.C.A. gymnasium. The town was one of 20,000 population. The gym. was not attached to the main building—would he thought fit for a town of f>0,000: baths, running track, and howling saloon were all there, and on no occasion when I visited it did I find more than five or six being put through thojr work by the instructor. The howling saloon and the baths were the objects for which by far the greater majority attended.

This brings me to another point which came under my observation. However we may be thought behind, we certainly are not lagging in our towns in the matter of providing swimming baths for our people. Wherever 1 have been in this country. Birmingham, Leicester. Nottingham, Newcastle* and even much smaller towns, are liberally provided with baths, and the numbers are still being increased. In comparison with this, I will mention the largest city in Connecticut, with a population of 100,000—\ewhaven, the seat of Yale University—there is, or was, but one swimming bath, and that where at least seven months of the year outdoor bathing was out of the question; and, although most favorably situated for outdoor bathing in the summer months, no provision was made for the public to take advantage of it. Rowing, again, which there was every facility for, was equally neglected by the townspeople. The colleges* of course, had their boats, but outside of that there was not one rowing club in the town. And these are the people who send rowing clubs over here to compete with our best! There were a few sailing clubs, but they do not count in the case of physical education. One bicycle club the city possessed, which was very indifferently supported, and a Turkish bath, which was a business speculation.

The- question arises—‘‘How is it, then, that the l\ S. A. has produced so many noted athletes?’’ This proposition I can only answer in this way:—I have already explained that the American looks for gain, and the same applies to his athletics. If at college—which* it must be icmembered. is much more democratic than ours—a student is possessed of any athletic abilities, he is encouraged, specialized, and trained for the particular branch of athletics for which he is most qualified, and if he has no capital beyond his abilities he will turn those abilities to his own personal advantage.

In fact, the American to win a prize* will .specialize and spend weeks and months in severe training, being so keen as to go to the venue of competition months before to get atmospherically acclimatized. This is, of course, making a business of recreation. In this country, I am ashamed to say, there are hundreds of so-called amateurs who are professionals, as they live by cricket, football, etc., so we can hardly throw stones at the Americans.

—Reduced railroad rates. The Prussian Minister of Public Works has issued an order whereby reduced railroad rates will be granted for school outings and for other organized outings of junior members of gymnastic organizations.

Digitized by V.ooQLe
Mind and body. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

2Mdlaw«.-uJc*«a TK7"l«ccm»\n.

Published Monthly.

BY

Sabw'rlptlon Price, 91.00 per Year.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, WJs Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, uo Pomona St , Germantown, Phil., Pa.

—WE WANT to call particular attention to the article in this issue entitled “Association Football versus Rugby for High School Boys,” which we reprint from the “American Gymnasia.” The author of the paper, Mr. Thos. J. Browne, deserves credit for the plain and easily understood manner in which he presents the subject. It also is refreshing to have him say: “Our experience with class games showed that a representative school team is of little value as a means of interesting large numbers in exercise with a view to making the school team. Its value as an incentive to exercise is not worth the time, effort and money such teams often require.” This is directly opposite to what is generally claimed by those advocating athletics. Their claim is, and has always betn, that not only class teams but also individual athletes encourage others to exercise. Our experience has been that if a teacher or director of gymnastics degenerates into a coach and looks only to the success of a few specialists or a crack team the “masses” will always be wanting in his gymnasium. The way to get the masses to exercise is to look to their interest. This is not done by turning out a’champion team, but by reconstructing or adapting good vigorous games, as suggested by Mr. Browne, so that the masses may participate.

—ONE of the encouraging signs of the times is the fact that many of the leading newspapers of the country are supporting the movement looking for the physical education of the “masses” in contra-distinction to the “classes. ' The following editorial in the Phila. Press appeared the day after the mass exhibition of the students of the University of Pennsylvania, and we want to call especial attention to the first sentence.

The gymnastic and athletic exhibition on Franklin Field yesterday by hundreds of men engaged during all the past year in regular exercise is worth ten years of intercollegiate competition by a few teams that monopolize athletic fields and shut out the average student from common privileges while the team practices in secret.

Under the systematic, far-sighted‘and efficient leadership of Dr. R. Tail Mackenzie for the past year, the students of the University in all its departments have been trained in athletic exercise, just as they are trained in other studies. Instead of lavishing all athletic privileges, ex-

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

TI1F. TREE ATHLETIC IDEAL.

Digitized by VjOOQle
-93-

penditure and opportunity on a few men on a team, while the rest sit around and swell with vicarious enthusiasm, the general body of University men has been trained.

In the intercollegiate team the men who need it least get the most exercise. In a years work, bv every class as a whole, which yesterday's exhibition records and makes visible, the men who need the exercise most get it. In time it will be seen that this is the one best way of carrying on college athletics. A moderate, restricted amount of competitive contests with other colleges may be wise, but such contesets are not needed to keep men at their chemistry and their physics, their German and their economics. If athletic exercise is as important as its defenders declare and as it undoubtedly is, why should intercollegiate competition be needed there?

The habit of exercise is as necessary as any good habit, and a trained body i6 as necessary as a trained mind. Both should be secured in the same way, by required college exercise. In the end both will be. The present reign of competitive athletics is only a stepping stone to a better and more rational system, with exercise for all and competition for all in many class, department, society and other contests, with intercollegiate competition restricted.

—A LONG EDITORIAL recently in one of the New York dailies in regard to Professor Irving Fisher's report of his investigations on the subject of the relative endurance of flesh-eaters and flesh-abstainers speaks of the factor of congeniality as omitted in his calculations. In his former experiment with nine healthy Yale students, the factor of congeniality was given much prominence, the only rules followed by the men being thorough mastication and strict obedience to appetite and enjoyment of food. It was found by following these rules the men gradually, of their own desire* reduced the amount of meat and of higli-proteid foods generally, while their working power nearly doubled. The tests were of representative muscles, one of the tests being ‘‘deep kneebending and stooping as many times in succession as possible.

The attempt has been made to use the report of Professor Fisher's investigation as a vindication of strict vegetarianism. The report gave no evidence that a strictly vegetarian diet was necessary in order to reach the maximum endurance. It showed that these differences in endurance were probably a matter of high and low proteid. and confirmed the theories maintained by Professor Crittenden of Yale University. It is practically impossible to reach a low-protcid diet without reducing largely the ordinary amount of meat consumption, although, on the other hand, it is quite possible to attain a high-proteid with the use of vegetable foods only. So far as flesh-eating as such is concerned, the only safe conclusion which can he drawn from the experiment is that the ordinary consumption of flesh is excessive and not that total abstention is necessary or even desirable.

Both experiments are only part of a series of studies Professor

Digitized by C.ooQle
-04-

Fisher is making on the subject of endurance, which studies are being made from the standpoint of an economist seeking to discover what conditions favor the labor power of nations. He is not a physiologist and has no physiological theories to prove.

The object of Professor Fisher’s investigations as to the relative endurance of flesh-eaters and flesh-abstainers was to determine the relations of certain dietetic factors to endurance, particularly the factors of pro-teid and flesh foods. The present experience consisted of endurance tests made on forty-nine persons representing two contrasted types of dietetic* habits—first, athletes accustomed to a high-proteid and full-flesh dietary: second- athletes accustomed to a low-proteid and non-flesh dietary; third, sedentary persons accustomed to a low-proteid and non-flesh dietary. The subjects consisted of Yale students and instructors, a Connecticut physician, and some of the physicians, nurses and employes of the Battle Creek Sanitarium. All of the subjects except one had abstained from flesh foods for periods from four to twenty years, and five of them had never eaten such foods.

The experiment furnished a severe test of the claims of the fle-h-abstainers. Two comparisons were planned, one between flesh-eating and flesh-abstaining athletes, and the other between flesh-eating athletes and flesh-abstaining sedentary workers. The result would indicate* that the users of low-proteid and the non-flesli dietaries have far greater endurance than those who are accustomed to the ordinary American diet.

In the absence of any exact mechanical method of measuring en- • durance, three simple endurance tests were employed: first, holding the arms horizontally as long as possible; second, deep knee-bending; third, leg-raising with the subject lying on his back. All of these tests were made before witnesses.

The first comparison (for arm-holding) shows a great superiority on the side of the flesh-abstainers. Only two of the fifteen flesh-eaters succeeded in holding their arms out over a quarter of an hour, whereas twenty-tw’o of the thirty-two abstainers surpassed that limit. None of the flesh-eaters reached half an hour, hut fifteen of the thirty-two abstainers exceeded that limit. Of these nine exceeded one hour- four exceeded two hours and one exceeded three hours.

In respect to the deep knee-bending, if we4ake the number 325 for reference we find that of the nine flesh-eaters only three surpassed this figure, w-hile of the twenty-one abstainers seventeen surpassed it. Only one of the nine flesh-eaters reached 1.000 as agaist six of the twenty-one abstainers. None of the former surpassed 2.000 as against two of the latter.

In respect to leg-raising, the records show little difference. None of the contestants reached their absolute limits. The highest record for the abstainers is 1,000 times.

There remain two questions:	First,	are	the figures a true index of

the relative* endurance of tin* groups of men considered? and second, is the difference in endurance thus displayed due to the dietetic causes mentioned or to some other factor?

Digitized by C^ooQle
-On

The necessity of raising the first question has been pointed out with much emphasis by C as pari, who states that vegetarians are usually so determined to prove the correctness of their principles and to spread their propaganda, that they make a far greater effort in any contest than do their meat-eating rivals. He points out that in the food races in Germany between vegetarians and meat-eaters some of the* latter have dropped out when not really exhausted and given the victory to the former, who have heroically stayed by their guns. It is undoubtedly true that grit counts for much in most contests of endurance- and that it is possible to mistake a superiority in grit for a superiority in muscular endurance. .. The advantage to those who took the later tests, in having a mark set for them to reach or surpass, is shown in the comparisons between the two groups of abstainers, the sedentary and the athletic. It can scarcely be supposed that the sedentary physicians had actually greater endurance than the athletes. Yet in one of the tests (arm-holding) the sedentary men had the highest record. This is aserihable to the fact that he sedentary men were tested after the records of the athletes were known. A Battle Creek nurse, possessing great strength and endurance, in knee-bending at first made only 147, hut afterward, under the influence of stimulus of competition, he raised it to 2,400.

In another case, that of the Yale student, there was no thought of “vegetarianism*’: he had practically dropped meat out of his dietary from reasons of economy, and was much surprised after his test was over to hear the suggestion that his endurance might he due to this abstemiousness. . . . Special pains were taken to stimulate the flesh-eaters to the utmost. This stimulation was brought about, in the ease of the Yale students, by utilizing their college pride. They felt that their tests would go on record as tests of Yale athletes- and the “Yale spirit’* ajv peared to be as great a stimulus as any “vegetarian*’ spirit could possibly he.

An effort was made to bring individuals representing the two diets in direct competition, although this was possible only in two eases. In one case a Yale long-distance runner and a Yale professor who had adopted the Crittenden diet met in competition in the arm contest. The athlete was a high-proteid flesh-eater. In the course of a few minutes his arms began to tremble, and at the end of eight minutes and fifty-four seconds they had gradually fallen, against his will and much to his mortification. The arms of his antagonist had not yet begun to tremble or even to give much pain in the deltoid, and he continued holding them out for thirty-seven minutes. In another case, a physician from Xow Haven, who accompanied me on one of the trips to Battle Creek, was pitted against a physician of the Sanitarium. The New Haven physician was of a more athletic build than his antagonist and, in college had been a football player. In physique and former training, in out-of-door life, in age and every other material aspect except diet, he seemed to have the advantage. But in diet he was accustomed to eating meat three times a day, whereas his antagonist had abstained from meat for twenty years
-96-

and was on a low-proteid basis. In order tliat the flesh-eater might have the greater stimulus, he was started on his test one minute later than his opponent. He therefore realized that if he dropped his arms first he was beaten' whereas his opponent, had he dropped his arms first, still had a chance of wipning. The flesh-eater certainly exercised strong will power, but at the end of twelve minutes he was unable to hold out longer. His opponent continued to seventeen minutes, and had he made the same effort, would undoubtedly have continued much longer.

Jn general it may be said that, whatever the explanation, there is strong evidence that a low-proteid non-flesh, or nearly non-flesh, dietary is conducive to endurance.

We will reprint the complete article of Prof. Fisher's in one of our next issues.

THE CRUX OF FOOD REFORM.

To the majority of people the question of food reform is of no interest; as long as they are catered for in the orthodox manner, they are content. This apathy in food matters must be attributed to those teachers of dietetics who do not present their subject in an interesting and practical way. Persons who keep animals and birds know that they must have special foods, otherwise they become diseased and die. Those which live in a natural state do not suffer from disease. Men, women, and children are dying daily of disease. What is the cause of it, when animals keep healthy under natural conditions?

If we turn to the medical profession we shall probably be told that disease is owing to germs; and if we ask the hygienists they will tell ui that we suffer from disease because we do not lead natural lives. From the standpoint of the scientist, therefore, we shall have disease always amongst us; and according to the naturopaths' dictum we shall be free from disease, if we follow nature. Hygienists usually advise sick people to follow nature, and to eat natural foods. They are cautioned against the use of meat, because, according to reliable statistics, meat is the chief factor in producing cancer. It is further proved that disease is more prevalent amongst people who consume meat in large quantities than amongst abstainers from flesh meat.

In order to obtain reliable information about people who lead natural lives, I wrote to Iierrn August Engelhardt, founder of "The Order of the Sun" and proprietor of the Island Kabakon, in the Bis-mark-Archipel, German New Guinea. 1 might mention here that he desires to people his island with persons who live exclusively on nuts and fruits. Mr. Engelhardt informs me that the natives, who take no meat, suffer from ulcers and skin diseases, and that they are phlegmatic and mentally lazy. I have this statement coroborated by a correspondent from Ralmm a German settlement near Kabakon, that the natives of the island suffer from ulcers and other diseases. They are also equally subject to fever, and die from it as frequently as foreigners. These facts annul the

Digitized by CjOOQle
assertions of hygienists that meat is the chief cause of disease and that leading natural lives prevents disease and premature death.

I have been a student of dietetics for many years, and by prolonged experiments I have come to the conclusion that disease is due to wrong combinations and proportions of food. Dr. Bellows, in his work entitled “The Philosophy of Eating" (Simpkin, Marshall & Co.), gives some valuable information about combinations and proportions of foods. [ consider the chief causes of disease, and also of homeliness, are fatty, sweet, and starchy foods, and the use of tea, coffee, cocoa, and alcohol/ Let any person suffering from any disease abstain from the articles mentioned above, and take lean meat* fish, poultry, game, cooked and salad vegetables, tomatoes, and lemon juice, and he,will notice a great change of the character of the symptoms of his disease.

Students of physical education who take proper foods for developing their bodies and brains will undoubtedly meet with the greater success in life, because if great things have been accomplished already by diet alone, how much more can be acchieved when combined with proper physical training?

THE POWER TO WORK.

DR. HADLEY on the Economics in Teaching Toward That End.

President Hadley spoke before the Associated Academic Principals of Xew York State at Syracuse. X. Y., December 2fi. His address, which was on “ Economy of Education' was in part as follows:

When a man wants to build a house he can either let the architect draw very large plans, and be compelled to cut them down afterward, or he can plan the necessary economy in advance by deciding which things he wants most and which things he can afford to do without. The man who adopts the second method gets a much better house.

I am afraid that most of our educational systems are planned by the first method. • We undertake to do rather more than we can afforu and cut down all along the line—with the result of having too many subjects not very thoroughly taught, and too many teachers not at all adequately paid.

The aims and ideals of our school teachers are excellent. In the earlier grades they try to add a certain amount both of general culture and of technical training. These are all good objects; but the indiscriminate pursuit of them all may interfere and does interfere with the thorough attainment of any of them.

The first step toward economy is to separate much more than at present technical study from general study. If we made this separation and charged a small fee for technical courses, we could get a great deal better instruction than we now do; because the pupils who take these courses would do so with fixed purpose, and would cooperate with the teachers in making them a success; while the high schools and colleges, relieved of the duty of giving technical instruction to those who did not need it or did not want it, would be able better to do their general work of preparation for citizenship.

Digitized by e.ooQle
-98-

The next step would be to systematize the elective system in the colleges and high schools themselves. We have today a great many more electives than we need, and we have multiplied them without any definite principle or clear understanding of the purpose for which the elective system exists. Its true object is to find out what line of work a bov is good for. To do this it is not necessary to have as many different studies as there are different kinds of human interest It is not true that each pupil can be appealed to by some one object, and that one only. There are well 'defined types of mind—the scientific, the literary■ and the practical. If you have arranged your courses so that you can find out to which of these types a pupil belongs, and teach him certain subjects by a method that suits him, you have done all that is needed. The work of the school will be more efficiently and economically accomplished if this adaptation is made with a few subjects instead of a great many.

Tn the still earlier grades of our school system we need to reintroduce the old distinction between work and play, of which some teachers today lose sight. It is true that the best work has in it an element of play, and that the best play has in it an element of work. But there is a fundamental difference between the two things. Work, however much it may be enjoyed, is done for the sake of a remote end. Play, however highly organized, is done for the enjoyment of the doing. If we bring too much organized play in our schools, and thereby crowd out the idea of work, we are unconsciously teaching our pupils that it is not their business to do anything except for the motive of momentary enjoyment. We undertake the teaching of a great many lessons which they would learn of themselves if let alone; and we render it impossible to teach, with the resources at our command, some things which they must either learn in school or go out into life badly equipped for its conflicts. What we are trying to obtain is power of work; and the best economy results when our studies are both made auxiliary to this end.

—ONE hardly knows which type of “physical culturist” does the most injury to the cafise of rational physical education—the medical man who, whilst hankering to evolve a new’ system, recently trotted out, as something newr, warnings that have repeatedly issued in this and contemporary journals ever since the erase for muscle-wrorship set in, and concluded by advocating that the mouth should be kept open, as an imperative duty; or the professional “strong” man, who has already devised a sort of “lickcreation” system, and who, as an astute showman* is ever on tl\e alert to secure a little gratuitous advertisement by	lending his	name	to	any statment, however

ridiculous or misleading, to the first enterprising journalist that comes along. That both types are quite unacquainted with the objects and true scope of the system of rational physical training that already exist in England is only too evident from their statements, and our own regret has always been that we could not by some process compel these self-constituted critics to take a practical course in a recognized system of of educational gymnastics, under a qualified exponent.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—99—

A MASS DEMONSTRATION BY THE UNIVERSITY OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

On April 24th the united classes in physical education of the University of Pennsylvania gave their second mass demonstration of gymnastic and athletic exercises on the large splendid field immediately adjoining the university gymnasium.

The invitation explained that:

“This demonstration aims to show the practical application of the ordinary athletic sports to large classes and their place in a complete course of physical education. It concludes the third part of the year’s course, the other two consisting of indoor work.

The gymnastic drill is arranged in separate parts. Firstly, to cultivate the respiratory power and general development. Secondly, to exercise the arms and shoulders bv Boxing. Thirdly, by Dancing to cultivate agility, and fourthly, by Slow Breathing to quiet the respiration.

The athletic feats are those commonly practiced on the athletic field, with the exception of Wall-Scaling, which is introduced for the first time. This cultivates agility, co-operation, and team-work.

Owing to the impossibility of having all the classes together at one time without stopping work in every department of the University, this exhibition is given without rehearsal.”

The program was as follows:

The men were arranged in the gymnasium in four columns, the ranks in each column having eight men. Upon a signal they ran out on the field, keeping step with the music, and took their positions in four columns. A pistol shot gave the signal to open the ranks full distance to the left. This was also done in running, and in an instant the 300 young men stood in open order in very good alignment. They were all dressed alike, white, sleeveless shirt, track pantaloons, dark blue stockings and white shoes. It wras a wonderful sight, and set the 8>000 spectators a-eheering.

The gymnastic work was shown in three parts. Part. I consisted first of regular free exercises, then came the “Start” for running and lastly the “Shotput,” arranged as calisthenic movements. These movements were all accompanied by music, and any one who has ever tried to arrange such activities to musical accompaniment must say that this was a very ambitious undertaking. After this came a group of Dancing steps, also performed to music, and then came Boxing with various leads, counters, ducks, with advancing, retreating and breaking away, also all set to music. While the Dancing steps lent themselves nicely to music, the Boxing movements were, at present, too difficult for the classes. What pleased me most wras the earnestness with which the young collegians w'ent at their work. It convinced me more than ever that the training of the masses is gaining ground here, and that it wrill eventually be a success every place where it is undertaken with intelligence.

Part II showed how large numbers can be employed in track and

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-100-

field work. The participants were divided into seven divisions, which practiced 30 yard dashes, jumping the low hurdles, three standing far jumps, shot put and the high jump. Enough apparatus was on the field that 80 men were always exercising at the same time. The arrangement was such that as soon as 16 men had a trial at one place they immediately went to the next event, and so on. The result was a very animated picture.

Part III was competitive wall-scaling by teams. While the teams were showing their skill, the rest of the gymnasts assembled at the rear end of the field, arranged in three long front ranks of about one hundred each. At the close of the contest these joung men came marching across the field in perfect order, and those of us who know what a beautiful spectacle this is can imagine' the cheers and applause that greeted them. They halted in front of the scaling tower and with a mass-song “America” the exhibition came to a close. Credit must be given to the director of the department of physical education, Dr. R. Tait McKenzie, and his corps of able assistants for the conscious, well planned work they are doing. While it would be folly to sav that this exhibition was perfect, it had nevertheless demonstrated that sane physical training is getting a stronger hold among the young men of our universities. During the afternoon I often wished that those of our colleagues who are trying to believe that the average “American” boy must have competitive athletics or nothing could have seen the willingness with which these representative “Americans" subjected themselves to a discipline that spoke highly of their self-control and of the successful efforts of their teachers.—St.

ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL VERSUS RUGBY FOR HIGH

SCHOOL BOYS.

By THOS. J BROWNE, Commercial High Schoo’, Brooklyn, N. V.

That American Rugby football is far inferior to Association football or “socker,” as a means of interesting the mass of high school boys actively participating, rather than merely “rooters,” is shown bv the experience of the Commercial High School of Brooklyn, X. Y. For various leasons, to be mentioned later, Rugby is impossible for our average high school bov in New York City. I began to find this out a year and a half ago, when I tried to furnish an incentive to outdoor ex ercise to the boys of our school, by attempting to form Rugby football teams m each of the eleven classes of the first division, each of which class consisted of from twenty-five to thirty boys fourteen to sixteen vears old.

A football team of eleven boys with four substitutes would have got well down among the average of the class physically. I acknowledge that, even then, I would not have attained the ideal of reaching the boys who needed the exercise most—the lower twenty per cent, or so. However, as a beginning I would have been content with reaching only the

i
-101-

upper ha]f. But I was disappointed. Out of the three hundred hoys I got barely enough to form a team, and these were hoys ambitious to form a school team, strong and vigorous, and needing the training least.

Last fall I determined to try Association football as contrasted with Rugby; this is a kicking game; carrying the ball or tackling an opponent is prohibited. As a result of this policy, instead of a small squad of fifty practicing for the school Rugby team, as had been the case in previous years, over 400 boys were playing on class “socker” teams. That the remain ig 800 boys in the school were not playing was not owing to lack of desire to play, but to the limited capacity of our athletic field. The game had to be confined to the boys of the first three terms. Almost every class in the three divisions organized a team. Fourteen first term teams played a series of 35 games for the championship of the division; eight teams of the second term played a series of twelve games; and five teams of the term played fifteen games to decide the championship. In all, the 27 teams played a total of 62 match games during the season lasting from September 17 to December 10.

Besides these match games practice games were played every afternoon after the match games were over. When half way through the season, a “socker* tournament was started between seven high schools of the city. We entered a team in this tournament, choosing most of the players from among the boys already playing in the class tournaments. However, the interests of this school were subordinate to the interests of the class teams. The main purpose, that of giving the mass of students an opportunity to exercise, was adhered to. The school team had to wait till late in the afternoon when the class games were over, before it could have its special practice. Naturally this interfered with the development of the team, and seriously effected its chances for the city championship, which nevertheless it came within half a point of winning. The success of this team, with the small amount of practice and coaching it had, suggested to me that the law of diminishing returns might wisely be kept in mind in the training of athletic teams. Fp to a certain point practice and coaching bring rapid improvement; beyond that point the results are decreasingly commensurate with the time and effort expended. Through force of circumstances we kept well within the limit.

Our experience with class games showed that a representative school team is of little value as a means of interesting large numbers in exercise with a view to making the .school team. Its value as an incentive to exercise is not wforth the time, effort and money such teams usually require. The exihtence of school teams can he justified only on the basis of social utility, as to whether they develop “esprit de corps’' or Fcholl loyalty, afford opportunity for the expression of such sentiments on the part of the student body, or present a favorable means of meeting pupils of other schools. Such teams are deterrents rather than incentives to the mass of students to exercise, because of their monopoly of athletic fields and of the time of the instructors in charge. At the be-

Digitized by CjOOQle
-102-

ginning of our “socker* season the Rugby squad monopolized the field four afternoons a week, leaving us two afternoons and Saturday morning. The boys turned out for “socker” in such numbers, however, that the Rugby players had to take less time, although they were left with much more than their proper share, in view of the 1200 boys of the school needing exercise. Traditions, however, cannot be uprooted in one season.

Great difficulty was experienced in finding time for the many games. Each team had to have at least one match game per week in order to keep interested. To get in as many games as possible, we cut the time of the halves from 45 minutes to 15 and when not interfered with by the Rugby team played three games in an afternoon. To permit more scoring and hence avoid ties a modification in scoring was made. If the ball was kicked over its own goal line by the defending team, a half point was awarded to the attacking side. This deservedly increased the chances lor scoring of the team playing an offensive game. Another change was made concerning substitutes. The English custom does not permit substitutes to be put in during the game. To interest as many boys as possible we allowed four substitutes to each game. This meant that 15 boys were practicing the game in each of the 27 classes, making a total of 405.

As the weather became colder it was necessary to cut three games usually played in an afternoon to two, because of the unwillingness of the players of the third game to wrait in the cold—a reasonable objection. To wait through but one game on a cold afternoon was compliment enough to the attractiveness of the game. Some of the best games were played with snow on the ground. We were enabled to make this change to two games an afternoon because of the early finish of the Rugby season two wreeks before Thanksgiving, thus giving us the afternoon for “socker” games.

The organization of the teams at the beginning of the season was easily arranged. During the first week of school I asked the president of each class to select a team and a temporary captain for it and have it ready to play the following week. After a team had played one or two games a permanent captain was elected by the players:	Owing	to rainy

days, schedules could not be strictly adhered to. Teams were notified two days in advance of a game. The athletic field is 15 minutes* walk from the building, and school closes at 2.30 P. M. At three o‘clock the first game started, the next at 3.30 and the last at 4.

From our experience with the two games I should say that the advantages of Association football as compared with Rugby are as follows:

(a)	There is not as great danger of injury in Association football. During the three months we have played the game, with two games or more every clear afternoon, we have had no injuries more serious than a few barked shins.

(b)	As great a development of strength and vitality can be obtained as in Rugby: in fact, there is more running than in Rugby and hence

Digitized by CjOOQle
—103-

more work for the heart and lungs. The work is, however, more evenly divided than among the players of a Rugby team. The ball passing from backs to forwards and vice versa, gives frequent periods of rest and prevents one or two players from being worked to exhaustion. The freshness of the players was frequently shown by their unanimous desire to continue the game at the expiration of the first half without any intermission for rest, and this not only in the shorter games but also in the match games between schools where the halves were twenty minutes each.

(c)	The rules of the game are very simple and can be mastered in any game. In Rugby certain fundamental formations must be mentally grasped before the games can be started, and the complexity of the rules requires frequent interruption of the game for purposes of instruction. In “socker” a crowd of “greenhorns” are divided in two sides, one side is told to kick the ball towards one goal, the other towards the other goal. They are not to touch the ball with the hands or tackle a player. No long explanations are necessary; and where many are waiting to play and the time is limited, this is an important consideration.

(d)	Although the principles of the game are very simple, there is unlimited opportunity for the development of individual skill, and hence for the constant increase of interest in the game. Rugby, it is true, is far superior in complexity of team play, yet there is sufficient team work in “socker” to demand the qualities, often dmui> jo ‘Aqihiy; o\ paquenu loyalty and self-abnegation. Other qualities, possibly as important, and comon to all such games, such as the ability to accept defeat manfully as well as to take victory modestly, and the habit of playing honorably though yet hard, are as strangely developed by “socker” as bv Rugby Again, as mentioned, the complexity of team work in Rugby is an obstacle in the way of handling the large numbers of boys in our city high school.

(e)	When well played* the game is as interesting as Rugby to the unbiased spectator. This is shown by the tremendous crowds which go to the Association games in England. Crowds of 35,000 with us are exceptional. There they are used to crowds of 50,000. Many of the big matches draw 75,000. Two years ago in a game to decide the championship of England 100,000 was the record-breaking attendance.

(f)	As speed and agility are the main requisites for a successful player, light weight boys can compete with and often outplay heavy weights. Beef and brute strength are outclassed by nerve and strategy. This was well exemplified in one of our games in which a team of rather large boys was beaten by a light weight team. As a member of the former team was leaving the field, he answered the cheers of the victors by shouting out: “You beat us in ‘socker/ but we could walk all over you in Rugby.”

(g)	Expensive and specially adapted clothing is not absolutely necessary. A boy can take off his coat and go into the game feeling reasonably sure that his clothes as well as himself will come out undamaged. This fact more than any other made for the success of our

Digitized by CaOOQie
-104-

class games. Boys went directly to the field after school, took off their hats and coats and played the game. No time was lost changing clothing, and’ therefore, there was no delay in starting games.

In brief, the increasing complexity of Rugby, the great importance of team work as contrasted with individual skill, and hence need for considerable coaching, the expense of specially adapted clothing, the time taken to put on and off such clothing, the handicap a light weight boy plays under when against a heavier boy, and the danger of serious injury with the consequent parental objection, all militate against Rugby and in favor of Association football as a practical means of interesting large mas>es of our high school students in outdoor exercise.

ELEVENTH ANNUAL AMERICAN MARATHON

Run under the Auspices of the Boston Athletic Association.

The Eleventh Annual American Marathon, twenty-five miles, held on Patriots' Day, April 19, was without question the greatest race ever held in this country and probably the greatest in the world. The entries numbered 124, of which 10:1 actually started, and of this number about 75 finished.

Xew York was well represented with over 20 entries and Canada sent 8. The race was started at exactly 12 noon amid great excitement.

Much thanks is due the selectmen and the police of the various towns for the excellent manner in which they looked after the course.

It is estimated that almost 200,000 people witnessed the race all along the various points; and if it were not for the inclement weather’ it is safe to say this number would have been greatly increased.

Thomas Longboat, the famous Indian, took the lead at Auburndale and easily kept it to the finish. His time was 2 hours, 24 minutes and 24 seconds, breaking the record of Caff rev in 1901 by almost five minutes.

As usual, a medical examination was made of the contestants before and after the race. Xo man was in such a condition as to prevent his starting, although two individuals with light heart trouble were warned to withdraw at any time if they became fatigued. One of these men did finish but was not seriously injured by the distance which he ran. The other finished and came in with the last of the field in fair shape.

The condition of the men at the finish was far superior to that of previous years, due largely to better preparation. There were none who collapsed after arriving at the Club House, and no runner was unable to take his hath and eat his lunch within a short time after finishing. The first twenty-five men were, as usual, in the best condition, being those best trained for the race.

This year an attempt was made to stop the use of drugs and especially alcohol during the run, and each contestant was made familiar with the following circular:

“The attention of contestants and trainers is called to the following:

“Xo severe work should he done in the week preceding the race.
-105-

Long runs and tests of endurance should he finished before that time.

“It is very important that the contestants should eat simple food* plainly cooked. Food should he eaten slowly and chewed thoroughly, and taken in moderate quantities. Avoid sweets and indigestible foods of all sorts. Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables. Drink water between meals.

“Alcohol in any form is positively forbidden before, durimr and immediately after the race. It never does good and usually does harm.

“Disregard of the foregoing shall he considered sufficient grounds for disqualification bv the physician in charge.”

So far as can he learned, no drugs or alcohol were taken by the runners. The necessity for making such a rule as the above was dependent upon the fact that in previous Marathon runs men who, becoming fagged and employing alcohol, digitalis, strychnia or cocaine, were in the worst physical condition and often in a state of collapse. Many of the men not finishing these races have stated that they fell unconscious soon after taking the stimulants. The fine condition of the men in this year's run is gratifying and substantiates the belief that stimulation has no place in such a contest, hut they should depend rather upon long preparation for the event.

Tn the minds of many it has been a question of interest to know the ultimate effect of undergoing such a severe physical strain as the Marathon race really is. So far as can he learned, none of the contestants in the runs of previous years have suffered any permanent ill effects, and many of the runners have been participants for three or four years. It is significant, however, that the race has never been won twice by the same mam with the exception of Oaffrev, who captured the event in 1 S)00 and 1901.

The-winners have been men who participated in the event for the first time or who have run but one previous Marathon. This year three of the starters were previous winners of the event. One did not finish and the others were far back in the field at the finish. There were several contestants who, having been well to the front in previous years, finished in poorer positions. Although possessing experience both in the matter of training and running the race, it is felt that the winners must be sought for among those of lesser experience, who have been well fitted by long and judicious training.

Longboat, the winner, must be considered a natural runner, and his excellent condition at the end of the race showed that he had much reserved force. Fowler, the second man, was in equally good condition, and could he have been in company with the Indian during the latter part of the race, there is no knowing what time would have been made for the distance. The established record is a wonderful physical performance. This is the best realized by noting that the average of each mile, up hill and down hill, for twenty-five consecutive miles, was run in under six minutes' while the majority of one-mile races on tin* best cindered tracks are usually won in hut one to one and one-half minutes
- 11 Mi-

fast IT time. Dr. Larrabee, who lias paid special attention to the condition of the feet, found that they were in much better condition this year than last and attributes it largely to the fact that they had a cool, vet road throughout the course. Some benefit seemed to be derived from greasing the feet, or soaking the stockings in some lubricant.

The examining physicians were Drs. John C. Phillips, W. E. Ladd, Horace Boutwell, Ralph Larrabee, Thomas Ordway and John H. Cunningham, Jr.—“The Unicorn.”

—The School Hygiene Association of America is now in process of formation. Its Committee on Organization consists of the following gentlemen :

Arthur T. Cabot. 1 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass., Chairman.

John A. Bergstrom, Ph.D., Professor of Education, University of Indiana.

Hermann M. Biggs- M. I)., General Medical Officer, Department of Health, New York City.

Frank Boas. Ph.D., Professor of Anthropology, Columbia University. Elmer E. Brown, Ph.D., United States Commissioner of Education. William Henry Burnham, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pedagogics, Clark University.

Nicholas Murray Butler, LL.I)., Litt.D., President, Columbia University. Arthur T. Cabot, Fellow, Harvard University.

Luther Halsey Ouliek, M. D.. M. P. E., Director of Physical Training* New York Public Schools.

G. Stanley Hall, Ph.D., LL.D., President, Clark University.

Charles Harrington, M. D., Mass. State Board of Health.

Abraham Jacobi, M.D., LL.D., Professor, Diseases of Children. NewYork City.

William H. Maxwell, A.M.* LL.D., City Supt. of Schools, New* York City. George L. Meylan, A.M., M.D., Columbia University.

John H. Musser, M. D., Professor of Medicine, University ofPennsylvania Edward L. Stevens, A.M., Ph.D., Associate Supt. of Schools, New York City.

Henry P. Wolcott. A.B., M.D., Chairman* Mass. State Board of Health. William H. Welch, A.B., M.D., LL.D., Professor of Pathology, John Hopkins University.

Luther Halsey Gulick, 500 Park Avenue, New York City, Secretary.

The first meeting of the Association will be held in Washington, D. C.. on May 6 and ?, at which time a scientific program will be presented and the society will formally organize, electing officers* adopting a constitution, and so on. Up to the present time there has been no general body in the United States that has concerned itself definitely with the problems of school hygiene. The Chairman of the Local Committee on Arrangements is United States Sommissioner of Education Elmer E. Brown.

Digitized by

Google
-107-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

f Continued. ^

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and close with the game “Wrestling Circle** in small circles of six or eight members each.

As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

After taking dumbbells, line up and face front. Count off to ranks of fours. Open order-forw., the r. flanker leading to two steps distance.

DUMBBELL DRILL.

Arms to thrust—bend !

1.	aj Raise 1. and r. lower leg backw. alt. and thrust arms upw.—1, 4! b) Raise 1. and r. knee sidew. alt. and thrust arms outw. (sidew.)— 1,4! Arms—down!

2.	Jump to stride pos. out\y. and raise arms forw. (knuckles turned inward)—1 ! Bend knees (trunk erect) and move arms outw. (spread as wide as possible on a level with the shoulders and supinate arms)—2! As 1 —3! Pos.—4!

-5. Toe touch forw. 1. and raise arms forw. overh.—1 ! Bendkneestep backw. 1., bend trunk forw.. move arms downw., the dumbbells to rest on the floor—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

4. Squat rest and raise dumbbells over shoulders (elbows point outw. and knuckles turned backw.)—1! Lunge forw. outw. obi. to the 1., stretch 1. arm upw. obi., .1. hand in line over 1. foot, the r. arm backw. downw. obi., the r. hand in line over r. foot—2! As 1—3! Pos *—4! Opposite—o, 8!

5. Toe touch backw. 1. and raise arms outw.—1 ! Bendkneestep forw. 1., bend trunk backw., % double arm circle outw.—2! Return in reverse order—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

6.	Raise 1. leg and arms forw.—1 ! Move 1. leg sidew. and arms outw.—2! Move 1. leg backw. and arms overh.—3! Lower leg and arms forw. to starting pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

Close order forw. R. face and march forw. Form ranks of two

1.	obi.—March ! File down the center and separate to form two large circles. Face inw. Full distance between members.

7.	Lunge forw. 1., bend trunk forw. and rest dumbbells on the floor—1! Place 1. foot to r. to front leaning rest—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8 !

R. face ! Arms to thrust—bend !

8.	Lunge sidew. 1. and thrust 1. arm sidew. upw. obi. and r. arm sidew. downw. obi.—1! Change knee-bending, move 1. arm sidew. downw. obi. find r. arm sidew. upw. obi.—2. As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8! Arms—down !

9.	Toe sidew. 1. and raise arms outw.—1! Cross bendknee-step backw. 1.. bend trunk sidew. 1. and 1. dumbbell resting on floor—2! As 1—3! Pos—4! Same r.—5, H!

L. side toward center as in ex. 8.

Digitized by
-108-

Face outward.

10.	Lower to squat rest and place dumbbells on the floor—1 !* Extend both legs backw. to a front leaning rest—2! Turn trunk to the

1.	and raise 1. arm sidew.—3! As 2—4-! Turn trunk to the r. and raise r. arm sidew.—5! As 2—6! As 1—7! Pos.—8!

Face inward.

11.	a) Stationary run, with raising 1. and r. lower leg backw. alt. 16

to 24 counts, b) As a, but raise extended 1. and r. leg forw.

12.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. overh. in four counts; exhale slowly and lower arms outw. to starting pos. in four counts. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

Face toward the tallest, march forw. in the circle until the leaders meet, file across the center in alternate order to single file, deposit dumbbells.

Form divisions (squads'); then march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Broad buck.

Second	“	High horizontal	bar.

Third	“	High parallel	bars.

Fourth	“	Side horse.

Change places. Divisions 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Broad Buck (height of chest).

A short run and jump to rest precedes all exercises.

1.	Straddle vault forw. to back rest; V2 circle 1. with 1. leg. then Vfr circle r. with r. leg to front rest; straddle vault dismount forw.

2.	Squat vault forw. to back rest; V& circle r. with 1. leg (cut backw. under r. leg and r. hand) to side riding rest, then h2 circle 1. with r. leg (cut backw. under 1. hand) to front rest; squat rest on buck, extend legs and dismount forw. Or raise both legs backw. to momentary free front rest and squat vault dismount forw.

3.	V2 circle r. with both legs to back rest; V2 circle r. with r. leg to side riding rest on 1. thigh; scissors sidew. 1. to side riding rest on r. thigh; V2 circle r. with r. leg and flank vault forw. 1.

4. Squat forw. 1. and raise r. leg forw. (both legs at r. angle and r. arm between legs); circle r. with r. leg to back rest, then l/a circle r. with both legs to momentary front rest and flank vault forw. 1.

5.	Turn over forw. to hand balance, then turn over farther forw. to back side stand.

6.	Turn over forw. to hand balance; hold 3 or 4 counts, then squat \ault forw. to back side stand.

7.	4n exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Repeat all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the second division on the high horizontal bar.

First Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to hang and—

1.	Ordinary grasp. Swing and pull up to free front rest at the end of

Digitized by 0.00s le
-109-

the backw. swing; drop swing and repeat pull up to free front rest; free front hip circle backw., underswing and down.

2.	Ordinary grasp. Front hip circle backw\ to momentary free rest, drop swing and pull up to free front rest at the end of the backw. swing, free front hip circle backw. and down to front side stand.

3.	Reverse grasp. Swing and pull up to free front rest at the end of the backw. swing and immediately change grasp to ordinary, front hip circle backw. to hang, swing forw. and raise feet to bar, kip (upstart) and flank vault 1.

4 Ordinary grasp. Swing and pull up as in the exercise 3, drop kip (upstart), raise both legs backw. and lower to straight arm hang, swing, forw., squat backw. r. between hands and knee-swing up forw. to side riding rest, raise 1. leg sidew. and rest instep against (under) bar, simultaneously change grasp of r. hand to reverse, circle forw. once or twice in this position with the 1. arm swinging free, again grasp bar with the 1. hand to ordinary, then circle 1. leg over bar and dismount forw. with Vi turn r. to front vault 1. (like a screw dismount forw.).

5. Reverse grasp. Swing and pull up, etc., as in exercise 3, front hip circle forw. to front rest, turn over forw. to straight arm hang and pull up to double knee rest between hands, knee-dismount forw.

f>. An exercise free for all.

Second Division—High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to hang and ordinary grasp—

1.	Swing, at end of front swing raise feet to bar, kip (upstart), tinderswing and down with Vfc turn 1. to front side stand.

2.	Raise feet to bar, extend hips and V2 turn r. for swing, at end of front swing again raise feet to bar, kip (upstart) and circle r. with 1. leg to outside side riding rest, knee circle backw. (once around), V2. knee circle baclcw. and again to former pos., immediately circle r. with r. leg to meet the I. for a front vault dismount 1.

3.	Swing, and at end of the front swing V2 turn 1. (transfer r. hand to farther side, hands now in combined grasp), swing forw., raise feet to bar and kip to front rest, circle 1. leg backw. with 1. turn of trunk and lower to r. knee rest and at once knee circle backw. (once around), again turn to front rest (here the grasp may or may not be changed to ordinary), drop kip and front vault r.

4.	Pull up to front rest without a swing, underswing with V2 turn r. (transfer 1. hand to ordinary grasp on the farther side of the bar, hands now in combined grasp), swing forw., raise feet to bar, kip to front rest, front vault 1. dismount. Or front vault 1. to front rest on the farther side, drop kip, underswing and down.

o. Pull up as in ex. 4, raise both legs backw. and lower to straight arm hang; at the end of the forw. swing V2 turn 1. (release grasp of both hands and regrasp to ordinary), swing forw., raise feet to bar, squat backw. r. and swing up with extended legs to side riding rest on r. thigh, circle backw. in this pos. (once around), drop backw., squat forw. r. and raise feet to bar, kip and side straddle

Digitized by C^ooQle
-110-

stand (feet close to hands), stand erect, dismount forw., or bend; knees, regrasp the bar, underswing and down.

(>. An exercise free for all.

Change place with the first division on the broad buck.

Second Division.—Broad Buck (height of chest).

Execute the exercises of the first division.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises, the third to begin on the high parallel bars and the fourth on the side horse.

High Parallel Bars.

A short run and jump to upper arm hang in the center of the bars and—

1.	Swing forw. and flex thighs over body, lower and repeat, then down at the end of the second backw. swing.

2.	Swing as in ex. 1, at end of the backw. swing spread legs wide over bars, pull up to straddle seat behind hands, raise both legs backw. and front vault dismount sidew. 1. or r.

3.	Swing as in ex. J, but at end of the first forw. swing spread legs wide over bars (the lower legs resting on the bars), pull up to straddle seat in front of the hands, rear vault dismount sidew. 1. or r.

4.	As ex. 3, swing up immediately to straddle seat in front of hands* raise both legs forw., intermediate swing and rear vault 1. with Vi turn r. to front side stand.

5.	As ex. 4, but to outside cross seat in front of the 1. hand, place 1. hand in front of thigh, raise both legs backw., swing forw. and flank vault forw. 1. (over r. bar) to back side stand.

6.	Swing as in ex. 2, and pull up to straddle seat behind hands in one swing, roll over forw. to outside cross seat in front of r. hand (rest mainly on the 1. thigh), rear vault dismount sidew. 1.

7.	Swing as in ex. 1, and at the end of the second forw. swing roll over backw. to straddle seat behind the hands, raise both legs backw. to front leaning rest, travel forw. to farther end, moving the hands alternately and feet sliding, slowly turn over forw. to back cross stand.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Side Horse (height of chest).

A run of sufficient length and jump to front rest to precede all ex-ercises and —

1.	Double knee rest, dismount forw.

2.	Squat rest on saddle, stand erect, dismount forw., spread legs wide and raise arms outw. overh. and clap hands to back side stand.

3.	Knee rest r., simultaneously Y2 circle r. with 1. leg (cut under 1. hand) and hold forw., dismount forw. and swing arms forw.

4.	As ex. 3, but squat rest r. instead of knee stand, dismount forw. and swing arms forw.

.r>. Squat forw. 1. to side riding rest, squat forw. r. to back rest, raise both legs forw. to r. angle and dismount forw. with Y2 turn 1. or r. to front side stand.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—Hitt. Squat forw. 1. to side riding rest, simultaneously squat backw. L and forw. r., again squat forw. 1. and extend both legs forw. to r. angle and dismount with Vz turn r. or 1.

7.	Squat forw. 1. and Vi turn r. to side riding rest on r. thigh, raise 1. leg backw. simultaneously, squat backw. r. and meet the 1. to momentary free front rest and dismount backw. with or without Va turn 1. or r.

8.	Thief jump forw. (spring off of 1. foot).

0. High jump oyer saddle.

10.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Clear the floor of all apparatus and prepare for the game “Wrestling Circle” (Poison).

After conclusion of the game line up the class, clap hands once and dismiss.

( Jo be continued )

—The Mueller system. In a recent lecture delivered before the German Society of Public Hygiene by Prof. Zabludowski, the director of the Berlin University Massage Institute, the Miiller System was characterized as follows: As a general hygienic procedure such exercises performed and forced in the bedroom can never be compared favorably with the social and companionable German “Turnen.” The Miiller exercises are principally designed for posing as a “Muller”. Muller differs from other acrobates inasmuch as he exhibits a nude, harmoniously developed body. In order to carry out his program he is obliged to perform his exercises daily. Every virtuoso has to do this in his branch. Rubinstein used to carry a keyboard along on his journeys for practicing his finger exercises. He used to say: “When I miss a day of such practice, I notice it; when I miss two, my colleagues notice it; and when I miss three, my audience notices it.”

—School baths. During the past year more than a million baths were taken in the public schools of Munich. In several schools the weekly average of bathing children was from 80 to 82 per cent., while in others it was as low as 42 per cent. Bathing is not compulsory.

NOTICE! Following the custom of other educational journals “MIND AND BODY” will, in the future, not be published during July and August. The number of pages per issue will be increased from thirty-two to forty, thus more than offsetting the number lost by two present issues. Subscribers who have paid for the twelve issues of the current year will receive this number. Thereafter a year’s subscription will be for ten issues.

Digitized by C.ooQle
•	BOOK	REVIEW.

“MAY-POLE POSSIBILITIES/' by Mrs. J. E. C. Lincoln, is flic title of a book just published by “American Gymnasia/’ Boston. Price $1.25. The book presents illustrations and descriptions of May-pole festivities carried on yearly bv the Department of Physical Education of the University of Illinois. The type of the festivities is that of the old European May-dav observance of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, with modifications adapted to present American conditions. Dance, marches and attractive but simple* costumes are features.

This form of exhibition work for college young women has been a success at the University of Illinois, where it was introduced bv Mrs. Lincoln in 1898. The May-pole program carried out there seeks to combine the elements of grace, poise, precision and harmony found in good dancing and* executed on the broad lawns or fields with the background of natural scenery, present a vivid picture.

The book “May-Pole Possibilities'’ treats of the subject from a somewhat technical standpoint, being designed especially for teachers who desire to reproduce in whole or in part these festivals. But it also presents by means of description, reproduced photographs and diagrams a graphic picture of what is being done that will interest those who have an educational or aesthetic interest rather than the interest of a teacher. The May-Pole, which can be traced to the time of the old Romans, is taking on a new lease of life in modern America among women's colleges as a fitting element in the growing demand and appreciation for outdoor life and the picturesque.

POST GRADUATE COURSE

•	   -=-—	FOR

TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING

Chautauqua, N. Y., July 8-qo.

The NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION announce.* a post-graduate course open to all teachers of physical training. The practical work will consist of elementary and advanced Gilbert Dancing, of foil fencing and of gymnastic games. The lectures will be on subjects intimately related to physical training. Tuition fee: for members of the Union $10.00, for non-members $20.00.

A circular, containing additional information, will be mailed by addressing

WILLIAM A. STECHER, Secretary.

120 Pomona Street,

GERMANTOWN, PHILA., PA.

Digitized by C.ooQle