MIND AND BODY

Vol. 38	MAY, 1931 No.	396

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN*

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the posioffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint §

------------------------------------*

SUMMARY OF PRESENT DAY PRACTICES IN THE CASE OF PUBLIC SCHOOL PUPILS WITH CARDIAC DEFECTS

Alvin L. King, Philadelphia.

One of the problems which is ever present in schools throughout the land is the proper care of pupils with physical defects. Aside from orthopedic cases, little has .been done in the past in the way of constructive work for such pupils. It has been the custom in many communities to excuse from parts of their school work those children suffering with cardiac defects, the particular work omitted depending upon the condition of the individual. In some of these communities no special consideration has been given unless the pupil presented a note from the family physician. It appears that in recent years, however, an increasing amount of attention has been given in public schools to the education of physically handicapped children. Here and there special school buildings have been erected and special curriculums have been arranged.

About a year ago the writer communicated with the authorities in a few cities in an endeavor to learn what is the common practice in schools with reference to attention given to cardiac

Digitized by
478

cases. The replies showed that there is great variation in the amount of attention given to such pupils and in the methods used. The writer thereupon decided to send similar inquiries to cities in all parts of the country. With this in view he organized two questionnaires with the help of Dr. Joseph B. Wolffe, Chief of the Cardio-Vascular Department of Temple University, and Mr. Grover W. Mueller, Director of the Division of Physical and Health Education in the Philadelphia Public Schools. Copies of the first questionnaire were then sent to superintendents of schools in all cities having a population of 75,000 or more and in the largest city in each state which has no city with a population so large. Copies of the second questionnaire were mailed to administrative directors of physical and health education in all cities having a population of 100,000 or more.

A gratifying number of replies were received accompanied in many cases by an expression of great interest in the problem. A study of the returns shows some interesting facts.

It appears that splendid work is being done in several of the largest cities among which are New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Detroit, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Minneapolis. In these cities cardiac cases are assigned to special classes. In most cases the children are taken to school in buses and are allowed to rest before starting any work. They are served lunch in the schools and the periods of school work are interspersed ' with periods of rest. In Detroit a special effort is made to get all cardiac cases, except those in Class III, out of doors an hour each day.

In some other cities where there are no special classes for cardiacs the children are given special privileges, such as using special entrances and exits; having classrooms on the first floor so that there will be no steps to climb, being excused from the regular program in physical education; being excused from fire drills; being allowed to recite first to relieve any prolonged nervous strain; and being allowed to come late in the day and go home early. In a few cities—Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, and Syracuse—corrective physical education is provided. In one city a visiting teacher goes to homes to give regular school instruction. Los Angeles and San Francisco send all children who are suspected of having cardiac defects to a cardiac center for examination. A report on this examination is made to school nurses, record teachers, and physical education teachers.

Superintendents of Schools in sixty-five cities returned answers to the questionnaire. These replies indicate that practically nothing is being done for cardiacs in 20% of these cities.

Following is a list of the questions which were asked and a summary of the answers which were received.
479

Question 1. Do You Require A Diagnosis Of Each Cardiac Defect From:

a)	Family Physician? ..........................  10	cities

b)	School Physician?.........:.................  23	cities

c)	Family and School Physician? .................10	cities

Question 2. If You Require A Diagnosis Of Each Case, Are They Classified As Active Or Arrested Cardiac Cases For:

a)	Assignment to special classes?

1.	Assigned to Open Air Classes.................. 8 cities

2.	Orthopedic Classes ........................... 2	cities

3.	Special classes (kind not stated) ............12	cities

4.	Either not assigned or no special classes ....13	cities

5.	Question unanswered ..........................30	cities

b)	Special rest periods during school hours?

1. *Special rest periods................................31	cities

2.	No special rest periods ...................... 6	cities

3.	Question unanswered ........................  28	cities

♦All cities giving any indication of rest periods were counted.

in several cities such periods are only in connection with special classes; others answered “in some cases,” or “in some of our schools”.

c)	Special activity during physical education periods?

1. Special activity .............................35	cities

2.	No special activity .......................... 5	cities

3.	Excused from all activity ..................   6	cities

4. Question unanswered ..........................19	cities

Question 3. Do You Use The American Heart Association’s Classification Of Cardiac Defects?

a) Use this classification ............................ 15	cities

b) Do not use this classification ......................20	cities

c)	Question unanswered ..............................  30	cities

Question 4. Do You Have Special Courses Of Study Or Special Classes For Cardiac Cases?

a)	*Have special classes ........................11	cities

b)	Do not have special classes ..................37	cities

c) Question unanswered ..................................17	cities

♦Cardiac cases that are sent to Open Air and Orthopedic

Classes are included in this number.

Question 5. Are Any Special Studies Being Made Of Cardiac Cases, Such As:

a)	Scholastic proficiency compared with normal pupils?

1.	Are making such studies .................... 3	cities

2.	Are not making such studies ................44	cities

3. Question unanswered ...............................18	cities

Administrative directors of physical education in thirty-nine cities replied to the questionnaire. The questions and summaries of answers follow:

Digitized by L^OOQle
480

Question 1. During Regular Physical Education Periods Are Pupils With Cardiac Defects:

a)	Given the regular program of activities in modified form?

1.	Give regular program in modified form .......16	cities

2.	Do not give regular program in modified form 18	cities

3.	Question unanswered.......................... 5	cities

b)	Given special exercises in lieu of regular program of

activities?

1.	Give special exercises ......................12	cities

2.	Do not give special exercises ...............19	cities

3.	Question unanswered ......................... 8	cities

c)	Given study assignments in hygiene instead of physical

education?

1.	Give assignments ............................11	cities

2.	Do not give assignments .....................14	cities

3.	Question unanswered ...........'.............14	cities

d)	Given clerical work in the gymnasium?

1.	Give clerical work...........................11	cities

2.	Do not give clerical work .................  15	cities

3.	Question unanswered .........................13	cities

e)	Rostered into other classes?

1.	Give such rosters ............................ 13	cities

2.	Do not give such rosters ....................  15	cities

3.	Question unanswered ..........................11	cities

f)	*Given assignments other than those included under the

preceding headings?

1.	Give such assignments ........................12	cities

2.	Do not give such assignments .................10	cities

3.	Question unanswered ..........................17	cities

“"Included in such assignments are short walks, posture exercises, archery, officiating in games, in active games, and rest.

Question 2. Does The Assignment Of Activities Vary According To The Defect Of The Individual?

a)	Vary according to the defect .............22	cities

b)	Do not vary according to the defect ...... 5	cities

c)	Question unanswered ......................12	cities

Question 3. Is A Doctor’s Recommendation For Excuse From Regular Activities Required Before A Pupil Is Given A Special Assignment?

a)	Require such recommendation ..............26	cities

b)	Do not require such recommendation ....... 5	cities

c)	Question unanswered ...................... 8	cities

Various studies have shown that about 1% of all children have organic heart disease. Children with this defect will be handicapped for life. Proper guidance during their school years is, therefore, of utmost importance if they are to be taught to take proper care of themselves. Vocational guidance should in-

Digitized by kjOOQle
481

elude discussion of physical condition and advice concerning suitable vocations. Such information would do much to insure happy and economically independent lives.

Discovery of cardiac defects is of course dependent upon a proper examination. Provision for examination in the schools of the United States varies greatly, but is mainly as follows: one examination per year for each child; one examination every three years; one examination during the pre-school age, and a second examination during junior high school age; no examination at a regularly scheduled time, examinations being made only on emergency calls. If best results are to be obtained thorough examinations should be made regularly by a school physician, and his recommendations should be followed up by the teachers. In a study conducted in Philadelphia by Dr. Joseph B. Wolffe, it was found that of all the early cases of cardiac defects reporting to clinics the greatest number were discovered and sent to the clinics by school medical inspectors.

Although much is being done for child cardiac sufferers in some communities, it is plain that many cities are doing practically nothing. Courses in Cardiology for Teachers, including an understanding of the pulse, might help in the early discovery of more heart cases.

A STUDY OF THE HISTORY, USES AND VALUES OF APPARATUS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

(Continued from April issue).

Leopold F. Zwarg, Ed. D.

JAHN, FRIEDRICH LUDWIG (1778-1852), THE FATHER AND ORGANIZER OF POPULAR PHYSICAL EDUCATION (TURNEN)

John’s Time

The end of the eighteenth and the beginning of the nineteenth century, marked a new epoch in all leading countries. The industrial revolution meant a change in the mode of living. Despotic rulers could no longer check the longing of the people for political freedom* There was a change in political and educational ideas such as the world had never witnessed. Germany's humiliation, helplessness and physical weakness, after the victories of Napoleon, were keenly felt by its leaders. The philosopher Fichte delivered “Addresses to the German Nations” in Berlin during the winter of 1807-1808, appealing to the leaders to turn to education to save the nation from its miseries. The effect of these addresses was tremendous. It aroused an intense national feeling. Germany became the center and leading nation in educational thought and practice. Concerning physical education, much had been written by this time, by

Digitized by LjOOQle
482

such eminent men as Immanuel Kant, Jean Paul Richter, J. G. Fichte, and E. M. Arndt.

Significance of John’s Work

The work of some previous leaders has been discussed. Important as that was, it had been confined to a few institutions. But now, during this period of general enthusiasm for things educational, there came into the field a leader who, by personality and ability, was peculiarly fitted to make physical training a national and popular affair. This was Friedrich Ludwig Jahn. Chiefly a patriot, he was able to present to the German people a gift, in the form of a physical training system, that they have since cherished, and that has made its influence felt in all civilized countries. .

The fact that very recent viewpoints with regard to physical education coincide strikingly with the views expressed by this man, is significant.

The point at issue in this thesis is closely connected with the work of Jahn. Also, the significance of his work seems to be little understood in English-speaking countries. Therefore, we deem it expedient to dwell at some length upon the man and his work.

John’s Views

Jahn realized that modem man would need bodily skill, agility, courage and perseverance as much as ever. When he devised a method of physical education for the boys of his country, it was for the purpose of creating liberty-loving, social and indepednent thinking men. He felt this was possible by strengthening the degenerated muscle groups of the body, thus liberating man from the shackles of an environment that made him feeble, that allowed his muscles, and consequently his mental vigor, to decay. His purpose, therefore, constituted the very aims of a true democracy.

Jahn’s ideas and ideals are beautifully expressed by himself in a book that reads like a romance:

Apart from some peculiarities, it is in point of philosophy, psychology and scientific treatment, unsurpassed to the present day. Jahn admits the imperfections of the work, and the need of further development of the subject matter, but he scoffs at pedagogical pedantries. What the book describes, he says, is the outcome of a practical experiment. The word “Turnkunst” is coined with a purpose. It does not stand for an artificial method of education, as some modem but uninformed writers have tried to explain, but for an art possessed of flesh, blood and soul. This art expresses an esthetic, social and spiritual ideal, and should not be interpreted as a mere physical or mechanical science.

19	Berlin, 1916.

Digitized by Google
483

It is impossible to translate Jahn’s forceful and inspiring language. On one page he expresses the philosophy of physical education better than recent writers have been able to do in whole books. He says,

“Tumen shall recover the lost balance of human education. It shall add to a one-sided intellectualism, the true physical basis, and establish for man a necessary counterbalance against overrefinement. In welding body to mind we aim to create a whole and forever youthful being. As long as man on this earth needs, for his existence, a (physical) body, which body degenerates into a mere shadow unless trained in strength, endurance, skill and agility, ‘Tumen’ must be a chief part of human education. It seems incomprehensible that the art of preserving the human body, or the science of protection against degeneration, has been almost forgotten. The sins of a long period of neglect have left a weak heritage, with which every individual is now more or less afflicted. Therefore, 'Tumen’ will have to be a concern of people wherever they live. In its special form and execution it may be influenced by season or climate, but it must be a national and popular affair. To be of lasting value, it must form an intimate bond with the aspiration and feelings of the people. Furthermore, ‘Tumen’ can only thrive among independent people; it is created for free individuals. The body of slaves is only a prison for the human soul.” (22)

The word system must be used with caution, and only for want of a better term. Jahn was a hater of systems. While he was aware of the necessity of organizing any material, he felt instinctively the danger of mechanizing this material. From the very outset ‘/'Tumen” has included every physical activity having educational possibilities, especially games. Jahn realized quickly, where others only groped, that the then known forms would not suffice for modem youth. He was looking for an activity that could not easily be stereotyped or mechanized, but something that would have to be recreated all the time. From this endeavor resulted the creation of modem apparatus and exercises. As Jahn describes it, he had no preconceived notion about this. When he opened his playground at the “Hasenheide” near Berlin in 1811, boys came to him in large numbers. He interested them in running, jumping, hiking, throwing, wrestling, playing and various other activities. Frequently some boys would try certain stunts. A suitable apparatus was then quickly constructed so that all boys might practice these stunts. Enthusiasm grew. Before long there were found horizontal beams, ropes, ladders, climbing towers, poles, jumping standards and pits, vaulting horses, balancing beams, targets, etc. F. E. Leonard describes this period as follows:

20	Turnkunat. (Translated by writer).

Jahn’s System

Digitized by
484

“The exercises were not yet orderly or organized, but every boy was an inventor and shared the results with the others, learning from them in turn. It was hardly in Jahn’s nature to be systematic, and such a thing as a formal school of gymnastics was foreign to his purpose. (21)

In terse but charming sentences, Jahn himself tells how it all came about:

“The whole thing, under sympathetic guidance, grew from the nature of the boys, from their instinct for invention and activity. Within a few years apparatus, exercises, and attendance grew to undreamed-of proportions. The whole nation became interested. When numerous requests for material came from all parts of the country, a council was formed to sift and examine the material.” (22)

In 1816 Jahn published the results in the Turnkunst. In order that the book might not become commercialized, but become a common property of the people, he published it at his own expense. The contents of the book are in brief outline as follows:

“Die Deutsche Turnkunst”

(Art of Gymnastics)

Preface

The preface explains the development of the system up to 1816. It is specifically stated that the book was not considered complete. A later and larger edition was to include the important subjects of fencing, swimming, riding, dancing, material exercises, tumbling and skating.

Part One—Gymnastic Exercises

I.	Walking. By this was meant chiefly hiking across the country.

II.	Running. Dashes on a straightaway track, endurance runs, running upon lines of various figures and other forms are described and their value discussed.

III.	Jumping, or Springing. This chapter discusses in great detail hopping, jumping for height, depth, distance, and with a pole.

IV.	Swinging. By this Jahn understood chiefly the various vaulting and leg-swing exercises upon the horse. This apparatus he called “Schwingel.” It is carefully described, also the mounts, dismounts, vaults and leg-swings that had been worked out.

V.	Balancing. This is a rather short chapter of exercises upon a horizontal beam, with a description of the apparatus itself.

VI.	Horizontal Bar Exercises (Reckiibungen). A great many hanging and swinging exercises are described. The bar is described as 2 1-4 to 2 1-2 inches thick, made of wood.

21	Leonard: History of Physical Education.

22	Turnkunst.

Digitized by tjOOQle
485

VII.	Parallel Bar Exercises. After a description of this apparently entirely new and novel apparatus, two types of exercises are outlined. First, pulling and pushing exercises, designed to strengthen the arms. Second, swinging movements to develop the body, the arms playing a secondary role.

VIII.	Climbing. The following pieces of apparatus are described: Pole, mast, rope, wooden ladder, rope ladder, leaning poles and frameworks for the attachment of other contrivances. The different forms of climbing are then explained.

IX.	Throwing. This included target practice with bow and arrow, cross bow, spear and shot-gun, further the throwing of objects, thrusting, hurling and forms of throwing appearing in popular games and pastime.

X and XI. Pulling and Pushing. These activities are treated as competitive games and plays.

XII.	Lifting. The lifting of heavy burdens is not recommended as proper exercise, only the gradual strengthening of the arms through the use of dynamometer, lifting beam, and sandbags. (28)

XIII.	Carrying. The carrying of heavy objects is not considered as an enjoyable means of physical training, but the individual should be trained to be able to carry objects, especially another person, when need arises.

XIV.	Stretching. This was the only form of “Free” exercise considered of value. The object was to stretch the body into a straight line from head to heel, without a humped back or protruding abdomen. Various ways to do this effectively are described.

XV.	Wrestling. Preparation for wrestling, individual fitness, sportsmanship, rules and various holds are discussed. As types of wrestling are mentioned: one against one, one against two, one against three, etc., also many against many.

XVI and XVII. Exercises with a Hoop and with long and short Jumping Rope.

Appendix. In this a number of stunts or tricks are described.

Part Two—Games

The introduction to this part contains a most remarkable evaluation of games in general (see especially p. 169). Some games are fully described.

Part Three

This part deals with the planning of a playground. Complete specifications for small and large playgrounds are given.

Part Four

This part is entirely on method and management. Such topics as the teacher, uniforms, meetings, time schedules, care of apparatus, discipline and other matters are discussed. The qualifications of a good teacher are beautifully stated (see p. 242).

23	In a revised edition, appearing 1847, very modern dynamometers are described.

Digitized by CjOOQle
486

Part Fine

Here we have a splendid bibliography upon the subject of physical education up to that time, showing that Jahn’s work was largely the outcome of much historical research.

The final chapter gives explanations to the plates which are pasted in the book. Each plate has a number of drawings of the various pieces of apparatus that are recommended.

It will be seen from the contents of the book that Jahn introduced a goodly number of apparatuses, some already known and others of his own invention or adaptation.

The horizontal bar, although it must have been known before in some form, was first introduced and made popular in Jahn’s playground.

The parallel bars originated there, but it is not definitely known who invented them. J. J. Bomeman, a co-worker of Jahn, writes in Der Turnplatz auf der Hasenheide, (24) that near where the horses stood, there could be found three frames, consisting of horizontal beams, each 12 feet long, placed parallel and two feet apart, and fastened to uprights about shoulder-high. This apparatus was designed to strengthen arms and body for the vaulting exercises. On one of the beams Jahn wrote the word: “Barren”.

One of the horses built and first used on the playground is now exhibited at the “Jahn Museum” in Freyburg a. U., Germany, together with some other pieces of apparatus also used there.

From all historical accounts, it is certain that it was Jahn’s playground upon the “Hasenheide,” in Berlin, where the numerous pieces of apparatus, now popular in physical education, were first made popular. It seems to have been largely the influence and work of this one man which made the use of apparatus popular, not merely during his time, but also for the future. We shall try to give a description of the man and the reason for his success in this field.

John as a Teacher and Man

To interpret Jahn’s Turnkunst, it is necessary to gain a glimpse of his personality, for that is interwoven with it. The ever-growing literature about him and his writings, alone, is proof that he was an extraordinary type. He possessed an independent and unbroken spirit, and an excellent memory. It is said that during his college years he never kept a notebook, but that he was able to keep facts and trace relationships. (25)

He had traveled far and wide, met many people, studied their customs and habits, and made historical and linguistic studies. Upon the subject of physical education he must have read all that was known.

24	This pamphlet appeared in 1812, Berlin. A copy is now kept in the archives of the “Deutsche Tuenerschaft,” Berlin.

25	Euler, C. P.: Geschichte des Tumunterrichts.

Digitized by UjOOQle
487

No man ever hated hypocrisy more than Jahn. His distrust of parrot methods in education and politics made him appeal directly to the people in the pursuance of his cause. To arouse their spirit was his aim. The word “Volkstum”(26) (national consciousness) he used as his slogan. In the execution of his plans he expected no support from a class of subservient statesmen and pedagogues. As a matter of fact he was attacking the bureaucracy that they had built up. In speech and writing he was straightforward to the point of rudeness. Naturally, he made many enemies, and soon forces were at work that proved his undoing. But his devotion for his country and its people was boundless. His power over youth was tremendous. Devoid of false sentimentalism himself, he demanded of the individual the strictest discipline, yet there was no autocratic rule of any kind on his playground. Through skillful guidance, the pupils were made to choose the activity. Decisions concerning the group were made by a council, and enforced by the boys themselves. According to contemporaries, (27) it was a marvel to the thousands of spectators how Jahn instilled into a mass of hundreds of boys, who came to him from all over the city, a spirit of self-reliance and keen rivalry in skill, strength, helpfulness and good fellowship; how boisterousness and passionate behavior were lacking, and how small and big boys alike respected and loved him.

No doubt Jahn embodied all those qualifications of a good teacher that he himself enumerated.(28) He must have been even more. Nearly a hundred years later G. Stanley Hall visioned a leader of youth in the following words:

“The world now demands what this country has never had, a man who, knowing the human body, gymnastic history, and the various great athletic traditions of the past, shall study anew the whole motor field, as a few great leaders early in the last century tried to do; who shall gather and correlate the literature and experiences of the past and present with a deep sense of responsibility to the future; who shall examine martial training with all the inspirations, warnings, and new demands; and who shall know how to revive the inspiration of the past animated by the same spirit as the Turners, who were almost inflamed by re--ferring back to the hardy life of the early Teutons and trying to reproduce his best features; who shall catch the spirit of, and make due connections with, the popular sports, past and present, study both industry and education to compensate their debilitating effects, and be himself animated by a great ethical and hum-manistic hope and faith in a better future. Such a man, if he ever walks the earth, will be the idol of youth, will know their physical secrets, will come almost as a savior to the bodies of men, and will, like Jahn, feel his calling and work sacred, and his

26	Jahn had published, in 1809, a book of note: Deutsches Volkstum.

27	J. J. Borneman, E. M. Arndt, E. Eiselen and others.

28	TumkunsU

Digitized by LjOoq le
488

institution a temple in which every physical act will be for the sake of the soul. The world of adolescence, especially that part which sits in closed spaces, conning books, groans and travails all the more grievously and yearningly, because unconsciously, waiting for a redeemer for its body. Till he appears, our culture must remain for most a little hollow, falsetto and handicapped by school-bred diseases.” (29)

This description of a leader can be made to apply to Jahn, in every sense, and every detail.

Characteristics and Further Deveopment of Jahn’s Turnen

Jahn’s “Turnen” had also a moral aim. Self-discipline, self-reliance, independence, loyalty and obedience to an established order were the objectives to be attained through wholesome and informal activity. Jahn himself coined the slogan “Frisch, frei, frohlich, fromm” (strong in body, free in spirit, cheerful, intelligent, good) used by the turners ever since. (30) Jahn’s immediate aim was the deliverance of his people from foreign oppression, although he was not unaware of the general educational value of his plan. Unlike Guts Muths he made no efforts to have his system adopted and carried on by the schools. His work was to be the property of the people, young and old, rich and poor.

It was a counter effort against the sentimental and partial education of his time. He feared that the schools, even though they might theoretically recognize the value of physical training, would treat that subject no better than a step-child. That Jahn was right in taking this view, the future has shown. Physical education in schools has never had the same hold upon children that it has in outside institutions, such as Tumvereins and clubs, because it always became formalized. But it is a pity that the freshness of Jahn’s system had not crept into the schools at that very time. Among the people, however, the development of “Turnen” had become phenomenal. University student organizations, teachers, tradesmen, men of high and low rank in life joined in the movement.

The reactionary Prussian government did not look w ith favor upon the new movement. In 1819 Jahn was accused of plotting against the government, arrested, and held till 1825. He was then acquitted, but further harassed and persecuted. He was neither permitted to affiliate himself with either student or other organizations, nor to reside in or near any city containing a university. He was placed under police surveillance for practically the rest of his life. His death occurred in 1852.

Jahn’s arrest was a blow to the Turner movement. “Turnen” was forbidden by the Prussian government from 1819-1842.(31)

All this checked but could not prevent the spread of the new

29	Youth Appleton, 1907.

30	Literally, “fromm” means religious. See Stecher, W. A.: The Turners and Physical Education, Mind and Body, February, 1927.

31	This is known as the “Tumsperre,” or boycott.

Digitized by UooQle
489

cause. But it had the unfortunate result that the Turners moved with their apparatus into closed halls. A bad habit was thus formed that exists to the present day. A redeeming feature was the fact that this condition induced the Turners to meet more frequently, especially during the long winter months. This developed social contact, aroused discussions, and brought about an examination and further development of their exercises. Upon the lifting of the boycott, societies were founded in almost every city and many hamlets. This was facilitated by an outstanding characteristic of the new apparatus work, namely the leader system. The perpetuation of the work did not at all depend upon any one teacher or coach. Each boy as he became proficient also became a leader. Teachers were desirable, where they could be had, to supply inspiration and guidance, but the activities themselves were always created and recreated by the boys and men themselves. The numberless societies” soon formed federations. Few societies had paid teachers. Suitable material was furnished by the headquarters of the organizations, and each leader tried his best to impart his knowledge and ability to the members of his squad.

Another characteristic of this “Turnen” is its nomenclature, which Jahn himself in a large measure originated. (32) From the one word “Turnen,” most derivatives and compounds were formed, all so typically German that it helped from the outset to popularize the exercises. (33)

“Turnen,” wrote Jahn, “is a noun of German origin,(34) occurring in several kindred languages, ancient and modem, and means everywhere: turn, face about, twist, stir, lead, maneuver, or a big desire for movement.”

John’s Co-Workers Jahn’s work had not been very systematic. After his arrest and forced retreat from the field, the organization of material and methods, and the clearer definition of aims and principles, were left to contemporaries and followers. Eiselen, Friesen, Massman, Passow, Arndt, Hamisch, von Raumre, Bemardi, Strauss, and Goethe were some of them. There were polemics, discussions and investigations by some of Germany’s most brilliant men, in spite of the boycott. Up to about 1845 there was no other book so widely used as Jahn’s	For

some years, prominent authors, under the leadership of E. Eiselen, one of Jahn’s closest friends and co-workers, had planned a new edition. It finally appeared in 1847. Before that, in 1845, there appeared a book of illustrations, which was to

32	See Turnkunst, pp. XXVI-XLII.

33	English textbooks suffer from this very fact. The English language, lacking in compounds, is unwieldly in describing apparatus exercises.

34	Jahn was a philologist of note, but made a mistake here. Turnen is derived from the Latin “tomare”, which again is borrowed from the Greek “tomos”. (See Euler, K.: Die Heschichte des Turnunterrichts'.

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
490

accompany that edition. (35) Two artists, Robolsky and Toppe, had made drawings of every fundamental exercise. Even before that, in 1837, Eiselen had published an important work in table form, (36) which did much to spread apparatus work.

Eiselen’s exercises upon the different pieces of apparatus were arranged into four grades of difficulty. By this time also, some new pieces of apparatus had made their appearance, namely the vaulting - buck, the swinging - rings, the trapeze, and the giant - stride. The buck, a shortened horse, was first built by Eiselen. The rings, "the trapeze, and the giant-stride were first described by Spiess, Amoros, and Clias, respectively, men of whom we shall hear later. Wooden and iron dumbbells also came into use at about this time.

Eiselen was perhaps the hardest worker in systematically developing and describing exercises upon the various pieces of apparatus in accordance with Jahn’s ideas. His institution at Berlin was visited by many educators. The pupils of Diester-weg’s teaching seminary were sent to him for training. This gave him a chance to experiment more effectively. His literary efforts were many and meant much progress for the time.

35	Abbildungen von Turnuebungen, by E. W. B. Eiselen.—G. Reiner, Berlin.

36	Turntafeln:Saemmtliche Turnuebungen auf einzelnen Blaettern. . . G. Reimer, Berlin, 1837.

(To be continued in June issue)

MENTAL HEALTH AS A NATIONAL PROBLEM*

Ray Lyman Wilbur, M. D. Secretary of the Interior, Washington, D. C.

Probably one of the highest compliments that can be given is to say that a man has good common sense, or to say that the people of a nation are sane and stable. All recognize to some degree the eternal conflicts between the emotions and the intelligence. These conflicts may be seasonal. They are associated with certain periods of life and they are fundamental in determining one’s happiness, achievements and personality. From a national standpoint there is the most persistent evidence of the interrelations and interplay between intelligence and emotions.

Human behavior in the mass determines our successes or our failures as a nation. Politically, many of us at all times, and all of us at some times, act like the proverbial college sophomore. As an observing senator has said: “Our greatest safety is our organization by states, for not more than a dozen states are apt to go haywire at the same time.”

♦Read before the Annual Congress on Medical Education, Medical Licensure and Hospitals, Chicago, Feb. 16, 1931.

Digitized by L^ooQle
491

Whatever we may do or whatever we are is detehnijited by our nervous systems. Some one years ago described what he called the ‘‘cerebrospinal parasite." He gave a picture of a few cells folding in at a certain time from the surface of the growing embryo and gradually through the growth and the extension of associated cells and fibers gathering control of the rest of the organizm. The brain can be viewed as a colony of highly specialized living cells controlling practically everything that one does and yet dependent on the quality of the body juices for its safety and readily affected by the secretion of various glands, by toxins of various origin, by temperature, and by a host of other conditions. It may be a disturbing picture to think of the brain as immersed in fluids the character of which largely control its activities, but such is the case. Consciousness, will and personality defy accurate understanding. They are a part of that fog of mystery and mysticism that permeates everything human. We cover our ignorance with long words and by explanations that are largely descriptive. We do, of course, know a great deal about ourselves and about others, but when we think in terms of the mental health of a nation, we are impressed by the variability in human material and by the accidental happenings that may determine the birth, growth and value of any single individual.

A noble personality residing in a superb physical body may be completely changed by an attack of meningitis, by the use of drugs, by the gradual effects of some early disease on the blood vessels of the brain or the kidneys, or by the overactivity or underactivity of various glands. A sudden accident may transfer a person in a moment from stable self-control to tottering and failing mentality.

We know the wide range of variation in the capacity of individuals as regards both their physical aptitudes and their mental qualities. Just at present there have been so many changes in environment and in human requirements that we are conscious that we have passed through a stage of human labor when hands and legs were all that were needed to that of the brain and machine control of work. Our social set-up must always make provision for a large number of brains of inferior or very moderate capacity, while at the same time we must deal with those at the top and those who have extraordinary ability bordering on genius. The gap between special abilities and genius and those deviations of the mind which are called insanity seems to be very narrow. Aside from those who would be definitely labeled as mental cases there are many whose minds have a moderate twist up to half a turn. Any one in public life who receives a large “nut” mail is conscious of the high percentage of cranks in our civilization.

We have to view ourselves and our neighbors as possible mental cases at some future date. As I have indicated, the incidents of disease or of accident may be determining factors, but the war demonstrated the unmasking effect of emotional overstrain.
492

Heredity is a persistent factor that cannot be lost sight of in national mental health. I suppose that the fact that every baby falls on his head has been of inestimable value in the comforting of parents and relatives when mental weakness or disease appeared in the family. There is little that can be done about heredity after life has once started. There is much that might be done if intelligence rather than emotions controlled the quality of the oncoming race. The blending of the various diverse elements making up the population of the United States is producing millions of individuals with certain definite traits. It is evident that this continent is an admirable place for us. There are but few difficulties in our environment that cannot be overcome by the applications of science in the fields of public health and community and industrial organization. We seem likely to go forward as a people for many centuries so far as the physical possibilities are concerned. The great question as we look ahead is: ‘■‘What kind of people are we to be from the standpoint of the mind and of behavior?”

Democracy demands at least a majority of selfmaintaining competent citizens with orderly, cooperative habits and with balanced, temperate minds. The demagogue has always found some soil for his sowing. Disaster awaits any people with too high a percentage of the insane, the mentally defective or the emotionally unstable. Trouble stands at the door of any people who are not partially immune to sophistry. In sanity lies safety.

At the present time much of our care of those who deviate too far to the abnormal is that of simple capture and control. When once evidently established, we try to classify our mental cases, treat them as well as we can, and live in hope that the difficulties will pass and the normal personality reappear.

We have done comparatively little in the way of prevention. Mental hygiene is now becoming a word with which we can conjure. It seems to me that with the increasing interest in each other which is compelled by our present economic and social organization, we are in a position where we must look to the safety of our future. Certainly we do not want to think of a period in which a considerable minority of our population is either living in institutions or entering or leaving them. We now talk in terms of millions in connection with mental diseases. At the same time there are certain changes in our attitudes and information that are hopeful. We are beginning to think of mental and physical disease in common terms. We have much less prejudice toward the insane, although certainly enough of it still exists.

The protection of the family given in the past to the imbecile or the mildly insane is now insufficient. A family living on a large farm could stand an occasional melancholy maiden aunt or an hysterical adolescent, a drunkard, an epileptic, and could find some use for even a reckless and unstable man.. But we are now too close together to meet problems of this kind in this way.
493

The diseases in which the brain is involved are similar to those in which other parts of the body are involved. Simple recognition of the fact that mental sicknesss is simply another form of sickness could be of inestimable importance. Along with this growing change in sentiment, science has modified our conceptions of our environment so that ghosts, devils, imps, are joining the dodo bird in that limbo to which humanity sends its outworn conceptions or its relics of what has gone before.

What can we do to strengthen the mental health of the nation? In the first place, we must have trained men and women who know as much as can be known about psychiatry, and we must have every physician trained so that he will have an adequate conception of the various mental states. The profession of medicine has been so engrossed with its marvelous successes in the application of biology, physics and chemistry to the protection and treatment of human beings that it has paid little attention to psychiatry and to the mental side of patients. Certain experts have developed more or less by chance, but deliberate preparation of the medical profession in psychiatry has been in this country, for the most part, and in other countries as well, of a distinctly inferior character. This troublesome, mysterious and difficult domain of health must be studied and restudied. As we conquer infectious diseases, as we prolong life, the necessity increases for us as physicians to assist in the living out of life under what we call modem conditions.

Happiness and something to do seem to go together. The intricate divisions of labor that have gone on in society require that this something to do shall be prepared for in an adequate manner. It is important for each one to find that particular niche which is appropriate to his particular capacities. A majority choose their occupations by incident and chance. Most of us do not know where our capacities lie. Some of those whom we value most during war give us the most trouble during peace. Some men seem to rise to highest honor in war or emergency: in peace they wreck themselves. Education is of the greatest value. Through it we can unfold the mind and its range and gradually find a place for each member of modem society.

Certain intelligence and aptitude tests have been developed. The Strong test of occupational interest and the Zyve test of scientific aptitudes give a glimmering of what may be possible in assisting individuals to succeed. Perhaps further study will make it possible to work out certain tests that will indicate those qualities of the human mind which are apt to lead toward instability or even insanity. If persons could be detected who are apt to fall by the way from a mental standpoint at an early day, it may well be that methods might be devised for proper training, adequate sleep and repose, which would save the individual and protect society. At any rate, with proper placement, much could be done to promote happiness and to avoid those strains which bring out mental weakness. Failure to meet the average

Digitized by CaOOQLe
494

in achievement is the most fertile source of unhappiness. We may have to change our point of view regarding the prestige values of certain occupations if we are to bring about widespread personal happiness. For instance, here in the United States there is an abnormally high percentage of students both in the high schools and in institutions of college grade. We have set up a social fetish with certain diplomas and degrees and there is steady insistence on the part of parents and others that, regardless of mental capacity and general adaptations, social prestige demands that the full length of the gauntlet be run. This is unfortunate for the educational system, for the institutions and for many individuals. We must readjust our social values and make them less extreme if we are to avoid needless strain and mediocrity in many fields. Our personal and national objectives need adjustment on a more human, a more wholesome, and a better biologic basis.

There is a striking difference in the individual tolerance and durability of the central nervous system. For thousands of years, physical vigor and bodily strength have been about all that were necessary in simple pastoral life or in the chase or in war. In the last few centuries we have called more and more on the mind and some of its sense organs. The invention of artificial lighting, the discovery of eyeglasses, the development of printing, the birth .and growth of science, have, all combined, created changes in our environment more rapidly than they could be readily met by the whole population. It is true that we have large factors of safety which have permitted accomodations to a remarkable degree.

That a nation’s strength depends on its mental health is obvious. That our nation can settle down to study its present mental state is evident. That we are going along with a lot of absurd and foolish methods of handling our mental cases and our criminals is obvious. Punishment still seems to be the basis of much that we do for those who interfere with our established social ideas or customs. Early detection is fundamental in this field. Our youth must be better understood and better handled. We have yet to work out the methods for such detection, to train the men in them, and to train the medical profession. So far as insanity is concerned, the public is largely still in the dark ages, and the medical profession is in the twilight zone.

There has been much discussion of what is called state medicine. In the care of the insane we have had well established state medicine for many years. I think that we will all agree that public handling of the insane is necessary but that present methods can be greatly improved. The present cost for the segregated care of the insane is enormous and it is evidently growing. While this is a most difficult medical problem, unfortunately much of it is handled through the police and the courts. To have the policeman instead of the doctor as the first contact of society with many of those in the early stages of insanity is deplorable. It is even worse when the first confinement of such a
495

patient is in the jail rather than in the hospital bed. There should be united effort to care for mental cases along the best hospital and medical lines, and there should be as complete a release as possible from the meshes of the law which now are so difficult to escape. The former days of simple life are gone. By millions, people tramp the solid streets of our cities. Their nervous systems are constantly under assault. The prevention of mental disorders can never be brought about by such processes as putting chlorine in the water of a city to eliminate typhoid. They are much more intricate and difficult but just as important.

Prevention of mental conditions goes back to industrial organization, city planning, the handling of schools, the standards of living, the sanctity of the home, and a hundred other social mechanisms. The mental health of a nation depends on the brain fiber of its people. If we were handling such a question for animals, we would try to master it by controlled breeding. Just how bitter our lessons will have to be before we learn to meet human conditions in this way, no one can say.

In summary, I would suggest that the mental health of a nation is its greatest asset. Mental hygiene is a vital part of preventive medicine.

1.	Medical students and physicians need more adequate training in psychiatry.

2.	There should be interns in every hospital for the care of the insane. The presence of the inquiring student would do more to advance pathology, increase autopsies and develop research in our mental hospitals than any other factor.

3.	More of the research energy of the medical profession should be diverted into the difficult fields of psychology and psychiatry.

4.	Education of the public so that they will view mental diseases as they do other diseases is important.

5.	The handling and care of the mentally ill should be dealt with along medical rather than legal lines.

THE SUN TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS IN ENGLAND

When the sun treatment of surgical tuberculosis was established, mainly by work of Auguste Rollier at Leysin, Switzerland, the idea prevailed that the more sunny climates of the continent and the high altitudes of the Swiss mountains were, if not necessary, a great advantage. But the sun treatment of tuberculosis has been so developed in England by Sir Henry Gauvain at the Treloar Cripples’ Hospital and College, Alton (Hampshire) and at its marine branch (Sandy Point, Hayling Island) that equally good results are now claimed. Indeed, in his recent residential address to the congress of the Royal Institute of Public Health, Sir Henry Gauvain declared that, in spite of its high proportion of cloudy and misty days, the English climate had the advantage. If sun treatment is of

Digitized by LjOOQle
496

such value in the prevention and treatment of disease, why not send the patient, people asked, to the most sunny climate possible? To this Sir Henry replied by another question: Is mortality appreciably lower in countries regarded as ideal fOT insolation? Is tuberculosis appreciably less? The reply is in the negative. On equatorial islands where sunlight is always obtainable and the islander can live nude all the year round, tuberculosis will rapidly infect and kill the unimmunized native. The results of the sun treatment are in some csaes brilliant, in others disappointing. This Sir Henry explains by his “theory of varying stimuli and varying response.” No completely satisfactory explanation has been given of the value of the general light bath. Sonne’s statement that it largely depends on thermal effect is not adequate, nor does the raising of hemobactericidal power furnish the clue. Sir Henry Gauvain suggests that the food effects depend on the stimulus of seasonal and even hourly variation in the conditions of exposure—the position of the sun in the heavens, the density and purity of the atmosphere, the amount of sky shine and the intervention of passing clouds. The morning light, though less intense than that of midday, has the greatest value because of the light shock following the darkness that has preceded. Continuous exposure to sunlight in summer is not so beneficial as alternations of light and shade and of heat and cold. Sun treatment is greatly aided by the associated aerotherapy — the stimulus to the production of heat by the body produced by the impact of cold air. Therefore the English climate by its very changeableness lends itself to open-air treatment. Sun treatment is shock treatment, comparable to protein shock.

The marine branch offers the stimulus of climatic change and new environment to patients who need the tonic of seaside conditions. It is found that very cachectic and young patients are not benefited to the extent that stronger and older patients are. The stimulus is beyond their power of response. Graduated sea bathing and heliotherapy are given to the bulk of the patients in addition to the ordinary orthopedic and general treatment. Conservatism in the treatment of surgical tuberculosis has been followed ever since the establishment of the hospital twenty-one years ago and is now more firmly established than ever. But the help of surgery is occasionally sought for bone grafting to immobilize joints more completely, though in children with only a modified success. Sir Harold Gillies and Mr. Kilner have done some highly successful and extensive plastic operations for facial restoration following lupus after the disease has been cured by the light department.—Am. Medical Assn. Journal.
497

CHARACTER EDUCATION AS AN OBJECTIVE*

Jay B. Nash, Professor of Physical Education, School of Education, New

York University.

Character education may be defined as the behavior of an individual upon which the society in which he moves places a stamp of “good.” It must always remain a relative term as the qualities which the community pronounces “good” will vary with the community and will develop with the ages. The particular point to be noted in this connection is that character is one of the desirable outcomes of education and hence is one of the desirable outcomes of physical education. In the past few years we have seen the position of health coordinator develop. The object of such coordination is to center the attention of every branch or department of instruction upon a particular objective. There is every evidence that the next few years will see character, and leisure time coordinators as well’as vocational and health coordinators appearing in the administrative set-up of our public schools.

Character qualities are the by-products of activities. They are acquired. In other words, they are learned, and when once learned, are definitely habits as fixed as any habit of the individual. How are these character qualities attained? What is their relationship to the whole program as presented in the modern physical education program? Burnham has forcefully called attention to the fact that a healthy personality is an integrated personality. He also calls attention to the fact that all normal human personalities, or in other words, character in the child or in the adult, represents an integrated personality. Not only is the individual's mind integrated, but the whole organism is integrated. Integration, or any situation in which the whole self is centered, becomes the basis of the interest method, the play way, the project method, the psychological method of teaching—natural education. This integration probably assumes a prepotent drive. It is a hereditary urge. It is common knowledge that most of our “wants” are directly or indirectly tied up to hereditary urges —directly, in that they have to do with actual recapitulation of the race—indirectly, in that they have to do with struggling, overcoming, chasing, fleeing, or as Allport would say, “starting and withdrawing.” This element of overcoming lies deep in the neurone of the race. It is probably the biological explanation of play. We realize that activity is satisfying and that inactivity is annoying. There appears to be a neural unrest in activity. This is explained very readily in the whole evolutionary process. Wherever organisms have been faced with new conditions, the acting, adjusting, struggling, conquering, overcoming, organisms have lived. Thus we have built in the neurones the desire for

•Paper read at the Public School Section of the American Physical Education Association Convention at Detroit, April 1-4, 1931.

Digitized by Google
498

activity. In entering into these activities the organism is integrated. This concentration of interest lies at the base of health, and especially at the base of mental normality and character.

Standards of conduct are built around “wants.” Standards represent so delicate a quality that they cannot be forced. Use force and the spirit flees. You cannot establish a compulsory society for the enforcement of good fellowship. You cannot enforce good behavior. Hence, character traits are built around activities which children want to do. This gives the leaders of these activities tremendous power. We imitate those we admire— we refuse to imitate those we dislike. Leaders who are respected can change conduct.

The application of this to physical education is obvious. We are dealing with activities that children want to do. Thus we think we present them in the right way. Children are interested in activities which conform to the following formula: The activity must challenge the individual—the individual must be within reach of success—social approval must go with success. These elements become the essence of a game—any game. The challenge must be apparent to the child. In too many of our activities the challenge is apparent only to the leader. Hence, a game becomes an activity in which there is a challenge, and in which the outcome wavers between success and failure, and can be thrown in favor of success when the individual actually grasps beyond his reach. This will be particularly satsifying if there is great social approval. Every activity which is taught to children should be judged by this formula. Game elements are dead unless the child connects success in them to success in the game. Nature study, manual training, music, and all other activities are dead, unless the child sees the challenge. We, in physical education, are dealing with activities in which the child can easily see the challenge. Hence, there is a “want.” There is integration. There is opportunity for the building of character traits.

We have no evidence today of the existence of elaborate inborn systems of action in man. Attitudes and emotions high on the scale, and prejudices low on the scale are learned. If violent prejudices low on the scale are learned, attitudes high on the scale may be learned. We can become prejudiced in little things —racial, political or religious.

These qualities that make up character, while they are relative, vary with conditions. For the individual in a particular time, they are specific. Sacrifice, good sportsmanship, and loyalty have particular qualities. Prall, in his book on “Aesthetic Judgment,” has called attention to the fact that aesthetic qualities of beauty and loveliness are specific. They must be learned by experiencing them. If this contention is justified, then qualities of character are learned just as we learn qualities of objects—roundness, squareness, smoothness, roughness, lightness and heaviness, etc. These qualities are transmitted through the sense organs. They must be filed in the associated centers of

Digitized by Google
499

the mind and comparison makes possible judgments. Hence, qualities of character are learned. The child must sacrifice, and hence learn its qualities. He must do a sportsmanship act to get the feel of it. The feel of these qualities are acquired through leadership. Hence, it is safe to say that activities, under adequate leadership, become a positive part in the development of character, and in the negative sense, they become the moral equivalent of crime. We can displace our racketeer heroes only by our Lindberghs and Ruths. We can replace the challenge of activities which are judged delinquent and crime only by challenging physical education activities which are high on the scale.

Dennison, in his book “The Emotion as a Basis of Civilization” calls attention to the fact that group solidarity can no longer be obtained by means of threats. Fear no longer holds a group together. Democracies must be held together through fraternal bonds of wants, as over against the old paternal bond of fear.

Hence, every activity in which there is a drive offers opportunity for guiding conduct. These specific acts must be analyzed. They might be thought of in four parts:

1.	The Situation. The situation represents a particular act of sportsmanship or unsportsmanship. Most of our character training should be built around sportsmanship acts in which we can commend, but the opportunity is also present in the unsportsmanship acts.

2.	Positive Qualities. Even in unsportsmanship acts there are positive qualities. In the act there may be courage, initiative, and desire to accomplish. These positive qualities must be preserved.

3.	Negative Qualities. In unsportsmanship acts there are of course undesirable qualities—violating rules, bullying, selfishness, etc. These qualities must be minimized.

4.	The Solution. The solution of the problem must strengthen the desirable qualities. It is very easy to destroy good qualities; in other words, to burn down the house to get rid of the rats. Every situation of this type offers opportunities for leadership.

Character may probably be judged as the accumulation of the effects of these various situations upon the individual. Each act in itself is minor—taken together, major. At the Great Divide in the Caandian Rockies drops of water fall from the glacier under the rays of the sun. They flow gently down a little stream. In this stream is placed a very crude partition, the water that goes to the right forms one of the great rivers of the west, the water that goes to the left becomes one of the great rivers of the Mississippi Valley. The drops of water make the stream, the stream makes the river, and the river makes the ocean. In some such manner the accumulation of minor social influences make a character ocean. No phase of education offers so-'many opportunities for the guiding of this conduct as does physical education.
500

LET'S GET DOWN TO EARTH

By F. N. Nissen

In the words of Dr. Jesse Williams: “Proclaim its modernity and the crowd cheers” there is certainly an abundance of truth.

Without a following, one cannot be a leader, but there is always a multitude of unthinking people clamoring for something new who will gladly follow the lead of the man or woman who proclaims that he has that something new. In the teaching profession, there are many such people. They may be found particularly in that branch of education known as physical education. Scores and scores of irrational individuals will flock to the support of this self appointed hero and willingly become his slaves.

The future of physical education depends on the type of teachers employed. As soon as wre put into the field thinking men and women, we can maintain high ideals and uniform standards of the profession. Be a thinker and do not be easily influenced by an oily tongue.

Some time ago, we heard an address by Mr. James E. Rogers who outlined physical education during the past forty years in periods of ten years as follows:

1890 the military stream 1900 the athletic stream 1910 the informal stream 1920 the health education stream 1930 the educational stream

This resume offers an appeal to the sportsman who will find, no doubt, that there is still good fishing in the streams of 1890 and 1900. This probably is true also of the streams of 1910 and 1920. The fact that we are concerned with 1930 should not make it necessary to forget the successes of other years. To be sure, it would be folly to expect military drill to fill the needs of physical education. It is equally foolish to expect athletics, informal or the so-called natural gymnastics to meet the necessary requirements. Plays and games do not and furthermore, cannot, correct faulty posture and abnormal development. Instead of producing any improvement, they tend to aggravate the abnormality already present.

Gymnastics must be the foundation of all physical activity. The achievement of certain records in jumping and vaulting, for instance, should not be an end in itself but to accomplish a certain athletic feat in good form is indeed reason for rejoicing.

Education has had many struggles in the attainment of its present enviable position in the world. There was the Battle of Educational Systems. On one side was the old, or education of autocracy. On the other side was the new, or education of democracy. Democracy demands the public school.

Digitized by AjOOQle
501

Also, in physical education, there has been a great struggle. The Battle of Systems waged for years. Today, however, we are striving to eliminate nationalistic traits from our physical education. Even in spite of this, we have an invasion of the Danish System which has attracted many followers. At the present time, the Bode System is attempting to gain recognition and will, no doubt, captivate the same people who, a few years ago, abandoned . everything for Danish.

Americans are essentially adventurers—built for speed. The strength of America is in the strength of the youth of the country. Give them daring and vigorous muscular exercise. Apparatus work offers an excellent substitute for primitive activity. Be careful about games for variety. Be sure they are vigorous enough to deserve a place in physical education.

In one of the larger cities only eight minutes a week are devoted to gymnastics in the high and junior high schools. In the elementary schools, there is no time allotted to gymnastics. If that is modem, I am proud to be old fashioned.

May I say, in closing, that a teacher is not successful because he adopts everything that is new to him. That teacher who has the ability to accept that which is valuable to physical education and reject that which is not valuable is successful. The profession needs more thinking teachers.

Let us stop rocking the boat before we capsize and lose everything for which our great pioneers fought so hard.

TENTH OLYMPIC GAMES — LOS ANGELES — 1932

GYMNASTICS

Extracts from Official Rules as Published in 1931 Handbook of the Amateur Athletic Union

Compulsory Gymnastic Exrcises on Apparatus for Teams as Officially Adopted by the International Gymnastic

Federation

An illustrated chart showing all positions of the gymnast corresponding to the numerals cited in the following text may be had upon application to the American Olympic Association, 233 Broadway, New York.

From side standing position:

Jump to still hang, left hand under grasp, right hand upper grasp (1)—Swing forward (2), backward and uprise to high free rest (3) with flinging of legs toward the right side and under the right hand over bar (4) and 1-2 turn left to free sitting position over bar (1-2 lever position) (5) (both hands now in upper grasp) ----one circle backward in free sitting position (6-7-8)---fall

OLYMPIC EXERCISES

HORIZONTAL BAR.
502

back, squatting to kip position (9) kip and circle forward (10) in front rest in changing hands to under grasp (11) and swinging up to inverted stand (hand stand) (12), two circles forward (13) and on the second circle, bend hips to squat position (legs straight)

(14)	one circle forward and push to inverted stand (hand stand)

(15)	---two circles forward (16) and on the second circle come

to high free rest with changing hands to upper grasp (17) swing forward (18) in making 1-2 turn right to mixed grasp (right hand under, left hand upper) (19-20-21-22) swing forward in making 1-2 turn left to upper grasp (24-25-26-27), swing forward and upward to inverted stand (hand stand) (28) two circles backward (29), cross right hand over left and continue to circle in cross grasp (30) making 1-2 turn to the right, releasing left hand with regrasping in reverse grasp (31) two circles forward (32) on the second circle straddle vault to rear side standing position (33-34-35) (arms extended forward or sideward, knees bent, stretch to normal position).

PARALLEL BARS.

From side standing position outside, undergrasp (1): Jump to free front rest (2) and push to hand stand with straddled legs and straight arms (3-4), close legs, (5), 1-4 turn right (left hand grasping opposite bar) (6) lower straight body slowly to free lever position, arms straight (7-8) swing legs forward and through half lever (9) circle of body backward under bars (10) to upper arm hang, arms extended (11) and swing forward to kip position

(12)----swing downward backward (13) and uprise with 1-2 turn

left (14) and swing backward to hand stand (15)-------dip swing

forward (16) and rear vault swing to the right over bar with 1-4

turn left (17) to hang in full front lever (18)----lower to 1-2

lever hang (19)-----pull up in 1-2 lever to free front rest (20)

and swing both legs over bar in making 1-4 turn left (21-22) swing backward to upper arm stand------roll forward (23) and uprise to hand stand (24)----------------upper arm swing forward (25) to kip

position (26) swing backward and uprise releasing left hand (27) in making 1-4 turn right, straddle vault over bars to rear side standing position (28-29) (half knee bent position, arms extended sideward stretch to normal position).

RINGS.

From cross standing position, jump to stretch hang (1): Raise straight body to front lever (2) raise to inverted hang

(3)	bend hips to kip position (4) swing downward (5) backward (6) pull upward (7) to cross rest position (8) (the execution of

5-6-7-8 is done in a '‘snappy” manner)-----fall backward to kip

position (9) and turn backward briskly to hand stand (10-11)-;— lower straight body backward to full lever above rings (straight arms) (12)----lower straight body to full back lever (13)--dis-

locate backward (14) swing forward to kip position (15) and circle

backward upward to 1-2 lever (16-17-18)------lower straight legs

and push with straight arms to hand stand (19-20) bend arms (21) spread elbows across ropes (22) and lower body forward

Digitized by t^ooQle
503

downward to hang (ropes around arms) (23) swing forward upward to bent arm stand, stretch arms and lower legs to cross rest position (24-25-26)----lower body slowly in pushing arms sideward to “cross” (27)---lower body backward in swinging legs

forward to full front lever position (28)---swing legs downward

backward and circle forward to front dislocation (29) straddle legs outside ropes (30) and dismount by releasing hands (double cut off forward) to 1-2 knee bent position, arms sideward stretch to normal position (31-32),

SIDE HORSE.

From side standing position at the neck, left hand on neck, right hand on left pommel (1)*: Swing legs to the left over neck and rear vault circle to the right (2) into saddle (3) circle both legs to the right (4) and rear vault circle to the right over neck (5-6) two circles to the right (7-8-9-10-11) circle left leg inward (12-13) and rear vault circle to the right into saddle (14) circle left leg inward (15-16-17) flinging right leg over neck (18) and swinging both legs to the left and back scissors (19) 1-2 circle of right leg outward to front rest position (20) 1-2 circle of left leg outward (21) swinging legs to the right to front scissors right and front scissors left (22-23) 1 1-2 circle of right leg outward to back rest position (24-25-26) 3 double circles toward" the left (27-28-29-30-31) flinging left leg outward (32) flinging right leg outward (33) and three double-circles toward the right (opposite) (34-35-36-37-38) rear vault circle to the right over neck in making 1-2 turn to the right (39-40) 1-2. double circle to the right (41) put right hand on neck and bend hips in making 1-2 turn to the right with flank vault to the left to rear side standing position (42-43-44) (1-2 knee bent position, arm extended sideward or forward, knee stretching and arm lowering to normal position).

The entire exercise must be done in a fluent manner, without pause. *No matter how the gymnast changes his position during the exercise, the left pommel (or the right) remains the pommel; in other words, the apparatus remains as it is indicated at the start of the exercise; the left pommel is on the side of the neck and the right pommel is on the side of the croup. A circle outward of one leg indicates the commencing movement as away from the body, a circle inward indicates a commencing movement toward the center of the body. A double circle to the left means starting the movement toward the left side.

LONG HORSE A. From cross standing position (1);

Run (d) double take off (3) jump with straight arms and straight body (4) through hand stand at forward pommel (5) 1-4 turn right (6) and dismount sideward by pushing off with left hand to 1-2 knee bent position, arms extended sideward (7-8-9-10-11)---stretch to normal position.

Digitized by AjOOQle
504

(In pushing off with left hand, the right hand describes a 1-4 circle sideward outward.) (The jump is done in a continuous manner.)

B.	From cross standing position (1):

Run (2) double take off (3) jump with straight arms and body (4) to push off on extremely of neck (5) and dismount forward to 1-2 knee bent position, arms forward (6-7-8-9)---stretch

to normal position.

(Hechtsprung, with momentary push-off.)

Note—All apparatus exrecises may be performed to the left or right side, if continuity of text is followed.

FREE EXERCISES AND TACTICS

By Jos. Weissmueller

Model Exercises of the Louisville Turngemeinde at the Buffalo

Tumfest

Music:—Schutzman’s March, by Paul Lincke.

Two counts to a measure.

To be played twice thru, including the Introduction. Alignment:—Front line of fours, one arm length distance, see Figure I.

UTUTUTUTUTU T U TUT

[Figure /]

Men t Ladies u

Introduction:—Four measures.

a—Dress right 1-4 raise R arm sideward turn head R. b—Front, 5-8 drop the arm face front.

GROUP I Exercise 1, 64 Measures.

A—a-Swing arms fore-upward 1-2

b-Bena trunk forward, swing arms fore-downward 3-4 c-Retum to position (a) 5-6

d-Squat stand with closed knees 7-8 (arms outside of knees)

e-Straighten knees, 9-10 (hands and feet remain on the floor)

f-Retum to (d) 11-12

g-Retum to (a) 13-14

n-Lower arms to starting position 15-16

-Repeat all of (A) 17-32

B—a-March seven steps forward, close on eight 1-8 b-Lunge L forward, bend arms to thrust 9-10 c-Close R to L foot, straighten arms upward 11-12 d-Lunge R forward, bend arms to thrust 13-14 e-Face L about close L to R foot, lower arms 15-16 f-Repeat all of (B) 17-32

Digitized by L^OOQle
* 505

C—In divided order—

a-Men repeat all of (B) one time (1-16) then repeat (A) one time (17-32) Ladies repeat (A) one time, and (B) one time 1-32

b-Continue in the same manner once more; this will bring all back to starting position 33-64.

Exercise 2, 32 Measures

Men a-Legswing L forwardswing arms fore-upward 1-2

b-Layout L backward, swing arms down and back 3-4 c-1-4 turn L straighten R knee, swing arms fore-upward 5-6

d-1-4 ttfm R bend R knee, lower arms sideward 7-8 e-Raise to balance stand R 9-12 f-Close L to R foot, swing arms side-upward 13-14 g-Swing arms fore-downward to starting position 15-16 h-Repeat all R, L, R, 17-64.

Exercise 2, Ladies part.

A—a-Three steps forward, close on four 1-4 b-Closed squat stand 5-6. c-Jump to knee support stand 7-8. d-Bend arms 9-10. e-Straighten arms 11-12. f-Repeat (d-&-e) 13-16. g-Swing L arm sideward 17-18. h-Retum 19-20. i-Repeat (g and h) R 21-24.

CReturn to position (b) 25-26.

-Straighten knees, hands and feet remain 27-28.

1-Return to (j) 29-30.

m-Straighten to starting position 31-32.

Repeat all backward 33-64.

Exercise 3, Men Trio—16-Measures.

A—a-Squat stand 1-2.

b-Straighten legs backward to support lying frontways 3-4.

c-Bend arms, raise L leg backward 5-6.

d-Retum to (b) 7-8.

e-Repeat (c and d) R 9-12.

f-Squat stand 13-14.

g-To starting position 15-16.

Exercise 3, Ladies

A—a-Jump to side stride stand, swing arms side-upward 1-2. b-Bend arms to thrust 3-4. c-Turn trunk L straighten arms sideward 5-6. d-Retum to (b) 7-8. e-Repeat (c and d) R 9-12. f-Return to (a) 13-14.

g-To starting position 15-16.	‘	**	'

Repeat all R 17-32.

Digitized by v^ooQle
506

Exercise 4, Men 8 Measures.

A—a-Hands on hips, jump to side stride stand 1. b-Jump to closed stand 2. c-Repeat (a and b) 3-4. d-Four jumps backward 5-8.

Repeat all, but jump forward 9-16.

Exercise 4 Ladies.

Same as the men with this change, they jump forward first, then in place, then backward, etc. 1-16.

Exercise 4, Men 16 Measures.

A—a-1-2 L face fall to supportlying frontways 1-4.

b-Jump forward to squat stand 5-6 (cross L leg in front of R) c-Straighen to stand with 1-2 turn R 7-8.

B—a-Kneel L hands on floor 9-10. b-Kick up to hand stand 11-12. c-Hold 13-24. d-Retum to (a) 25-26. e-Rise to stand 27-28.

f-Three steps forward, face R about and close 29-32.

Exercise 4, Ladies.

A—a-Bend arms to thrust 1. b-Straighten arms upward 2. d-Retum movements 3-4. e-Bend arms to thrust 5. f-Straighten arms sideward 6. g-Retum movements 7-8.

B—a-Kneel L bend arms to thrust 9-10. b-Straighten arms forward 11-12. c-Catch hand stand of the men and hold 13-24. d-Bend arms to thrust 25-26. e-Hold this 27-28. f-Straighten to stand 29-32.

GROUP II Music played the second time.

Introduction:—All Mark time 1-4.

Mark time face center (Figure II)

3I-3I-3I-3I-CHCHCHCH

[Figure 2]

Exercise 1—64 Measures.

A—a-March to the following formation (see Figure III) 1-16.

c

TTTT X X X X 3 3 3

3	[Figure	j]

Digitized by kjOOQle
507

b-Starwheel L 17-32. c-1-1 Wheel R 33-48. d-Four steps forward 49-52. e-1-2 Wheel L 53-60. f-Eight steps forward 61-68. g-1-2 Wheel L 69-76.

h-Four steps forward to starwheel formation 77-80.

B—a-Three steps forward, face R about 81-84.

b-Men closed Squat position 1-2 ....85-86

c-Straighten knees 3-4 .............87-88

d-Retum 5-8	 89-92

e-Repeat (a) 93-96.

LADIES at the same time.

a-as the men 1-4.

b-Swing arms fore-upward 5-6.

c-Bend trunk forward swing arms down and back 7-8.

d-Retum movements (b and c) 9-12.

e-March forward four steps as (a) of men 13-16 (81-96).

C—a-Starwheel L 97-112.

b-March to following formation (Figure IV) men face away from center march toward front right angles,

Ladies mark time eight steps, then march forward toward front eight steps 113-128.

	U	
T	U	T
	u	
T	u	T
	u	
T	u	T
	u	
T	u	T

Exercise 2, 32 Measures. Men

[Figure

A—a-Squat stand 1-2.

b-Jump to supportlying frontways 3-4.

c-Jump to supportlying rearways, by passing the legs between arms 5-6.

d-1-2 turn L to supportlying frontways 7-8.

e-Jump to stoop stand, bend hips, legs straight 9-10.

f-Retum to (d) 11-12.

g-Retum to (a) 13-14.

h-Retum to starting position 15-16.

Repeat all three times more 17-64.

Ladies exercise, Ladies are numbered No. 1, and No. 2.

Describing No. 1, the others perform the exercise to the opposite side.

A—a-Two closing steps L sideward 1-4.

b-Lunge L sideward, L arm obliquely side-upward, R opposite 5-6.

c-1-4 Turn L kneel R, swing arms downward and side-up-ward 7-8.

Digitized by kjOOQle
508

d-Bend upper trunk backward, lower arms sideward, palms up 9-10.

e-Bend trunk forward over L knee, place hands on floor 11-12 f-Rise to stand on L foot, R leg extended backward, arms upward 13-14.

g-Close R to L foot, lower arms 15-16.

B—a-Seven steps forward, toward men, close on eight 1-8.

b-Layout L backward, place hands in front of shoulder 9-10. c-1-4 turn L straighten arms sideward 11-12 (straighten R knee)

d-1-4 turn L, bend L knee, and bend arms 13-14. e-Close L to R foot, lower arms 15-16.

Repeat all of A and B 33-64.

Trio 16 Measures Men

Exercise 3.

A—a-Place L foot obliquely fore-outward, bend arms to strike from head 1-2.

b-Layout L obliquely backinward, strike arms downward 3-4. c-Lunge L sideward, raise L arm sideward, place R hand in front of L shoulder, both hands clenched to fist 5-6. d-Bend trunk forward, strike L arm downward toward R foot 7-8.

e-Retum to (c) 9-10.

f-Repeat (d and e) 11-14.

g-Close L to R foot, lower arms 15-16.

Repeat all R, 17-32.

Ladies exercise, Description of No. 1, No. 2 perform opposite.

A—a-Kneel L, bend arms upward 1-2.

b-Straighten R leg sideward, place L hand on floor, straighten R arm upward, 3-4. c-Bend R arm 5-6.

d-1-4 turn L place both hands on floor (support kneeling) 7-8

e-Change leg positions, (bend R and straighten L knee) 9-10.

f-Repeat (e) 11-12.

g-Squat stand 13-14.

h-Straighten to stand facing front 15-16.

Repeat all R 17-32.

Exercise 4, 8 Measures.

Men.

a-Jump to side stride stand, arms sideward 1. b-Jump to closed stand, clasp hands over head 2. c-Continue three times more 3-8. d-One closing step L sideward and return 9-12. e-Repeat (d) to the opposite side 13-16.

Ladies Description for No. 1, No. 2 begins with the second movement.

a-Bend knees, arms sideward 1-2. b-Straighten knees, swing arms side-upward 3-4. d-Continue this 5-16.

Digitized by LjOOQle
Exercise 5, 16 Measures.

Men Repeat B and A of exercise 1, Group I 1-32.

Ladies repeat A and B of exercise 1, Group I

March off.

-----------------------------------------------------------

Health education notes

, > .... - ......... .............. ■	—♦

Important Reference Facts in regard to Health Education gathered from Studies, Surveys and Investigations by the National Physical Education Service of the National Recreation Association.

Dr. R. N. Bradshaw, physician for Oberlin College, finds that the selfsupporting students both men and women, had in 1926-27 a much higher precentage of illness than financially independent students.

George R. Moon of the University of Chicago, finds that, next to finances, ill health is the reason most frequently given by students for withdrawal from that institution.

Dr. Letitia Fairfield who visited America for the Child Guidance Council reported to the London County Council that overwork was common among American children, but very rare among London children. Its prevalence here was the result of the importance attached to the term reports on conduct, effort and efficiency and the disgrace which occurred with lack of normal promotion.

In a hearing survey of the schools of San Francisco, 8.7% were found with a loss of 9 points or more sensation units by the audiometer and 1.6% of the total number tested were considered sufficiently deafened to need training in lip reading.

Doctors Lokka and Hyatt have estimated that only one out of 2,250 fissures in molar and bicuspid teeth remain immune to dental decay. Colored Lantern slides showing these faults of development in enamel (described in the publication “Better Teeth” Bureau of Education) are offered free to teachers and public health workers by Prof. C. F. Boedecker of Columbia University, School of Dental and Oral Surgery.

L. 0. Kappes of Rochester, Minn., compared the history of children with caries and those comparatively free from dental defects. The only etiologic factor that seemed of definite significance in preventing decay was a diet consisting largely of fruits and vegetables.

Digitized by ooQie
510

According to the studies of Janet H. Clark of Johns Hopkins University, a child seated 15 feet from a north window transmitting ultraviolet rays would get no more effect from such radiation in 20 hours than he would in 20 minutes from direct sunlight in the open air at noon. The tests were made in March, April and May.

Of Smith College seniors 1928, 57% were considered in sound heatlh, 40% were lacking in reserve or needed care, and 3% had poor health. After two years of required physical activity 30% did some regular vigorous exercise at set times; 49% took walks or played tennis or golf when they had a chance, 20% did nothing more than was necessary for getting about or shopping.

H. W. Hetherington on examination of 1,999 children 5 to 16 years in whom latent tuberculosis was shown by the tuberculosis test, and by nodules and bronchial glands demonstrated by X-rays, finds underweight of little, if any, value in diagnosis.

The Statistical Bulletin of the Metropolitan Life Insurance. Company for June, 1928, states that among nearly 20,000 employees of that company who have received dental examinations in the last twelve years, only two sets of perfect teeth have been found. It is in the faults of enamel (pits and fissures) which exist from the time the teeth are formed and decay begins. The treatment of these defects in school children for the prevention of decay, is described in the publication “Better Teeth" issued by the Bureau of Education last year.

Wilson, Lingg, and Croxford observed 413 rheumatic children over a period of from 1 to 10 years; 247 of them were subjected to tonsillectomy. Manifestation of infection recurred in 47.7 per cent, and appeared for the first time in 34.7 per cent of the children who had had their tonsils removed. In only 17.5 per cent was there no manifestation of rheumatism after operation. They conclude that the routine removal of tonsils for the prevention of rheumatic heart diesease in children is not based on conclusive data.

“Our experience in feeding laboratory animals leads us to believe that the outstanding fault in our diet is the excessive use of meats and cereals, to the exclusion of sufficient fruits, vegetables and milk. The latter foods contain vitamins, minerals, salts and low protein, and in our experience with experimental animals they produce sound teeth and bones.

Primitive races, among whom practically no dental disease is found, know nothing about calcium lactate and parathyroid extract. They do not devitalize their foods by refining and preservative processes and then try to replace the deficiencies by chemical makeshift".—Percy R. Howe.

Digitized by UjOOQle
511

The present state of our knowledge as to the origin of defective and decayed teeth is thus summed up by Percy R. Howe, Chief of Research Laboratory, Forsythe Dental Infirmary for Children, Boston, “So far as may be seen from recent research dental disorders are to be considered as fundamentally due to irregular mineral metabolism, which in turn is due in large part to the character of the diet.

Acid-forming foods in the form of meat, fish and eggs are probably only a slight factor, but in the form of bread and pastry are one of the direct causes of dental decay. This is no doubt due to a local acid fermentation. A survey shows a heavy consumption of sugar to be another cause of caries. This may be due to local or systemic action. The importance of the alkaline-forming foods is very apparent.”—Jour. Am. Dent. Assn.

W. R. P. Emerson thinks, from his studies in colleges, that “the greater the student’s theoretical knowledge of health, the poorer his practice.” He believes that is because the teaching is purely theoretical and that ‘‘weighing and measuring at regular intervals, and at the same time giving personal instruction in proper health habits produces results that far exceed those obtained by the methods of health education now generally in practice.” In a woman’s college he estimated the “health in telligence quotient,” or the proportion of health information which a pupil applies in her own living, as follows: Freshmen 77% sophomores 75%, juniors 73% and seniors 71%.

The tremendous pace of modern life is largely responsible for the great increase in heart disease among humans, in the opinion of Dr. F. Strickland Goodall, a prominent English heart speciliast. Dr. Goodall pointed out that whereas the death rate from cancer has only increased 25 per cent during the last few years, the mortality from heart disease has increased 400 per cent and maintained that mental and emotional strain of modern life is responsible.

“The whole of modern life,” he said, “cuts up rest and tends to increase emotion, and emotion increases intra-vascular strain. I cannot help thinking it is very largely due to all this that there is this tremendous increase of heart disease.”

PLATFORM ON ATHLETICS

Society of State Directors of Physical and Health Education.

Adopted by the Society of State Directors of Physical and Health Education at various meetings during the past years. Finally adopted and codified at the annual meeting of the Society in New York, Wednesday December 31, 1930. This final code represents the latest opinion of the state directors.

Digitized by L^OOQle
512

1	Athletics is an integral part of physical education, not only in theory but in practice. Athletics should be part of the general school physical education program.

2	The State Directors favor athletic control and guidance according to age, ability and needs of the pupil rather than the encouragement of athletic competition in elementary schools. (Adopted at Atlantic City Meeting, February, 1930).

3	The attention of high school administrators should be called to the fact that their program of athletics should provide greater opportunities for participation in sports which may carry over into later life;—that is, tennis, golf, swimming, handball, volley ball, etc.

4	The Society of State Directors should take steps to bring about a discussion of athletic programs with the National Federation of State High School Athletic Associations.

5	The Society of State Directors of Physical and Health Education goes on record as being opposed to national or inter-state championships in athletics and all other activities sponsored by school authorities such as spelling, debating and dramatics; as well as national demonstrations of school activities which make use of children gathered from widely separated districts for display-purposes such as music either vocal or instrumental. Such tournaments and displays possesses little if any educational values commensurate with the sacrifices of the children involved, of which a distorted sense of personal importance is an outstanding example of an unhealthy state of mind.

6	School administrators should take positive action to see that the administration of all athletics in the high school program is in the hands of and entirely controlled by properly constituted school officials.

7	The director and instructor of physical education should be responsible for the school athletic program.

8	American interscholastic football for junior high school boys is undesirable. (Adopted at Baltimore Meeting 1928).

9	State Directors should be in intimate touch with athletics inasmuch as athletics are a definite part of the physical education program. (Adopted at Des Moines meeting 1927).

90 State Directors should have a voice in the control of high school and elementary athletics. (Adopted at Atlantic City Meeting, February 1930).

11	State Directors should wherever possible be members of the Executive Committees or Boards of Control of State Athletic Associations and that such invitations should be extended by the various State High School Athletic Associations. (Adopted at Atlantic City meeting, February 1930)
513

12	The Society of State Directors disapprove of high school interscholastic night football games.

13	It was recommended that the age limit for high school competition be 20. (This matter was referred to the committee for further clarification and later action).

(Girls’ Athletics)

14	That national competition in girls’ basketball is undesirable. (Adopted at Des Moines Meeting 1929).

15	That Junior Olympics for boys or girls are undesirable. (Adopted at Baltimore Meeting 1928.)

16	The Society of State Directors look with favor on steps being taken in various states at the present time toward the protection of the physical welfare of girl students by the drawing up of regulations which limit and safe guard competition in girls basket ball.

17	The principle that girls should participate in athletics is wise and good, but the problem is one of control and conduct.

18	Girls should not imitate the men’s and boys’ activities. They should have a program of activities based on their interests and needs.

19	The program should include more than basketball. It should be a varied program of all kinds of sports including volley ball, captain ball, dodge ball, field ball, soccer, swimming, hiking, etc.

20	Girls’ games should not be staged with boys’ games, pernicious habit of having girls’ games serve as curtain raisers and as interludes for the boys’ games should be stopped.

21	Girls should have a program of activities that is broad and the environment in which they plan and compete should be conducive to their health and well being, and no one but trained women leaders should be in charge. The great need, therefore, is for a right program under scientific ladership.

Committee on Physical Education and Athletics: Alden Thompson, Chairman, William . Burdick, M. D., William G. Moorhead.

THE ADVERTISING OF THE DENTIFRICE.

The early part of the twentieth century may be interesting historically for the fact that it witnessed the apotheosis of the tooth brush, the tooth paste and the mouth wash. It started with the slogan “A Clean Tooth Never Decays,” subsequently proved to be as false as many other slogans which through high pressure advertising agencies attract the shekels of the paying public. When the competition for maximum sales in tooth brushes was at its height, special claims were made for peculiar curves of the handle, unequal pieces of the tufting, hardness and

Digitized by kjOOQle
514

softness of the bristles and a half dozen other alleged requirements that are less matters of scientific value than choice or taste.

So far as mouth washes are concerned, their virtues may lie in a slight astringency or alkalinity, in the mildly antiseptic influence they exert for the extremely brief period in which they are in contact with the oral tissues, or more probably in the fact that they contain enough water to provide a lavage appealing to the organoleptic senses. When Feasley thumbed the dictionary and found halitosis, he gave to Listerine a sales impulse that no other mouth wash has ever been able to equal. The conception embalmed in the title of a current refrain: “If Your Best Friend Won’t Tell You, Why Should I?” has a psychologic urge that has caused hundreds of thousands of hoi polloi to bum the trails to the drug counter. Nor did the fact that the combination of substances included in Listerine is relatively ineffective and will not cure halitosis lessen the stampede. Furthermore, the promoters of mouth washes, like the promoters of every other article of merchandise from grapefruit to toilet paper, have secured testimonials from all sorts of people to the effect that they themselves have been benefited by actual trial of the substance concerned.

Recently, the Food and Drug Administration of the United States Department of Agriculture has cast a critical eye over the claims for antiseptic value made for various mouth washes and gargles. It is currently reported that the owners of all these bringers of gold are rushing hither and thither to the laboratories searching for substances that really are antiseptics and that can be added to their concoctions without changing taste or color— the important qualities—that the claims may be justified.

And now for the dentifrices. Through the potent spell of the comedy of Amos and Andy, a pepsinized mixture leaped to a leading position among tooth pastes, notwithstanding the lack of value of pepsin for this purpose. Claims made for alleged alkaline or acid values in tooth pastes have been strong—by contrast, as strong as the evidence to the effect that control of acid or alkali will prevent dental caries has been feeble. The changes have been rung long and insistently on alkalinity, on “the danger line” and on the percentage of those with pyorrhea. A half dozen assorted chemists and the commissioner of health of New York assert that low surface tension means that a tooth paste will penetrate better between the teeth. The claim of special value because of low surface tension in connection with the selling of any tooth paste is one hundred per cent hokum. Any mixture of soap, glycerin and chalk, such as is available in many tooth pastes, would be equally endowed with a low surface tension.

The council on dental therapeutics of the American Dental Association has, it is reported, secured the promise of abandonment of the claims for low surface tension by the Colgate Company, and is actively endeavoring to bring other manufacturers

Digitized by t^ooQle
515

of tooth pastes and dentifrices into the fold where claims made for products are substantiated by scientific evidence. Physicians should do all that they can to aid the American Dental Association in this campaign.

An Interesting Note From England.—The Government apparently has every intention of introducing during the coming session a bill to compel all children to remain at school up to the age of 15 years. Education authorities will, therefore, be well advised to consider what provision they intend to make for these additional children. It is to be hoped that the authorities will realize the benefits to be derived from the activity portion of the table, and will be prepared to assist organisers and others to provide for the children along these lines. Boys of from 14 to 15 years of age especially will not be content with the ordinary formal exercises, and will agitate for some vigorous movements which will test their stamina and their pluck—that is, of course, always assuming that the previous training has been correctly carried out. I believe a minimum of apparatus will be required, and would suggest that each school should be supplied with at least a mat and some simple form of apparatus. Alternatively, much more attention must be paid to the playing of vigorous games, and this will necessitate the adequate provision of playing fields. At present the elementary schools are very badly served. A secondary school, apparently, within certain limits, can get exactly what it wants in this direction, but an elementary school, where the vast majority of children of the countiy are trained, must put up with lesser accommodation. Physical Education, England.

BRAIN FUNCTIONS

The problem of the localization of cerebral functions cannot be said as yet to have reached a definite solution. From the early days of scientific interest in the subject a century or more ago until the present time the pendulum of belief has swung from one extreme to another. Mourens convinced many of his contemporaries that the cerebrum is a single organ, functionally equivalent in all its parts. The subsequent work of experimentalists, notably Hitzig and Frisch and their followers, brought out “the overhwelming importance of the cortex.” Before that period the corpus striatum was regarded as the great motor center, and the thalamus as the chief center of sensation. With the establishment of the highest cerebral centers in the brain cortex came extreme views of the localization of function in the brain in which the different motor and sensory areas were definitely circumscribed and separated from one another, making the cerebrum “plurality of organs.”

The more recent studies, as Howell has pointed out, have tended to modify these extreme views of localization and to em-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
516

phasize the fact that histologically and physiologically the entire cerebrum is connected so intmately, part to part, that, although the different regions mediate different functions, nevertheless an injury or defect in one part may influence to some extent the functional value of all other regions in the organ. The general idea of a localization of function has been accepted, he adds, but the modern view is that the cerebrum is composed of a plurality of organs, not completely separated one from the other, as taught by Gall, but intimately associated and to a certain extent dependent one on another for their full functional importance.

It is not always easy to translate the results secured from animals in this field directly to human conditions. Accidents involving the brain and surgical necessities have therefore been depended on to supplement and substantiate the conclusions that have been developed regarding the functions of the human brain. Dandy of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, from a series of cerebral operations of varying character, has reached the following conclusions:

It is possible to remove all of the right cerebral hemisphere above the basal ganglia with no appreciable disturbance of mentality; this procedure has been carried out on several occasions for the removal of extensive tumors in the right hemisphere.

On one occasion both frontal lobes have been completely extirpated for the treatment of a bilateral frontal brain tumor, and following this there has been no appreciable disturbance of mentality. The patient is perfectly oriented as to time, place and person; the memory is unimpaired; he reads, writes and conducts mathematical tests accurately; his conversation is seemingly perfectly normal.

Furthermore, by the excision in other cases of the left occipital lobe and of the lower third of the left temporal lobe, we can be sure that none of these regions are responsible for intelligence. The intellect, therefore, is concerned with the reamining portion of the left cerebral hemisphere and is doubtless closely related to the speech mechanism.

It has been found after ligation of the anterior cerebral artery on the left side that consciousness is completely and forever lost. This does not result when the same vessel is ligated on the right side. There is, therefore, within the limits of the distribution of this vessel an area specifically concerned with consciousness. The same result follows when this vessel is occluded at the middle of the corpus callosum, indicating that the seat of consciousness is posterior to this point in the vessel.

The entire body of the corpus callosum may be split in the midline without any appreciable disturbance of function. This structure is, therefore, eliminated from participation in the important functions which hitherto have been ascribed to it.

When dhta of this sort become more abundant in the course of time, new synthetic conceptions and a better insight into the complicated nature of human cerebral will be realized.

Digitized by kjOOQle
517

♦ ---------- ------- —	..

News, notes and comments

♦ -	...	,,

Promotion of Physical Education by the American Legion.—The American Legion has done much to promote physical education in education. They have been most active in obtaining state physical education laws and state directors of health and physical education. Mr. Russell Cook, Director of the National Americanism Committee has been doing much. In a recent visit to Richmond, Virginia he was quoted in the Richmond News Leader as follows: “Realizing that physical development among the youth of the country is way below par, basing this statement on the fact that 35 per cent of the men drafted in the forces of this country during the world war were rejected because of physical disability, state departments have been asked to start campaigns on character building and physical development in the schools of their respective states. The legion favors a minimum program of compulsory physical education in the public schools which will require at least one hour per day for three days a week, or its equivalent. Legislation to bring this about will be sought by the legion in all states where such laws are not now operating.”

The Office of Education, U. S. Department of the Interior, has just published a booklet entitled “Student Relationship and Welfare.” It is a survey of the land grant colleges and universities. It contains very valuable and up to date information as to what these colleges are doing in health and physical education.

Progressive Education.—Dr. Goodwin Watson of Columbia University made a splendid speech at the banquet of the National Progressive Education Association convention of the Department of Superintendence, Detroit, Thursday February 26. He spoke of the great need for a recreation program in secondary education. To quote from the Detroit news: ‘.‘Seven departments, or rather ‘trunk lines of experience,’ ” would be provided for in Dr. Watson’s ideal high school, he said. “These would be health, personal relations, vocations, money and goods, the social order, recreation and the interpretation of the universe. There would be no formal classes. Each morning the pupil would report to his counselor and plan his work for the day which he would carry out either singly or in a group. Printed materials, books and equipment would be ready for his use. When he became puzzled with some problem he would go to the expert in the field concerned and ask questions. And the teacher would actually try to answer them.

“Teachers in the health department, for example, probably would be asked if hair tonics are good for dandruff. They also

Digitized by

Google
518

might be asked what causes cold epidemics, wfiy matirmty mortality is so high, the effect of noise on nervous systems, how to avoid goiters, what to do for bums, if basket ball is a healthy game, are drafts really to be avoided or is that just an old-fashioned idea? All of these things you seeT have to do with life. Is it too revolutionary to suggest that we try to teach them?”

Increase of Height of Hollanders—In the review Menschen MacUschappij, Prof. J. P. Van den Broek publishes an article concerning the increase in the height of Hollanders. He concludes from his study of statistics that: 1. The average height of man in the Netherlands is 1.72 meters. 2. After Sweden, Norway and Scotland, the height of man in the'Netherlands is the greatest of any country. 3. The average height is greatest in Friesland, Groningen and northern Netherlands, and the least in Limburg and North Brabant. 4. The increase in height is a world-wide phenomenon. It is sometimes said that the increase is due to the greater wealth and comfort that have resulted from the absence of alcoholism, but to this assumption certain objections may be raised: This increase in growth has been going on for sixty years; the increase in all parts of the Netherlands is uniform, and the same increase is noted outside the Netherlands.

Noise—The thorough, scientific manner iu which the Verein deutscher Ingenieure is attacking the noise problem is praiseworthy, yet the question arises whether this thoroughness will-unduly delay its practical solution. For the public the sole question is that ways and means may be promptly found to check the persons who produce immoderate noise on the streets, and who are easily recognized; for example, motor cyclists who permit unnecessary gas explosions, the manipulators of auto horns, street car motormen who tear across the switches with a deafening noise, and drivers of trucks loosely loaded with rails. The essential work of prevention can be accomplished without scientific research and without interfering in any way with a nore scientific study of the problem. The elimination of loud noises in cities is a crying need.

Annual Increase in Automobile Deaths.—The National Safety Council reports that in thirty-three states and the District of Columbia, representing 75 per cent of the population, 32,500 automobile deaths occurred during 1930, a 4 per cent increase over 1929. There was less than 1 per cent increase in motor vehicle registrations during the year. Ten states with strong drivers’ license laws showed an average decrease of 1.5 per cent: New Hampshire, Rhode Island, California, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont. The states without standard drivers’ license laws showed an increase of 8.3 per cent.

Digitized by Google
519

Athletic CoacKes Must Take Health Courses.—Athletic coaches in Ohio will henceforth be considered teachers of health and Physical education in the eyes of the division of certification, the state department of education has announced. As such they must have a minor of twelve semester hours in health and physical education for part time work • and a major of forty semester hours for full time. The ruling does not affect those who now hold certificates but is expected to be in full force by 1935.

Classroom Teacher Has Most Influence in Health Teaching.—The classroom teacher is the key person in any school health program, Dr. J. Mace Andress points out in the school section of Hyqeia. In fact, so great is her influence that the program is usually doomed to failure unless she is alert and active.

Health education is lately a matter of supervision and since the classroom teacher is in constant contact with children during school hours, she has the best possible opportunity for instruction and the building of healthful attitudes.

Cleanliness, posture, the use of plenty of water and milk, proper care of drinking fountains, proper use of the eyes and sensible choice of food are activities over which the teacher has daily supervsion.

Finally, the teacher’s personal influence is of the greatest importance. The teacher who constantly violates health rules cannot have a wholesome influence on school children. If, on the contrary, the teacher is health minded, vigorous of body and possessed of good health habits she will stimulate wholesome living among her pupils.

CONVENTION OF THE WORLD FEDERATION OF EDUCATION ASSOCIATIONS

Denver will be the scene of the fourth biennial convention of the World Federation of Education Associations, July 27 to August 2. Present indications point to an attendance that will run well into the thousands.

The world Federation of Education Associations came into existence in San Francisco in 1923 at the time of the summer convention of the N.E.A. at Oakland. Out of this beginning grew the first biennial convention at Edinburgh in 1925.

The association includes the following departmental organizations: the Parent-Teacher Association, health education, educational crafts, preparation of teachers, international aspects of library service, education and the press, rural life and rural education, pre-school and kindergarten, elementary education, secondary education, the international aspect of colleges and universities. A part of the program follows:

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
520

Health Section — Tentative Program

JULY 26th Sunday Afternoon, Reception to Delegates and Visitors.

JULY 27th

MORNING: Section Registration. Reports of Chairman and Secretary. Reports of Delegates. Organization of Special Committees.

AFTERNOON:	Joint	Meeting—Home and School and Health

Sections.

Home Cooperation with the School Health

Program.

Ways and Means of providing and maintaining Sanitation and Health Service through cooperation of Volunteer and Official Agencies.

Specific Achievements in Different Countries.

JULY 28th

MORNING:	Nutrition.

Newer Knowledge of Nutrition.

Nutritional Deficiency Diseases—racial and geographical.

Specific Achievements in Different Countries.

AFTERNOON:	Basic Training for Directors of Health Educa-

tion; health education principles, methods, interrelation of school health activities, extra curricular activities, medical and nursing service, sanitation, physical education, school lunches.

Objectives and Conduct of the Modem Physical Education Program.

Specific Achievments in Different Countries.

JULY 29th MORNING:

AFTERNOON:

JULY 30th: JULY 31st: MORNING and AFTERNOON:

Service Program.

Activities and Interrelationships of—specialists, doctors, nurses, home economists, physical educators, science teachers, parents, community groups.

Specific Achievements in Different Countries.

Technique for Developing Sound Health Literature and Other Materials.

Scientific accuracy, educational validity, form of presentation, costs—how defrayed.

Use of Supplementary and Local Materials.

Specific Achievements in Different Countries.

Morning and Afternoon Excursions.

The Integrated Health Program in Elementary and Secondary Schools.

The Integrated Health Program in Teachers’ Education.

Digitized by LjOOQle
AUGUST 1st: MORNING:

52i

Discussion of plans for Continuing Section Activities:	f

The apportioning of special problems for study to representatives of different countries. The development and maintenance of contacts between professional workers in dif-erent countries by means of special bulletins, correspondence and introductions for workers traveling in foreign lands.

The arranging of facilities for the exchange of plans among research workers.

For further information address Secretary of Health Section SALLY LUCAS JEAN

Room 1169, 200 Fifth Avenue

New York, N. Y., U. S. A.

SIXTIETH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION.

The American Public Health Association announces its Sixtieth Annual Meeting, September 14-17, in Montreal, Quebec.

Such subjects as toxoid immunization; rural sanitation, particularly the organization of a practical program for county health units; health education for a large city, for a small city and for a rural community; camp and resort sanitation, including fungus skin infections, particularly those transmitted in swimming pools, and general sanitation of auto camps, have been considered so important by the Program Committee that special sessions will be devoted to them.

Each Section of the Association will arrange individual programs, covering public health administration, laboratory research,* vital statistics, public health engineering, food, drugs and nutrition, child hygiene, public health nursing, health education epidemiology and industrial hygiene.

ARNOLD BENNETT’S DEATH POINTS FAMILIAR NEGLECT

The literary world has recently been making up its estimate of Arnold Bennett, the English novelist and playwright whose versatility and genius have been accepted for a quarter century.

He was only sixty-three years old at his death and after he had found his feet as an author was a prodigy of industry plus care. His novels succeeded each other rapidly, but they showed high craftsmanship and a careful attention to detail. His plays were thoughtful satires. Arnold Bennett had become perhaps the foremost author in the world.

He died of typhoid fever.

Digitized by QjOOQle
522

A man in the full possession of his powers, at the top of accomplishment and fame, died as uselessly as those babies to whom in America we used to feed infected milk!

A shot of serum, a five-minute pause for a preventive measure against one of the preventable diseases, and Arnold Bennett would still be looking forward to a decade of active work.

In North Carolina this service is every year furnished free.— Raleigh Times.

AIR CONDITIONED TRAIN TO BE PUT IN SERVICE

It is reported that the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad has announced that it will equip a full train with air conditioning for service between New York and Washington. The Santa Fe, which has an air conditioned diner using the duct system for heating purposes as well as for cooling, reports that it has found the plant adequate except for extreme weather.—Heating and Ventilating.	___________

APPARATUS EXERCISES AND TUMBLING

For The Third National Turnfest to be held in Camp Brosius, Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin, on June 28 and 29, 1931.

HORIZONTAL BAR

1.	Jump to straight arm hang with upper grip.

2.	Underswing and kip to support.

3.	Hip-circle backward.

4.	Underswing, on the next forward swing half turn left about left arm grasping upper grip with right hand.

5.	Knee-swing—up left forward between hands, and

6.	Dismount forward with leg swing right forward and quarter turn left to side stand left sideward.

PARALLEL BARS From a running start:

1.	Jump to upper arm hang middle of bars, roll backward (body straight) to upper arm hang and

2.	Swing forward to upper arm kip position,

3.	Swing backward and swing-rise at the end of the backward swing with half turn (scissors) to straddle seat in front of hands.

4.	Grasp forward (end of bars) and turn over forward with bent arms to cross stand rearways.

TUMBLING

1.	Round off.

2.	Fall back rolling backward through momentary hand stand, snapping to stand.

3.	Two successive head springs forward.

. 4. Roll forward to lying rearways.

5.	Raise legs to kip position and snap up to a stand (placing hands near shoulder).

Digitized by Google
523

BOOK REVIEWS

Physical Education for Elementary Schools by Neilson and Van Hagen. Cloth bound, 363 pages. Price, $2.00. Publisher, A. S. Barnes and Co.

Many words of praise have been written for this book and they have not exaggerated its value. It is a revision of the California Manual of Physical Education Activities for Elementary Schools. A wealth of activity material is presented consisting mainly of games, individual athletic events, rhythmical activities, mimetics, and stunts. In addition much valuable information concerning organization, play areas, equipment, and supplies is inlcuded.

The reviewer was very much surprised to note the absence in the bibliography and list of reference books of any mention of “Games and Dances” by William A. Stecher, a book which for many years has contained much of the material appearing in the publication by Neilson and Van Hagen.

Eurhythmies, Art and Education—E. Jaques Dalcroze, A. S. Barnes & Co., New York—$4.00, Translated by Frederick Rothwell.

This book embodies a series of twenty-one articles written at various times on “Rhythm”. These articles are grouped under four headings: Eurhythmies, Education, Art, and General, and range in content from a detailed consideration of the values and techniques to lengthy discussions of rhythm in music, theatre, and art.

A very practical discussion is to be found in Chapter II, “The Technique of Moving Plastic”. At the outset the author points out that most methods of physical education have in the past not fitted the pupil to become absolute master of his motor faculties. It is necessary that “the body constantly under pressure, should also be constantly in a state of effortless motion and evolution according to the idea originating in the brain and should react unresistingly to the spontaneous promptings of the fancy”. Education in athletics and gymnastics which strengthens and supples the body will aid in expressing the instinctive body rhythms although certain technical processes peculiar to the various types of athletics and gymnastics have to be blotted out of the muscular memory. The re-education of the corporal expression can be accomplished through a series of intensive studies and practice. Dalcroze then gives suggestions as to how this may be done.

The final culmination of the study of moving plastic is the direct expression of esthetic feelings and emotions without the aid of music. Because traditionally the natural expansions of the body have been thwarted by habits and customs of life which haye been more and more anti-natural, it is necessary that the

Digitized by AjOOQle
524

development of the technique of moving plastic rely temporarily on such tested technique as those afforded by speech and music.

Mass gymnastics from one point of view, may be an unusually fertile source of powerful esthetic effects if the movements involving bodily displacement, gestures, and kneeling are performed in staggered sequences or “divided order”.

Athletics and sports too are equally susceptible to this treatment if they are studied with regard to the effects of contrasts in straight and curved lines, of geometrical figures in angles or circles, of different gestures and gaits, of contrasts in speed in running, of strength and suppleness of movement, of the number of individuals in the formation of groups; contrasts with groups of solo performers, of weight and of lightness of step, and finally contrasts of opposition between the silence of orchestra and the activity of human movements between reposes of bodies perfectly still in various attitudes.

Because the child is so continuously bombarded by so many interesting curiosities and because he lacks a sense of continuity and development his life is one of spontaneous creation or repeated imitation. Hence the author points out “He should be taught to make rapid connections between certain movements, to order them exactly arid grade them according to his fancy. His spontaneous impulses should be cultivated and increased and those that are harmful or useless being eliminated.” In this connection he warns that in getting “the feeling of the great elementary rhythms,” it is important to avoid the multitude of small contradictory ones.

“For adolescents, exercises in slow and continuous movement are desirable.” “The adolescent must be enabled to regulate freely his muscular antagonisms and the play of his nervous

currents........to	measure	instinctively	the	distance between the

point in space where his gesture is prepared and the goal which it is proposing to reach.”

Chapter V entitled “General Education and Rhythmic Movement” is particularly interesting because of its practical discussion. The author urges taking advantage of the natural movements of the child by encouraging and developing them.

In giving exercises and movements to children he points out that they should not be chosen in haphazard fashion. Each lesson should be broken up into “chapters,” the first “arousing and exciting the temperament, and developing muscular elasticity and the others developing coordination and harmony with the laws that control relations between time, space and dynamic force”.

Although the discussions are not always in harmony with the dictates of modem science the author has shown a profound understanding of art in its many manifestations and in its relations with modem life and education. Many of the chapters should be of great value to every teacher of physical education.

JOHN C. KIEFER

Digitized by LjOOQle