! r •' ^ 9	■	■	'	'

tY

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 31	April,	1924	No.	327

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO. NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

VVM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14. igi6, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, iSjg.

THE MERIT GROUPING PLAN.

By Reinhold W. Goll, Philadelphia.

It is patent that the schools of today are doing more than giving instruction in the three R’s. As pointed out by Professor Cubberley, changing social conditions have changed our conception of education. The home has had to relinquish many of its educative duties and has even shown a disposition to hold the school responsible for character training. Science is continually throwing light upon the many fields of human endeavor, which demands adaptations in our conduct of life.

It is clearly recognized that the home cannot keep abreast of the ever progressing changes required by ever increasing scientific truth. The school, the great self-protective and self-improving agency of the State, has accepted, in theory at least, its evident duty. So that today the school aims to make the child as socially efficient, with all that implies, as the child is individually capable of being made. This has involved the homogenous grouping of pupils according to school progress ability, with curricular and method adjustments thereto,

Digitized by i^ooQle
2

To make the child socially efficient means, as Professor Bonser tells us, that the school must first promote and maintain the health of the child; second, the child must be provided with the skill necessary to engage successfully in a useful occupation; third, he must be trained in the duties of good citizenship; and fourth, he must be taught the worthy use of leisure time.

To come back to our original statement, the schools of today are doing more than giving instruction in the three R’s. Yet very little official recognition of this greater work is made to the child and the parent in the form of a report.

It has occurred to some that there is need for a comprehensive school rating that will embrace all the factors; physical, mental, and social, now operating in the school toward the goal of education in a democracy — “social efficiency.”

Such a rating or grouping of pupils should provide an ideal that will motivate the child, and the parent for the child, toward betterment in the great work of the school; and secondly, will definitely inform the pupil and the parent in just what respects the pupil needs special attention. The plan should provide for individual differences, yet set a minimum expectation in any one essential. It should reward honest effort, particularly successful effort made in the face of individual handicaps. On the other hand it should act as a stimulant rather than a depressant to those pupils who have failed to achieve the ideal.

Mr. William A. Stecher, Director of Physical Education in Philadelphia, conceived such a plan and presented it in outline to the Division of Physical Education a year ago. A division committee, of which the writer is chairman, was appointed to work out this plan in detail and in practical form. The plan then evolved and carried out in a number of Philadelphia schools (with children of Junior High School age only) during the school term September 1923 - January 1924, plus the revisions made since, is presented below.

The Merit Grouping Plan.

Each pupil at the end of the school term is placed in one of three groups: the Merit group; the Average group; or the Unsatisfactory group.

Qualifications for The Merit Group.

1.	Physical quotient of 120 or more.

2.	Five grades of at least “G” in the curricular subjects, two of which must be in the following subjects: English, Mathematics, Social Studies, and Science.

3.	Remove all remedial physical defects.

4.	“Good” attention to personal hygiene.

5.	“Good’ sportsmanlike conduct.

NOTE—To aualify for the Ment group the pupil must meet all the qualifications listed above.

Digitized by UjOOQle
3

Qualifications For The Average Group.

1.	Physical quotient from 100 to 119.

2.	Promotion at end of term.

3.	Remove at least one remedial physical defect.

4.	“Fair ’ attention to personal hygiene.

5.	“Fair” sportsmanlike conduct.

NOTE—To qualify for the Average group the pupil must meet all the qualifications listed above.

The Unsatisfactory Group.

All pupils who fail to qualify for the Merit or Average g’-oup are in the Unsatisfactory group ana need special attention in school and at home.

Instructions For Administering Plan.

The co-operation of the entire faculty and all school agencies is necessary for the success of the plan. No extra records are kept by anyone thruout the school term. The principal sets a day near the end of the term on which the school officers, who come in direct contact with the pupils, meet and place each pupil in the proper group as shown by the records. A convenient summary sheet is provided for this purpose, with full instructions as follows:

1.	Physical auotient is to be recorded by the physical training teacher. It is to be obtained as follows:

Record under each activity the age corresponding to the pupil’s actual performance, using the Age Aim chart. The average of these ages gives the Physical Age. Divide the Physical Age in years by the Chronological Age in years; this gives what is called Physical Quotient.

E. G.—In the case of a 12 year old boy:

Event	Performance	Performance	Age

Jump ................5 ft. 2 in.	13

Throw ...............30 ft.	14

Dash ................8—0 sec.	13

Chinning.............2 times	12

Total 52 Average 13—Physical Age

Physical Age 13 Physical Quotients-----------=---=108

Chronol Age 12

2.	Rating based upon Scholastic Standing is to be recorded by the record teacher, using the Promotion Sheet.

3.	Rating based upon removal of remedial physical defects is to be recorded by the school nurse. The following only are to be considered: Defects of Eyes, Ears, Nose, Throat and Teeth.

4.	The rating based upon Pcsonal Hygiene is to be determined by a committee consisting of at least the record teacher, physical training teacher and one other departmental teacher. For this rating cleanliness of body and cleanliness of clothing are to be considered.

Digitized by
4

5.	The rating based upon sportsmanlike conduct is to be determined by the same committee as in No. 4. For this rating the following elements are to be considered: Fair Play, Honesty, Reliability, Self-control.

From the summary sheet each record teacher fills out the special report card for each child in the section. This report is sent home with the regular report card at the close of the term and must be returned with the parent’s signature.

A certificate of Merit is awarded every pupil in the Mert group. One school is awarding the school letter only to those pupils in the Merit group.

The plan outlined above is workable and has actually been used with success in seven Philadelphia schools during the past school term. About twenty-five percent of the pupils in these schools were classified in the Merit group. The principals of these schools are united in the belief that the plan has actually motivated the pupils to an extent that fully repays the extra clerical work which is necessary. One principal believes that the plan is of great value in “redirecting” the teachers’ attention to certain essential duties that are apt to be lost sight of in the maze of work for which the teacher is now responsible.

During the present term, February to June 1924, the plan will be in operation in about fourteen schools. It is being used with pupils of the Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth school years. Definite statistics of the working of the plan will probably be available at the end of that time.

MR. AMERICAN MAN.

His Height, Weight and Other Qualities Shown in Composite Type Prepared From Army Records by Surgeon General.

The average American of fighting age is five feet seven inches and forty-nine one-hundredths of an inch tall, he weighs 141 pounds and fifty-four one-hundredths of a pound. He is tallest if he comes from Texas, shortest if he hails from Rhode Island, most robust if a native of the Dakotas and least robust if Rhode Island is his home. The State with the fewest number of defective males of fighting age is Kansas and the one with the greatest number is Rhode Island. The men of the Mississippi Valley States, as a whole, would appear to be more nearly physically perfect than those of any other section of the country. There are more defectives in the cities than on the farms, and the native American is physically the superior of the average citizen born under other flags.

The above facts were disclosed by a study of the record papers of 1,000,000 men examined for service in the war. The study was made by Major Gen. Merritte W. Ireland, Surgeon General of the Army. Recently, before a gathering of medical men, General

New York Times, August 6, 1922.

Digitized by t^ooQle
5

Ireland gave a summary of some of the interesting facts disclosed by that study.

“During the war over 4,000,000 men were enrolled in the military service in the army and slightly over 600,000 in the navy and Marine Corps,” he said.

“After Dec. 15, 1917, the basic classification of all registrants was first as to their economic availability for military service. All who were found to be available at once were classed as Class 1. The total number of these men of the first and second registrations, and including all who went to camp, prior to Dec. 15,1917, was 3,764,000. Of this group over a half million, 550,000, were rejected by their local boards as physically unfit for all military service. Of those considered physically fit, amounting to approximately 3,200,000, over 2,700,000 entrained for the military camps.

“The physical examinations of these Class 1 men by the local and camp examining boards showed that 47 per cent of them had a military defect of sufficient importance to note on the report of the examinations. It may be regarded as surprising that a larger number of defective men was not detected; probably there might have been, if the examinations had not been necessarily hurried. The various medical specialties were, however, all represented on the examining boards, and they were probably more carefully conducted than any similar set of examinations for military or life in. surance purposes at any previous time in the history of this country.

"The percentage of the defective men varied materially according to the section of the United States from which they were drawn. The number of defective men varied by States from 64 per cent in Rhode Island to 35 per cent in Kansas. Rhode Island, the most urban of all States, whose population is largely engaged in manufacturing, stood at the top, largely because of the defective and non-resistant stock which has been drawn to this State. Kansas, on the other hand, is largely agricultural and such of its population as is of foreign origin is of the more robust type. The percentage of the native born in Kansas is 65 per cent and in Rhode Island 29.4 per cent. The French-Canadian group had the highest number of defective men, 55 per cent, while that of the native whites of Scotch origin had the smallest, 40 per cent.

“Of all Class 1 men 21 per cent were found physically unfit for all military service, or a little more than one in five were physically unfit to perform any type of military service either at home or abroad. The more important causes of rejection were:

“Organic disease of the heart, 1.5 per cent of the total cases of rejections; tuberculosis, 9.3 per cent; errors of refraction, 8.4 per cent; underweight, 7.3 per cent; mental deficiency, 4.5 per cent; flat foot, 3.6 per cent; defective and deficient teeth, 3.2 per cent, and defective speech and hearing, 2.6 per cent. Of the large class of diseases the defects of the bones and organs of locomotion ranked first, 17.2 per cent of the total causes of rejections; diseases of the heart and blood vessels second, 15 per cent; diseases of the eye third, 12.6 per cent, and tuberculosis fourth, 9.3 per cent.

Digitized by LjOOQle
6

“Rhode Island, which had the largest number of defectives, also had the largest number of men rejected, Forty-two per cent, or almost one-half of all between the ages of 21 and 30, who were examined in that State, were rejected. In Wyoming only 13 per cent were found to be physically unfit. Here again it was' largely the character of the foreign population which had been drawn to Rhode Island, as a result of the character of the industries carried on in that State, tho no doubt partly as the result of the industries themselves, which caused this high percentage of rejections.

“More men from the cities were rejected, 23 per cent, than from the rural districts, and small towns, 20 per cent, due not only to the environmental condition in the large cities, but again also to the character of the foreign population which had congregated in them.

“A. defect of some character was noted in 80 per cent of all men from Rhode Island, while those from Kansas had only a little over half this number, 42 per cent. The physique of the population of the various States varied even to as great an extent as the number of physical defects did. Rhode Island had the largest relative number of men who were below the required military height, the largest percentage of those below the required military weight for their height, and also the largest percentage of those who were regarded as obese. In other words, the population, which was composed to a considerable extent of South Europeans and French-Canadians, ran to the extreme. The men from certain of the other States, and especially from the North Central and Northwestern States, were much better proportioned.

“It was a matter of surprise to many that the actual gain in weight of the men while in the military service was only about three and one-third pounds. There were premature reports of average gains of from twelve to fifteen pounds. What actually happened, however, was that the lean men became more robust, while those who were over-weight were trained down to their proper proportion.

“The average height or stature of 1,000,000 men was 67.49 inches. The shortest men came from Rhode Island, 66.4 inches; the tallest from Texas, 68.4 inches. Considering the population groups, the tallest men came from the mountain area of North Carolina. These men were of Scotch descent and averaged 68.67 inches.

“The average weight for the United States was 141.54 pounds. The heaviest men were from South Dakota, 146.96 pounds, and the lightest from Rhode Island, 136.44 pounds.

“In each 100 men from the urban districts there were 61 defects noted, and from the rural 53. Chicago, 62, and Boston, 69, were above the average for the cities, while Philadelphia, 60, and New York, 60, were both below the average.

“Of the individual defects, that which was recorded most frequently was flat feet, 11.7 per cent of the men examined. Nineteen and six-tenths per cent of all defects noted were for this one.

“The effect of race upon the relative frequency of this defect is shown by the fact that the sections with 45 per cent of negroes

Digitized by CjOOQle
7

had relatively a much smaller number of cases, 7.5 per cent, than those of the Scandinavians, 12.8 per cent, those of the Germans and of Scandinavians, 11.8 per cent, or of those of the Germans and Austrians, 12.4 per cent. Consequently, the States of the North Central section and of the Northwest had a relatively high percentage of cases of this defect.

“Race, however, was clearly not the only determining factor, for this defect was even less frequent among the mountain whites, 7 per cent, and among the native whites of Scotch origin, 6 per cent than among the negroes. Both of tvese classes of whites, tho tall, were much more sparsely built than were the Scandinavians and Germans. Flat foot was noted only 77 per cent as frequently among the men from the rural districts as among those from the urbfc. Apparently the more constant use of shoes in early life, as well as the use of improper and ill-fitting footwear, has considerably increased the number of cases of this defect.

“According to the best information available, venereal diseases were noted in 5.7 per cent of the selective service men who were sent to the military camps. Five and eight-tenths per cent of all the diseases noted belonged to this class. The relative prevalence of this class of disease varied from 16.4 per cent among the men from Florida to 1.3 among those from Vermont. Unfortunately, all of the Southern States ranked high. At least a partial explanation of the uneviable position of these States is to be found in the unusual prevalence among them of negroes. Thus, the group with 45 per cent or more negroes had the greatest relative number of cases, 8.5 per cent. The rate for that group was practically twice as high as the corresponding rate for the agricultural whites of the South, 4.4 per cent, and several times as high as the lowest rate recorded for any group, which was for the German and Scandinavian sections, 1 per cent. This class of diseases was slightly more prevalent in the rural districts than in the cities, due largely to the greater prevalence among the negroes.

“The third most frequent defect noted was hernia, the result of insufficient muscular abdominal support, probably aggravated by excessively heavy labor. Of each 100 men examined, four had an actual or potential hernia. Seven and one-tenth per cent of all the defects noted were of this character. The relative number of cases was greatest among the men from Oregon, 11.8 per cent, and least among those from Kentucky, 2.2 per cent.

“The refractive errors of the eye stood fourth in numerical frequency, Of each 100 men, 3.3 had defective vision, due to some character of refractive error. Of all the defects noted 5.9 per cent belonged to this class.

“Two and one-half per cent of all of Class 1 men were rejected as unfit for military service on account of tuberculosis, or of suspected tuberculosis. Expressed in absolute numbers, 94,000 men out of 3,764,000 were unfit for military service as the result of this disease. It was relatively most frequent among the men from certain of the States of the West and Southwest to which either they or their ancestors had migrated on account of it. The percentage of

Digitized by LjOOQle
cases was greatest among those from Arizona, 7.6 per cent, and least among those from Wyoming, 1.2 per cent. Arizona was followed by New Mexico, Colorado, California and then Rhode Island.

“/ mong the race groups, the highest percentage was reported among the Mexicans, 6.6 per cent, due to their living in the Southwestern States to which many cases of tuberculosis had migrated. It was least frequent among the Germans and Austrians, 2.3 per cent. A greater number of cases were reported among the men from the cities, 2.4 per cent, than among those from rural districts, 1.8 per cent. The relative number of men rejected for this cause from the four large cities was greatest among those from Philadelphia, 2.4 per cent, followed by New York, 2.3 per cent, Chicago 2.2 per cent, and Boston, 2.1 per cent.

§ - — - - ■

AVERAGE AMERICAN BY STATES.

Here is what the army examinations revealed about the average man of military age, classified by States:

	Mean	Mean	Defect-		Mean	Mean	Defect-
State	Height	Weight	ives	State	Height	Weight	ives
	Inches	Pounds	Per		Inches	Pounds	Per
			1,000				1,000
Ala		..68.01	141.28	427	Nev. ..	..67.83	145.35	476
Ariz. __	__ 68.15	143.04	410	N.H.	.. 66.97	140.33	505
Ark. ...	..68.20	141.28	384	N. J. ..	66.77	138.81	452
Cal. ...	.. 67.67	143.98	583	N. M.	._ 67.50	138.47	458
Col,...	..68.15	141.06	544	N. Y.	.. 66.72	139.53	502
Conn. .	..66.71	139.82	507	N. C.	.. 68.15	141.49	453
Del....	_.67.19	139.45	473	N. D.	-. 67.92	146.95	438
D. of C.	.. 67.63	140.53	453	Ohio .	..67,38	141.38	421
Fla. ...	._ 67.58	139.32	541	Okla. .	..68.28	142.35	432
Ga.		..67.99	140.82	453	Ore. .	.. 68.09	146.38	579
Idaho .	..68.10	145.31	479	Penn..	.. 66.72	139.72	600
IU. ...	..67.40	141.71	471	R.I.__	.. 66.40	136.44	640
Ind		.. 67.75	141.64	416	S. C. _	.. 67.64	140.49	423
la		..68.04	144.72	425	S.D. .	.. 68.05	146.96	373
Kan. _	.. 68.20	143.72	354	Tenn.	.. 68.27	140.10	442
Ky. ..	.. 68.02	140.00	382	Texas	.. 68.40	142.22	402
La		.. 67.60	139.62	428	Utah .	..67.85	143.13	405
Maine	.. 67.28	141.03	568	Ver. .	.. 67.12	140.33	613
Md		.. 67.08	140.40	536	Vir. ..	..67.80	140.34	604
Mass. .	.. 66.76	138.40	535	Wash.	.. 67.96	145.44	549
Mich. .	..67.23	141.99	457	W.V..	__ 67.87	141.53	507
Minn.	.. 68.04	146.41	421	Wise. .	.. 67.60	144.50	465
Miss...	.. 68.27	143.23	426	Wy. .	..67.79	144.61	514
Mo. ...	..67.95	141.43	489	Alaska	..68.15	150.49	547
Mont. .	.. 68.01	146.32	456				
Nebr. .	..68.08	144.74	396	Av. for			
				U. S. _	.. 67.49	141.54	
9

“One and five-tenths per cent of all of the men examined were rejected on account of mental abnormalities. The maximum of cases was reported among the men from Vermont, 3.8 per cent, and the minimum among those from Nevada, 3 per cent. Among the population groups the highest percentage was among the mountain whites, 3 per cent, and the least among the Mexicans, 1.1 per cent.

“The findings show that the health of the population of the various sections of our country is very materially influenced by a number of factors, one of the most important of which is the character of the population, both foreign and native bom. Environment is also of great importance, such as surrounds people in densely populated industrial centres, or in sparsely settled districts; in a healthy plateau section, or in a semi-tropical one with a constant exposure to the possibility of contracting chronic malarial and hookworm infections.

“Occupation also plays an important part; mill work in the South, and lumber work in the North together with employment on the railroads cause the loss of extremities; agriculture is associated with good eyes and straight limbs, and in the South, but less in the North, with freedom from flat foot and distorted toes; standing in shops and walking on pavements in improperly fitted and improperly shaped shoes, together with the more constant use of the shoes in early life, accounts for many of the cases of imperfect feet in the city population; and much school work and much clerical work tends to produce myopia in those so disposed. In early life bad posture at school, especially among undernourished and rickety children accounts for much of the curvature of the spine, and this is especially true in cities with their large percentage of foreign population.”

WHAT KIND OF PATRIOTISM DO YOU TEACH?

The invitation from your committee to write of our problems has recalled the distress of spirit I felt during the first years of my teaching in a big school system, and I wonder if I may not help some younger teacher by telling something of how I struggled to solve my hardest school problem.* *

When I first came into this big school system and discovered that my classes sat dull-eyed without asking any questions, waiting for the teacher to tell them what to learn in order to pass their next examinations, I was appalled! Can it be, I thought, that I must give up the joy of having an alert, bright-eyed, expectant class of pupils full of “why” and “how” questions, and just settle down to stuffing in lessons for which the children have no appetite and

*	From “Journal, National Education Association.”

*	Miss Lucy C. Simonson, a teacher in Public School No. 120, New York City, wrote this statement in a letter to Mrs. Mary C. C. Bradford, chairman of the Committee on Classroom Teaching Problems.

Digitized by Cjooole
10

which they are unprepared to digest? Must I always, I asked myself, strive hopelessly in the midst of a multitude of interruptions and distractions, to meet the requirements of a heavy, unvarying course of study, in order to reach the end of the term with uniform results?

My hardest problem during those years was to keep myself fresh, happy, and alive professionally, and not to give up my ideals nor sink under a crushing avalanche of impossible requirements where teaching would deteriorate into merely a job.

This is one of the ways I helped myself solve this problem. I prescribed for myself a Teacher’s Tonic and took a dose of it each morning before school. This dose was in the form of a thought written on a card—a bit of advice to myself—which went with me thru the day, such as the following:

Keep the sparkle in the children’s eyes.

Don’t take your old lessons out of cold storage; prepare fresh ones.

Don’t forget a real boy is an intensely active animal.

"Do more than your duty.”

A smile is worth a thousand scowls in any classroom.

Keep up your enthusiasm; don’t forget that everything is fresh and new to children, even though it may be stale to you.

Never mind your disappointment—"keep sweet.”

Help the child to self-mastery even tho it takes more time.

A bit of tact is worth a ton of nagging.

“What is yours to bestow is not yours to withhold.”

“Variety is the spice of life”—try it today.

Don’t allow yourself to grow cranky and old-maidish.

Don’t waste time scolding; a bright little story clears the atmosphere.

Find the squeak and grease it today.

"Distinguish between essentials and non-essentials.”

Don’t wear the children out demanding a thousand fussy little things.

Don’t try to cut the children all out with the same cookie-cutter—it can’t be done, They are sure to come out different sizes and shapes according to their varying mental capacities and natural trends. Don’t worry if you can’t show uniform results.

Life is not enriched by selfishness but by joyful service.

I have no doubt this “tonic” idea will seem very simple and useless to a woman of your strength and experience, but I must tell you it has helped me thru many a day of discouragement, and I have been able to keep up my enthusiasm, altho still a classroom teacher, with my ambition to get ahead professionally as yet unattained.

During these years and in all these varied teaching conditions, I have found story-telling a master-key to the children’s hearts, and an invaluable help in many a trying situation. There is nothing new in this statement, and 1 realize you know perfectly the various uses of well-chosen stories. For example—

Digitized by LjOOQle
11

Making real and alive lessons in geography, history, and civics.

Making practical and concrete ethical laws of everyday living.

Training the imagination.

Stimulating a desire to master the technical means to reading in order to enjoy the fascinating tales of literature.

Training children in self-control and helping them create noble ideals.

It is not my purpose to go over this old ground but to point out a new field in which I am convinced story-telling must take a vital place, i. e., in the effort we are all making to contribute our share towards stopping hideous warfare in the future among the nations of the world. With this hope deep in my heart I have been challenging the time-honored stories which I enjoy telling and in which my boys delight; and I am startled to find that many of my most popular ones emphasize rather than minimize racial prejudices and old national quarrels. Thrilling tales depicting the glory of being a soldier and of fighting and dying for one’s country, I am beginning to believe can be over-emphasized.

That land of patriotism in which wj (the U. S. A.) unconsciously coop ourselves up within walls of national pride, unwilling to make a decided effort to forget the differences which have led to past strife, is, I think, too narrow for real Americans (world citizens) of today. We can just as easily train our boys to see that “Red Coats” and “Rebels” and “Huns” need no longer stand as synonyms for our enemies, as to keep fanning the dying flames of misunderstanding and animosity. Let's keep testing our nationalism to see that it does not remain too narrow to keep pace with the world’s needs.

As I am a member of the D. A. R., I do not think there is any danger of my spreading anti-American propaganda; but I have been thinking hard these last few months, and I now find myself searching for stories which present to our boys noble traits in other nationalities and splendid heroes among other races. By telling stories of this kind to our pupils I wonder if we as teachers cannot do something towards bringing about peace and goodwill among men.

I am thinking just now of a story, “Sccut Wong” by Richard Connell, published in the Saturday Evening Post, March 22, 1922. I have used this story with our boys in the children's court with satisfying results. I feel that the whole Chinese race has been brought into a more cordial relationship to our boys who have heard this story and have been touched by the heroism of little Chinese Wong. I believe that a warm and lasting admiration for the fine traits of patience and loyalty in the Chinese people has been awakened.

Why not enlist Richard Connell and other story writers in this idea of writing stories which bring tp cur boys heroes of other nationalities with the thought of looking towards universal goodwill, instead of the opposite?

Digitized by foozle
12

VETERAN ATHLETE COMPARES TRACK ATHLETICS OF TO-DAY AND 30 YEARS AGO.

By Charles Hitchcock Sherrill, Author of “Prime Ministers and Presidents.”

Another Olympiad will soon be upon us, and whether the arena be Paris or San Francisco or Athens or Rome the effect will be the same. It will bring forth track athletics from the dark comer of the sporting section to the flaring well deserved brilliance of the front page. And to one—even so humble a one as myself—who has in times past dug spikes in cinders at the pistol report, it is a cause for rejoicing. It seems but just that this clean, hardy sport, beloved of the Greeks of old, should receive for a moment, at least, in these modem days a place of honor.

Indeed the prospect of an Olympiad should be to Americans cause for rejoicing in more ways than one, for in track athletics we find typical and admirable expression of our national genius. The United States will win the next set of Olympic games as it has won all others in the past, and as long as nations vie with each other on cinders and turf for supremacy, the United States will be victor. This is my firm conviction grown out of years of association with track athletics, sometimes as participant, sometimes as sympathizer and supporter, sometimes as passive, tho somewhat critical spectator, both in this country and abroad.

My memories wind back for more than thirty years, to the days when Mike Murphy, renowned as the trainer of the first Olympic team this country ever sent abroad, was still mnning with the Natick (.Mass.) hose team. Those were the gallant days when the call for candidates for the track team at any of the large universities brought out only a handful. But, be it noted, each of the men who appeared as candidate was a lover of cinders, a man who felt more at home in a pair of running trunks than in trousers. That 60 many remarkable athletes were produced at that time and so many lasting records were hung up, many of which remain to-day, is eloquent testimony to the fervor of the runners, jumpers and weight throwers of the years before what may be called the modern era.

Let me say at once that I do not speak in disparagement of any of the present day athletes. I have always found time to keep in touch with the news and developments. No one can possibly have greater admiration for such athletes as Joie Ray, an athlete whose running of a mile has the quality and virtue of any great work of art. Nor am I one of those veterans who dismiss the achievements of the new generation with a wave of the hand and the old, old untruth, “No, they aren’t what they used to be. Why, in my time . .

The athletes of the present day and of the to-morrows that lie directly ahead will slowly but surely erase the names of the old

The writer of this article on athletic events is of class ’89 of Yale, and originated interuniversity track athletic matches that began in 1894. Since his graduation he has won a notable name in politics, diplomacy and literature.

Digitized by LjOOQle
13

timers from the record books. The process is inevitable. Sentimental affection for the old days and ways cannot hold back the forward push of progress. It is a saddening thing, of course, to see the old names and the proud numbers blotted out of history— for that is what it amounts to—but at the same time it is a good omen; the world is not standing still. It would be even more saddening if no athlete ever performed in a manner endangering these records. Men will clip fractions off track records and add fractions to jumping and weight throwing records with the inevitability of the calendar.

While this advance is admirable there are at the same time reasons which explain it and which render it far less remarkable than it sounds. In my day—I was a member of the Yale track team in the late ’80s—I should roughly estimate that there were hardly 5,000 amateurs in track athletics in the entire United States. To-day, I have read an estimate somewhere that there were upward of 300,000 men who are competing amateurs. This fact alone is sufficient indication of how irresistible is the battering of sprinter, putter and hurdler against the wall of the old records. With so many to choose from it is no nine days’ wonder that a coach here and there and now and then produces a man who sprints like a greyhound, or who throws a steel ball as far as a catapult.

Not only has the number of men that coaches have to choose from increased enormously but the quality of the rank and file of candidates is somewhat superior, at least physically superior. Universities thruout the United States give all matriculants a physical examination, calling for such details as height, weight, chest expansion, strength of biceps, strength of thigh, etc. After forty years examination of these records shows pretty conclusively that the average college man of to-day is two inches taller than his predecessor two score years ago. If the college men to-day are stronger and longer than those of former years it would follow, it seems to me, that the caliber of the average candidate for the track team would be of a higher quality.

Length of leg has much to do with the excellence of any runner, although I have found it is a peculiar kind of leg length which goes into the composition of the sprinter. I have met sprinters of every shape and size and mixture of dimensions, men who have had apparently nothing in common with each other save this peculiar fact —an abnormal length of thigh. Any man with an abnormal length of thigh can feel certain that he is or might have been a sprinter no matter how much he weighs. But there is one other qualification he must have before he sets out to vie with Paddock for his laurels—namely, an unusual control by his nervous system over the muscles. He must be high strung. He must possess a set of muscles that follow his slightest wish faster than a bulldog a chicken thief. With these two qualifications there is little doubt that any one possessing them can sprint if he so desires.

The strain of the sprint race was much mere manifest in earlier days. Now the sprinters fall easily into a crouch, toes and fingers dug into the cinders, possessing in addition to a better starting
14

position than the older school did the advantage of all this grip on something solid, a grip which, while it eases the tension, makes them more alert and eager to respond to the pull of the starter’s trigger than a man who starts from the standing position. The old sprinters were aware of the value of having something to grip and provided themselves with “corks,” which they may be seen clutching in any of the old pictures, but while these did some good they were not wholly adequate.

During my days as an athlete garbed in the colors of Yale I was a slight, nervous, highly strung lad. Naturally, grip means much more to such a one than it would to the husky, serene youth, so that I had been lying awake nights trying to evolve some plan for relieving the high tension at the start of a race. May 12, 1888, was the date of an extremely important set of games at Cedarhurst, L. I., in which I had. entered for the 100 yard dash and the 220. Then there was first shown the crouching start, which for several years thereafter was called the Sherrill start. Coming to the mark at the call for entries in the 100, I crouched instead of standing up. Turner, the starter, tapped me on the back as a signal for me to rise and set myself for the pistol crack. When I informed him I was going to start from this kneeling position he told me I was crazy and advised me to start the race in the conventional way. Fortunately I was obstinate. I won this race and the 220, altho several of the newspaper reports had it that I had stumbled at the start in both races. To my knowledge that was the first time the crouching start had been used in open games in the United States or anywhere else.

This episode serves to illustrate the difference between the athletes of my day and those of the moment. This improvement in the method of starting came in my day, but there were other methods improving on the old which did not come till later. In training methods, for example, there have been a number of noticeable changes. Hurdlers, for example, practice certain exercises, the purpose of which is to facilitate the squatting position while going over the hurdles and make a habit of the peculiar lope which is essential to the hurdler who would be champion.

Much has been done in the way of utilizing the gymnasium in the training of track athletes. Other improvements in details have been made, too, but, roughly speaking, training methods are much the same as they were thirty years ago. Of course, the introduction of scientific methods as in the case of the hurdler, shows a tendency to put the athletic event and the athlete on the dissecting table and discover what is necessary to obtain supremacy, muscles to be trained, habits to be formed, etc.—a tendency which if developed, will assuredly later mean an even better athlete than the athlete of the present day.

But trainers, however scientific, will have to possess a certain uncanny instinct or intuition before they will be in a position to say they are perfect. Like all specialists, they cannot be great unless they possess the soul-penetrating vision. Such a trainer was Mike Murphy. He was a genuis. Murphy in his heyday was the
15

second fastest professional runner in the country and displayed his knowledge and speed running with the Natick hose team. In those days popular races were those between the hose team of one town and another, the race consisting of a race fom the hose’s bam to a structure set on fire on purpose. The first team that got to the spot and had a hose playing on the flames was adjudged victor. Each team required among its number one particularly fast sprinter, whose duty it was to attach the hose, etc. I got Murphy to come to Yale to train the team. When the race-hardened veteran walked out on the field the day of his arrival he pointed to a hurdle and asked me:

“What are those boards?”

Mike Murphy soon became trainer of many hurdlers who won national championships and then crossed the Atlantic to outstrip the speediest of the European stars. Murphy was a genius and a psychologist. He made eveiy man on the Yale team feel that it was in him alone in whom MLike Murphy was interested, altho, of course, he wanted to see the others get along. In his methods he exhibited an insight into types and conditions of athletes that was unusual. Knowing that a certain man ran on his nerves he would train him lightly, giving him little more than starts. On the other hand, the runner with brawn was worked like a draft horse. Such trainers occur only now and then in a generation.

In the actual methods of running races there have been several distinct advances made. The sprint has remained practically stationary since the crouch start no advance having been made. We have been bom quarter milers, half milers and sprinters; these races we took to as naturally as ducks to water. In the 220 yard race we had still to learn the thigh roll, which is simply a trick of rolling the hips slightly so as to increase the stride. This trick has done much to increase the speed at which the 220 was run. The youngsters who entered the 220 thirty years ago were told to “run briskly for the 150 yards and then sprint.” Nowadays and for some years past the men who run this race have been mnning as fast as they have been able all the distance.

Americans did not leam how to run the mile until they had competed with Englishmen and thus learned the simple lesson that made them supreme in this distance. The coaches used to send the miler out on the track with the advice to slow up at the third quarter, to save himself at that portion of the race for a furious sprint during the last quarter. The English runners, the Americans found, kept going at an even gait thruout the race, and with this finding the truth dawned upon them, the truth that every man who drives an automobile knows. It is better for the automobile if the gears remain without change once you have set them. The American miler did not really rest himself by letting down during the third quarter, but simply robbed himself of the momentum and stride the first half of the race had given him and then exhausted his ebbing energy in spurting. American milers now run uniformly thruout the race, speeding up oply at the finish.

Digitized by

Google
16

There has been some little change in the technic of putting the shot and in the different jumps. The hammer throw as we knew it is no more. Then the hammer had a stiff wooden handle and was thrown standing still. Then it was an honest to goodness hammer, but nowadays the hammer has a long flexible wire handle which is swung at terrific speed by a man who lets the hammer fly as he leaps across a circle. Quite different from the stiff hammer throwing of the eighties.

The type of athlete has undergone a transformation in manifold ways, and perhaps it is nothing to cause wonder, for the last thirty-five years have been years of tremendous expansion in every direction. In my day the athletes who competed were genuine amateurs, who had no inducements to compete other than the prizes for winners offered by the organization which was running the meet. To-day such an organization, in order to make its track games more attractive and better attended, will pay the expenses of prominent athletes to and during the competition. In that earlier day the athlete who desired to run at a set of games was forced to pay every cent of his own expenses. During my career as an athlete the only expenses paid for me by Yale were those connected with the intercollegiate track meet. So this matter of expenses is another factor to be considered for it reduced the track material to those athletes who lived in the vicinity of the arenas where the games were conducted. Back in the timber somewhere there may have been youths who could have established records to make naught of the best efforts of the present generation.

Athletes nowadays are generally strangers to one another. But earlier it was different, we all knew each other, friends all, a happy family. That made a better, higher spirit, which redounded to the benefit of the sport. Other things helped foster this spirit among the cinder track devotees, namely, the spirit of the onlookers. I know more people watch a track meet to-day than of yore, but then what is the quality of their attention?

There was real enthusiasm, fire and fervor among the watchers of a few generations back. They yelled, they ran out on the track, they threatened, they had to be led from the field. Furthermore, they made bets on the different events. Who bets at a track meet now? In 1890 I was told that at the games of the Berkely Athletic Club, now defunct, at Berkely Oval, $19,000 in wagers was reclining in the safe of the Windsor Hotel. A typical manifestation of the spirit of the times was furnished when W. 0. Downs of Harvard and Walter Dohm of Princeton were matched against one another in a 600 yard race. Downs was famous for his performance in the half mile; Dohm for what he could do at the quarter. Thousands of dollars were bet on that one race. This speaks much for the interest in track athletics over a quarter of a century ago.

In 1894 the Yale track team went to London to compete against Oxford, the first time a group of American athletes had gone abroad to engage in competition. The visit to Europe of the Yale team was brought about as a result of an effort on my part to increase interest in track athletics among Yale students. The idea was

Digitized by

Google
17

that the plum of a voyage to Europe was too much for any promising young sprinter to resist.

The story of how the Yale-Harvard-Oxford-Cambridge meets expanded until in 1904 the donation of a stadium in Athens by a wealthy Greek led to the first Olympiad is common knowledge. The development in athletics that followed the first and subsequent Olympiads was considerable, particularly in foreign countries. As years go on the American Olympic team may look to more fiercely contested matches. The robust Scandinavians have already shown their supremacy in the longer distances, and other countries will in all likelihood develop supremacy in other events, but the team of no nation will ever threaten the victory of any American team as a whole.

I am deeply gratified at the strides taken by track athletics, for it had always been the sport dearest to me and that which I have considered the only one really deserving of the name athletics. Other sports such as baseball and football have been admitted under the name athletics, but it belongs originally and in truth only to the sports of the track. It was the sport that made the ancient Greeks greatest of ancient peoples, and it will be, together with other peculiarly national games, the sport that will make us greatest of the modems.

Changes have taken place, little improvements been made here and there, facilities for training and competition introduced, records have been broken: but after these changes are carefully weighed and considered one cannot help arriving at the conclusion that fundamentally there is no vast difference between the generations. The sprinters of one-half decade are the equal of any other group of any other similar period. Geniuses of the track will be developed now and then, of course, and now and then devices such as the thigh roll will be discovered, but, allowing for these, the athletes of my time were the equal of the present day. The men who ran, jumped and threw weights at Berkely Oval thirty years ago could, after a period of training, enter the games at Travers Island to-day and startle athletes who now rest serenely on their laurels.— New York Herald.

THE RELATION OF WEIGHT TO HEIGHT.

By J. F. Rogers, Specialist in School Hygiene, Bureau of Education.

Many teachers, parents, and, we fear, more children, have been much perplexed, because the children, after following faithfully all the laws prescribed for the "nutrition game,” have failed to measure or weigh up to the standard laid down in the tables and charts. Happily the teacher may have had her doubts as to possibilities of growth and not have made too much of the fact that the pupil is below the usual height for his age or is five, ten, or even a higher percentage below the "standard weight for his height.” Malnutrition is the most serious and most expensive condition with which we have to deal. It is the cause of the two most com-

Digitized by v^ooQle
18

mon of our diseases—rickets and carious teeth, and there is good evidence that it has very much to do with the production of adenoids and abnormal tonsils. Its influence in the causation of other diseases and deformities is probably more than we have yet imagined.

We should do everything we can to make the food and feeding of the child what it should be. However, after all is said and done, even from the child’s earliest beginning, it is impossible that he will in every case weigh and measure what the average child measures and weighs. You can not by any means make a Poland China pig out of a razorback nor change a thoroughbred colt into a Percheron horse. We do not recognize distinct breeds within a race of humans because the intermediate forms exist and one type shades off into another, but there are different types as distinct as a draft horse from a race horse, and no amount or variety of foods will change one type into the other. It would be sad if we could all be so standardized.

There is an average relationship between weight and height at different ages which holds very closely for all races, but it applies only to the average. Moreover, a child may be badly nourished because his food has not contained the proper materials, and yet his weights and measurements will correspond to the average.

Weight and height, then, are not, except in a rough way, indicators of whether a child is properly nourished, for he may be of average weight for his height and be unhealthy, and he may be much below the average and yet be healthy. It depends to a large extent on heredity and other unknown factors. The usual healthy child will measure with the average, but the uncommon healthy child may not.

The measuring rod and the scales are most powerful stimuli toward learning and obeying the laws of health, for they indicate at least progress in growth. They must be used judiciously, however, for growth is little understood and proceeds by fits and starts. The teacher or other health worker who is wisest will see that the child has no organic disease or correctable defect, has the right food and the right habits of feeding, and such conditions as rest, fresh air, and opportunity for exercise, without all of which nutrition can not reach its maximum. Having thus been put on the highway to health, the child’s weight and height can be trusted to take care of themselves and to be what they should be. no matter how far they may vary from the average.—School Life.

------o-------

A PERNICIOUS FALLACY.

By Edwin Erie Sparks, Retired President of the Pennsylvania State College.

A most pernicious fallacy, reflected from the social thought of the day, confronts students in American educational institutions. It is the oft-repeated saying that the chief value of an education lies not in book-study or book-learning, but in a knowledge of how to handle one’s fellow men. Even instructors publish results of

Digitized by LjOOQle
19

so-called investigations to prove that men and women who were students in school are the least successful in later life.

Unfortunately these investigators take no standard of measurement other than earning-power. All success is measured by that yard-stick. Pursuing the same line of investigation a step further, it might as easily be proved that non-college men are more successful than college men because they earn more money per year. Several of the so-called “learned” professions, (I mention only the ministry, teaching and the non-specializing physicians,) are notedly low in earning power.

Parents unite often with these anti-curriculum Objectors in urging their children to avoid text books and to study their fellow-students, “touch elbows with everybody,” and learn how to manage their comrades and to utilize them in their business plans. They argue that time spent in application to books is lost. Simply get over the useless barriers of quiz and examination in some fashion. “Get college life.” Measure the success of your course of study by the number of offices you have attained at the hands of your fellows.

If all this be true, then why clutter up the college with such useless material? Why not let the counting house, the mill or shop, the garage be the place to study life and learn how to get the shortest hours and the longest wages? Why burden the schools? Let them take care of the students. By “student” I mean the modem boy who goes to college voluntarily instead of being sent by his father because it is the thing to do.

The old type of scholar is as out-of-date as is the tallow candle by which he studied. The thick-lensed, midnight-oil, impractical, cloister model of student, is to be seen only on the stage where he divides amusement with the straw-chewing, “By heck” style of farmer of the past. The twentieth-century scholar is not to be confused with either the up-to-date business man on the one hand or the short-sighted insignificant student on the other. The true scholar is a leader, a pioneer for the direction of others. Scholarship is an attainment of mind; a source of mental enjoyment; an abstract acquirement; a preparation for present and, possibly, future life; a liveable foundation for other activities in the material and industrial world. Financial success thru business achievement is the immediately profitable; a broad education is the ultimately enjoyable.

A liberal mixture of the two renders each more useful; but it is pernicious to emphasize the former at the expense of the latter. The age dwells upon the values of a material life. It is for the teacher to point out the advantages of the immaterial and mental. For one, I cannot free my mind from the conviction that to secure an education it is necessary once in a while to look into a textbook and to use occasionally the powers of memory and reason. The true teacher will frequently preach the well-nigh forgotten gospel of toil; will combat heresies affecting true scholarship for future America and will omit no opportunity of persuading students somehow to lessen the denominator of school life. We have to contend with over-organization, over-desire for amusement and over-importance

Digitized by LjOOQle
20

of physical contests as compared with the pursuit of the curriculum. Only by persistent effort can we make certain that an education of the people, for the people and by the people shall not perish from earth. “The world belongs to the energetic,” said one Emerson. Are Amercians ceasing to be energetic in Emerson’s sense of the word?

CONCLUSIONS OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE, GENERAL SYNOD OF REFORMED CHURCH, ON PROBLEM OF RECREATION.

Under the title of The Problem of Recreation the General Synod of the Reformed Church in the United States has issued thru its Commission on Social Service and Rural Work a leaflet giving the conclusions reached after a study by a special committee. The conclusions and recommendations offered by the Committee and adopted by the Executive Committee of the Commission are as follows:

Conclusions.

Various theories are advanced to account for play and to explain its meaning and value. These theories should be studied for an intelligent understanding of the subject, on which there exists considerable literature. There is a general agreement, however, that the impulse to play is universal and has great educational value for the normal development of human life.

It is an established fact that play has undoubted value in the physical development of human life. There appears to be scarcely less certainty that, under proper guidance, it is of equal value in the development of important mental qualities and moral traits. Its influence consequently on character seems to be inevitable. It is a conclusion of the Committee, that it possesses great possibilities for Christian training as a part of the Church’s educational program and spiritual purpose; and that therefore the Churches should be concerned for the play life of their people as a vital factor in the development of Christian personalities.

While what has been said applies particularly to children and young people, the Committee believes that under the strain of modern conditions of living and work, recreation is essential to all the people, both as a preventive against injurious influences and also as an inspiration to better service in the work of the world, while at the same time enriching friendships and enlarging the joys of life.

Moreover, there is evidence that recreation as a religious factor in the Churches’ programs becomes also a factor in developing church fellowship and in promoting community evangelism. Supervised play activities create a friendly atmosphere among the people, and cultivate the spirit of team work, both of which are necessary

Note—Bulletin No. 955, Playground and Recreation Association of America.

Digitized by uooQle
21

to successful church administration. At the same time this influence is radiated into the community and adds effectiveness to the Church’s efforts to win the people of the community to Christ and the Church.

It is the Committee’s judgment, however, that where it is a disputed question whether the Churches should at all concern themselves with play, it were better for Churches to refrain from entering this field of service, and confine their efforts to a consistent program of education upon the subject in order to produce conviction and sentiment within the church membership and the community as to its religious value.

Recommendations.

1.	Churches seeking to utilize the religious value of play and to discharge their local responsibilities in this matter should co-operate with those community agencies that already exist rather than attempt to set up rival agencies; provided, however, that the community agencies are carrying on their work in the interest of the people and not for commercial gain, and are adequately meeting the needs of the community or are capable of doing so.

2.	Where no recreational agencies exist the Churches should lead the way—cooperatively where possible, and if need be, they should set up programs, putting them ,upon as broad community bases as the conditions may permit.

3.	In undertaking to guide the recreational programs of their communities the Churches should give careful consideration beforehand to questions of leadership, organization and equipment, without which, with the best intentions, failure will follow, and the cause become discredited. It is a part of the plan of the Commission on Social Service and Rural Work, thru the Board of Home Missions, to give local assistance in such matters where requested to do so.

4.	The Committee recommends that careful study should be given to the abundant and growing literature dealing with this whole matter. Attention is especially called to two books that deal with both principles and programs of recreation, from a religious point of view and contain valuable bibliographies for further study. These are Recreation and the Church, belonging to a series on Principles and Methods of Religious Education, by Herbert Wright Gates, the University of Chicago Press; and The Church at Play belonging to the Community Training School Series, by Norman E. Richardson, Abington Press, New York and Cincinnati.

We have heard a great deal about personality of late, and some of us would like to know just what the agitation in regard to it means. Personality is defined by some as a sort of combination of character, of professional attitude and of temperament—that is, as a composite of positive moral qualities, such as truthfulness, loyalty, and salutary influence on others; of willingness to co-operate, to take suggestions, and to carry a fair share of the load; and finally of those attitudes of disposition which we call cheerful or pessimistic, helpful or fault-finding, red-blooded or anemic, and so on.

Digitized by kjOOQle
22

A CHILD WELFARE DEPARTMENT IN THE PUBLIC

SCHOOLS.

Presidential Address of Charles A. MacCall, of Newaik, N. J.( at the Annual Meeting of the National League for Compulsory Education Officials,

at Philadelphia.

The welfare of children seems to me to depend upon three general conditions, namely, 1st—On being well Dorn; 2nd—Physical well being; 3rd—Mental and moral training. The child welfare worker is charged with securing for every child the right to be well born, to be well cared for physically, and to secure for him the opportunity at least to obtain the best possible mental and moral training. Now doesn’t all of this work come within the duties of a Compulsory Education official as well as the so-called chile welfare worker, ane if it does, why the differentiation in names? Are we not all striving to do these very things? If we are not, should we not awaken to the fact that it is very much our job?

We all recognize that the first condition, that of the right of being well born, has always been by far the most difficult problem to be met by society, but it is also known that the fact that so many children are not well bom is responsible for much of the trouble in society today. Of course no one expects to find a sure means of securing this right to all children during this generation, but as we realize more and mo'-e keenly the terrible drag upon our communities which is caused by children who are bom congenitally feeble-minded or blind or otherwise handicapped thru the very fact of their having been born of diseased and illiterate parents, we know that some mighty effort must be put forth to at least alleviate these conditions. You may ask what share can the attendance officers and other members of this League take in this great task. My answer is that no greater opportunity for intelligent, efficient and successful work in this direction is given to any class of child welfare workers than is given to us. For it is you and I who come in personal contact with more of the families and the family lives of those from whom these conditions arise than any other body of men and women.

It is plainly our duty then to devote all of the best that there is in us not only to the work of securing school attendance but to strive also to educate the parents of every child as to their moral duties to their children. Force them, if necessary, to keep the home in sanitary living condition, and impress upon them the great importance of having their children grow up clean mentally, physically, and morally, and you will be doing the greatest possible piece of work for humanity and will be taking a great step forward in the work of securing for every child the right to be well bom. The teachers of our schools are doing and will do their part in the education of the children, but it is up to us to educate the parents.

Now as to the second condition—that of physical well being. The attendance officer is charged by the community in which he or she labors with keeping all children of school age in regular attendance at school, But can a child who is ill nourished or other-

Digitized by v^ooQle
23

wise physically unfit, be expected to attend school regularly? Of course not. So it is clearly our job to see that all children are properly clothed, and when ill that they receive competent medical care. This may seem a very difficult proposition but it is being done by attendance officers all over this and other countries, not by working alone but by intelligent co-operation with other agencies.

When families are found wherein the children, because of extreme poverty, can not obtain proper food or clothing, an appeal by the attendance officer to the general fund of a city, to the chanties bureau, the children’s aid societies, or even to such organizations as the Rotary Clubs, the Elks, the Free Masons, or the Knights of Columbus, branches of which are established in almost every community, is met with a ready response and the proper food and clothing furnished. I have always maintained that the State or city which requires the attendance of children at school should furnish necessary clothing and food to impoverished pupils and thereby relieve the attendance officer from the necessity of appealing to private organizations, but as that is not done in most districts such an appeal must be made.

Should children be found who are ill and who for some reason are not receiving proper medical attention, it is the attendance officer who first ascertains this fact because he is sent to the homes to find the reason for the children’s absence from school. In these cases again an intelligent officer who is on his job will immediately seek the co-operation of another agency, namely the Health Department, whose district physicians, while willing and anxious to give medical care to the poor, would probably never hear of thousands of such cases were they not reported to them by the attendance officer. In this connection it is perhaps pertinent to call attention to the fact that such excellent medical inspection departments as are now established and maintained by boards of education were absolutely unthought of until intelligent compulsory education laws had been enacted and efficient enforcement thereof undertaken. No one ever thought it was a part of the duties of the school authorities to care for the health of pupils except perhaps to safeguard them against contagious diseases. When, however, the fact was brought to their attention by attendance officers that the schools were losing a great percentage of efficiency thru the absence of pupils who were suffering from some easily cured ailment, and that the efficiency of the class-room was being impaired because of the presence of pupils who were near-sighted or were suffering because of enlarged tonsils or decayed teeth or other curable physical defects, boards of education were awakened to the necessity of caring for the pupils’ health, and the results accomplished by the creation and maintenance of medical inspection departments are immeasurable.

The third requisite for the welfare of children, that of proper mental and moral training, is in the last analysis the special task for which Compulsory Education officials are appointed, and it is in striving to secure such training for all children that he or she must work out the various other welfare problems. The class teacher can be depended upon to do the actual training, provided the child is

Digitized by

Google
24

at*school to receive such training. We are not, however, so far advanced that teaching may be accomplished by wireless telegraphy: therefore the child must be at school before the teacher can do anything for him. The great majority of children are, of course, regular attendants at school and both parents and children appreciate and are glad to take advantage of the great opportunities which are offered to them. In the case of many great industrial plants, however, while the percentage of efficiency may be very great, it is the small leaks which eat up the profits. So it is with the public school system of the country. It is the small percentage of unappreciative, careless, or ignorant parents who either deliterately keep their children from school or permit them to remain away which lessens the general results of the whole system. In the great industrial plants efficiency experts are employed for the sole purpose of stopping the small leaks and it is in doing the corresponding work in connection with the schools that the members of this League are employed.

It is not only our task to force such parents to cause their children to attend but it has also been a mighty important part of our work to see that proper schools are provided for special classes of pupils. Before the advent of attendance officers children who were so crippled that they could not make their own way to school, the blind, the deaf, the sub-nonnal, and the delinquent children were left to grow up in ignorance unless their parents were fortunate enough to obtain private instruction for them. Special schools are now maintained for such children with special curricula provided for each class. The blind, the deaf, the subnormal, and the crippled children are taught those things which are specially designed to make them, or rather to give them, the opportunity of making themselves good, useful, self-supporting citizens. Ungraded classes and vocational work are provided for the so-called delinquent children who, in most instances, are delinquents merely because they are misfits in the regular class-room. It is in the proper disposition and care of this latter class of children that the attendance officer is enabled to accomplish an actual financial as well as moral saving to the community.

Just as an illustration I trust I may be forgiven if I call attention to an institution for delinquent children in my own city which was visited by many of you at the time that the convention was held in Newark. As long as twenty years ago the number of children supported in that institution was almost, if not quite, as great as the number that are being supported there today notwithstanding the fact that the population of the city has become nearly four times as great. Added to that is the fact that the average period spent there by the boys at the present time is less than half of the average period spent there in past years. The reason for the latter fact is because the boys who were sent there in former days were those who had escaped school entirely or had been expelled frrom school as delinquents and lost sight of by the authorities until, thru the education of the streets, they had become so incorrigible that there was nothing left for them except commitment to an

Digitized by kjOOQle
25

institution. As a rule such boys were so thoroly schooled in wickedness and viciousness that it required a great length of time and a long course of treatment before they were considered to be cured. The boys who are riow sent to the Parental School are usually committed in order to remove them from improper or vicious home surroundings rather than because of any infractions of the law on their own parts. Such boys are usually discovered at a much younger age than formerly and are, therefore, not possessed cf such firmly fixed habits. Naturally such children are more susceptible to treatment and it is not necessary for them to remain in the institution for a long period. It can be readily seen that if the number of chilcren supported in that institution had increased proportionately with the increase of the population of the city, as it certainly must have done were it not for the efforts of the attendance officer and the providing of special ungraded classes in the regular school system, the cost of maintaining the institution would have been nearly four times as great as it is today.

Since the yearly cost of maintenance at present js approximately $60,000 it naturally follows that the cost would have been considerably over $200,000 per year, so that the saving in actual money for that institution alone must amount to at least $150,000 per year. What is true of this institution must be true of other institutions all over the country, so that the results accomplished by Compulsory Education officials can be reckoned in terms of money as well as good citizenship.

Taking all of the facts which I have stated in consideration it is clearly demonstrated that compulsory education and attendance departments are doing and must do child welfare work which is far wider in scope and far greater in results than any other organization maintained for the purpose, and might with greater propriety be called the General Child Welfare Department of the Public Schools.

*------------------------------------------------+

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D *------------------------------------------------4

BAR-BELL OR WAND DRILL FOR WOMEN.

Arranged to the Czecho-Slovak National Dance Music “Besada” by J. Cermak, Medill, Chicago.

Smallest number of participants eight, then any number that can be divided by eight. March to places in a column (or columns) of fours and by the left flank march take the customary 2 paces intervals. Girls in each rank are numbered 1, 2, 3 and 4. Ranks of fours are designated as first and second rank. Thus:

Second rank:	12	3	4

First rank:	12	3	4

Second rank:	12	3	4

First rank:	12	3	4

Digitized by
26

Shorter bar-bells will greatly facilitate the execution of some of the exercises, especially the “winding” in Part IV.

For waltz music, where the exercises are marked 1-3, one movement is executed in one waltz measure; where the exercise is marked 1, 2, 3, one movement on each 1-4 note, or three movements in one waltz measure. Polka or march music: 1-2, 3-4, one movement in 2 counts or two 1-4 notes, 1, 2, 3, 4, one movement on each 1-4 note.

Starting position: Bar (wand) in front; in 1st, 2nd and 3rd part upper hold; 4th part under-hold.

PART I.

Introduction, 8 measures.

Group A.

24 measures; tempo: a very slow waltz.

1st and 2nd. measures: Raise bar slowly to a horizontal position upward (eyes following the bar). On the 3rd note of the 1st measure the bar is in horizontal position in front of chest. On the 3rd note of the 2nd measure it reaches the highest point above head.

3rd and 4th measures: By a continuous movement lower the bar to a horizontal position sideward left (Fig. 1) and down. In 4th measure thru the horizontal position sideward right to upward position again (bar describing front circle to the left).

5th and 6tn measures: Lower the bar slowly to starting position.

7th and 8th measures: From starting position move the bar in a front circle to the right, upward to the left and to starting position.

9th measure: Stride position sideward left, bar horizontally forward 1-3.

10th measure:	Cross right foot backward and bend knees half

way, bar horizontally forward left, right hand above the left shoulder 1, (Fig. 2, sideview); replace right foot, bar horizontally forward, 2; start position 3, (1, 2, 3).

11th and 12th measures: Repeat exercises of 9th and 10th measures to the right.

13th measure: Stride forward left, bar horizontally upward 1-3.

14th measure: Cross right foot backward, bend the knees half way; cross arms, right above left, bar horizontally front of chest 1, (Fig. 3). Replace right foot, bar upward 2; return to starting position 3, (1, 2, 3).

15th and 16th measures: Repeat exercises of 13th and 14th measures opposite.

From 17th to 24th measure: Repeat the exercises of the first 8 measures.

Group B.

Fast waltz, 16 measures (Spanish waltz tempo.)

1st and 2nd measures: Cross balance step in place left and swing the bar to a horizontal position sideward left, height of hips (Fig. 4). Repeat the same to the right. (In swinging the bar

Digitized by LjOOQle
Digitized by

FIGURES 7 TO 12
28

from left to right position and vice versa, the bar passes thru the starting position.)

3rd and'4th measures: Repeat the exercises of the first 2 measures.

5th and 6th measures: Waltz swing hop step forward left and swing bar to horizontal position sideward left, height of shoulders, (Fig. 5) and the same to the right. (Bar passing thru the starting position.)

7th and 8th measures: Repeat exercises of 5th and 6th measures.

From 9th to 12th measure repeat the exercises of the first 4 measures (in place).

From 13th to 15th measure repeat the exercises of 5th, 6th and 7th measure backward and in the last measure step backward with the right, close with the left and lower bar to starting position. Group C.

Ordinary polka tempo, 32 measures.

First 4 measures: On the 1st count, raise the bar to carry position to the right and lower the left hand on 2nd count. By the right flank march close the intervals (6 counts); on 7th and 8th counts two steps in place and face forward (8 counts.)

5th to 8th measure: Ranks of twos wheel in a circle to the left (8 counts.)

From 9th to 12th measure: First ranks of fours 1-4 wheel to the right, 2nd ranks of fours 1-4 wheel to the left and mark time 4 counts (8 counts.)

4

3

2

1

Second Rank

1

2

3

4

First Rank

From 13th to 16th measure: Nos. 2 and 3 of each rank, 4 short steps obliquely outward; Nos. 1 and 4 mark time. On the last 4 counts all face the common centre in square and on 15th and 16th counts lower bar to starting position. (Square formation, all facing the centre, (Fig. A). Distance should be arranged so that when the bars or wands are raised to a horizontal position forward, a square is formed.)

An error has crept into the drawing of square of the first rank: No. 2 should be where No. 3 is and No. 3 should be in 2’s place.)

1st to 4th measure: Bars on chest, (upper arms level with the shoulders) (Fig. 6) 1; extend arms forward 2, raise bar to horizontal position upward, 3; lower to position front of chest, 4; raise upward again, 5; lower to a position front of chest, 6; bend arms, bar on chest, upper arms level with shoulder, 7; lower to starting position, 8.

Digitized by kjOOQle
29

5th to 8th measure: Bar on chest, upper arms level with shoulders, 1-2; lower trunk forward and extend arms forward, 3-4; straighten trunk and raise bar upward, 5-6; lower to position, 7-8;

FIG. A

9th to 12th measure:	(8	counts): Bar back of the head arms

right angle, elbows sideward, 1; extend upward, 2; lower to a position front of chest, 3; raise upward, 4; lcwer front of chest, 5; raise upward, 6; lower back of head, 7; starting position, 8;

13th to 16th measure: Bar back of head, 1-2; bend trunk slightly backward, extend arms upward, 3-4; straighten trunk, lower bar to horizontal position forward, 5-6; starting position, 7-8. Group D.

Music of Group C, is repeated, same tempo.

On the first count members of the first ranks raise the bars to carry position to the right, members of the second ranks raise to carry position to the left.

1st to 4th measure: Nos. 2 and 3 march to their places in ranks, between Nos. 1 and 4 and mark time 4 counts. Nos. 1 and 4 first 4 counts with 4 steps in place 1-2 turn left and mark time 4 counts.

5th to 8th measure: Ranks of fours 1-4 wheel to their original places (first rank left, second right) and with 4 steps in place each member 1-2 turn to the left. (8 counts),

Digitized by v^ooQle
30

9th to 12th measure: Ranks of twos wheel in a circle to the right (8 counts).

13th to 16th. measure: By the left flank march take intervals 2 paces and on the last 2 counts face to the front (8 counts.)

On the last count the members of the first ranks swing the upper end of the bar backward to members of the second ranks. Members of the second ranks lower the upper end of the bar to members of the first rank for accompanying exercise.

16 measures, same tempo.

1st to 4th measure: Bend arms sideward, hands above shoulders, 1; (Fig. 7, side-view), extend arms upward, 2; lower to a position sideward, 3; raise upward, 4; lower to a position sideward, 5; raise upward, 6; bend arms, hands above the shoulders, 7; lower, 8; (8 counts).

5th to 8th measure: Bend arms sideward hands above shoulders, 1-2; extend arms upward and bend trunk sideward left, 3-4; lower arms to a position sideward, straighten trunk, 5-6; lower arms, 7-8.

9th to 12th measure: Repeat exercises of the first 4 measures.

13th to 16th measure: Repeat exercise of the second 4 measures, bending to the right.

(If shorter wands are used it will be necessary for the second ranks to make a step forward, when lowering the oars (wands) for the accompanying exercise and during the introduction for the Part II make one step backward again.

PART II.

Introduction, 8 measures.

Music: Slow waltz, 16 measures, played twice.

1st measure: Stride sideward left, bar horizontally front of chest, 1-3.

2nd measure: Cross right foot backward, and bend knees half-way, cross arms, right above the left (Fig. 3) 1-3.

3rd measure: Transfer the weight to the right foot, stride sideward left, release right hand hold and swing the right arm in a circle outward to a position under the left arm, where the right hand re-grasps the bar again. (Fig. 8) 1-3.

. (The right arm passes thru upward, sideward and downward positions and the movement terminates on the 3rd note under the left arm. The bar and the left arm remain stationary.)

4th measure: Close right foot to the left and without releasing the left hand hold, raise the bar to a horizontal position upward.

(In this movement the left hand pushes the left end of the bar slightly downward and then upward.)

5th measure: Lunge forward left, and lower the bar rear of the body (Fig. 9) 1-3.

6th measure: Lower the trunk forward, swing the bar overhead to a position forward and place it on the ground, 1-3. (Arms straight, movement in the shoulder joints.)

Digitized by v^.ooQle
Digitized by

FIGURES 13 TO 17

figures is to 24
32

7th measure: Raise the trunk, and swing arms to a position backward, palms outward, 1-3. (Fig. 10, side-view). Arms pass thru the upward position.

8th measure: Replace left foot and lower arms.

9th measure: Stride backward left, and place hands back of the head, elbows sideward 1-3, (Fig. 11.)

10th measure: 1-2 turn left tc a kneeling position right, 1-3; and three movements with the arms: swing to a position sideways, bend and swing sideways, palms forward, 1, 2, 3.

11th measure: Straighten knees, with 1-2 turn right and place hands back of head, 1-3.

12th‘measure:	Replace	left	foot, 1-3; and lower arms.

13th measure: Lunge forward left and move arms to a position backward, palms facing outward, 1-3; (Same as Fig. 10).

14th measure: Lower trunk forward and swing arms to a position forward (passing thru the upward position) and grasp the bar.

15th measure: Raise the'trunk and swing bar to a position back of body, (Fig. 9).

16th measure: Starting position.

Group A.

With the same music the same exercise is repeated to the right, returning to the original place; lunging right, stride backward, right, kneeling left.

Group B.

Repeat Group B Part 1.

Group	C.

Music: Ordinary polka. 32 measures, played twice.

From 1st to 4th measure: Close intervals by the right flank march same as in Group C, Part I. 8 counts.

5th to 8th measure: Ranks of twos wheel in a circle outward, left rank to the left, right rank to the right, 8 counts.

From 9th to 12th measure: First rank of fours 1-4 wheel to the right, second to the left, mark time, 4, and each member 1-4 turn, members of the 1st rank to the left, second to the right (forming flank ranks), 8 counts.

From 13th to 16th measure form square as follows: In the 1st rank No. 2 makes 2 steps obliquely forward, left; No. 3 two-steps obliquely backward right and marks time to the 8th count. On the 5th and 6th count No. 4 swings the upper end of her bar backward toward No. 3, who grasps it with the inner (left) hand. No. 3 swings upper end of her bar backward to No. 1, who grasps it with the right hand. No. 1 on 5 brings her bar to carry position at the left side, on the 6th count grasps 3rd member’s bar with the right hand and lowers the upper end of her bar to No. 2 who grasps it with the left hand. No. 2 lowers her bar toward No. 4, who grasps it with the left hand. (Fig. E.) The second ranks form,square in the same manner, but their numbers are reversed; whereas in the 1st rank No. 4 is at the head of the square,**in the second rank No. 1 is at the head.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
33

1st and 2nd measures: Stride backward left, bend arms’ hands above the head, 1, (Fig. 12), raise heels and extend arms sideward, 2, lower heels and bend arms, hands above the head, 3, replace first foot and lower arms. Repleat the same, with a stride position backward right, 5-8.

From 5th to 8th measure: Stride backward left, hands above the head, 1-2; kneel left arms sideward (Fig. 13), 3-4; Straighten knees, bend arms, 5-6; Replace left foot and lower arms, 7-8.

From 9th to 12th measure: Repeat exercise of first 4 measures (start with right foot).

From 13th to 16th measure: Repeat exercise of second 4 measures, stride backward right and kneel right, 8 counts.

The same music (32 measures) is repeated.

From the 1st to 4th measure: On the 1st count all raise their bars to carry positions Nos. 1 and 3 to the right, Nos. 2 and 4 to the left and Nos. 2 and 3 resume their places, 4 counts. With 4 steps in place first ranks, face to the left, second ranks to the right, 8 counts.

From 6th to 8th measure: Ranks 1-4 wheel to their places and each member with 4 steps in place, 1-2 turn left, 8 counts.

9th to 12th measure: Ranks of twos wheel in a circle outward, 8 counts.

Digitized by uooQle
34

13th to 16th measure: Left ranks of twos (Nos. 3 and 4) two half-steps to the left, 4 counts. On the 5th and 6th counts Nos. 2 and 4 one-half step to the left so as to gain the necessary intervals and lower bars inward to a horizontal position in front, for accompanying exercise with 2 bars in front. The odd numbers hold the right ends of both bars, the even numbers holding the left ends.

1st to 4th measure: Stride backward left and raise arms forward, 1; raise heels and carry arms sideward, 2; (Fig. 14), lower heels and carry arms forward, 3; replace foot, and lower arms, 4; repeat stride backward right, 5-8.

5th to 8th measure: Stride backward left arms forward, 1-2; kneel left, carry arms sideward, 3-4; straighten knees and carry arms forward, 5-6; replace foot and lower arms, 7-8;

9th to 12th measure: Repeat exercise of the 1st 4 measures, starting right foot.

13th to 16th measure: Repeat exercise of the second 4 measures, but stride backward right and kneel right, 1-8.

PART III.

Introduction 8 measures. In the 5th and 6th measures of the introduction each member grasps her own wand with both hands (resuming starting position) and the 2nd and 4th members make one step sideward left.

Group A.

Music: Waltz, 16 measures, played twice. From 1st to 8th measure slow tempo, faster from the 9th to the 16th measure.

1st measure: Stride forward left foot, bar to vertical position to the left side, left downward 1-3; (right hand oppbsite the left shoulder). .

2nd measure: Close with the right foot, 1-3 and 3 movements with the bar: swing to horizontal position front of chest, left arm above the right, 1; horizontally upward, 2, and front of chest again, right arm above the left, 3. On the 2d count or 2d note, the bar is raised to horizontal position upward with heels elevation.

3rd measure: Stride forward right, and lower the bar to vertical position at the right side, right downward, 1-3.

4th measure: Close with the left foot, 1-3, and again 3 movements with the bar: horizontally in front of chest, right arm above the left, 1; vertically to the right side, right downward, 2; starting position, 3. On the 1st count or 1st note the I ar is swung in front, right above left, with slight knee bending.

From 5th to 8th measure repeat the same, starting right, e. start right foot, and wand to the right side vertically downward, etc.

Faster Tempo:

9th measure: Lunge sideward left, wand front of chest right arm above the left, 1-3.

10th measure: Bend trunk sideward right and change the position of the arms, i,e. swing the left arm over the right, 1-3. (Fig. 15).

Digitized by LjOOQle
35

11th measure: Straighten trunk and turn to the left, the bar to the left side, left hand on hip, right above the head (Fig. 16).

12th measure: Starting position, 1-3.

From 13th to 16th measure repeat the exercises of the 9th, 10th, 11th and 12 measures opposite.

The same 16 measures of the music is repeated and repeat the same exercises, only substituting closing steps backward for closing steps forward.

Group B.

Repeat Group B of Part I and II.

Group C.

Music: Polka 16 measures.

From 1st to 4th measure: Four polka steps forward (begin left) and with the left step swing the bar honzontally to the right hip, right backward (Fig. 17), with the right step swing the bar to the left hip left backward, (8 counts).

5th and 6th measures: Place the bar on chest and hold to the end of 6th measure; three step turn to the left, closing the heels on the 12th count, 9-12.

7th and 8th measures: Arabesque left, with arms extended upward and tossing the bar slightly upwaro, 13, (Fig. 18), catch the bar, 14, stride backward, right foot and replace bar on chest, 15, close with the left and lower bar to starting position, 16. 13-16.

From 9th to 12th measure: 4 polka steps backward, starting right and swing the bar to the right hip, right backward; with the left step to the left, hip left backward, etc., (8 counts).

From 13th to 16th measure: Repeat the exercises of 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th measures to the right. (8 counts).

Group D.

Tempo gallop, 16 measures.

1st measure: With a hop on the right foot point the left foot sideward, bend the right knee slightly and raise the bar rear of the right shoulder, obliquely downward left, eyes turned toward the left hand, 1-2, (Fig. 19).

2nd measure: Cut the right foot with the left to a point position sideward, swing bar rear of left shoulder obliquely downward right, left knee bent, eyes turned to the right hand, 3-4.

3rd and 4th measures: Close right foot to the left (fundamental position) and raise the bar horizontally upward, 5; lower back of head, 6; upward, 7; lower to starting position, 8.

5th to 8th measure: Repeat the exercise of the first 4 measures, starting to the right.

From 9th to 12th measure: 3 steps forward, closing heels on 4th count; and the bar: on chest (upper arms even with the shoulders) forward, on chest and lower, 1, 2, 3, 4.

11th and 12th measures: With 4 steps in place 1-2 turn to the left, bar in front, 5, 6, 7,8.

13th and 14th measures: 3 steps forward closing heels on 4th count; and the bar: rear of head, upward, rear of head and to starting position, 9,10,11,12.

Digitized by CjOOQle
36

15th and 16th measures: 4 steps in place and 1-2 turn to the left, 13, 14, 15, 16.

Repeat exercises of Groups C and D to the same music, starting to the right.

PART IV.

During the introduction, change hoM to under-hold for “wind-

•	_ 99

mg.

Group A.

Slow waltz, 32 measures.

1st and 2nd measures: Closing step forward left (step forward, left and close with the right) and: wind with the left to horizontal position forward (1-3); swing the bar upward in a circle outward-to a horizontal position, the right hand sliding toward the left hand and after giving an impetus to the bar in its upward movement, is placed on hip (1-3; (Fig. 20 shows the bar in its initial upward movement).

3rd and 4th measures: Right hand on hip, and when the bar reaches horizontal position in front, the left arm by reversed rotation swings the bar downward and upward (Fig. 21), (front circle inward) and in the 4th measure the movement terminates again in horizontal position in front of chest and the right end is placed in the right hand again. (1-3). Position the same as in the 1st measure.

5th measure: Slide the right hand to the left hand, and swing the bar again in a circle outward, right hand, without releasing the hold, slides again to the right end (1-3).

6th measure: Wind the right hand to a horizontal position forward, and bend the trunk forward, (1-3).

7th measure: Straighten the trunk and bend slightly backward “wind out” the right and “wind in” the left to a position upward, (1-3).

8th measure: “Wind out” left and lower bar to starting position.

From 9th to 16th measure repeat the same with the following changes: Closing steps backward, in the 14th measure wind the right to a horizontal position upward with trunk bending backward; in the 15th measure “wind in” the left to a horizontal position forward and trunk bending forward.

From the 1st to the 4th measure repeat the bar exercises of 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th measures, with two closing steps sideward left.

5th measure: Wind the right to a position sideward right back of the head, and bend trunk sideward left (Fig. 22).

7th measure: “Wind out” the right and “Wind in” the left to a horizontal position upward and turn the trunk to the left.

8th measure: Return the trunk and “wind out” the left to starting position.

From 9th to 16th measure: Repeat the same contrariwise,

i.	e. with closing steps to the right, in the 13th, bar back of the head sideward left, bend trunk to the right and in the 15th measure turn to the right. (On resuming starting position, change to upper hold.)

Digitized by Google
37

Group B.

Repeat Group B of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Part.

Group C.

Music: March, fast tempo.

From 1st to 4th measure: Raise bars to "carry” position and by the right flank march close the intervals, 1-6; on 7th and 8th count mark time and face forward, 8 counts.

From 5th to 8th measure: Left rank of twos wheel in a circle to the right. Right rank of twos: two steps forward and two steps in place, 2 steps backward and 2 steps in place, 8 counts.

From 9th to 12th measure: Ranks of fours march forward 6 steps on 7th and 8th count, step forward left add execute 1-2 turn to the right (rear march). The turn on toes.

From 13th to 16th measure: Repeat the same 6 steps forward, 1-2 turn on 7th and 8th count, 8 counts.

From 1st to 4th measure: First rank: Nos. 2, 3, and 4 form to the right of No. 1, passing in front; second rank: Nos. 1, 2, and 3 form to the left of No. 4, passing in front, 8 counts.

From 5th to 8th measure: First rank: Nos. 1, 2, and 3 form to the right of No. 4, passing in front; second rank: Nos. 3, 4, and 2 form to the left of No. 1, passing in front, 8 counts.

From 9th to 16th measure: Reverse the formation, so that all will come again to their original places, 16 counts.

From 1st to 4th measure: Right rank of twos: wheel in circle to the left, left rank of twos: march forward 2 steps, 2 steps in place, backward 2 steps and 2 steps in place, 8 counts.

From 5th to 8th measure: By the left flank march take intervals 2 paces; (6 counts) two steps in place and face to the front, 8 counts. (On the last 2 counts change the hold to under hold.)

Group D.

Slow waltz, 16 measures.

1st measure: Point the left foot forward, bend the right knee half-way “wind in” the left to vertical position in front, right upward, 1-3, (Fig. 23, side-view).

2nd measure: Replace left foot and straighten right knee, slide the right hand down to the left hand and swing the bar in a circle to the left (Fig. 24), 1-3. (Right hand does not release the hold, but moves around the left hand.)

3rd measure: Slide the right hand quickly to the end again, point the right foot forward, bend the left knee and “wind in” the right hand to a horizontal position forward, 1-3.

4th measure: Feet resume fundamental position and slide the left hand to the right and swing the bar in a circle to the right, 1-3.

5th measure: Point the left foot backward, bend the right knee and “wind in” the left to a horizontal position above the head, 1-3.

6th measure: Feet resume fundamental position, bend left arm, nlide the right hand to the left and swing the bar in a circle to the left, 1-3.

Digitized by VoiOOQle
38

7th measure: Point right foot backward, bend the left knee and "wind in” the right hand to a vertical position at right side, right downward, 1-3.

8th measure: Feet resume fundamental position and wind out the right to starting position, 1-3.

From the 9th to 16th measure: Repeat the same, starting with winding right to a vertical position, left upward, point right foot forward, etc.

FINALE.

Music: Polka, 8 measures.

From the terminal vertical position of the preceding winding exercise swing the bar to carry position at the right side, by the right flank march close intervals, (6 counts) and face to the front with 2 steps in place, 8 counts.

Ranks of twos wheel in a circle outward, right to the right, left to the left and halt. March off.

(Note: If the drill appears too long, either Part III or Part IV may be omitted.)

* For "Beseda’* music write to A. Geringer, Publisher, 2520 So. Crawford Ave., Chicago, 111. Price, 50 cents. Those who wish to have the tempo marked for each group may order the music through the author of the exercises.

CIRCUIT GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL FORT WAYNE, IND., JUNE 12 to 15, 1924.

Arranged by Henry Meyer, Fort Wayne, Ind.

Compulsory Tactics for the Men’s Classes.

Formation: Front line of ranks of fours.

Running Exercises.

Right-face! Arms for running-bend! Forward run! Knees forward-raise! Without-run! Left about-face! Lower legs backward-raise! Without-run! Left about-face! Straight legs forward-raise! Without-run! Forward-march!

The running shall be done on the lines of an imaginary square. The class leader may give the commands according to his judgment. The running should not take more than two minutes.

2.	In arriving at the original place and after marching a few steps on place, the class leader will give the command: Left face and forward—march!

a.	Eight steps forward with half turn left on the last step— 1-8! Repeat—9-16!

b.	The ranks 4-4 wheel right—17-32! Repeat a and b but 4-4 wheel left instead of right—33-64!

3.	In the ranks form in front of left—1-4! Eight steps forward—5-12! Left face and 1-4 wheel left—13-16! Repeat all— 17-32! Repeat all to the right—33-64!

Digitized by LjOoq le
39

4.	a. The ranks 1-4 'wheel right—1-4! Four steps on place— 5-8! Form at the side of left by passing in rear (Nebenreihen links) 9-16! 1-2 wheel left with 1-2 turn left on the last step and 1-2 wheel right—17-32!

b. Form at the side of left by passing in rear—33-40!

1-2 wheel right with 1-2 turn left on the last step and 1-2 wheel left—41-56!

Open ranks to the left, the files beginning successively by turning to the left and marching forward. File one begins on 57, file two on 59, file three on 61, file four remains, all face to the front on— 63-64!

Mass Exercises for the Men’s Classes.

Free Exercises.

Music, N. C.—4 March, by F. E. Bigelow.

Introduction: Four measures or 8 counts.

Play the music once thru, omitting the first twelve measures of page four of the piano copy. Go back to the introduction and play the same for a rest between the two groups. Repeat the rest of the music as before for the second group.

First Group.

Exercise One:

a.	Raise left knee forward and arms fore-upward—1-2! Place left foot far backward, bend right knee, lower trunk forward and swing arms fore-down and sideward—3-4! Return movements— 5-8!

b.	Raise left leg sideward and arms sideward—9-10! Place left foot backward inwartl, bend right knee and fold hands behind head—11-12! Return movements—13-16! Repeat a and b right— 17-32! Repeat all—33-64!

Exercise Two:

a.	Lunge left sideward, raise left arm obliquely side-upward, right arm opposite downward—1-2! Change kneebending, bend trunk left, change arms to the opposite position and bend right arm to strike—3-4! Return movements—5-8!

b.	Turn trunk left, raise arms fore-upward—9-10! Bend trunk backward and lower arms sideward, palms upward—11-12! Return movements—13-16! Repeat a and b right—17-32! Repeat all—33-64!

Exercise Three:

a.	Lunge left backward, raise arms fore-upward—1-2! Lower trunk forward and arms fore-downward—3-4; Return movement—5-8!

b.	Rise on toes, raise arms fore-upward—9-10! Bend knees and 3-4 aim circle inward to sideward position—11-12! Return movements—13-16! Repeat a and b right—17-32! Repeat all— 32-64!

Digitized by CjOOQle
40

Exercise Four:

a.	Four steps forward—1-4! Hop into side stride position and return—5-6! Repeat — 7-8! Place hands on hips on 5 and lower arms on 9. Repeat three times with a 1-4 turn left on the first count of each repetition, completing the square left—9-32!

b.	Four steps on place with a 1-4 turn left on the first count— 33-36! Bend knees and place hands on floor—37! Straighten backward into front lying support with a hop—38! Return 39-40! Repeat all, including the 1-4 turn left three times—41-64!

Second Group.

Turn to the front on the first two counts of the introduction. Exercise One:

a.	Lunge left forward and raise arms fore-upward—1-2! Straighten left knee, raise right leg forward and swing arms foredown and backward—3-4! Return movements—5-8!

b.	Stride left forward arid raise arms fore-upward—9-10!

One-fourth turn right on the heels, bend trunk forward and swing arms fore-downward—11-12!	Return movements—13-16!	Re-

peat a and b right—17-32! Repeat all—33-64!

Exercise Two:

a.	Lunge left sideward and raise arms sideward—1-2! Bend trunk left and bend arms to strike—3-4! Return movements—5-8!

b.	Bend right knee, place left foot sideward, bend trunk right, raise arms sideward and place right hand on the floor—9-10! One-fourth turn right, straighten right leg in line with left, swing left arm into parallel position with right arm and place left hand on the floor into front lying support—11-12! Return movements—13-16! Repeat a and b right—17-32! Repeat all—33-64!

Exercise Three:

a.	One-eighth turn left, lunge left backward, raise left arm backward and right arm oblique fore-rfpward—1-2! Lunge left forward, change arms to opposite position and bend left arm, left hand closed, knuckles toward fore-head—3-4! Return movements— 5-8!

b.	Rise on toes and raise arms fore-upward—9-10! Lower • heels, bend trunk backward and bend arms to thrust, fore-arms vertical, knuckles outward—11-12! Return movements—13-16! Repeat a and b right—17-32! Repeat all—33-64!

Exercise Four:

Repeat exercise Jour of group one.

Course for Physicians in Physical Training.—Our German exchanges mention that this week there is being held at Berlin a graduate course on the importance of physical exercise. It was organized by the committee in charge of medical graduate courses and the German Hochschule fur Leibesiibungen, and is in charge of Prof. A. Bier. The aim is to give physicians a better insight into the nature and system of gymnastic exercises and sports. As these can be learned best by actual experience the course includes three hour exercises, daily, besides three or four hours of lectures.

Digitized by kjOOQle


♦

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

♦ --------------------------------

Human Efficiency.—In his presidential address before the Section of Physiology at the Hull meeting of the British Association, E. P. Cathcart* of Glasgow called attention to the importance of distinguishing clearly between mechanical or muscular efficiency, and industrial or productive efficiency, in discussions of human performance. Both features involve physiologic factors, so that they are fundamentally related. The proportion of energy converted into mechanical or external muscular work in the use of the contractile tissues has often been measured under a vanety of conditions of performance. Generally speaking, the efficiency with which work is done satisfactorily in the engineering sense is about 25 per cent. Industrial efficiency involves something more— usually a consideration of the output. None of these aspects of human endeavor can be adequately considered solely from the statistical standpoint, because the organism involved is a complex of many parts in which maintenance and self repair thru the combined co-operation of circulation, respiration and nutrition play a significant part. All investigators are agreed that the foremost factor influencing both mechanical and industrial efficiency is fatigue. Cathcart defines this as the “antithesis of efficiency.” It is the diminished capacity for doing work—the failing ability to carry on. He has given special prominence to our features of work which affect efficiency and the genesis of fatigue. They are speed, load, rhythm and rest. The effect of undue variations of some of these has long been recognized. It is known, for example, that when a load becomes excessive, the efficiency rapidly falls away; but this is all too often overlooked by those who are concerned with the ultimate results. Less well recognized is the fact that a submaximal effort may be inefficient. The rhythm which experienced workers tend to acquire as a habit of work is merely an example of a conditioned reflex; it is the outcome of one of the most fundamental properties of the nervous system and is a potent factor in the prevention of fatigue. Finally, it should be noted that rest is not always secured best by mere quiescence. A change of posture or the substitution of a new type of work may be equally efficacious in the attempt to carry on. These are a few of the features of the problem of industrial efficiency the quest of which involves the welfare of the individual, the nation and the race.—Current Comment “The Journal A. M. A. ”

* Cathcart, E. P.: The Efficiency of Man, Lancet 2 : 647 (Sept. 9) 1922.

Gelation A* a Food.—Altho gelatin enjoys a widespread popularity as a dietary article, and has found much favor in recent times in the feeding of the sick, few persons who partake of this

Digitized by v^-ooQle
42

protein substance realize that it is, in a sense, an artificial product. Gelatin is produced by mild hydrolysis from the organic basis of certain connective tissues which are collagenous in nature. Thus, by simple chemical means, less readily digestible materials which are essentially wastes or by-products of the meat industry are rendered more available for culinary and dietetic use in a form easily utilized in alimentation. Opinion as to the real food value of gelatin has vacillated between wide extremes. In the days of the French physiologist Magendie, early in the last century, a commission of the Paris Academy of Sciences regarded the product as having no food value by itself, and as reducing the value of other foodstuffs fed in combination with it. Altho all investigators of the modern era admit that gelatin alone cannot satisfy the entire nitrogenous needs of the body as other proteins may, they usually teach that a considerable proportion of this requirement can be supplied without detriment by the connective tissue derivative. The failure of gelatin to equal the proteins of meat, milk or eggs, for example, in their “biologic” or nutrient value is today understood to be due to the “incomplete” character of the protein; that is, gelatin lacks in its chemical make-up certain aminoacid groups, notably tyrosin, tryptophan and cystin, which a’-e indispensable in the diet because they cannot be synthesized de novo in the animal organism, yet play an important part in metabolism. These amino acids are normally derived from the dietary proteins; hence a shortage ensues when gelatin is the sole food protein. There is no contradiction to the well established fact that gelatin is a food in the same sense that sugar or fats furnish energy to the body. The distinctions which Liebig and his contemporaries made between “respiratory” and “plastic” foods cannot be maintained in their original interpretation. But the observations of Robinson* at the Lister Institute in London leave the impression that gelatin can at best satisfy only a very minor part of the specific nitrogen needs of the body in man. The dietetic use of gelatin need not be abandoned because we have learned the truth with respect to what it can and cannot accomplish physiologically.—Editorial Comment in "The Journal	Am. Med. Assoc.”

* Robison, R.: The Value of Gelatin in Relation to tne Nitrogen Requirements of Man, Biochem. J. 16 : 111, 1922.

Psychologic Effects of Tobacco Smoking.—Few subjects have aroused such unsatisfactory discussion as has been given to the effects of tobacco smoking. Whereas the “antis” of various sorts place the responsibility for everything from stunted growth to mental deficiency on this habit, its users praise the “delicious weed” as the most soothing of habits, and even assign it a place in medicine as a harmless sedative. Recently the department of psychology of Johns Hopkins University undertook a study of the immediate psychologic effects of tobacco smoking. Eight established psychologic tests were used to determine whether or not the smoking of cigars or cigarets would influence the judgment and response of a

Digitized by Google
43

number of persons to various stimuli. The results seem to indicate strongly that the immediate effect of smoking, both on smokers and on nonsmokers, is a lowering of the accuracy of finely co-ordinated reactions (including associative thought processes). However, against this must be set, according to D. J. Carver,* who conducted the experiments, the possible decreased accuracy of the habitual smoker when he has for some hours been deprived of his customary tobacco-combustion products. There is no indication that the speed of complicated reactions is affected by smoking, nor is there indication that thoroughly mechanized reactions requiring no fine motor adjustments are affected. It is purposed to continue to experiment extensively with more refined methods and technic. Investigations by these observers and, in fact, all experiments thus far reported on this question indicate that we have no really scientific evidence on which to base a valuable opinion as to the psychologic effects of the tobacco habit.—Current Comment Journal Med. Assoc.

* Carver, D. J.: Psychological Effects of Tobacco Smoking, J. Comp. Psychol. 2 : 279 (Aug.) 1922.

Sunlight and Medicine.—Altho light is an almost omnipresent factor in everyday life, its possible influence on biologic processes other than vision received very little scientific consideration until recent years. The reactivity of the skin to light and the relation of this to pigmentation has been recognized, and given some consideration in climatology. The work of Finsen in his Light Institute at Copenhagen probably represents the first systematic effort to study the biologic effects of light and its possible therapeutic uses.* Of late, the profound importance of this subject has been forcibly brought to public attention thru the indisputable demonstration by several groups of investigators both here and abroad that sunlight and notably the ultraviolet rays have a marked curative effect on certain forms of rickets, as will as a prophylactic influence where this disease is liable to develop, f The influence of photodynamic substances that may sensitize the organism to light has been noted from time to time in The Journal.

In the effort to elucidate the possible chemical reactions associated with these various light effects, attention was focused first of all on the ultraviolet rays. There is evidence on record that these may act on proteins so as to render them less soluble. Solutions of albumin in quartz vessels behave like solutions of the more readily precipitated protein globulin after being subjected to ultraviolet rays. Ordinary glass is a barrier to these potent rays, a fact which should always be borne in mind in contrasting the possible effects of sunshine indoors and outdoors. The harmful effects of light on bacteria may depend on such changes in the protein constituents of their living protoplasm.

*. Clark, Janet H.:	The	Physiological Action of Light, Phjsiol. Rev.

2 : 277 (April) 1922.

f. Hess, A. F.: Newer Aspects of the Rickets Problem, J. A. M. A. 78 : 1177 (April 22) 1922.

Digitized by ^ ooQle
44

Recently Young 11 has found in the Biochemical Laboratory at Cambridge University in England that proteins such as serum albumin and egg albumin which have been sufficiently purified by repeated crystallisation become sensitive to intense light, either sunlight or strong arc illumination, from which the infra-red and ultraviolet rays have been removed. The proteins may become denatured and precipitate. The reaction and presence of electrolytes play a part in facilitating these unique responses to light. It is too early to discuss the theories of these manifestations of radiant energy; but if the preeminent constituents of living cells can be so readily disarranged chemically by light, scientific medicine must become alert to consider what the new knowledge may ultimately have in store fcr our profession.—Editorial,	Journal of the Med.

Assoc.

tf. Young, E. G.:	The	Coagulation	of	Protein	by	Sunlight,	Proc.	Roy.

Soc. London (B) 93 : 235 (March 1) 1922.

♦ ------- ■ ♦

News, notes and comments

ELWOOD S. BROWN.

Elwood S. Brown, Vice President and Executive Secretary of the National Amateur Athletic Federation, died at Englewood, N. J. Hospital, on March 18,1924.

Mr. Brown was taken ill and was making a satisfactory recovery until a complication developed, resulting in obstruction of the circulation in the left leg. On the night of the 16th, his left leg was amputated at about the middle of the thigh, in an effort to save his life but without avail. His death comes as a shock to the host of friends to whom he had endeared himself because of his unusual qualities.

Mr. Brown left a wife and two children, Virginia Powis, age fifteen, and Elwood Stanley, age twelve.

Elwood Brown was not only a national but a world-wide figure in physical education, particularly in the promotion of the idea of play-for-everybody and in the administration of amateur athletics. Born at Cherokee, Iowa, April 9, 1883; educated in the grammar school and high school in Portland, Oregon, he later attended Wheaton College, Illinois. His connection with athletics dates from his association with George W. Ehler, with whom he served as an assistant for five years in the Central Y. M. C. A. in Chicago. After a service of two and a half years as Physical Director of the Y. M. C. A., Salt Lake City, he launched in 1910 upon his world-wide relationships in accepting a call to become Physical Director of the Y. M. C. A. at Manila, P. I. Little did he dream

Digitized by v^.ooQle
45

that his going to the Philippines would mean so much to the advancement of the scientific program of physical education in the Philippine Islands, which was in turn to have a profound influence upon the athletic life of the Orient which, later, was to result in the formation of the Far Eastern Games.

For seven years Mr. Brown constructed an ever widening physical program. He set up in the Philippines a play program for the National Public Schools, organized the Philippine Amateur Athletic Federation, served as Director of Ahtletics for the annual Philippine Carnival, 1911-17, and in 1913 organized and conducted the first Far Eastern Games between China, Japan, and the Philippines in Manila. The next year he visited China, Japan, Siam, and Malaya, organizing the Far Eastern Athletic Association, which conducts the Far Eastern Games. He served as Secretary-treasurer of the Young Men’s Christian A ssociat’on thru 1917. He was instrumental in opening the Young Men’s Christian Association building work for Filipinos and set up a special training school for Filipino Physical Directors.

When the United States entered the war, Mr. Brown asked for War Service and in March 1918, went to France as an Athletic Director. He later became Director of the Department of Athletics, serving in this capacity until the close of the big program September 1919. He received the following decorations and citation:

Legion of Honor—France.

Order of the Crown of Italy—Italy.

Order of the Redeemer—Greece.

Citation for Distinguished Service Medal—U. S.

Mr. Brown early saw the opportunity for a tremendous program whenever the armistice should be declared and a month before the armistice was actually a fact he had proposed to Army Headquarters the program which was subsequently carried out, embracing mass games for the entire Army, the A. E. F. Championships and the Inter-Allied Games, and the construction of the Pershing Stadium. He was made a member of the Games Committee which had charge of the Inter-Allied Games, and served as Director-General of the Games.

Because of Mr. Brown’s demonstrated ability and wide experience it was natural that the International Committee of the Young Men’s Christian Associations should have selected him as the Secretary for Physical Education of the Foreign Department, a position he returned, to accept in September 1919.

In March 1920, Mr. Brown made a trip to South America for the purpose of stimulating the play-for-everybody idea and of organizing a South American Athletic Federation which would conduct South American International Games every two years. The first games were held in Brazil in 1922 and will be conducted every two years hereafter in various cities. Mr. Brown represented both the Young Men’s Christian Association and the International Olympic Committee on his trip to South America.

After meeting with the International Olympic Committee in August 1920, Mr. Brown visited the Young Men’s Christian Asso-

Digitized by LjOoq le
46

ciations in the American Army of Occupation area, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Rumania, Greece, Turkey, and Italy, for the purpose of organizing and standardizing the post war athletic work being operated by the National War Work Council. He went on to the Far East, visiting India, China, Korea, Japan, and the Philippines, in a continued effort to broaden the Young Men’s Christian Association’s Physical Department service to these countries and to include them in the world-wide program now defined and coming into operation.

Mr. Brown was a large factor in bringing about the organization of the National Amateur Athletic Federation, of which he was elected the Executive officer at the organization meeting in Washington, D. C., in April 1922. Since this time he has devoted his entire efforts to this work. He believed profoundly in the far-reaching influence cf wholesome play and clean athletics and gave himself with all the enthusiasm of his warm-hearted personality to the stimulation of local and district Athletic Federations in all parts of the United States. Thru his efforts, strong foundations have been laid for the further development of athletics upon a proper basis.

BOOK REVIEWS.

Miss Grace Schermerhorn of the American Child Health Association 370 Seventh Ave. New York City has written a short essay that has been published by the above association under the title “My Health Book.” This little pamphlet is a splendid effort to get girls interested in their health. Miss Schermerhorn, however, approaches her subject from the angle of beauty—and what girl does not want to be beautiful? The author in a concise and interesting manner shows how food, exercise, bathing, fresh air and sleep are the real tools for bringing out beauty. The booklet should be a great help to all teachers. Write to the association for a copy.—

William A. Stecher.

“Ten Talks to Girls on Health” by Augusta Rucker, M. D. 100 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches, paper cover. Published by the Womans Press, New York. Price $1.00.

The ten talks were prepared to be delivered to leaders and workers with girls. The theme running thru the lectures is "Health is essential to successful living.” The content of the booklet as well as its presentation should make the little volume valuable to teachers of girls in elementary as well as in high schols.—W. A. S.

“Every Girl’s Health” by Jane Bellows. 27 pages, 8 1-2 by 11 1-2 inches, paper cove*-, 3 photographs 5 by 7 inches. Published by the Womans Press, New York City. Price 75 cents.

This is a compilation of health plays, songs, riddles, poems, etc., gathered from many sources and put into printable shape by Miss Bellows. The collection should be valuable for all teachers

Digitized by v^ooQle
47

who are looking for practical material by means of which they hope to arouse interest in health. Some of the playlets should be valuable to playground and recreation workers as themes for celebrations.— W. A. S.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for April 1, 1923.

STATE OF MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of the owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by tne Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minn. EDITOR—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa.

BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

2.	That the owners are:	Wm.	A.	Stecher, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Phila-

delphia, Pa.; Albeit Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.; H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders ownig or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: NONE.

4.	That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner.

Affirmed and subscribed before me this 3rd day of April 1923.

A. L. GAG,

(My commission expires November 1, 1925.)

Digitized by CjOOQle
SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, STATE NORMAL SCHOOL LA CROSSE, WISCONSIN.

Prepares young men and women to become teachers and directors of physical education. Excellent equipment, large athletic fields. Three gymnasiums. Swimming pool. Special opportunities for practice teaching in the public schools of La Crosse and in the various departments of our large Normal School. Two and three year courses. Credit given for sat* tsfactory work in colleges and other normal schools. For information and catalog address

Walter J. Wittich, Director	F.	A.	Cotton,	President

QUALITY EQUIPMENT

RAWLINGS “Geo. Sister” First Base Mitt

For Spring baseball training; for thoee early hard-fought games, Rawlings quality line of Baseball goods is a great factor to better playing. Rawlings Baseball Uniforms are recognized the country over as highest grade, and ars favored by many school and college teams, as well as major and minor league teams. Rawlings “Bill Doak” Glove is admittedly the outstanding fielders glove in tha baseball world, and Rawlings “George Sis-ler” Mitt is the leader of all First Base Mitts. For information on spring equipment and prices, write now »or our new Spring Catalogue.

RAWLINGS Manufacturing Co, 2307 Lucas Ave, St. Louis, Mo,

RAWLINGS “Bill Doak” Glove Pat. Aug. 22,1922; Nov. 21, 1922.

Outing Clothing for Women and Girls,

the practical kind,

for camping and life out of doors.

Middy blouses and shirts, white or olive drab, cotton or flannel. Knickerbockers and pants, cotton drill and olive drab; flannel in olive, pearl grey or colors.

SEND FOR CIRCULAR

Aldrich & Chancellor

1857 MILWAUKEE AVE.

CHICAGO,	ILLINOIS.

Digitized by LjOOQle