Vol. ii.

DECEMBER, 1904.

No. 130

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Gcneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianopolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wjs.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760—3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

AH business letters and payments to the Frcidenkcr Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, W>s

THE OBJECTS AND METHODS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING IN PRIMARY AND GRAMMAR SCHOOLS.*

By WM. A. STECHER, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind.

TO clearly understand what is expected of physical training in the primary and grammar schools and how we can best accomplish it, we will ask:	“What are the objects of this training?” Here we

immediately find a great diversity of opinion. Those asking least say that school gymnastics ought to consist simply of games, while those who ask most cite the renowned physiologist, Prof. Virchow, who says, “It is my belief that only one half of the school hours should be devoted to study and the rest to physical training and games.” Not occupying a position quite so radical, are those who with Dr. Hartung demand that “It is necessary to lift all physical training, or whatever goes by that name at present in many of our school systems, from that inferior position as a remedial or therapeutic agent, as a repair department for sins committed by faulty and obnoxious school methods,

• Read before the Indiana “State Association of Superintendents of Schools,’’ Nov. 11, 1904.

Digitized by i^ooQle
—250—

to a higher level, and place it on a sound foundation as a truly educational department.” They claim the first and foremost requirement of any system of physical training for the public school is, that it has for its object the harmonious development of the child’s body according to well defined physiological, psychological and pedagogical laws. They demand that such systems have for its objects:

1.	A stimulation for growth of the body in general, and development of the vital organs in particular.

2.	The development of strength, quickness and agility.

3.	The removal of bodily defects or conditions brought about by “school life.

4.	The increasing of vitality so as to give the body that resistance against sickness which is needed to live well.

5.	A general basic training of those psychologic powers which are necessary for the growth of the will power, and which are recognized as obedience, submission to rules and orders, perseverance, courage, self-reliance and self-control.

To arrive at a correct solution of the problem what the objects of school gymnastics must be, it becomes necessary to inquire. First, what are the conditions of modern school life which must be taken into consideration when choosing exercises? and Second, what are the physiological demands of a child between the ages of B to 12 as to its growth and development?

Up to its entrance into school a child has led a comparatively free life. In general, it moved about wherever it pleased, sang, played, and ran. It was out of doors, in the sunshine and fresh air, most of the time. With its entrance into school all these conditions immediately changed. It now must remain in a closed room five hours a day. Crowded yards at recess offer little chance for play'. The school requires that it is quiet. The demands of writing, ciphering, drawing, sewing, etc., keep the child in unnatural positions for hours. Its time for play is greatly restricted, and the lungs instead of developing and expanding, suffer because of the child’s long sitting. Heart ar.d circulation also suffer from loss of action. Then the air in most school room? is impure. The eyes often suffer from poor light, too much work or incorrect seating. The desks and benches are often ill-fitted. In short, we find that school life gives the child conditions which are radically •opposed to those needed for its bodily development.

Modern physiology tells us that the necessity' for muscular exercise becomes greater the more the demands for mental development grow, and the more artificial the lives of city children become. But the modern school does not recognize this. Children also now go to school more yvars than formerly. The school work itself is of a more intense character—all leading away from muscular work.

The life of a normally developed child is one of continual activity during all of its waking hours. It seldom is quiet for any length of time, and many a teacher has found one of her hardest problems a boy, or girl, so full of vitality that he cannot be quiet for a minute. Yet school life asks that this child remains quiet for hours. We are not only supposed to suppress that activity which is an integral part of

Digitized by
-251—

the life of every normally developed child, but we are also asking the child to pay close attention to processes which develop its mind. As Dr. Gulick so aptly expresses it: “The demands of our schools bring a coincident decrease in muscular work and an increase in lines that are purely neural.”

We will now ask, what does physiology teach us is going on in the bodies of our pupils during the first eight school years? Children enter the first grade at about six years and leave the grammar schools at about 14 years of age. According to the child’s physical development the noted physiologist, Dr. F. A. Schmidt, divided these years into two periods, the first into three years, from 6 to 9, and the last into five years, from 9 to 14 years. During the first period the child accustoms itself to the physical conditions of school life. A great development of bones, especially of the head, takes place. It is also usually the end of dentition. The second period, that is up to the beginning of puberty, brings about a strengthening of the skeletal frame and the muscles continue to grow more enduring.

If we now remember that function makes, or at least modifies structure, and that every organ will reach its highest development, if it receives its proper exercise at the time of its greatest growth, these investigations have given us a guide to lead us in the selection of exercises that are of the greatest value at certain periods of a child’s life.

They show us that during childhood the heart is comparatively small, and the arteries wide; that a rapidly working heart finds little resistance and can send the blood quickly through the body; that the molecular changes naturally are more speedy, and that consequently growth and an increase in strength will result more quickly in children than in adults.

The normal development of the heart during the period of its greatest growth is of prime importance for the maintenance of health, as well as for gaining and preserving the greatest bodily power and resistance. To choose exercises that promote heart growth must, at this period of a child’s life, be one of our chief aims.

Next in importance is the development of the lungs. Inhalation is caused by the activity of the inspiratory muscles of the chest, while exhalation is a passive proceeding caused mainly by the elasticity and weight of the walls of the chest and the contractibility of the lung tissue. Experiments have proved that only about Ye of the air in our lungs is changed during ordinary breathing. When greatest inhalation and exhalation take place, this amount is increased 5 to 6 fold. Children from 6 to 14 years of age* average 24 respirations per minute. The number and depth of respirations are increased by muscular exercise.

According to the researches of Edward Smith the exchange of gases in our lungs is as followsTaking the exchange going on, when lying on our backs as indicated by the figure 1, the increase when sitting will be to 1.18, standing to 1.33, ordinary walking to 2.76, running to 9.00 and foot racing to 13.00. This goes to show that increased respiration goes hand in hand with increased muscular exercise which causes a greater quantity of carbon dioxide to be liberated by the working muscles which in turn must be expelled by the lungs.

Digitized by CjOOQie
Knowing that school children during their daily work have little incentive to breathe deeply, yes, that in most of their occupations in the benches they generally assume positions that limit the exchange of air, it develops that another of the main objects of educational gymnastics for our schools must be the proper and full development of the respiratory organs. What is neglected in the first eight school years can never wholly be regained later in life. The relations which deep breathing and the proper oxygenation of the blood bear to its enrichment and to the vigor of the circulatory system, show the importance which correct and deep breathing have for our physical well being. Even we only use Ve of our lung capacity for the needs of every day life, and if a slightly increased capacity will be enough to let us walk without becoming breathless after a few minutes, this is not our ideal of a healthy person. Every one must have enough reserve capacity to be prepared for the emergencies of modern life, and in order to meet these, the unused portions of our lungs, which generate from non-use. must be developed and kept healthy by proper exercise. In running, for instance, of what use are well developed muscles of the legs if the lungs are not strong enough to do their part.

Axel Key in his hygienic investigations among the school children of Stockholm found that after attending school one year, every 13th boy was anemic, after two years every 7th, and after 3 years every 5th boy. In the private schools of the same city he found that 18.8% of the girls of 7 years of age where chlorotic, while at 13 years of age 39.7% were so. The school conditions, says Key, “which bring about such pernicious results are undoubtedly the long hours of sitting in connection with a minimum of bodily exercises.”

Although but little is known of the functions of the different parts of the brain, we do know that it is necessary to develop certain groups of the muscles if the corresponding nerve center is to be developed. Modern science has taught us that man is an organic unit, and that a mutual relationship and interdependence exist between mind and body. Dr. Wey in his experiments with the dullest pupils at the New York State Reformartory at Elmira years ago proved that with a vigorous bodily training there came to the unfortunates under his control a mental improvement which was marked. He also proved that this mental awakening was not only for a short time, but that the pupils he had experimented with continued to improve mentally as well as physically.

When we now ask which exercises are best suited to bring about the bodily development desired, we find the interest a child shows in special forms of bodily activity is a safe guide as to what it needs to develop its body. In preparing gymnastic movements for school life, we must choose such exercises that develop a strong heart and an effective respiratory system; that stimulate the digestive organs that may keep the blood rich in tissue—forming an energy—expending elements so that a strong foundation may be laid upon which can be built a healthy mental activity.

Investigations have shown that a normally developed child demands bodily activity; that exercise is as necessary for a child’s growth as is

Digitized by v^ooQle
-253-

nutrition; that during the first 18 years of a child’s life the vital organs grow most; that if they are not given the proper exercise then, this neglect can never later in life be fully remedied. Having all this in mind we find that a system of physical training for the primary and grammar grades must be arranged from the following standpoint.

In the first period from 6 to 9 years, the child needs exercises that conform as much as possible to those forms of activity to which it has been accustomed in its pre-school years. These are largely movements which stimulate the circulation, respiration and nutritive functions, movements which engage large groups of muscles, and which demand little concentration and expenditure of nerve force. Localized or complicated exercises which take, all the strength of a child and draw from the reserve materials stored in the muscles must never be taken. The growing child needs this stored up reserve for its growth and development. Strong muscular exercise in these years does not increase the capacity and volume of the muscles as with adults, but it results in stunted growth and a serious disturbance of nutrition. We find therefore that for the first school years movements which give such exercise to the largest muscle groups and which stimulate heart and lungs are needed. These are mainty the so-called exercises of quickness found principally in the play form of gymnastics and running games. When the facilities are at hand, easy exercises on hanging and swinging apparatus may also begin with the lowest grade, also the simpler forms of jumping. We find further, that on account of the difficulty of sufficientl}' ventilating the rooms and in order to do most good, these movements should not be taken in the school room. If possible they should be taken out of doors, or in corridors or halls.

In the second period of school life, that is from 9 to 14 years, the inducement of growth and development, and counteracting and detrimental influencees of sitting and an indoor life, are still the main demands to be met by educational gymnastic work. Progressing from the forms of exercises taken in the first period, the movements of quickness must be increased and diversified (also made more complicated), they must now begin to take the form of skill. Running for a few minutes and other exercises requiring endurance must be given recognition. To make the work more interesting for the upper grades, and also to keep up a steady progression, free movements demanding greater co-ordination, and also exercises with wands, dumbbells and clubs should be introduced. Easy exercises upon apparatus, especially such demanding skill (but no movements requiring strength and endurance) must be continued. After the 12th year, when the bones and muscles have become, stronger, the simpler forms of apparatus exercises developing strength, endurance and courage demand recognition and should be introduced. Games, especially the more intricate forms of ball games, are a delight to pupils of this age. Swimming and skating, moderate bicycle riding and walking long distances should be encouraged.

The question now arises, how much time should be devoted to gymnastics daily? It may be some time before our school boards will subscribe to the demand “that the time needed daily for physical training must first be set aside, and the remainder apportioned to the men.

Digitized by y.ooQle
—254—

tal studies,” or that they allow Prof. Virchow’s claim of “one half each day for physical work,” but when by the foregoing we have shown how necessary this training is for natural developments of the child and when, in our daily rounds among the schools, we see how much time is wasted on mental studies because the children are physically unable to concentrate their attention upon the subject before them, the matter appears in a different light. The standpoint to be taken is that no school has a right to impair the health of a child in order to teach it any mental part.

But how much time is necessary for this training? Taking the experience of cities that have had physical training for years it is safe to say that the least time required for physical work, including recesses, is one hour a d$y. This time is best divided as follows:

First, two recesses per day, 30 minutes.

Second, two gymnastic lessons of ten minutes each, 20 minutes.

Third, compensatory exercises (to be taken four or five times per day after each period demanding sitting), 10 minutes, making 60 minutes in all. The recess shall be devoted to games of all sorts suitable for the ages of the children; the school to furnish the necessary apparatus, balls, jumping stands, etc., for these out-door exercises. Where the playground is small sectional recesses should be arranged, the smaller children first, to be followed by the larger, so as to give a maximum yard space. In rainy or inclement weather the games are to be held in the halls or basements. Where possible, arrangements should be made during the winter to flood parts of the school yards so that the pupils may practice skating. In schools having a gvmnasium or assemblv hall fitted up with gymnastic apparatus, I would recommend three gymnasium periods of 30 to 35 minutes each per week, one half of which to be devoted to free exercises and the last half to apparatus work and games. An arrangement of this kind, however, is not to interfere with the recesses or to do away with the compensatory exercises. (By compensatory exercises I mean the two or three minutes of vigorous exercises for the trunk which are to follow every period devoted exclusive^ to mental work.)

To get the best results, gymnastic activity requires adequate room and time, as much air and light as is possible, and a variety of apparatus. One of the most urgent requirements to which attention must continually be called is that every school building should be provided with an adequate place for gymnastics with a complete equipment of gymnastic apparatus; if possible, a closed hall, assembh' room or gymnasium for winter and rainy days, and an open, adequately equipped playground for good weather.

The increased cost of a school building with such facilities will not be very large, and the resultant benefits to children and teachers will be so great that the increased expenditure will prove to be a good investment by its large returns in bodily and mental vigor of all occupants.

• flrtmburtjer ^urncredfaft von 1818.“ This organization, the largest ny, has a membership of three thousand five hundred and eighty-eight, follows: 1376 men, 1156 bovs, 412 ladies and 644 girls.

Digitized by Google
—2«>;) —

ON THE CORRELATION OF 1 HE WORK OF PHYSICAL TRAINING WITH INSTRUCTION IN PERSONAL HYGIENE.*

By THEODORE HOUGH, Assistant Professor of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology : Instructor of Physiology and Personal Hygiene, Boston Normal School of Gymnastics.

IT is to assert a truism to say that the terms “physical education/' “physical training/’ and even the despised “physical culture” would literally embrace everything which makes for a sound and healthy body, and that muscular activity is not the whole of physical education. Proper feeding, proper clothing; attention to the sanitary condition of the home, of the workshop, of the office; the proper regulation of nervous activity,—these and other things are essential factors of physical training, of physical education. Despite this fact the term ‘'physical training,” unless otherwise specially defined, is usually limited to that training which comes through properly directed muscular activity. The chief attention, for example, of most of our normal schools of physical training is given the neuro-muscular training; and, although most of them have courses in personal hygiene, these courses are distinctly side issues, they demand only a small share of the student’s attention, and they are not pursued with direct reference to subsequent use in professional work.

It is a waste of time to quarrel with the dictionary or to object when the popular usage of terms belies their derivations. My purpose in calling to your attention the current use of the term “physical training” is in no sense philological. On the contrary, I do so because I question whether the division of labor which it represents is advantageous for all concerned, and because I desire to urge improvements which may strengthen the legitimate -work of secondary instruction, the preparation for the rational conduct of subsequent life; for such usefulness is the ultimate criterion of all secondary education.

Our schools to-day contain two more or less independent lines of work in the broad field of personal hygiene. One is what is generally known as the department of physical training ; the other is instruction in anatomy, physiology, and hygiene. There can be no question that the two are poorly correlated. Usually, they are as distinct in practice as if they had nothing whatever do to with each other. And yet there is obviously something anomalous in this state of affairs. Is the separation best for the teacher, for the pupil, and for the economy and efficiency of instruction?

It is not difficult to explain the separation of the two on historical grounds. Anatomy, physiology, and hygiene were introduced into the secondary schools about the middle of the nineteenth century, with the hope that learning about the body would lead to better care of the body. Nor do I think we can question the general soundness of this position. If these studies have thrown too little light on the hygienic conduct of life; if their results have been disappointing in their effect upon the community as a whole, the fault is not with the general idea, but with the manner of its execution. Surely, it will not be questioned that

A An Address delivered before the Physical Education Society of Philadelphia, January 24, 1903.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
— 256 —

the cause of much improper feeding, of much of the objectionable housekeeping, of much of the abuse of the nervous system in the rush and whirl of modern life, is the result of ignorance pure and simple. Knowing the true path does not insure walking therein; but the chances of keeping to the path are infinitely greater when one has a clear vision than when one is blindfolded.

If the fault, then, lies with the method, wherein is the method wrong? Many points of just criticism might be urged; but the fundamental criticism is that the subject is not in the hands of expert teachers: it is not usually controlled and guided by those who can think independently about the question presented. The inexpert teacher must rely largely upon the text-books; and these have been generally prepared by those who are either unacquainted with the needs of the school, or else, I regret to say, by those who are quite uninformed in the subject about which they are writing. It is indeed rare to find a man who has specially studied the problems of personal hygiene from a scientific standpoint. We naturally look to medical men for guidance. But the medical student after his anatomy and physiology passes to the study of disease. It is not his fault that his entire attention is turned to this direction. After all, he is preparing himself primarily to deal with diseased conditions, and has little time to master those measures concerned with the maintenance of health. We do not employ physicians to prevent sickness or to keep us «in the best of physical condition, but to pull us out of the various pits into which we finally fall and where we lie helpless; and we cannot complain if the preparation is determined by the demands we ourselves make upon the profession. This is not saying that doctors know nothing about health. That statement is sometimes made, and it is about as absurd as it is possible for the statement to be. But the life and work of the physician in the past has not, as a general thing, prepared him to write effective textbooks. It is one thing to practice medicine, and an entire different thing to write a school text-book of hygiene. That this is the case is shown by the books we actually have. The study was introduced into the curriculum, and is kept there because of its relation to the hygienic conduct of life; and yet what are the books? They may be divided into two well-defined and more or less mutually' exclusive classes. In the first, nine-tenths of the book, more or less, is pure anatomy; while the remaining tenth, more or less, is divided in varying proportions between physiology and hygiene. Some years ago I visited a school house in a small town in Maine during vacation. Apparently the lesson of 4‘physiology” was the last one of the session, for on the board was a list which some child had made of the names of every bone in the body: and it did not require the application of higher mathematics to trace the connection between this pedagogic monstrosity and some of our leading text-books in the subject. Think of the effort it required of that child to learn that list; and of what use was it when once learned? Whether the teatcher or the child orally described the specific action of alcohol on each one of these hones I was unable to learn.

Of course, thorough training in anatomy is necessary to thorough understanding of physiology; but there is such a thing as spending so

Digitized by ooQle
-257-

much capital upon the foundation as to have none left for the superstructure. Mathematics is necessary to the study of physics; but, if a man were to defer the study of physics until he had become a thorough mathematician, he might never study physics at all. Some years ago I saw an example of undue attention to foundation in the attempt of some engineers to built a railroad in Jamaica. The foundations were undoubtedly well laid,—solid masonry where embankments of earth or trestle-work would have done as well, expensive tunnelling to avoid curves, and the like; but the road had gone into the hands of a receiver when only ten or twelve miles of it were in actual operation. The foundations were above critiscism, but most of the carrying trade of the island was done on the heads of the natives. Since then the system of railroads has been extended so as to connect the more important towns; but less of the capital went into foundations, more of it went into rails and rolling stock. Such is exactly the trouble with the first class of text-books in physiology: they teach anatomy as if they were preparing students for the study of medicine, or else as if the main object of their work was to give children an idea of “what their insides look like anyway.”

It is perfectly obvious that such teaching is a perversion of the true purpose of the study of physiology, and that it in no way prepares for the subsequent conduct of life. What the living body does and bow it does it is more important to pupils than its structure, and how it can be used to the best advantage in the daily life is more important than either. And one does not realize until he tries il how little of anatomy will suffice in order to make perfectly intelligible the main facts of physiology and hygiene which it is desired to teach. It is an excellent plan to go over the course, and ruthlessly prune away every bit of anatomy which does not bear directly on the main purpose. Neither the teacher nor the student should forget or fail to see for one moment the purpose of the cause.

The second class of books goes to the other extreme. They devote themselves to hygiene questions without laying the proper foundations. They do not teach the boy or girl to understand the principles upon which their advice is based. Consequently, they are necessarily dogmatic, or, not to dignify them by so large a name, they belong in the same class as the “cook-book.” Like the cook-book, they may achieve good results, especially if the mind of the student is sufficiently credulous to believe all they tell him, and his memory sufficiently reliable to have this information at hand when the time comes to apply it. So far as I know them, however, the hygienic instruction they contain is not reliable, and it is usually very incomplete.

I should say that, with the time at our disposal, this teaching should consist of the minimum of anatomy, and that it should be burdened with anatomical terms as little as possible; that such fundamental physiological facts as the relations of the body to food and energy (/. e., the body as a machine), the interdependence of organs, the direction of the whole by the nervous system, etc., should be presented in their broad outlines, without wasting time on less important points, such as the action of the larynx, the conduction of sound through the

Digitized by Google
-258-

middle ear, the muscular mechanism of the elevation of the ribs, the exact structure of the valves of the heart, etc.; that these broad, fundamental facts ol physiology should be presented, not Dv perfectly futile attempts at introducing the complicated methods of the physiological laboratory, but as far as possible by constant induction from and reference to the fact of daily experience; and that all should be brought to bear in this way upon the hygienic conduct of life. In doing this, the main points of personal hygiene should be dealt with as such, and for the greater part after the broad outlines of physiology have been mastered. That is to say, separate chapters should be given to the full development of such subjects as muscular activity, its aims, its uses, and its methods; to bathing, to clothing, to feeding; to the sanitary conditions of the home; to sleep and rest and the general regulation of nervous activity; to the abuse of stimulants and narcotics; to protective measures against infectious disease, and so on. The student would then realize that he has learned something which bears as directly and practically on his life as does his reading or his arithmetic.

I should pause here for a moment to emphasize what I have suggested with regard to the so-called laboratory teaching of physiology in schools. Every good thing in this world is liable to abuse, and laboratory work is no exception to the rule. For a thorough study of physiology in our medical schools and colleges, laboratory' instruction is necessary, and for the same reason that dissection is necessary in the study of anatomy. The student must know at first hand with what he is dealing. He must go into the details of function; and, to do so, he must constantly' deal with reactions which are not accessible to direct observation,-- the details of muscular contraction, of the actiou of the various digestive juices, of the beat of the heart, of the respiratory mechanism in normal and abnormal conditions, of the blood supply to the organs, the special function of important nervous paths etc.,—all these necessitate recourse to the facts themselves; and the student must use the method of experiment, not for its own sake, but because it is the means by which he can get at the facts at first hand.

Now it is not the purpose of high school physiology to study these facts of function in their ultimate scientific analysis, but to give an intelligent general conception of what is ocurring in the human body in the comman experiences of daily life,—what happens when the body is exposed to cold, when it takes muscular exercise, when it sleeps, when it is digesting a meal, etc. The facts with which it has to deal are not the comparative properties of striped, unstriped, and cardiac muscle, the exact cleavage changes which proteids undergo under the action of enzymes, and the like. It is concerned, on the contrary, with the facts of daily experience, of which it attempts a consistent, if somewhat superficial, explanation. \nd that daily'experience is genuine laboratory practice. Everybody has made the experiment of 44warming up” by muscular exercise, of the cutaneous reactions to cold and heat, of the various forms of fatigue, of the effects of muscular work upon respiration, etc. What is needed is the understanding of the experiment. Indeed, it may be said that, in general, few science courses are better off with regard to laboratory training suited to their purpose than are

Digitized by ^ ooQle
—259—

these very high school courses in physiology; for their laboratory practice is not confined to definite hours nor to stated places, but includes every experience of daily life;

You will not misunderstand me to say that special laboratory -experiments have no place in the high school teaching of physiology. The action of the saliva on starch may well be studied as typical of the enzyme actions of digestion; the circulation may be made more intelligible by many simple artificial models; the well-known artificial thorax, showing the action of the breathing movements during inspiration and expiration, should be used in every course; and many other examples could be cited. Of course, whenever a laboratory demonstration facilitates the understanding of a subject in an} way, it should be used, if feasible; but it should be used because it explains an essential point, and not for its own sake. The purpose of the teaching of physiology in the schools is not to train in laboratory manipulations, but to explain the action of the body, and to apply this knowledge to the hygienic conduct of daily life.

The unfortunate results of much of this misdirected zeal are seen in many text-books of physiology “by the laboratory method.” The effort is made to present each subject in the form of a laboratory exercise. The majority of subjects, however, do not properly lend themselves to this treatment. Anirhal experimentation is, of course, out of place; and yet something must be done to confine the study to the laboratory, with the natural consequence that a large amount of anatomy and histology, of little or no practical use, is introduced, together with a miscellaneous collection of other experiments, given too frequently for no other reason than that they can be done in the laboratory. Many of them are trivial, and it is at times laughable to see the heroic efforts made to worship the fetish which a lack of common sense has set up.

Passing on the more general aspects of the matter, it is evident that the writers of our text-books have not usually been experts in the subjects, or, if they were, they were not experts in preparing school textbooks in personal hygiene. This is equivalent to saying that the subject has been taught, for the greater part, by the general teacher without special preparation for the work; for it usually takes an expert teacher to write a good text-book. In our high schools there are to-day teachers of French and German, of Latin and Greek, of physics and chemistry, of botany and zoology. Our teachers of hygiene, on the other hand, seldom have made a special study of their subject; they have had no guidance in mastering a most complicated science; they are usually victimized into teaching it, and the subject has fallen into disrepute.

This condition of affairs is often ascribed to the so-called “scientific temperance instruction” with results which are as irrational from the pedagogic standpoint as they are misleading in many instances from the standpoint of scientific fact. And yet I do not believe that this is the whole of the trouble, nor that it is the primary cause. The simple fact is that the teaching of physiology and hygiene was a failure before the “scientific temperance” propaganda stepped in, and made improvement for the time impossible; and I have always felt that this move-

Digitized by ^ooQle
-260-

men t would not have gone to its absurd excess, had the teaching of physiology and hygiene been efficient. The fact is that the relation of alcohol and other drugs, which are so widely abused, should form part of this instruction, although it is manifestly wrong—indeed, no less than an unmitigated outrage—to subordinate the whole subject of hygiene to one of its parts.

However that may be, we must face the fact that, as the result of these and perhaps other causes, the teaching of the physiology and hygiene in the schools to-day is poorly organized and lamentably inefficient. So much is this true that there is a wide-spread disgust among educators with the whole subject, and this I cannot regard else than exceedingly deplorable. It is important, very important, that our schools should send out their pupils with clear and rational ideas about the bodies with which they must work in life. As a preparation for true living, this is fundamental. The fact is that few studies are so intimately concerned with this preparation for life as the one under consideration. The American of to-day can get along without Latin and French and German and history and zoology, valuable as these are, better than with correct ideas of personal hygiene. As I have remarked, not all unhygienic living is attributable to ignorance: but a considerable part of it is attributable to this cause and ignorance about the most fundamental things.' How many people neglect regular muscular exercise simply because they do not really understand its necessity! Many, very many, give assent to the statement that it is a good thing, that you feel better for it, or that it is necessary, very much as an equally large number give their assent to a traditional belief; and such assent without reflection or knowledge exerts about the same influence upon the action in the two cases. So it is with regard to the abuse of the nervous system, so it is with feed-ding, so it is with all the essentials ol health. Much can be done to correct this by properly directed instruction; and we have a right to demand of our schools that they shall do this work, and do it well. What, then, can we do to strengthen this part of our work?

The one thing needful is that the teaching of physiology and hygiene shall be placed in more expert hands; and, as in all educational reforms, we must do this as the means at our disposal permit. Furthermore, the one place where it can be done is in the high and normal grades. Here differentiation of labor in teaching is possible, and in point of fact is carried to its greatest extent. Moreover, improvement in teaching of any subject should begin in the higher grades. Experience has shown that secondary teaching advances as collegiate teaching improves, and that we have better teachers in our primary and grammar grades as we have better high schools and normal schools. It is for these reasons that the higher grades of schools are the ones in which we should first endeavor to place the subject in expert hands. (To be concluded.I

EUROPEAN INTERPRETATION OF THE ST. LOUIS OLYMPIC GAMES.

The “Kladderadatsch,” the leading German comic paper, gives the program as follows: “Competitive crawling around the golden calf of St. Louis. Stock climbing of the New York Exchange. International distance bankruptcy: the world’s record is to be bettered by at least 0.005%. Tammany Ring and bribe games for the silver pretoleum can of Rockefeller.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-261-

PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS OF GREATER BOSTON AND ITS NEIGHBORS.

By SYLVESTER BAXTER.

IX the history of the public parks movement in the United States Boston stands both as the first and the last, and again as the first, of the great cities. Until New York achieved its Central Park Boston Common was the largest public space in any American city. Boston was the last of the great cities to consider the question of public parks in the modern sense. But when the master who designed Central Park was called to deal with the problem here he profited by what had been so admirably done elsewhere, and by the disposition to make the most of exceptional opportunities developed the most completely and artificially designed, the most comprehensive and most extensive system of public parks possessed by any metropolitan centre in the world. We are just beginning to realize the magnificent possibilities of what has been done. The system as a whole is yet in its early youth. Only a little more than a quarter of a century has passed since the beginning was made, while the metropolitan aspect of the undertaking has only just entered upon his second decade.

The system has from the start been sonsistently developed into the magnificent unity that it has become. In brief we have these features: First, a diversified chain of beautiful pleasure grounds within the denser metropolitan area, each developed in the individuality of its site and environment and connected by a picturesque line of parkways. Second, great c#uter wilderness reservations with woodland, lakes and rock hills designed to preserve the charm, the solitude and the primitive aspects of nature at its best, possible to the near vicinage of a great centre of popolution. Third, important stfetches of shore by oceanside and bavside reserved to public use. Fourth, the banks of the three rivers that traverse the metropolitan region reserved to restore and preserve the beauty of the streams, prevent the pollution of their waters and create in their valleys a chain of popular pleasure grounds, riverside and aquatic. Fifth, a series of parkways and boulevards, as we have seen in considering the subject of approaches to the citv, connecting the various reservations with the several centres of population in the metropolitan region and with each other.

FEATURES OF THE METROPOLITAN SYSTEM.

The mere enumeration of thdse several features is impressive: Franklin Park, Arnold Arboretum and Bussey Woods Park, Olmsted Park and the Fens-connected, respectively, by the Jamaicaway, Riverwav, Fenway and Charlesgate; the Blue Hills, with its 5000 acres or more, the Middlesex Fells, with its 3000 acres, the Lynn Woods, with its 2000 acres, the Stony Brook Woods and the Beaver Brook reservation; the Charles River reservation, the Mystic River reservation and the Neponset reservation, with their respective parkwaj’S—the Charles river including, for example, the Brighton speedway, the drives on the two banks of the stream in Newton, Waltham, Watertown, Boston and Cambridge, the Cambridge esplanade, the Charlesbank, the projected Boston embankment and the aquatic pleasure grounds of the basin and in the upper reaches of the stream; the Mystic, including the Mystic Valley parkway and the aquatic pleasure ground of the lakes and river of that name and the Abajona river. Revere Beach, Winthrop shore, the Lynn and Swampscott shores, Nahant

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-262-

beaches and parkway, Nantasket Beach, Quincy shore, Marine Park, Castle Island aud the strand way, Wood Island Park and North End Beach. Finally, the parkways, besides those already named: The Blue Hills, the Dorehesterwaw Columbia road, the West Roxbury aud its continuation to Blue Hills, the Fresh Pond, the Fellsway, the Revere Beach and the Old Powderhouse.

Besides these parkways there are several others in contemplation as necessary to the completion of the system, such as the connection between Middlesex Fells and Lynn Woods, and between Revere Beach and Lynn Woods; the spur parkways, so called, from Stony Brook woods to Dedham, from the Mystic Valley to Woburn and Middlesex Fells to Wakefield; last and of great importance, the extension of Fellsway to connect the Mystic and the Charles river across Somerville and Cambridge.

Besides the work of the city of Boston and of the Metrolitan Park Commission acting for greater Boston, several of the other metropolitan municipalities have carried out parkways of more than local importance. The work of Cambridge on Charles river is of this character. In the same city the water board, after making a sorry botch of Fresh Pond, is now doing its best to make it an attractive feature in the landscape. The Lynn Woods reservation is an undertaking of the city of Lynn, but its magnitude is such that its proper administration and maintenance is beyond the resources that the municipality is able or willing to devote to it. The movement to transfer its care to the metropolitan park jurisdiction, negatived by a mistaken sentiment for purely local management in such things, deserves to be renewed in the inteiest both ot that city and the metropolitan community.

Other local undertakings of metropolitan value are that of Wakefield at Lake Quannapowitt, of Somerville in it Nathan Tufts Park and Old Powderhouse Parkway, of Waltham in its reservation of the summit of Prospect Hill, of Brbokline in carrying out, in co-operation with Boston, the portions of the great parkway that lie within its limits, and of Newton, Weston, Arlington, Medford. Winchester, Malden, Stoneham and Chelsea in similarly co-operating with the Metropolitan Park Commission.

RELATION OF WATER SUPPLY UNDERTAKINGS.

Water supply undertakings have borne an important relation to the development of the public parks. The Lynn Woods reservation is largely due to the Lynn water board in taking extensive areas for the protection of the water shed for its sources of supply. The Cambridge work at Spot pond has been noted. The Chestnut Hill reservoir, with its surrounding grounds, also forms Boston’s Chestnut Hill Park. Extensive water board holdings by Newton and Brookline on the Charles river have contributed materially toward carrying out the great project for the reservation of the banks of that stream for public uses.

The water supply holdings of Malden, Medford, Melrose and Winchester in the Middlesex Fells greatly simplified the problem of the Metropolitan Park Board in establishing that reservation. Finally, the same reservation offers the best example yet shown of the admirable results possible from an intelligent cooperation between separate departments in charge of public work. The metropolitan water board’s execution of its great improvements at Spot pond and its work in constructing the two high-service reservoirs near by in a fashion that made them conform to their landscape environment has added immensely to the beauty of the Middlesex Fells. A similar spirit has actuated the same board in the construction of its equalizing basin at Weston as an element of the landscape of the attractive region about it.

Another agency in the development of our metropolitan open spaces have been the Trustees of Public Reservations, acting as an instrument for giving effect to individual beneficence in such directions. In Virginia Woods the Middlesex Fells thus acquired one of its finest features, while the historic Gov. Hutchinson's Field at Milton Hill, with its unsurpassed prospect down the Neponset valley, bears an important relation to the metropolitan reservation of the Neponset river.

PLAYGROUND ASPECT OF THE PROBLEM.

In late years the playground aspect of the problem of recreative open spaces has assumed great importance. Not only has Boston in recent years made-enormous expenditures for the acquisition of playground space, now recognized

Digitized by v^ooQle
—263—

as essential for the adequate physical and mental development of the growing generations; many of the other metropolitan municipalities have acted in a like spirit of enlightenment. The parks themselves, while works essentially and primarily of a landscape character, also offer as a rule, opportunities for outdoor sports of various kinds—as in the Playstead and Ellicottdale at Franklin Park, with facilities for ball games and lawn tennis, boating on Jamaica pond and bathing at Marine Park.

Many open spaces are needed, however, in a great city for playground uses pure and simple. It is highly desirable, however, that these should present aspects other than that of “vacant lots,” barren, arid and unkempt. Surrounded by streets and buildings, as a rule, there should be some distinctive aspect to indicate their civic character—some degree of simple embellishment, inexpensive to maintain, but such as should make them adornments of the neighborhood while not in the least interfering with their function as playgrounds. Trees and shrubbery about the borders, with margins of turf, are desirable in such connections. When these are well cared for the tendency is to respect them.

The slight degree of attention on the part of the users of such grounds thus called for has had a valuable policing function, for it tends to make children heedful of public property, thereby diminishing the propensity toward wanton destructiveness and vandalism. The more careful the maintenance of these accessories the better they are respected. This has been the general experience in such matters.

In several of the greater Boston municipalities the chief emphasis in the local park work has been laid upon its playground aspect. In Malden, for example, the aim has been to make the playgrounds attractive public features by giving them sufficient embellishment to that end, and the effort has succeeded in a gratifying degree.

The minor open space of Boston and the other metropolitan communities, beside those that are purely or chiefly designed for playground purposes, are great in number and diverse in character. Their function is mainly that of embellishment, or to serve as local “breathing spots.” Some are of a picturesque type, perhaps preserving some interesting fragment of local landscape, or commanding some notable prospect, like Charleston Heights, Copp’s Hill Terraces or Washington Park in Roxbjrv. In others the historic element predominates, as in Thomas Park on Dorchester Heights, South Boston, the scene of Washington’s triumph in forcing the evacuation of Boston; the grounds of Bunker Hill monument; and the Nathan Tufts Park, with its ancient powderhouse as the chief landmark in Somerville.

Others have a garden-like character, like various Boston enclosures besides the Public Garden and Broadway Park in Somerville. There are numerous spaces that bear an intimate relation to the street plan, like Worcester square and Union park, and the areas that are strips of central reserved spaces in streets, like Rutland and Concord squares at the South end, and the central space in a considerable portion of Massachusetts avenue. A more fragmentary class of open space is that represented by the bits of ground practically rescued from the highway at street intersections and forming the basis of the various “squares,” such as City square at Charlestown, and the many “heater pieces” ent off at the acute angles where streets run at diagonals. These abound in the suburban districts. Nothing could well be better than the simple treatment with turf and shrubberv which spaces of this character have received in Newton, making them pleasing incidents in the wayside picture.

WHERE BOSTON SEEMS TO BE LACKING.

It may seem strange that the treatment of the minor open spaces in the other metropolitan communities, as a rule, is better than that which obtains in Boston itself. Indeed, the minor open spaces of Boston are a great flaw in the system that otherwise is unrivalled among cities. A radical defect in the administrative method is at the bottom of this. Boston presents the absurdity of having the same class of work performed by two separate municipal departments—the department of parks and the department of public grounds.

In the former the elements of design and of management are subject to oversight, direction and revision by a superior authority vested in a board ol com-

Digitized by v^ooQie
-264-

missioners. In the latter they are combined in one individual head who is practically an autocrat in his own sphere, amenable to no superior authority, not even Chat of the mayor, and practically unremovable, owing to the check upon the appointing power by the board of aldermen. The results are what might be expected in a work exercised with no repsotisibility, and with little regard to the clement of design that should form one of the main considerations. The fruits are not at all commensurate with the outlay. Extravagance in expenditure yields a prodigality of brilliant effect in incongruous massing ol color and form at a few conspicuous points. But a certain uniformity of procedure obtains in the treatment of all other grounds—mainly characterized by gobs of discordant coloring here and there splashed upon an expanse of turf.

In brief, it may be said that, while the use of bedding plants at some one central point in a city, as in the Public Garden, may be made splendidly effective if done with reference to a carefully considered design and a good scheme of coloring, the cost of maintenance is so great and the results are so inadequate in comparison that it is hardly justifiable in other connections.

It is desirable that public grounds should be attractive throughout the better part of the year. But with bedding plants this is impracticable, except at an enormous expense for transplanting. There are other ways of achieving these ends effectively and without extravagant outlay. Neither is it desirable that, by dint of heavy draughts upon conservatories, the public grounds of a northern city should in summer exhibit a presence of tropical conditions, but should give the impression of the abundant flora of its own proper climate and environment.

The minor open spaces of a city are capable of playing a most beautiful part in the scheme of public embellishment. To that end each area needs to be treated with reference to its own particular character as imparted by its site and its vicinage. Metropolitan Boston has fine opportunities in this respect, and it is desirable they should be utilized to the best advantage.

The influence of muscular exercise upon digestion is practically exemplified by every one’s personal experience. Violent exercise, even by those of robust constitution, taken immediately after the ingestion of food almost invariably retards the process if it does not produce acute dvspetic symptoms, and in many cases vomiting. This is due mainly to the fact that the muscles after exercise demand a large volume of blood to eliminate the broken down products and to supply new material to rebuild the tissues.

I have known men to actually loose six or seven pounds during a game of football and to regain the lost weight by the next practice. Of course, this is more than the ordinary individual loses during exercise, but it clearly points out the demand of the blood for the process of metabolism during and after exercise. The digestive organs if called upon to digest food shortly after exercise, cannot do their work to the best advantage for they, too, demand a vigorous active circulation.

On the other hand, exercise has a very important relation to digestion when taken at proper times and in right amounts. This influence may be attributed to the combined effect of exercise upon the circulation, respiration, and general functional activity of all of the tissues which promote nutrition.

Men differ greatly in the amount of exercise they find necessary to keep them in good health and to maintain a normal appetite, but it should be remembered that, in order to keep one’s body in the best condition, care should be taken not to require digestion to take place until the fatigued tissues have largely recovered their normal activity.

EXERCISE AND DIGESTION.

—John H. Scott.
—265—

yy\lND AND BODY. ^

8ibMriptioi Price, $1.00 per Year.

"	Published	Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

tree, Wlaconart n .

ter Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wi s Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

CONTESTS OF VARIOUS GAMES.

ALTHOUGH it is not our habit to publish programs of exhibitions or contests of individual organizations, we wish to call the attention of our readers to the following program of a contest of games to be held at the Scranton, Pa., Y. M. C. A. (C. R. H. Jackson, Director).

This program is insofar interesting as it brings before the spectators the principal in-door games presently played in the gymnasia throughout the country, adapted to the different ages as well as to entire classes and teams.

Such an exhibition of in-door games in place of a gymnastic exhibition certainly constitutes a welcome variation. Beyond this it offers this other, bv no means less important, advantage that no drilling or other extensive prepation is necessary. We do not wish to be misconstrued. We want the gymnastic exhibitions to continue, but advise the physical dierctor to make provision for just such contests, because they are popular both with the pupils and the spectators.

INDIVIDUAL GAMES.

Boys under 12.

(I)	“THREE DEEP.” %

Rales.—Twenty-four or more players form a circle of pairs with space enough between the players (who stand closely one behind the other, facing the center of the circle) to allow the runners to turn and run in all directions. Two players on the outside of the circle, and at a distance from each other, begin the game. One of them, the “tagger,” seeks to tag the other player before he can secure a place in front of any of the pairs forming the circle. If he succeeds in this, roles are changed, the player tagged becoming “tagger,” and the former “tagger” in turn endeavors to secure a place in front of some pair. But whenever the runner has succeeded in getting in front of a pair before being tagged, then the hindmost must take to his heels and seek to evade the unsuccessful “tagger.” In seeking to evade the “tagger” the successive players may run in any direction through or around the circle, but not in front of any one rank to another rank in such a manner as to induce wrong starts.

(2)	“CAT AND MOUSE.”

Rules.—Boys form a wall by grasping hands. One mouse represented by a boy is pursued by two cats, also represented by boys. The wall aids the mouse by keeping the cats outside if the mouse is inside, with-

Digitized by
out letting go of the hands, or in keeping the cats inside if the mouse is out. When the mouse is caught three more boys are chosen to act as cats and mouse.

TEAM GAMES.

Boys over 12.

(3)	“FLAG RELAY RACE.”	(4)	“MEDICINE BALL RACE.”

(5)	“RELAY PURSUIT RACE.)

Rules.—Two teams of any number may enjoy this race (each boj' to run two laps). One team assembles at one end of the track and one at the other. One runner from each team is selected and started at the same time, both going in the same direction. Any number of laps may be completed (we will say two) when another runner stands ready to tap the hand (or take the ring) of his mate and complete two laps endeavoring to catch his opponent. If one side catches the other before all have run, that side wins, or the side that finishes first wins.

TEAM GAMES.

For Men.

(6)	RELAY PURSUIT RACE.”

(Each man to run four laps.)

(7)	“INDOOR BASE BALL.”

High school vs. Intermediates.

(8)	“BASKET BALL.”

(Two senior teams.)

(9)	RELAY ROPE CLIMBING.”

(Each contestant climbs 15 feet.)

INVITATION TO TURNER FESTIVAL.

THE Department of State has granted the request of the North American Turnerbund to inofticially transmit through the American consuls the invitations for the National - Turner Festival, to be held at Indianapolis, June 21-25, I9°5*

The invitations were sent to Washington, addressed to the fo’lowing Turner societies:	German	Turnerschaft, German Wo kingmen's Turnerbund,

Swiss Turnerbund, Belgian Turnerbund, Dutch Turnerbund, French Turner-bund, Italian Turnerbund, Japanese Turnerbund.

The invitation consists of a letter of the North American Turnerbund, a letter of the Festival Council of Indianapolis, and a letter of Mayor Holtzman. The first two named letters invite the different societies to send delegations, and Mayor Holtzman’s letter extends an invitation in the name Of the citizens of Indianapolis.

The invitation by the National Execulive C immittee follows:

“Greeting:

“The National Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union has the honor to extend to the Deutsche Turnerschaft a most cordiai invitation to the Twenty-ninth National Gymnastic Festival to be held at Indianapolis, June 21-25, 1905.

Digitized by AjOOQLC
-t-267—

“The North American Gymnastic Union is an organization of American citizens of German descent that has been in existence for fifty-four years. From its inception its principal aim has been to make the German system of gymnastics an integral part of the American education system.

“The Executive Committee would take particular pleasure in seeing your organization represented at the festival by at least one team.

“You may re«it assured that the most cordial reception will be accorded your members by the members of the Gymnastic Union.

Fraternally yours,

The Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union:

Herman Lieber, President.

Peter Scherer, Secretary.”

The invitatation by the Festival Council of Indianapolis :

“Greeting:

“The Festival Council for the Twenty-ninth National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union takes pleasure in joining in the invitation extended to you by the National Executive C remittee, an I begs to assure you of the heartiest welcome by the members of the Gymnastic Union, as well as by all the citizens of the Festival City.

“The Council will spare no efforts to make the Festival a great success. The city of Indianapolis, one of the prettest cities of the Middle West, is noted throughout the United States as a hospitable community. The ocean voyage and the journey through one of the most fertile and beautiful regions of * America will offer so much that is new and interesting that we confidently believe that participation in the Twenty-ninth Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union by your representatives would always be remembered by them with pleasure.

“It is well-nigh needless to add that the members of the Festival Committee would deem it their particular duty to provide for the comfort and enjoyment of your representatives.

Fraternally yours,

The Festival Council:

Robert Nix, President.

Theo. Stempfel, Secretary.”

The invitation of Mayor Holtzmann reads :

“My Dear Sir—As mayor of the city of Indianapolis and on behalf of our people I take great pleasure in joining with the National Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union and the local committee on arrangements in extending to you a most cordial invitation to have representatives of your organization participate in the Twenty-ninth National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union, which is to be held in this city June 21 to 25, inclusive, 1905.

“Having intimate knowledge of the elaborate arrangements that are now being made fittingly to observe this event, and a very intimate person il acquaintance with the members of the local committee in charge of these arrangements, and well knowing the characteristic hospitality of Indianapolis on all occasions, I am able to assure you that' the event will be one of international importance and the arrangements the most happy for an occasion of this kind.
-268-

11	It is the pleasure of Indianapolis to entertain the greatest organizations, both national and international, at their annual conclaves, and the great experience of her citizens in providing for the comfort and well-being of distinguished visitors upon such occasions leads me to predict that the Twenty -ninth Meeting at the National Festival will far outdo any preceding one. Situated, as Indianapolis is, within fifty-six miles of the center of population of our nation, being the home of the Vice-President of the United States, and of a score of distinguished men in politics, science, art and literature, as well as the home of the president of the North American Gymnastic Union, Mr. Herman Lieber, one of the foremost citizens, I can assure you that all the incidents of this event will be valuable to visitors to our country.

“Again, my dear Sir, permit mein the name of the people of Indianapolis to invite you and representatives of your gymnastic organizations to be with us on this occassion and to assure you of the most generous hospitality and the warmest welcome.	Respectfu	ly,

John W. Holtzman, Mayor.”

THE N. A. G. U. NORMAL SCHOOL.

THE Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union opened in September with the largest class in its history. The members of the class are as follows:

C. H. Bitrkhardt, Wilmerding, Pa. Mabel C. Cook, Cedar Rapids, la. Lulu M. Douglas, Aurora, III. Frank. FGlasow, Fonddu Lac.Wis. Carl Hofer, Hartford, Conn.

Carl Jaerschke, Hammond, Ind. Christine Ranters, Salt Lake City, Utah.

August Plag, Grand Rapids, Mich. # Emil Rothe, Chicago, 111.

Adolph Schmidt, St. Louis, Mo. Bertha Seitz, Dayton, Ohio.

Elsa Seiffert, Detroit, Mich. Ad. Rieder.

Otto Greubel.

H. v. d. Halben.

Viola Flechsig.

Gretel Schenk.

Ida Schapekahm.

Paula Haak.

Bertha Salomon.

Dora Andresohn.

Doris Mendel.

The different members of our class are preparing for work along special lines, such as work in the public schools, the Turnerbund, the Y. M. C. A., the Y. W. C. A., and the easier work of young ladies’ seminaries.

The standard of admittance is high, necessarily so, for one must be mentally well equipped in order to complete the course in ten months. The applicants must possess a high school education, and be free from organic disease or any functinal trouble that the exercise itself will not cure.

The first thought suggested by a glance at the course of study is that it is eminently practical. It is very thorough, but no time is wasted upon certain rather unnecessary studies pursued in. so many training schools. This elimination of useless branches, together with the long working hours, make a ten months’ course possible. The faculty aims to educate teachers of physical culture, and not amateur physicians.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-269-

The studies included in the course are: Theory and Practice of Gymnastics, Anatomy, Physiology, H}'giene, First Aid to the Injured, Anthropometry, Pedagogy, Method and History of Gymnastics, History of Civilization, and English and German for those who need them. The German is compulsory for those who are preparing to teach in German schools. In Anatomy we have finished with the intricacies of the skeleton and are now studying the muscles. In Hygiene we learn how to care for the health of our pupils, and in First Aid, how to meet any accident that may occur in our work, though the possibility of accident is reduced to a minimum by the safeguards thrown around the work. Method of Gymnastics, of course, gives us the theory of teaching, ayd in History of Civilization we learn what the different nations have contributed toward the progress of humanity.

The studentsof theGerman-English Academy and theGerman-American Teachers’ Seminary, next door, come into our gymnasium for their exercise. These classes altogether comprise about two hundred (200) members of all ages, and as we act as assistant teachers to Mr. Wittich, we have ample opportunities to acquire a practical knowledge of teaching, and to apply those principles learned in “Method.”

So much for the mental training we receive, and now for the physical. The pure German system of gymnastics is taught, with the addition of foil and sabre fencing, swimming, wrestling (men only) and boxing. The supply of apparatus is extensive, but we are taught enough of free exercises (with and without hand apparatus) so that we will not be helpless when we begin to teach in gymnasia less amply fitted out than ours.

In the free exercises and apparatus work great importance is attached to development and gradation. Development, in gymnastic parlance, means the evolution of the difficult and complicated exercises from the easy ones; thus the student is led step by step from the simple exercises of the shy and awkward beginner to the skilful feats of the accomplished gymnast.

By means of “gradation” the exercises are carefully planned for the varying ages and degrees of strength, and the embryo teachers are taught how to adapt their material to all needs.

The exercises are separated into six grades, corresponding to the twelve grades of the public schools, the German theory being that the training of mind and body should go hand in hand.

The outline of the week’s work is as follows: Anatomy, three hours; hygiene and first aid, one hour; pedagogy, one hour; history of civilization, one hour; heavy apparatus work, five hours; fencing, two hours; practice in commanding, two hours; floor work (comprizing tactics, free exercises, light apparatus work, and games), eight hours; observation of teaching, five hours. Saturday morning is devoted to a review of the foregoing week’s work. The swimming we practice during pleasant weather at a school on the river bank, for we prefer Nature’s natatorium to any tank. The uniform for men consists of grey jerseys and trousers. The women wear the conventional gymnasium suit of dark blue trousers and blouse waist.

Mabel Cathryn Cook.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-270-

WORK AND PLAY.

WHEN discoursing in an informal way of vacations and their utility in last Sunday’s Herald we dwelt particularly on the advantages of the vacation as a resting spell and season of recuperation. We did not forget that many persons take their vacation as an opportunity of work more or less serious and engrossing. Some natures can hardly bring themselves to contemplate essential idleness as a refreshment. If they have a day or week off, they try to crowd the time with occupations in order that it may not be “unprofitably” spent. Thev have been trained to look upon idltness as a sin, and all time spent without a serious purpose of accomplishment and an exertion of energy as mere idleness inviting the attention of Satan, one of whose pernicious traits is that he always finds mischief for idle hands to do.

Those who, like Walt Whitman, know how to loaf and invite their souls are few. Loafing souls, according to the belief of sundry good folk, are not obedient to their owner’s invitation, but are apt to accept another’s with desperate eagerness. One can hardly help pitying those who have so loose control of themselves.

Some of these intensely industrious persons who take themselves with perpetual seriousness have a passion to do more and harder work in their vacations than in any other part of the long year. They plan a course of duty with the conscious intention of doing in one week what cannot easily be done in two or three. If they travel, they go so far and try to see so much in their limited outing that body and mind are wearied, not refeshed. They strain at their play and make it a strenuous toil. When they get home they are worn out and fit to go to bed for days in order to recover their normal condition. As an excuse for this kind the theory was invented that a change of work serves the same purpose as a rest from work. In a limited sense this statement covers a truth of human experience, but it ought not to be strained too far. To suppose that rest is unnecessary for genuine refreshment and recreation is to harbor a delusion.

It has often been said that the best part of a trip to Europe, when recreation is the object, is not Europe, but the vessel on which one comes and goes—although one may have no special love of the sea. The reason is that most people who go abroad, especially those who hardly expect to go again, are resolved to see as many countries and cities and cathedrals and museums and as much scenery as can possibly be seen in the time at their disposal. They toil at this sightseeing with exhausting energy. They accomplish more than they would be able to do if they had not had the period of restful ennui on board the steamer before getting there. They would return utterly fagged out if it were not for the other recuperative voyage coming home. The fact is they undertake too much for the best results. They have had no leisure, no rest, except when they were imprisoned in a ship. They have seen scores of cities and all their spectacles in a rush that afforded no time for appreciation or contemplation. About all they tell you of cities that they have been there, or of their treasures that they have seen there.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-271-

Now, it may not be denied that we can get a distinct notion of the general features of a country by riding through it in the day time on an express train, but it may be doubted if one gets so much good from such a panoramic view as by lingering in it 'leisurely, curiously, sympathetically. This fetches us back again to the fundamental principle that a vacation, in order to have the quality of recreation after toil, must be restful, rather than strenuous. Consider the St. Louis Fair, which is this season the Mecca of thousands. It is well worth seeing, if one looks at it in a superficial way. But how the persons who attempt to see it systematically and get from it what valuable knowledge it contains for them in a too brief time to work ? One needs to go into training for the excessive exertion as for an athletic contest, and must expect to be tired out, unless content to get what may be got without depletion of strength and to leave the rest unattempted.

We have compassion for those teachers and scholars who feel obliged to work in vacation schools. As if ten months of steady class work were not sufficient, they must needs devote to similar work a large part of their proper vacation. A large proportion of the attendants at such schools are there because they think it necessary. The}' are supplying deficiencies in their scholarship, or working to promote their ambition, constrained by a sense of duty. Having these urgent motives, they work hard. Undoubtedly there are social pleasures that are agreeable attendants of the labor and many follow the courses with indifferent attention. But a vacation school is never a full vacation for those whose work ;s in school. It is only a pretense at best, a combination of work and play that does not relieve the mind of reponsi-bility and care. A mitigation of the usual school routine and obligation it may be, voluntarily undertaken tasks they may be, but tasks, neverthelesst and too suggestive of the regular grind of working for wages to be of high value as recreation. We have been told by instructors at Chautauqua that many who take the courses do an astonishing amount of work. What kind of vacation is this for persons whose vital and nervous forces have been already overtaxed ? Is it not, in fact, a kind of dissipation that contributes to exhaustion, instead of curing it?

And what shall be said of.those who betake themselves to crowded resorts on purpose to make a campaign of fashionable display, entering a competitive exhibition of their robes, their equipages and their spending habits? What is the use of saying anything of these? Let it be acknowledged that they have been mistakenly trained, that they know no better use of nature’s precious opportunities than to vulgarize them by show of pride. The lesson of the lily of the field is necessarily lost upon those. Vanity is the motive of their being, and the lily is without vanity, does not know it is beautiful, does not imagine that it can be made more beautiful by flaunting the grossness of money, and neither despises nor envies any other flower under the sky.

We need not be told that travel and education and wealth are good in their way. It is confessed. The point is that the man or woman seeking the good that vacation may be used to produce must have a care lest that good be missed by undertaking tasks that arc not help-

Digitized by CaOOQle
ful to that end. Let travel be reasonable in its scope and ardor. Let education be by observation and reflection, rather than by assertive teaching. Let the pride of life enjoy a season of abandonment and forgetfulness. So shall one come to the end of vacation with a fresh zest for hard business of life.—Boston Herald.

“AS OTHERS SEE US.”

Editor Mind and Body.

Dear Sir:—Below I bring a few figures which support your stand that the editor of “Critic and Guide” knows nothing of rational school gymnastics, and that sentences in his critisism like: “I may be old-fashioned, but hidden somewhere in a deep comer within me there is a belief that the body is frequently developed at the expense of the brain.’* or: “It has always seemed to me that even an ordinary healthy body is not an absolute essential to a great active mind,” or “I can say that, as a rule, the students who possessed the best physique, exelling in all athletic sports, also possessed the dullest intellects,” simply prove the fact that he is putting gymnastics and athletics on the same ground. He utterly fails to grasp the difference that gymnastics are for the physical development of the masses, who are by this means made better physically, mentally and morally, and that athletics (as usually conducted) simply take an already well developed individual and by means of training make a specialist of him in one particular line, often to the detriment of his physical, mental and moral welfare. In an article “Good pupils—good gymnasts,” by R. Frankenberg, Altona, Germany. I find the following:	In	a	school	the upper six grades were examined.

These classes averaged 30 pupils each. Mr. Frankenberg took the first five of each class, these who ranked highest in mental work, and compared their physical standing with the five who were at the foot of each class. The physical examination was based on the regular class work of the school which included tactics, exercises with hand apparatus, apparatus work and field gymnastics, running, jumping, etc. One point signified very good, and 5 points very poor. The average of the first five of the brightest (mental) pupils of the six classes was 2.38 points, while the average of the squads from the foot of the classes was 3 points, giving an average gain of 0.62 point in favor of the brighter pupils.

In another article by Dr. L. Schwarz I find that of 191 good gymnasts 53 ranked high in this mental work, 91 ranked fair and 47 were marked unsatisfactory. In still another case of 121 bright pupils 53 were designated as good gymnasts, 42 as fair and only 26 as poor.

So it seems that in schools that have well regulated gymnastics the above cited cases prove that, as a rule, a well developed mind and body go together. They simply add weight to the facts proved by Dr. Carter of St. Louis, Grazianow and Sack in Russia, and Dr. F. A. Schmidt and H. Lessenich in Germany, that pupils standing highest in their classes are (as a rule) heavier and taller than their less fortunate comrades. A sound mind is a good foundation for healthy intellect.—w. a. s.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your fritnds

Digitized by LjOOQle
• 273-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public Schools.

< Continued. >

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Captain Ball.” As a preliminary a short run, during which time the arms are to be held in various directions each a given number of counts. Gymnastic tactics.

After all have received wands (iron of 5tb or wooden bar bells), then form a front line, count off by fours from r. to 1. and upon order forw. to two steps distance; the 1. flanker leading. The ranks stand in oblique open order as here shown.

WAND DRILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

1.	a ) Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wand- forw. to vertical pos. (1. hand upw., r. downw.)—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3! Pos.—4! b) Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise wand in front of shoulders, bend

1.	forearm over r. (wand between forearms)—1 ! Pos.—2! Same r.—3! Pos.—4!

Wand in front of shoulders—raise !

2.	a) Raise 1. and r. leg forw. alt. and stretch arms forw.—1, 4!

b) Raise 1. and r. leg backw. alt. and stretch arms upw.—1, 4! Wand—down!

3.	a) Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand overh.—1! Bend trunk forw. and lower wand behind shoulders—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

b) Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Bend trunk backw. and move wand overh. (arms in line with trunk)— 2! As 1-3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

4.	Raise heels and wands forw.—1 ! Bend knees and move wands in front of shoulders, bend 1. forearm over r.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—5, 8!

Wand overh.—raise!

f>. Turn trunk to the 1. and move r. arm forw., 1. backw. (wand crosswise overh., the 1. arm slightly bend)—1! Pos.—2! Same r. —3! Pos.—4! Wand —down! ii. Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand overh.—1! Bend 1. knee, lower wand forw. 1. (r. hand under 1. shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5. 8!

Wand overh.—raise!

7.	Repeat exercise 5 in two counts 1. and r. alt.—1, 2! Wand—down! Wand on shoulders—place!

All march forw. four steps, then march backw. to starting pos. with 1. face on the 8th count—1, 8! Repeat to the remaining three sides—9, 32 counts. Same, but start with r. foot and turn r. face on the 8th count, etc.—9, 32!

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

Wand to vertical pos. on floor at arms’ length distance in front of feet, the hands placed on the upper end.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-274-

8.	a) % circle r. with 1. leg over warn!—1! Same opp.—2!

b) 14	“	1.	“	1.	“	“	“	—1!	“	“	—2!

Wand forw. to starting pos.—raise! (Raise with 1. (r.) hand, drawing wand through r. (1.) hand).

9.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand forw. to vertical pos. (1. hand upw., r. downvv.)—1! Bend 1. knee, bend trunk sidew. 1. and move wand upw. r. (1. hand in front of r. shoulder)—1 ! As 1—3! Pos. -4! Same r.-l, 4! Alt.—1, 8!

10.	a) Lunge forw. 1. and raise wand upw. 1.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.-3! Pos.—4!

b) Lunge sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. r. to high diagonal pos. (1. arm upw. and r. arm sidew.)—1 ! Pos.—2! Same r.—3. Pos.—4!

11.	Raise wand overh.—1 ! Lower wand behind hips farms extended) -2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

12.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wand overh. in four counts; hold breath four counts; exhale and lower wand forw. to starting pos. in one count.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry 1, 2!

Close ranks forw. to a front line; turn 1. (r.) face; march forw. and deposit wands, then march to assigned places for apparatus work.

/First Division: High horizontal bar and long buck in cotnbina* \Second “	tion with high-jump.

/Third (Fourth “

Side horse and flying rings (height of shoulders).

Change places: Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—High Horizontal Bars.

1.	Jump to straight arm hang ordinary grasp and immediately swing; at the next first swing, raise ankles to bar and kip to straight arm rest; front circle backw. to straight armhang and at .the next front swing squat backw. 1. with straight leg between hands and swing up to cross rest; 14 circle backw. in this pos.; drop backw.. squat forw., underswing, and down.

2.	As ex. 1, after the straight arm hang instead of squatting with 1. leg straddle under bar (outside of hands) and continue the circle forw. to side seat with legs on the outside of the hands; straddle seat circle backw. once; drop backw. straddle forw. under bar. ankles to bar and kip again, then drop backw., underswing, and down.

3.	Jump to straight arm hang reversed grasp and swing; at the next front swing, raise ankles to bar and kip to straight arm rest; front circle forw. to straight arm hang and pull up at backw. swing to straight arm rest; raise hips, spread legs wide and place toes under the bar, then circle forw., once around (instep circle), to front rest and front vault 1. (r.) to cross-stand.

4.	Jump to straight armhang ordinary grasp; pull upw. to straight arm front rest; lower forw. slowly, ankles to bar, squat backw and extend legs upw. to back hang; pull up over bar to rear rest; L* circle 1. with 1. leg and V2 circle r. with r. leg to front rest; lower

Digitized by LjOOQle
backw. to straight armhang and legs raised forw. to r. angle, then lower, and down.

5.	Jump to straight arm hang with 1. ordinary on near side and r. reversed on the far side (the arms are crossed and the r. hand on the outside of the 1.); pull up with IV2 turn 1. through the back dip rest to front rest; lower forw. to straight arm hang with legs at r. angle; raise legs again and squat backw. to rear lever; then lower to back hang; turn over forw., squat forw., ankles to bar, and extend hips to front hang; lowerforw. slowly through the front lever to hang, and down.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division.

First Division .—Long Buck in Combination with High-Jump.

Xote.—Raise the buck to shoulder height of the average member, the jumping standards on the far side of the buck. Start the crossbar or rope at about three feet and 8" or 10" in front of the buck. A run of sufficient length precedes every jump. Raise the crossbar or jumping rope two or three inches after every jump of the division.

1.	Straddle vault forw.

2.	4’	“	44	with	14	and V2 turn 1.

8.	“	44	4	4	4 4	% “ % “ r.

4. Squat vault forw.

r>.	4 4	4 4	or straddle vault for height.

Second Division—Long Buck in Combination with High Jump.

Same as the first division.

Change place with the first division on the high horizontal bar.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

1.	Jump to straight arm hang and immediately swing; at the second front swing raise ankles to bar and kip to straight arm rest; flank vault 1. (r.).

2.	As ex. 1, but following the kip add front circle backw. and down to front side stand instead of flank vault.

3.	As ex. 2, but following the front circle backw. lower to straight arm hang, swing forw., raise ankles to bar, then circle 1. leg under bar and over the same to knee hang on the outside of the 1. hand and knee circle forw. to straight arm rest; place 1. hand on outside of thigh and V2 circle 1. with r. leg to rear rest; drop backw., squat forw., underswing and down to rear sidestand.

4.	As ex. 3, but with reversed grasp and squat backw. with 1. leg between the hands with straight leg and circle forw. to cross rest; circle forw. (once around) in this pos.; V2 turn 1. with circling r. leg forw. and transferring the r. hand to farther side to front rest; drop-kip, underswing and down.

Jump to straight armhang ordinary grasp; raise straight legs upw., ankles to bar; squat backw. and extend legs and hips upw. to back hang; lower sidew. 1. to side lever, then lower legs to back hang; release grasp of r. hand, then 14 turn 1. and regrasp the bar with r. hand; repeat to the other side, and down.

fl. An exercise free for all.

Digitized by ^ ooQle
Third Division.—Side Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Squat vault forw. to rear rest ; V2 circle 1. with 1. leg, then xh circle r. with r. leg to front rest and lower to front side stand, immediately wolf-vault forw. 1.

2.	As ex. 1, to front rest ; then V2 circle r. with 1. leg and Vt circle 1. with r. leg to rear rest, squat backw. to front side stand and immediately wolf-vault forw. r.

3.	As ex. 1, to front rest; then flank circle 1. to rear rest; V2 circle r. with r. leg to cross rest, continue circling with r. leg and 94 turn r„ and down. Same opposite.

4.	Squat vault forw. to rear rest; flank circle backw. 1. to front rest; squat forw. to rear rest again, then flank circle r. to front rest and lower to front side stand and immediately add flank vault 1.

0.	Flank vault swing 1. to rear rest; % turn 1. to riding seat on croup; scissors backw.; raise both legs backw. to a front leaning rest; straddle vault dismount forw. Same opposite.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Change with the fourth division on the flying rings.

Third Division.—Flying Rings (height of shoulders).

1.	Jump to front leaning hang; return to starting pos.; jump backw to leaning hang; return to starting pos. Repeat.

2.	Jump to leaning hang sidew. 1. with r. leg forw. and 1. backw. in cross-stride pos.; return to starting pos. Same r. and return to starting pos. Repeat 1. and r.

3.	% turn over backw. to leaning hang backw. and return to starting pos. Repeat.

4.	Jump to dip rest 1.; down. Same r.; down. Repeat.

5.	“	“	“	“ with both arms; down. Repeat.

6.	“	“ straight arm rest; down. Repeat.

In upperarm hang (rings under shoulders) grasp the rings in front of shoulders and elbows lowered to avoid slipping out.

7.	Short swing; (swung the legs high forw*. and backw.). Down.

S.	Short swing sidew. (1. and r. sidew. as high as possible. (Down.)

0.	An exercise free for all.

Fourth Division.—Flying Rings (height of shoulders).

Repeat the same movements of the third division.

Change place with the third division on the side horse.

Fourth Division.—Side Horse.

A short run precedes all movements, then grasp the 1. pommel with the r. hand, knuckles turned outw., and jump with V2 turn 1. to rear rest (vice versa when repeating to the other side), and place 1. hand on the r pommel for the first four movements.

1.	V2 circle 1. with 1. leg; V2 circle r. with r. leg to front rest; swing both legs backw., and down to front side stand.

2.	Squat backw. 1., then r. to front rest; circle 1. with r. leg and turn 1. to riding seat on neck; dismount backw.

Digitized by LjOOQ Le
—277—

3. Squat backw. 1.; swing both legs to side leaning rest on croup; lower to cross seat with 1. leg in front, r. backw.; M turn r. to riding seat; front vault dismount sidew. r.

4.	V2 circle 1. with 1. leg to cross rest; V2 turn 1. in cross rest; circle 1. leg backw. and screw mount backw. on croup; place hands in rear and rear vault dismount sidew. 1.

Note.—Repeat exercises 2, 3 and 4 to opposite side.

5.	Wolf vault 1. Do. r.

6.	Flank vault 1. Do. r.

7.	Rear vault 1. Do. r.

8.	Squat vault forw.

9.	Vault to straddle pos. on horse; stand erect; dismount forw.

10.	Straddle vault forw. (The leader to stand ready to assist).

11.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Captain Ball.” After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.	(To	be	continued.)

ATHLETICS “UNIONIZED” BY THE A. A. U.

By HORACE BUTTERWORTH.

(Con«luded.)

1891 the A. A. U. had secured the adherence of practically all of the clubs in C? the country, and it was found necessary to reorganize upon a broader basis than that provided for by the original articles. This was accomplished by dividing the country into districts and giving jurisdiction to subsidiary associations, as the New England, Metropolitan, Atlantic, Central, Southern, Western, Pacific, and Pacific-Northwest associations.

* * *

The objects of the Union have been set forth as follows:” The encouragement of systematic physical exercise and education, the improvement and promotion of athletic sports among? amateurs, the establishment and maintenance throughout the United States ol a uniform test of amateur standing and uniform rules for the government of all athletic sports within its jurisdiction, the institution, regulation and awarding of the amateur athletic championships of the United States, the promotion of national, state and local legislation in the interest of the institution of public gymnasia, baths and fields for tracks and field amateur sports.”

The organization claims exclusive jurisdiction over the following sports: Basket ball, billiards, boxing, fencing, gymnastics, handball, hurdle racing, jumping, lacrosse, pole vaulting, putting the shot, throwing the discus, hammer and weights, running, swimming, tugs of war, walking and wrestling.

Restrictions are placed on athletes to prevent them from representing more than one club, and from competing for championships in districts other than those in which they belong. Prizes must be confined to the following articles: Wreaths, diplomas, banners, badges, medals, timepieces, mantel ornaments and articles of jew’elry, silverware and table service, and the value of these must not exceed $35, for a first, $20 for a second or $10 for a third prize.

* « •

The conditions designed to insure the amateur standing of all competitors may be briefly defined as follows: No one shall be eligible to compete who has received, or competed for, compensation or reward in any form, or who has entered under an assumed name, or has competed with professionals, or has pawned, bartered or sold any prize won in athletic competition, or who is not a registered athlete. These conditions are amplified to such an extent as to make it impossible for anyone to adduce any ambiguity of language or lack of explicitness as an excuse for violating the rules for amateurism and asking for

Digitized by t^ooQle
—278—

reinstatement on that account. The requirement that all who compete shall be registered has been in force only since 1898, and was deemed necessary as a further preventive of “ringing.”

All questions relating to the amateur status of any individual are decided by a committee representing each district of the Union, and this body has the power to require an itemized statement of expenses, with receipts and vouchers, Irom any athlete or from any organization holding a meeting under A. A. U. rules. This committee also has authority to suspend from competition any person who is guilty of unfair dealing or ungentlemanly conduct, such as the use of obscene or profane language on the track or field.

Control is further maintained over the amateur standing of athletes by suspending from competition all who compete in games for which a permit or “sanction” has not been obtained by the promotors from the authorities of the A. A. U., such as are frequently given as private speculations, or as a feature oi entertainment at picnics.

There are numerous organizations, however, which conduct athletic games without going through this formality, as the Interscholastic and Intercollegiate associations, various military bodies, the Young Men’s Christian Associations, the Turner societies, etc., but provision is made lor these without conflict with the principles of the Union by articles of affiliation which have been entered into by its officers and the governing bodies of these lesser unions. As a result of this system of co-operation the standard established as a basis for amateur competition is the same in all organizations, and the affiliated bodies become to all intents and purposes corporate parts ol the A. A. U., by being represented in its directorate. Similar relations exist with the National Cycling Association and the Canadian Amateur Athletic Union. In marked contrast with most ol the great combinations of the day, these agreements have been entered into for the exploitation of no selfish interest, but solely for the purpose of determining and enforcing fairness and a decent and honorable conduct on the part of all competitors.

* * *

As an incentive to competition handicapping was early made a feature of the contests in track and field athletics, and the first official allowance maker was elected in 1881. Now every branch of the Union supports one or more of this gentry, who are looked upon b\* the star performers more or less in the light ot hold-up-men. By this system a runner who is known to be able to make very fast time is placed on a mark from which the distance to be covered is measured, and those less speedy are assigned positions at varying intervals in front of him. This insures more closely contested and therefore more interesting races, but the man on “scratch”, as the beginning point is called, often feels that someone has been given an excessive allowance, and if he loses the race vents his displeasure in calling the handicapper a “robber” and fora time maintains a grudge against him. This is unfortunate, but an unavoidable feature of the plan, and in justice to the gentlemen who allot the positions it should be said that the task is invariably performed without fear or favor, the mistakes, when any are made, being the result of imperfect information or that lack of omniscience which is common to all men. In the championship contests, of course, everyone is upon an equal footing, as no handicaps are given.

* * *

The evil tendencies and criminal practices resulting from attempts of youthful energy to find some adequate means of expressing itself in the midst of the congested, unattractive and abasing conditions which obtain in our large cities arc constantly forcing themselves upon the public attention in an appalling manner and demanding the application of the policeman's club. A potent counter-irritant for this dangerous state of affairs is found in a widespread and systematic practice of athletic and gymnastic exercises. Some use has already been made of this remedy, but in comparison with the needs and the manifest possibilities the application represents no more than a fly-blister on the back ot ; an elephant. The Amateur Athletic Union, having for its express purpose the encouragement of physical exercise and education, the improvement of athletic sports, and the promotion of legislation in the interest of public gymnasia.

Digitized by booQle
-279-

batlis and fields for athletic sports, and enforcing an essential condition of participation, truthfulness, fair dealing, gentlemanly conduct and language, is a “machine'’ with which everyone interested in the betterment of the conditions referred to should hasten to ally himself.

TO OPEN ’VARSITY GYM.

<2|t is expected that the new gymnasium of the University of Pennsylvania will GT be completed soon and thrown open to the students. There is still much apparatus to be installed, but all of the main work has been completed and the ’Varsity teams are quartered there, beginning with to-day.

According to the provisions of a set of resolutions drawn up by the University Trustees, a course in physical education has been made an integral part of the college curriculum, every student in the college being required to spend a stipulated amount of time each week in exercise under the direction of Dr. Tait C. McKenzie. In the School of Philosophy the course is made optional with the student, and in the professional schools it is required wherever recommended bv Dr. McKenzie.

The new physical director arrived and spent two days inspecting the building and making arrangements for the opening. He expressed himself as much pleased with the accommodations, and said:

“The building is without doubt the finest in the country, and it is not the fault of the accommodations if we fail to succeed. What with the fine athletic field you have here and the ample space for all kinds of exercise in the gymnasium, there is no reason why Pennsylvania should not in the future stand foremost in the ranks of college athletics.”

Before being admitted to any of the courses or allowed to exercise in the gymnasium each student will undergo a physical examination. Twenty men will be examined each day. The system employed will be a modification of the Sargent system. Every part of the anatomy will be examined and from the color of his hair, eyes and his complexion to the rate of his pulse beats and the number of breaths taken a minute, every characteristic of the student will be carefully noted. Further a short history of the student’s family diseases will be required.

The swimming pool, is 30x100 feet. Swimming will be made one of the requirements in the course of exercises.

The sthdents will be divided into ten squads, which will meet regularly for rhree hours each week for exercise under the supervision of an instructor. Every week one squad will be assigned to work in the swimming pool, and each man will show his ability to swim two hundred yards or undergo a regular course of instruction. Every man graduating from the University hereafter will be able to swim. George Kistler will have charge of the instruction in this part of the work.

Toward the end of the season the work will be graded into classes according to the ability of the different students. There will be at least six instructors under Dr. McKenzie, among whom the work of the various teams will be divided.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidcnker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—Growth and Development of Hob\rt School Boys with Some Notes on Anthropometry. By Christian Bjelke-Pe'crsen. Sidney, Austria.

The author emphasizes the fact that it is not necessary to measure a very large number of children in order to obuin ace-tain standard. Furthermore, that the laws of growth apply equally to all nations, no matter whether American, English or Tasmanian, etc. His deductions are valuable to the anthropometrist. Heretofore liitle was known in this respect about Tasmania.

Copies of the pamphlet may be secured throigh the Freidrnker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

—A Handbook oe Graded Gymnastic Work. Tumbling and Wrestling. By Homer Curtiss, Director of the University of Texas Gymnasium. Published by the Author, Austin Texas.

Digitized by
—280—

A neat litt’e book, and quite useful to the gymnast. The apparatus work is graded according to the needs of the university students and a great number of them is illastrated. The terminology is clear and concise, the material carefully selected. In some respec’s the too-literal translations of German terms for certain exercises, terms which have no meaning and are hardly sufficiently explanatory to the beginner, might have been omitted. Mr. Curtiss’s book is intended to be a guide to the class-leader and instructor, but serves also the gymnast inasmuch as it describes some advanced work.	,

Mr. Curtiss is well known among the profession of the country and will have no trouble in introducing his work quite generally. We earnestly recommend it.

—The University of Texas Gymnasium. By the same author.

A booklet containing rules and regulations of that institution’s athletic w^rk, anthro pometric hsts, hygienic and other practical hints, besides groups of individual exercises. A most desirable memorandum for the class member.

—Elementary Gymnastics on Apparatus. By E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director. New Haven Normal School ot Gymnastics. 3rd Edition.

The value of an article is usually judged by the demand for it on the market, and nothing could therefore recommend Dr. Arnold’s book more than the fact that a «btrd edition has become necessary. Dr. Arnold’s book on elementary gymnastics i«, beyond doubt, one of the best of its kind that we have. His terminology is up to date and free from empiricism. No teacher or class leader should be without it. Price 30 cents.

—Physical Exercises for the Ft. Wayne, Ind., Public Schools. By Dr. Robert Nohr, Fort Wayne, Ind.

It is hardly fair at thi* time to review Dr. Nohr’s manual for school exercises, since it is not yet completed and has not appeared in book-form. N vertheless we must commend many excelhnt points in his compilation; the arrangement being somewhat different fnm those we see elsewhere. We hope that our friend, Dr. Nohr, will soon complete his manuscript, wilh introductory remarks, instructions and all, and pul it before the educational world.

—We have received the following books for review which, arriving as the last ones of the large number of review literature, on account of want of space we have to reserve for our next issue:

1.	Song Roundel and Games. By Henry Suder.

2.	Lessons in Physical Training. By Wm. A. Steelier.

3.	Annual Report Cincinnati Public Schools.

4.	The Stout Training Schools.

5.	La Gymnastique Utilitaire. Par Pierre De Coubertin, Paris.

6.	Gegenwart und Zukunft der koerperlichen Erziehung. By Director Franz Kem6ny, Budapest.

NOW READY. FIFTY-FOURTH YEAR.

THE PHYSICIAN'S VISITING LIST FOR 1905

Will be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to any address upon receipt of price, or may be ordered through any Bookseller, News Agent, or Wholesale Druggist.

DESCRIPTIVE CIRCULAR FREE UPON APPLICATION.

SIZES A TV I) PRICES.

Bound in Strong Leather Covers, with Pocket and Pencil, Gilt Edges.

REGULAR EDITION.

For 25 Patients weekly... $1.00

5°	" ••	-"■!&::£!	—

«	••

PERPETUAL edition, without dates.

No. 1. Containing space for over 1300 names.

Bound in Red Leather........  $1	*5

No. 2. Same as No. 1. Containing space

for 2600 names..............$i.>o

MONTHLY EDITION, WITHOUT DATES.

Jfiir Requiring only one writing of patient'* name for the whole month. Plain binding, without flap or Pencil, 75 cents; Leather cover, Pocket and Pencil, $1.00.

A plain, systematic method of keeping physicians’ accounts,—pocket size, well printed, strongly bound, durable and convenient.

P. BLAKISTON’S SON & GO., 1012 Walnut St., Philadelphia.
NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION



NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

of gymnastics

Normal School of 6pnastic$

668-866 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

CEO. WITTICH,, DmcCTOM

BtOfO FOB CATALOG

E. H. ARNOLD. M. D.. DIRECTOR.

Offers

A	Two Years’ Course of Prepa-

ration for Teac7iers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

£ Summer Course German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

or Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

fc. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

Anvone sending & sketch and description may quickly ascertain our opinion free whether an Invention is probably patentable. Communications strictly confidential. Handbook on Patents sent free. Oldest agency for securing patents.

Patents UUten through Aluun & Co. receive special notice* without charge, in the

Scientific American. 4

A handsomely illustrated weekly. Largest circulation of any scientific Journal. Terms, $8 a gear; four months, $L Sold by all newsdealers.

‘ ;uo	wnm**,.New York

fflea. (96 F St* Washington, D. C. ^

<r TTJST OTTTI IT

THEORY

FENCING^Fm^THE FOIL

IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

BY

GEO. HEINTZ, SR.

Assistant Master of the Sword at the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. ——^Prlce, 25 Cent*.—r-*—

Freidenker Publishing Co., c\o Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
Gymnasium. Outfitters. * *

----- G-3rxxxxxa,stic

Apparatus. XdOclrers-^la^grxouLXxd.

ilppaiatus. 33©T*rlin.gr .A.lle3rs--A.xxtlxx©p©xxxetxic ~T~	Apparatus.

\	WRITE FOR CATALOG’S.

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.,

______________ PROVIDENCE, R. E, U. S. A«

THE

New York Normal School of Gymnastics

AT THE

Dr. Savage Physical Development Institute, Ltd.,

308-310 West 59th St.f New York City.

A two years* course in physical training designed to give a thorough and practical preparation for men and women desiring to become teachers. Teaching scholarships awarded to 2nd year pupils each year.

For circulars address ___________________W.	L. SAVAGE, A. M., M. D., President.

Curtiss’ Hand Book of Graded Gymnastics.

By F. HOMER CURTISS, University of Texas, Austin, Texas.

“I have looked it over with considerable care 2nd I pronounce it excellent. From a practical standpoint I know nothing that compares with it. The illustrations illustrate and do not encroach up on the text; the verbal matter is clear and concise and its order is constructive; the gymnastic exercises are arranged with excellent judgment as to their relative values and the grouping for the days’ orders will be helpful to many teachers. I congratulate you most heartily.”	Dr.	Jay	W.	Seavkrs,

President Chautauqua School of Physical Education.

“I am much pleased with the book. It will be of great service to me.”

S. E Swan beck, Sec’y-Treas. Cleveland Physical Education Association.

Digitized by

Google