Vol. 4.

JUNE, 1897.

No. 40

Coitorial Committee : KARL KrOH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM.STECHER, Sec’y. of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, Cor. 3rd « Chestnut 8t»8, St.L0UI8,M0. F. PFISTER, M. D., managing Editor, 780 Third 8t., Milwaukee, Wis.

PUBLIC SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

By ELLEN LEGARDE, Physical Director, Providence Public Schools.

<Paper read at Clark University, Worcester, April 24th, at the first meeting of the Physical Education Societies of New England of the A. A. A. P. E.)

SOMEWHAT akin to the method employed by the old time country parson, the subject assigned me seems to divide itself into so many heads or subdivisions. There can be said to be three points of view in discussing the matter of gymnastics for the American public schools. I used to possess one, that of the idealist. Endowed with full belief in my own ability to carry out the whole realm of physical training after nearly five years experience with 21,000 school children, 572 teachers, 20 primary and 4 grammar training schools, 48 pupil teachers, 8 disciplinary schools, and one school for semi-imbeciles, and a keen and not to be inveigled public of 175,000 citizens, it may safely be said many of the ideals are shattered and the practical is about the only thing left.

The third thought is one which no instructor can fail to ignore. It is the point of view with which he and his work are considered by the educated or uneducated community around him, and to whom he appeals for recognition and continued employment.

Ten years ago the defence of gymnastics in the public schools was a glaring necessity. I am not a pessimist, but I do not fed so sure it is not a necessity still. Five years,ago, when it was my practice to sit at the feet of the great, not to address them, which and what system or systems were most practical and beneficial, was as a topic threshed bare. To-day the public, having employed you and me, is asking for results and demanding them, but often from so ignorant a standpoint,

i

I

Digitized by L.ooQle
—70—

it is impossible such questioning and statements can be made as is often thought of. Fresh from his normal school, full of enthusiasm, eager for the fray, the would-be instructor finds himself fronting a state of public ignorance for which no suggestion in his normal training was given him. The lack of true knowledge of parents, school officials, and teachers as. regards the real value of the subject of public school gymnastics, after it has been made, as is often the case after much opposition, a part of the school curriculum, the weak and often unintelligent conception of the whole range of educational gymnastics as applied to the every day life of the child, must, I think, be the reason of the failure of any teacher of physical training, the cessation of the work in so many places. It is useless to say this is not so. How can one but deplore a state of public spirit which will let a course as excellent as has been put into the Detroit schools be dropped by a Board of Estimates and Appropriations as is to happen in June of 1897. It is useless to excuse this and other instances on the ground of monetary stringency reigning at present. Would this occur if there was an educated knowledge and appreciation by the public of what public school gymnastics means to the child? It has always seemed to me that the A. A. A. P. E. should keep a corps of missionaries at work in benighted regions. If we know anything in our little state it is because we have called upon Dr. Hartwell and others to follow the scriptural injunction and “come over into Macedonia and help us.”

Admitting this low standard and appreciation of my topic, there must be a cause. From a knowledge of many of these cases it would seem to me that the whole trouble lies in the fact that so many directors or instructors appear to have acquired a plan or method, I suppose one must say, a “system,” all their own and each is bound, and as the true Yankee would put it “possessed” to fit this system to the child. What was it Dickens said? “With a rule and a pair of scales and the multiplication table (in gymnastic nomenclature synonymous with progression) always in his pocket, Sir, ready to weigh and measure any parcel of human nature and tell you exactly what it comes to.” In other words, his public school gymnastics are purely technical. There seems to reign the thought that a director must have a finely graded plan, pedagogical and physiological, and he is going to put that plan into operation, such an exercise fitting such a grade, such a thing leading up to such a thing, a movement done thus and so, line upon line, precept upon precept, beautiful in its mechanical application, exact in execution and graduation, but losing sight altogether of the poor little child. His plan has been endorsed elsewhere by such a normal school, or by the practitioner in such a town, and all the virtues it should inculcate, mental and physical, can be seen there. Now from this point of procedure the everyday teacher and pupil teacher gets a thoroughly false conception of what public school gymnastics can be. It is simply but another line of study like drawing, which is Browil’s or White’s or someone’s else, beautifully constructed pedagogically and cut and dried to the 8 or D grades, B and A into which the city divides its primary or grammar schools.

Now I may be a heretic, but I do not believe in cast iron graded

Digitized by CjOOQle
-71-

technical gymnastics. I do believe in a plan possessed of great elasticity. How can I believe otherwise when each year I face Italians, Portuguese, French, Canadians, Jewish children, Americans, Irish Americans, Swedish, English, even Armenians and Russians, all these with their different physiques and characteristics? Certainly I must have an aim in my whole teaching and that aim physical integrity, the desire to train the whole body for action. But just as the mental status of children varies and the school of to-day, recognizing this, puts the bright pupils into one room and the dull ones into another, to move more evenly with their fellows, so do I find these little bodies entrusted to my care differ each from the other. Would I be a good physician to say, Here is a drug shop. i. e. text-book, graded and suited to age ; use it, as Lord Dundreary put it, “in sections/’ and fit it ever so nicely to your grades. I must classify my material, the weak, the anaemic, those with physical defects, the strong and robust, and fit the formal steps to the end I have in view.

To particularize.—As I believe in the work in the Providence Public Schools, and the Superintendent and the Committee on Hygiene and Physical Training have endorsed it, I will ask your criticism of some features of our plan. Each September we spend some time in looking over the different rooms and studying the physical and mental classes of the children. We talk with the teachers and get their opinions, and next classify our types. Certain schools may have the Portuguese, whose parents are stevedores. They are very lethargic but always obedient when roused to activity. What these require is not the gospel of gymnastics by sharp command. We begin with games, old fashioned games, “Drop the handkerchief,” “London Bridge,” “Little Sallie Watters,” something to rouse the physical powers to happy and constant action. These powers once awakened, the children talk to us and to. each other, they move freely and are not like dumb, senseless cattle, driven to school because the truant officer is ever before them. They get out of that muscle-bound condition in which we receive them. We have hosts of Italian babies, for they are little better, being entered at 5 years of age and under, crowded into school ignorant of the language, and with anaemic, attenuated physiques. Ill fed they are and not at all like the Portuguese, or study specimens from the Azore Islands. It seemed cruel to shut them up in seats and desks, so we have made transition rooms and chosen teachers specially fitted to deal with these bambinos from the Little Italies of Providence. A transition room is much like a kindergarten with the same furniture. We paint a huge ring in its centre and play our games, mostly by imitation and not of so strong a character as those first named. In studying this type it was found it required exercises to develop mental and physical accuracy and that by appealing to their love of rythm and music we could get much more work and give them much more of the pleasurably recreative than by set exercises involving the use only of small muscles. They are not strong enough until older for real muscular work. These children get fatigued sooner than any other class. They, and the few schools we have where colored pupils predominate, delight in marching, and so we take our first exercises k la kindergarten by drum or piano or even

Digitized by C^ooQle
-72-

clappers, leading up to more definite work later. In certain schools and localities we find the nervous, ill behaved, spoiled child of the middle classes. These are the children who demand the gymnastics inspired by a sense of manly recognition of duty, doing what is at first, perhaps, a disagreeable thing, but doing it because it is right. They must be encouraged to see that self-control and obedience are virtues to gain and take pride in. They are the soldiers in battle, ready for the gymnastics, of quick, prompt attention to words of command. These are the pupils to whom in the older classes in the last half of the year apparatus work is given, not alone to keep up the interest, which, praise all'we will, does die out in any system of free work, but to test the strength, the endurance, and to train the child to go through life armed on all points. Your true boy and girl, big or little, likes playthings, and I look upon apparatus as such from his vision. The scheme includes wands, bells, and the short bar-bell. All the work is performed in the school aisles fifteen minutes a day. A gong strikes at certain hours, doors are thrown open, and each teacher conducts her own lessons. For though I was not at all of that opinion when I entered the work, it has been found that “departmentalism” does not work well in gymnastics (if it does in other things). In mild weather the whole building exercises out of doors. In the apparatus work, or in any work, there is no fine line of gradation. If one room is not equal to one set of exercises and apparatus, it is to another, and that is tried.

Believing with La Grange that children whose brains have already been heavily taxed by mental work are not those to whom difficult exercises are suited, the work is planned, except in the disciplinary schools, from two to three grades below the school mental intelligence of the children in the grammar grades, where the pressure of over-study comes. If a class should seem to lack conception of time, then exercises are given which shall quickly develop that needed quality. For I should say here, as practical, not theoretical, instructors, we try to correlate the physical teaching with all the daily physical acts. We form and dismiss by military tactics. Each room has two captains, a girl and a boy, elected by ballot or chosen by the teacher, for general improvement in gymnastics. These use all the gymnastic terms of dressings and facings, and carry their companies out into the street before dismissal. We are told by the director of music where he finds time and attention below the average, and aim to aid a better state of affairs. Again, if a room is poor in discipline, our attention is called to it, and we work with that teacher and that room to overcome this defect. Each pupil teacher is led to understand that if she cannot gain gymnastic control she will not be retained. She is shown how to use her voice and her own body, and to see the children from the physical side. “I wish you would take my room in hand and help with the walking,” is a constant request, and another, “These children stand very poorly in reading, I wish you would help them improve.” And again, “I have such an awkward, ungainly set of boys; do give me some exercises to see if I can get any grace or poetry of motion into them.” For it is the aim to lead the teachers to see the children from the physical standpoint and to make them know physical defects. They point out to us children who, they

Digitized by

Google
-73-

find, lack physical vigor, who have inherited tendencies to disease, who get little attention in childish ailments, also those who have improper food and live in a poor manner and in unhealthy localities. We have rooms that pledged to me not to drink any more tea three times a day, nor to indulge in Rudyard Kipling’s disgust, the pie-eating habit at breakfast. Sixty percent, drink tea three times a day, seventyfive twice a day, and eightytwo percent, once a day. Of course, these are but homely things, but they are what is causing the deterioration of the race, and it is our business to do what we can to arrest it if we merit the name of physical teachers. Every child is looked over for spinal curvature. Each case is noted and an arrangement made with two specialists, one a physician specially trained for cure of deformities, to receive those cases. Parents are notified and met, and as figures always tell an “over true tale,” I may say that in one district where my assistant found 40 cases, 37 were not known to the parents, and 37 parents were indignant because they were discovered.

We have in Providence eight disciplinary schools and one recently opened for feeble-minded pupils. This is the only one in the country allied with a city school. The teachers have been selected for their peculiar fitness to the physical needs of the pupils. Each has had a course in neurology at Brown University, and a course in psychology and physical training. These schools are all equipped with apparatus and here I feel sure that my belief in an elastic plan will rr eet with your approbation, for fancy what folly it would be to give these two sets of bodies and minds the same class of work. The weak, twitching, uncontrolled bodies of the children in the school for the weak-minded are given the simplest kind of work, first from imitation and with music and never above the limit of their intelligence, while the “bad boys” schools, to use the current phraseology of the children, are worked up to the full limit of their strength, and almost beyond it, because they need to use up that superabundant stock of muscular force which leads them into the ever ready mischief, which with a weakened moral standing has brought them where they are.

You will certainly admit from these illustrations of a plan of public school gymnastics that it is truly broad. Its broadness has, however, always in mind its fitness to the child. With child study, the dominant influence in the educational world to-day, why does not the physical instructor get as far away from his system and make the child the largest object in view ? Why does he not teach principles of exercises, not exercises? How can he help doing this, when he sees how much the children need his care, how wretchedly prepared physically the majority are when thrust into our schools, and how, as La Grange says somewhere, everything aims towards getting on with the brain? This is the father’s point of view, and hence his lack of appreciation of the body training as carried on by some instructors. Can you blame him ?

And this brings me to another side, a still more practical view of the subject of public school work. I believe that every school director has a right to be an inspector of school hygiene. If he is not familiar with the subject, he has no business where he is. He has a right to seat and reseat pupils comfortably and correcty. In every room in Providence
-74-

there have been taken out two rows of seats, and more when demanded-and adjustable furniture put in their places. Each teacher has been shown how to seat pupils according to height and vision. A physical instructor has the right to teach children habits of personal cleanliness, for where ignorance on this point is bliss, is very evident in many school-rooms. You may suggest that is the duty of the parent or teacher. I find many persons who have no right to be parents; they neglect their offspring so dreadfully. Few men would admit exercises in a gymnasium with the air one often finds in school-rooms where is going on what is called a gymnastic lesson, with too much nervous force expended and too little muscular work. Where the children are doing movements, they should be exercising muscles and bubbling over with fun, in clean, fresh air. The gymnastic instructor should call to his aid the city inspector of plumbing, the superintendent and committee upon school property, and I believe he would find, as I have found, they would listen and act upon his suggestions. Only eight states require sanitary regulations, two require proper ventilation, and but one state demands that a certain amount of space be allotted to each person, and with this want of attention to hygienic environment is it any wonder that we often find poor conditions for gymnastic exercises in public schools?

The city of Brooklyn has just taken a step which cannot be too highly praised. The Committee on Studies and Health, in conjunction with the Superintendent of Public Instruction, has issued a pamphlet of directions to teachers and parents concerning the health of children in and out of school. It calls attention to the fact that children need two hours a day in the open air and that they should enjoy at that time games requiring skill and activity; that they should spend at least twenty minutes every day practicing at home the gymnastic exercises learned in school, and then deals with other suggestions as to food, sleep, cigarette smoking, etc. It is the most advanced and yet rational idea put forth. And one more point in which I would go even beyond all those called to your consideration, and which, I have been told, will be criticised as impracticable in a large city. Let me say my assistant and I do not find it so. I believe strongly that to make public school gymnastics of more recognized value we should as teachers know each child. We should make each child know us as a friend, in other words, to be more outwardly sympathetic, more mannerly, and to show it to these children upon whom later we are to depend to carry on this work. The question is not “Do you like your gymnastic work?” but, “Do you like the instructor ?”

We have growing up around us a class of children with but little respect or politeness for age or work. The saving grace of courtesy should be inculcated with the respect for the body, and he who cannot get a glance of pleased recognition from the child in any grade of schoolroom or upon the street, has only, himself to blame when later public and children go against him, his teaching, and its results. He may not be, as I have not been, able to present to you a scientific report, he will, I confess, have fewer hypotheses than many reports that come to us, but he will nevertheless have the satisfaction of knowing that in the

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-75-

broadest sense of the word he is teaching gymnastics for the children and dealing with the practical health questions of the day. He will not be, as too many of us are, fitting a system to the child, but always having before him the improvement of the child, and will, it seems to me, be reaching at results which shall gain the respect and good-will of the community because they are of value.

THE IMPORTANCE OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By J. J. MAAS, Principal, Second District School, Cincinnati, 0.

(Concluded.)

THESE evils the inventors of gymnastics managed to counteract, and, before one can hope to recover the Grecian earth-paradise, our system of public education needs an essential and thorough reform. On earth, at least, moral and physical culture should be as inseparable as mind and body; every town-school should have an in-door and out-door gymnasium; the same carpenter who takes a contract for a dozen rustic school-benches should get an order for a horizontal bar and a couple of jumping-boards; every school-district should appoint a superintendent of gymnastics; every town a committee of public arenas; cities that can afford to devote tax-free tabernacles to Greek mythology might well spare an acre of ground for Grecian athletics.

At a very early period the Greeks of southern Europe and Asia Minor had recognized the truth that, with the advance of civilization and civilized modes of life, a regular system of bodily training must be substituted for the lost opportunities of physical exercise which Nature affords so abundantly to her children in the daily functions of their wild life. “It is impossible to repress luxury by legislation/’ says Solon in Lucian’s Dialogues of Anacharsis, “but its influence may be counteracted by athletic games, which invigorate the body and give a martial character to the amusements of our young men.”

The law of Lycurgus provides free training schools for the thorough physical education of both sexes, and cautions parents against giving their daughters in marriage before they had attained the prescribed degree of proficiency in certain exercises which were less ornamental and probably less popular than what we call calisthenics. Grecian physicians, too, prescribed a course of athletic sports against various complaints, and had invented a special curriculum of gymnastics, which, as Aelian assures us, never failed to cure obesity. When the increase of wealth and culture threatened to affect the manly vigor of the race, physical education was taken in hand by the municipal authorities of almost every Grecian city, and the ablest statesmen of Athens, Thebes and Corinth, emulated the Spartan legislator in founding palestrae, .gymnasia, and international race-courses, and devising measures for popularizing these institutions. The honor of being crowned in the presence of an assembled nation would alone have sufficed to enlist the competition of all able-bodied men of a glory-loving race, but many additional inducements made the Olympic championship the day-dream of youth and manhood, and served to increase the ardor of gymnastic emulation. If any athlete received more than one prize of the same

Digitized by Google
—76-

Olympiad, his victory was commemorated by a statue executed by the best contemporary sculptor of his native state. What a terrestrial Walhalla it must have been, that sacred mountain grove of Elis, where these statues were erected in the shade of majestic trees, while the summit of the hill and the open meadows were adorned by such master-pieces of Grecian architecture as the temple of Jupiter Olympius and the Pantheon of Callicrates.

Egenetus, a humble citizen of Agrigentum, won three prizes out of the five prizes of the ninety-second Olympiad, and was at once raised from poverty to opulence by the magnificent presents which the enthusiasm of the spectators forced upon him before he had left the arena. His return to his native city was attended by a procession of 300 chariots, each drawn, like his own, by two white horses, and all belonging to the citizens of the town.—Our best citizens should emulate their example, and help to eradicate the lingering prejudice against the culture of manly powers.—In the meantime we must help our children the best way we can by giving them plenty of time for out-door exercise, and providing them, according to our means, with some domestic substitutes for gymnastic apparatus, which, I trust, the next generation will find in every village hall and every town school.

“Nur aus vollendeter Kraft strahlet die Anmuth hervor,” as Goethe explains it (The highest grace is the outcome of consummate strength).

I trust that the propaganda of this our noble association, coupled with the indefatigable endeavors of the Tumerbund, will accelerate our aims and ends. What a stimulus it would give to manly sports and manly virtues, nay, to the physical regeneration of the American race, if we could have a yearly tournament as a national festival. The river-meadows of Chattanooga with their hallowed recollection, and the mountain amphitheater near Huntsville, Ala., would make a first class Olympia, and our Indian summer would be a ready “weather truce, without an expensive burnt offering to the sun.”

Olives, it is true, do not flourish in our soil ; our mercenary souls need other inducements ; but the rent of reserved seats and camp tents would enable us to gild the crowns of the several victors. Imagine the athletes of every village training for those prizes—thousands of boy topers turning gymnasts, ward delegates running for something besides office, and the members of Young Men’s Associations seeking paradise on this side of the grave.—“Per aspera ad astra”, and a very important branch of gymnastic education might be included under the head of hard work or voluntary labor. Labor with a practical purpose is not only more visibly useful, but more agreeable than mere crank work at the horizontal bar, and is sometimes advisable to beguile ourselves into a strenuous and long continued physical effort. For what we call vice or evil propensity is often nothing but misdirected energy, vital force exploding in the wrong direction for want of better outlet. The sensible remedy is not to anathematize such energies, but to let our muscular system absorb them by engaging in some entertaining out-door business requiring a good deal of heavy work. In summer time there will be no lack of such jobs; interest your enfant terrible in horiculture; make him transplant shade-trees and dig ditches ; send him to the gravel pit and

Digitized by

Google
-77-

let him fill his wheelbarrow with sand and his pockets with geological specimens. Or enlist his constructiveness ; set him to build a garden wall, and quarry his own building material in the next ravine. During the progress of the good work the hours will vanish magically, and so will the evil propensities.

SPINAL CURVATURES, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE

TO SCOLIOSIS.

By F. PFISTER, M. D., Lecturer on Orthopedic Surgery in the Milwaukee Medical College.

BETWEEN the pelvis, or what we usually call the hip-bone, and the head we notice the back-bone or the spinal column, — a chain of bones.

These bones, called the vertebrae, are piled on top of each other and held together by ligaments. They differ considerably in shape but have in common a strong piece in front, called the body, from this going to the two sides lateral processes, which in the region of the chest are connected with the ribs and from these, sidepieces going towards the back and meeting there the posterior or spinous processes or the bones that we feel pointing on our back.

In the center we have a hollow, which extends through the entire column and serves as a canal for the spinal cord. These front, back, and the two side parts are in contact with the same points of the bones above and below, and consequently have to carry the weight of everything that is above them.

The anterior points of support are by far stronger than the posterior ones. The spinal column has two offices to fulfill; in the first place, it must serve as the main pillar for the trunk and head, and in the second place, it forms a protective cavity for the spinal cord.

The ligaments holding together the bones of the spinal column are more or less elastic, whereby the column gains flexibility in all directions. The entire weight of the head and trunk, inclusive of contents and upper extremities, rests upon this pillar ; we have no other support for them. This means that, for instance, about half of the body-weight rests on each of the lower vertebrae.

The center of gravity for the head is situated in a perpendicular line passing down near the center of the cervical vertebrae, the center of gravity of the trunk and arms in a line passing in front of the column. The weight of the upper part of the body is not equally distributed over all the points of support of the vertebra^. In fact the bodies or front pieces ot the vertebrae have to carry most of the weight.

In the dorsal or chest region the ribs transmit a part of the weight to the transverse processes, nevertheless the tendency for the trunk is to drop forward, or become flexed anteriorly. Now Nature, under normal conditions, has provided for a sufficiently strong counteraction in the form of a powerful set of muscles investing the posterior side of the spinal column, that is, the two sides of the spinous processes, which is well able to hold the trunk erect and even bend it backward with considerable strength.

Digitized by kjOOQle
-78-

If these back muscles are made to act more strongly on one side of the spinous processes, they produce, with the aid of other muscles of that side, a lateral flexion, a bending sideways. Flexion forward is produced through the front muscles of the neck and the abdominal muscles drawing down the ribs and the sternum.

We can therefore bend forward, sideward, and backward. If the different muscles on either side are strong enough to counterbalance those on the other side, the trunk is held in an upright position.

It is unnecessary to say that the majority of the other muscles on the trunk assist those special muscles in their respective action.

The distribution of the weight of the different parts of the body favors the formation of a curve, called the normal or physiological curve. This curve, however, never inclines to one of the two lateral sides, and consequently every sideward curve, if ever so slight, is something abnormal. Any forward or backward curve that goes beyond the normal bend is abnormal or pathological, too.

The pathological curvatures may conveniently be classified according to the deviation of the curve from the normal or according to the cause producing them.

The direction of the curve can be :

1.	Backward (kyphosis), as in Pott’s disease, in rickets, and in all those conditions where the spinal muscles of the back are weakened, as in old age, idiocy, habit, etc.

2.	Sideward (scoliosis), as from all causes which favor the spinal muscles of one side to the detriment of their opponents (true scoliosis), and from a change of shape in the vertebrae and ribs, in unilateral thoracic effusion, etc.

3.	Forward (lordosis). Occuring mostly in the lower part of the back (lumbar region) and may be due to complete or partial paralysis of the back muscles (as in some forms of paralysis).

Whenever an abnormal spinal curve is of long standing or of chronic development, usually a secondary or compensatory curve is being formed, which, of course, is directed to the opposite side ; we may even see a third curve, the terminal curves then forming in the same directions. A complication of affairs is often present, viz.: Kypho-scoliosis, kypho-lordosis, or, in addition to scoliosis, rotation of the spine; in the latter case the ribs are pulled out of shape.

Bony changes may be cause or result; the same can be said of changes in muscular development. For the sake of brevity let me leave out of this discussion spinal curvatures resulting from Pott’s disease or other destructive diseases, and also from rickets and paralytic conditions, and direct your attention only to scoliosis, or the true sideward curvature.

The fact that about 95 per cent, of the patients suffering from sideward curvatures have their curve to the right, has formerly been, and still is to-day, held to originate from the pre-eminent use made of the right side of the body ; that is to say, that the right side becomes stronger from greater use and draws the spinal column towards it. This sounds plausible enough, although it is entirely incorrect ; in point



Digitized by taOOQle
—7‘J-

of fact exactly the opposite is true' We must well distinguish between the muscles of the arm and of the shoulder, which take little part in keeping the spine erect, and those which keep the spine upright.

If a burden is carried hanging down the back, the m uscles of the opposed side of the body, i. e., the anterior, will have to counterbalance that weight; if a weight is carried in the hands in front of the body, the muscles of the back are applied to compensate for the strain forward. And so likewise, if a weight (a satchel full of school books, etc.) is constantly carried on the right arm, the spinal muscles of the left side are exercised in a corresponding manner, and consequently their development will be rather stronger. In order to bring the center of gravity into a line passing vertically between the feet as it ought to, a bending of the trunk sideward to the left is necessary, whereby the spinal muscles on the left undergo contraction, while those on the right side become lengthened and stretched. Any muscle which in such a way is being shortened has a better chance for development; on the other hand the one put on the stretch will suffer in nutrition. Thus in a debilitated child with a poor muscular development, or in a stout girl with an abundance of fat but a lack of muscle, a slight tendency to incline to one side mav be occasioned by a defect in standing or sitting such as we find in the schools, or by a habit of carrying books, etc., on one side only, and will be enough to gradually bring about a permanent change in the muscles, the ligaments, and the bones. This unequal development of the spinal muscles is, in most cases, allowed to go on for an indefinite time, since very few of them are detected and corrected at the beginning. We have still another fact in evidence to prove that the side opposite the curve is the stronger. In the latter, or third, stage of the disease, we notice in addition to the curve, a rotation of the spine. If the stronger shoulder were merely pulling the spine over to its side, the spinous processes, i. e. the parts towards the back, to which the muscles of the shoulder are in part attached, would be the first to follow this pull; the spinous processes would point therefore to the respective shoulder, but we find that this is not so. They are directed to the opposite, the concave side. In established scoliosis I would always first look out for a disturbance in the equal development of

Digitized by v^ooQle
—80—

the muscles of the back, and from this take advice in regard to treatment. That scoliosis is largely dependent upon poor and unequal muscular development, is amply proved further by the fact that it occurs mainly in girls (5 girls to 1 boy), and at the age when the growth of the bones runs far ahead of that of the muscles. The corset is indeed the prime factor in the history of this disease, because it tends to take upon itself the work of the muscles of the trunk, which from disuse will waste. Corsets worn in a family through generations will weaken the backs of the wearers considerably, and to this fact we must look for the cause of so many weak backs and the backaches.

Scoliosis is unknown to the savage woman; it is entirely a product of civilization!

We can divide the course of scoliosis into three stages:

A.	The first, where extension or recumbent position corrects the deformity as long as the remedy is kept up.

B.	The second stage where this is not possible and where a second curve already manifests itself.

C.	The third, where in addition to lateral curvature rotation of the spine has taken place, and where the ribs are bulging out on one and sinking in on the other side.

Now we come to the treatment.

It would perhaps be well first to say something in regard to preventive measures. I will content myself saying that reforms in dress and in attitude during school life will have to come soon ; otherwise physical deterioration for generations will produce a great number of cripples. Usually the disease, if it may be called so, progress until growth is established, but may occasionally be arrested spontaneously. Authorities, especially those from the other side of the ocean, claim that a cure is only possible under proper treatment. The treatment must be directed in accord with the stage of the disease. In the first stage the outlook is very good, the subjects straighten up under systematic treatment. It is usually only necessary to develop the whole muscular system by active gymnastic work and to strengthen the muscles affected through a course of special exercise and with the aid of the faradic current and massage, when obtainable, while at the same time the spine must undergo forcible over-correction.

A course of a three or four months’ treatment is usually sufficient.

In the second stage redressment—that is forcible over-correction— plays an important role; in other respects the treatment is the same as that of the first stage, but must last longer; it seldom effects a complete cure; although much improvement and the prevention of an aggravated condition can be promised. Corsets or mechanical appliances, as braces, etc., will, in the first stage, only do harm instead of good, but in the second they may be of benefit when removable, s.o as not to interfere with treatment. In the third stage, that of rotation and deformity of the ribs and, very often, severe neuralgic pains, the treatment, of course, does not promise so much.

A properly fitted and specially made brace or felt-corset will be of much benefit here, but should be constructed so that it can easily be taken off several times a day when “redressments” and medical gym-

Digitized by

Google
-81-

nastics (as in the first two stages) with massage treatment, etc., should be carried out.

I am at present, at the suggestion of Miss Shrieves, treating a few patients with scoliosis this way at the Milwaukee State Normal School— several of them fairly well advanced toward the third stage. The improvement in all of them has been very satisfactory. Each patient, before beginning treatment, is photographed. It is best to apply for this purpose an apparatus consisting of a wooden frame upon which cords are fastened vertically and horizontally two inches apart, leaving open squares of two inches against the back of the patients and to mark the bony prominences, viz., spinous processes, lower angle of shoulder blades, crests of the ilii, etc., with black chalk, and take the picture.

An}^ deviation is thus clearly shown and in each succeeding test one can easily demonstrate the improvement.

Only comparatively recently did we succeed in understanding the true cause of this form of spinal curvature and it is onl}' very recently that a system for the proper treatment was originated and cures effected. To-dav we still find a number of physicians sending the patient to the bracemaker’ irrespective of the stage of the disease and without advising at the same time also other treatment.

In conclusion I would like to say, that the most important thing in connection with this subject seems to be the prevention and timely detection of such deformities. How many mothers do ever examine the back of their children ? Should not school-authorities provide for medical examinations of the pupils and furnish a sufficiency of the best known preventive—namely “Physical Training?"

BOOK REVIEW.

—“Outing” for Tune devotes much space to the wheel. “The Wheelman’s Faery Queen,” by Chas. Turner; “Wheeling in the Mikado’s Land,” by T. Phillip Terry; “Intercollegiate Cycling Championships,” by D. Hines; “Across the Alleghanies Awheel,” by Jno. B. Carrington, and “A Bicycle Factory,” will appeal to all lovers of the silent steed. Other notable features of a finely illustrated number include a valuable paper on “Bass and Bass Fishing,” by Ed. W. Sandys; “Champion Canoes of To-Day,” by R. B. Burchard ; “Inter-University Rowing,” by Chase Mellen, and “Driving Four-in-Hand,” by A. H. Godfrey.

—Practical Training for Athletes’ Health and Pleasure, by Randolph Faries, A. M., M. D. Published by The Outing Publishing Co., New York, London.— Although originally written for the Athlete, this handsomely illustrated book is extremely interesting and of much broader interest than the title would suggest. Especially the chapters of the first part, viz., Exercise in General, Stiffness and its Treatment, Bathing, Rubbing, Diet, Sleep, Habits, Fatigue, Overwork, Injuries, The Skin, Training in General and Running in General are treated in a most modem and scientific manner and ought to be read by every teacher in gymnastics and every gymnast. The second part goes into details in regard to training for the different sports. Dr. Faries deserves credit for the standpoint he takes and the sentiments he emphasizes. There are a few points, however, with which we do not quite agree. For instance, he explains the wellknown “stitch in the side” due to a slight muscular spasm, or nervous change produced by an excessive amount of carbonic acid gas accumulating in a localized part of the body, etc.—We believe with Prof. .Du Bois-Ravmond, that it is nothing but a colic, produced by intestinal gases and during violent exercise accumulating in either the hepatic or splenic flexure of the colon; hence the great importance of perfect digestion. We cannot but highly recommend “Practical Training.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
MlSP ftND BODY. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

a^ll-wot-uJc©©, 'Wlacoaajeiaa..

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. £)., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

AN INVITATION

TO THE

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN OF THE N. E. A. CONVENTION.

THE North American Gymnastic Union (Turnerbund) takes pleasure in inviting all ladies and gentlemen of the Convention to visit its Normal School of Gymnastics, 558—568 Broadway in this city. It is the only Normal School of the Turnerbund. Over 200 graduates are distributed all over the country and are employed in societies, public schools, and colleges.

The Board of Directors has set apart Saturday, July 10, from 9 to 12 A. M., as a special time for visitors.

Classes will be at work.

Respectfully,

Geo. Brosius, Director.

To the National Educational Association

We bid with this issue of Mind and Body our heartiest welcome to the city of Milwaukee. Scarcely any other of the various meetings of national import hitherto held in this city by bodies of professional men and women have had such importance in regard to the general physical and mental welfare of the nation as has that which is to take place next month. It is the charge of the education of our heirs and successors that imparts to this body of representative educators their especial significance, for the child is the father of the man, as an old adage has it. And with this view any measure proposed for the betterment of the mental and physical education of the youth of this country is sure to bring out at some future day equivalent benefits to the next generation of adults.

Mind and Body is not directly a representative organ for the improvement of mental education; this branch is represented by a vast number of school journals, teachers’ gazettes, etc., and other professional and juvenile magazines. It applies itself especially to the furtherance of physical education, but indirectly our aspirations are also useful and subservient to the mental culture of the young generation.

Seneca’s saying that in a sound body only can exist a sound mind has never been contradicted yet by experience in the history of the world.

Digitized by U.ooQLe
-83-

And as the interdependence of mind and body is not a mere dogma nor a fact qualifiedly admitted only within national or racial or sectarian limits, it behooves us to congratulate the beautiful city of Milwaukee upon the present occasion when thousands and thousands of teachers from all parts of the country come to assemble here for the best the world can give the heirs of our labors, of our struggles, aspirations and honest ripened thoughts. The results of this meeting are sure to bring forth a thousandfold fruit both in the ranks of the present and future school population.

The child is the father of the man. A physically and mentally well educated and normally developed child will in due time become a physically and mentally well balanced man or woman and the progenitor of equally fortunate children.

Since the days of Plato for a period of over 2000 years through all the rises and falls of nations and dynasties in Europe it has been claimed that the body is nothing and mind is everything. We are past this period of overestimation of one manifestation of human life over the other. The men of science, and with them the civilized races of mankind in general, are awakened to the actual relation of mind and body and vice-versa.

We have come to see that mind and its various faculties are not entities at all, but manifestations of nerve force, that vanish or degenerate in the moment that the organs through which they are produced are arrested or become changed trough physical interference of some kind. This great truth has dawned upon the world and the wise and educated endeavor to correct their former false misapprehension of the mutual relation of organs and their functions.

In conformance with this discovery of the unity of mind and body and in the just appreciation of the possibilities arising from the correction of former erroneous conceptions in reference to it, the Nat. Ed. Association has resolved at the Annual Meeting in Denver two years ago, that among the various departments of its working organism there scould be established also a department of physical education. The papers and reports submitted by the officers of this department will no doubt attract appropriate attention and receive their deserved appreciation. While the time and attention devoted to the other branches of the regular school curriculum is to be undervalued in no way, still we insist, that there is at the present time no other subject worthy of so much time and deliberation on the part of our esteemed visitors as is the subject of physical education.

Wherever well conducted systematic physical education has gained entrance in the schoolroom, from the lowest grade of the primary department to the highest of college and university, it has been universally appreciated as an aid in the creation and maintenance of genuine discipline, of mental alertness, of aesthetical bearing in all, and che-valeresque conduct of the sexes toward one another.

But this is not all; its range of efficiency is constantly and gradualty being extended:	physical	education	has	been	introduced	in	the	schools

of the blind, of the deaf; it has flushed the cheeks and gladdened the hearts of thousands of these otherwise unfortunates. It has I

Digitized by CjOOQle
-84-

in the reform schools for the correction of the degenerate, and the authorities are enthused over the blessing that spread over their wards from the effects of physical education.

One step further and we may in a couple of years listen to the rapturous reports of the wardens of penal and charitable institutions for the adults. Read the Penitentary Reports of Elmira, N. Y., and you will be amazed of the perspective opening itself at the introduction of ph}'s-ical education in all kinds of institutions.

But the main aspect of this branch of education lies not so much in its usefulness as a curative agent in cases of degeneracy; its principal value is centered in its prophylactic side and in the formation of a healthful and strong activity of the present and future adults as men and women in their social, civil, and individual capacities.

Where one system of gymnastics is introduced and practiced, it should be conducted to a finish or until the superiority of some other system has become manifest. None of them should be dropped, and physical education be nowhere stricken entirely from the curriculum, simply because it does not give perfect results, without giving place to some other better or improved system.

But when we come to advise before the introduction of any of the various systems in any of the schools of the country we would suggest to the authorities first to compare the results and the aims of the several systems. And here we dare say with some authority that for the education of children in the common or public school at large the German system deserves the first consideration before any other for reasons pointed out times and again. From among many we will quote only these: that it is easily adapted to every school age, and to either sex or both sexes; that it does not at all necessitate the use of apparatus of any kind; that it transforms work into pleasure; that it improves vital energy ; that it developes strength and combines it with grace and that in correcting the carriage it prevents pathological deformities.

Still with malice toward none and with love for all systems of gymnastics we shall, in disinterested cordiality and with the generous enthusiasm of true patriots for the common best of all, put our shoulder to the wheel and help to push the waggon of physical education along on the highroad to the best and most enduring welfare of this great and noble nation.

Once more, we bid the heartiest of welcomes to all of our collaborators in the field of education, and would bespeak their kind sympathy and harmonious co-operation in the upbuilding of the character, health, and intelligence of the American people.

©ontmittiM? for	of	tb®	Hovtb 3Unet*ic»*«

has addressed the superintendents of schools of all the cities of the U. S. containing over 4,000 inhabitants, also all the principals of public and private high schools, of academies, colleges, universities, and other secondary and scientific institutions as well as the executive officers of all educational charitable institutions in regard to the extent to which physical education has been cultivated in their several departments. The number of authorities thus addres-

Digitized by Google
-85-

sed amounts to over ten thousand. Already a great many answers have been received by the committee, some of intense interest.

We would direct the attention of our readers to this attempt of the N. A. G. U. to gather statistics in this line and request those who are in any wajr interested in the matter to remind the authorities addressed and especially those who have not as yet returned their statistical information to us, to do so at the •earliest opportunity as the results will be summarized and published.

Mind and Body will reprint this report as soon as feasible.

The committee wishes to express their thanks to all those that have complied with their request.

CAN ON-ROUNDEL.

(See “Mind and Body,” Vol. II, page 227.)

By W. A. OCKER, M. D., Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.

THE following “Reigen” or roundel was executed by 228 pupils of the High Schools of Cincinnati at their “Semi-Centennial Celebration” on the 3th and 4th of June 1897.

The song is written in the three-fourth (%) measure and has twelve (12) measures, hence thirty-six (36) counts. These thirty-six (36) counts are divided into three (3) divisions separated by the sign §.

The participants are also divided into three (3) divisions and designated as the first, second and third column respectively. Each column consists* of two rows numbered one (1) and two (2) respectively. Number one (No. 1) standing on the right side begins all exercises or movements with the right foot, whereas number two (No. 2) standing on the left begins with the left foot.

All pupils begin and execute the roundel simultaneously; then the first column begins, after twelve (12) counts the second, and after the next twelve (12) the third column begins the roundel, each column executing the evolutions irrespective of the other until the “Reigen” is completed. As this roundel is very short it is advisable to repeat it.

			>r~	— 3r.—r	li.v -f
—k  (J			—IT	—Z±=±=

The songs are re-sound-ing*for spring is ap-proach-ing, the

Hfc-

■r K * rk

shep - herd is flut - ing a love - Iv sweet psalm. La

f	si

la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la

la.

Digitized by

Google
-86-

EVOLUTIONS FOR ROUNDEL.

Number 1 and 2, standing side by side, grasp the inner hands (left hand of No. 1, and the right of No. 2) and hold same at height of shoulders, whereas the outer hands are placed on hips—during the first twelve (12) counts. (In the following I will describe the exercise or movements of No. 1. No. 2 executes same movements, but in opposite direction, i. e. everytime that No. 1 steps or turns right, No. 2 steps or turns to the left.)

1.	Step sideways (outward) right.

2.	Cross-step left in front (place left foot about twelve [12] inches In front of right), place entire weight of body on left foot, incline body slightly forward and raise right foot about two (2) inches from the floor.

3.	Return, i. e. lower right foot and transfer weight of body to right foot again.

4.	Step sideways left.

5.	Cross-step right in front, place weight of body on right foot, incline body forward and raise left foot.

6.	Return, lowering left foot, etc.

Note.—On sixth (6) count let No. 1 and 2 execute an eighth of a turn toward each other.

7—12. Repeat movements 1 to 6.

* *

*

13.	Step sideways (outward) right.

14.	Cross-step left in front (this cross-step is directly sideways, the feet being parallel) and execute one half turn (right about) on ball of both feet (raise heels while turning, but do not move or raise toes from the floor).

15.	Continue the turn (now a complete turn and hence pupil faces forward again, limbs are crossed, but the right is in front).

16.	Step sideways right.

17.	Cross-step left in front, weight of body on left foot, incline body forward and raise right foot. Also for this count (17) raise arms to a circle over head.

18.	Lower right foot, grasp hands in rear again, transfer weight etc. (The 16th, 17th and 18th counts are the same as the 1st,2nd and 3rd).

19.	—24. Counter-movements to 13th to 48th counts.

Note.—From 13th to 18th count the movements carry No. 1 and 2 away from each other, while from 19th to 24th they close order. Thus on the 24th count No. 1 and 2 meet, hence each is to execute a quarter turn inward, i. e. No. 1 faces left, No. 2 faces right. Then all No. 1 join hands and hold same to height of shoulders, and all No. 2 do likewise.

25, 26, 27. Three hops sideways right (step outward or sideways right and follow left at same count).

28, 29, 30. Repeat 1st, 2nd and 3rd count.

31, 32, 33. Three hops sideways left.

34, 35, 36. Repeat 4th, 5th and 6th count.

On No. 36 all face forward when the roundel may be begun anew.



Digitized by c^ooQle
-87-

FIELD-DAY AT THE CHICAGO NORMAL.

By SARAH PICKINGTON.

THE campus of the Chicago Normal School presented a most pleasing sight on May 26th, the day set apart by Mr. Kroh, director of physical training, as the climax of the work of his department for the year. The day was perfect and a good brass-band lent much vim to the occasion.

The exercises opened with a brief program in the assembly hall of the school, after which the five hundred training teachers and six hundred pupils of the practice school took up the line of march, making their way to that part of the campus which lies northwest of the school. Here various free-standing movements, games, and exercises with hand apparatus were directed by Mr. Kroh; at one time the whole body, pupils and teachers, moving simultaneously in trunk and arm exercises. A maze formed of teachers and pupils through which raced the few gentlemen of the training class, each with a small boy on his shoulders, afforded much amusement.

The next move was toward the out-door gymnasium, built by members of the school, where higher grades did some heavier work on the bars, ropes, ladders, etc.

Racing on the driveways in the park was an interesting feature, watched with much eagerness by visitors. The last event of the forenoon was the grand parade before the reviewing stand, which was occupied by the faculty, several members of the city school board and friends. The afternoon was given up to bicycle racing and a ball-game between the gentlemen of the training class and a picked nine from the seventh and eighth grades.

The day was a great success, an openness of spirit everywhere existant. This is an example of that interest which the Chicago Normal School takes in the development of the physical side; and it might will be copied by every school.

A FEW QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION.

By E H. ARNOLD, M. D.

AT the annual meeting of the Connecticut District of the A. A. A. P. E.y held at Bridgeport, April 10, some of the utterances of the speakers were very significant, if one is to judge by them the direction in which gymnastic thought is tending.

Dr. Deane, the Superintendent of Public Schools of Bridgeport, discussing the value of different kinds of gymnastic exercises as compared with games and plays, said, as nearly as I can remember: “It seems to me that exercises which employ the body as a whole are far superior to a scheme of exercises which does not treat the body as a unit, tears it apart so to speak.’’ Whether or not Dr. Deane was aware that by this remark he severely criticised the system of gymnastics said to be introduced into the schools of Bridgeport, viz., “Swedish gymnastics.’’ I do not know, but that his critique applies mainly to these gymnastics, is plain to everyone who knows on what reasons a Swedish day’s order

Digitized by v^ooQle
-88-

is built up. His remark is so much the more interesting as it seems that it has been necessary in the schools of Bridgeport to supplement the exercises characterized by the deficiency* above stated by exercises not manifesting such a defect. For of the classes of the public school performing at the exhibition the first and eigth grades rendered exercises which were by no means Swedish.

At the New York Meeting of the A. A. A. P. E. I attempted to show the fallacy of a scheme of gymnastics based on measurements of the body, and asked that general strength tests should replace these measurements. I had no idea that among my consorts there should be even leaders of the anthropometrjc school. I also expressed my doubts on the accuracy of the strength tests as taken with Kellogg’s dynamometer. At a recent meeting of the New Haven Branch of the A. A. A. P. E. Dr. Seaver explained a new dynamometer by Dr. Luther Gulick, and a lively discussion over the value of such tests and their utility for teaching gymnastics took place. Much to my delight I found so able an exponent of Swedish gymnastics as Mr. Bolin siding with me, both of us denying the scientific and practical value of such devices, tests, and exercises regulated thereb}\

At Bridgeport Dr. Gulick himself was to explain the working and use of his instrument, and I anticipated a rather more lively time than we had experienced at New Haven. I was agreeably disappointed, however, when Dr. Gulick stated that he claimed no scientific accuracy for his instrument, did not intend that the tests thereby gotten should serve as a guide for prescribing specific exercises, but simply desired by tests and measurements to arouse in the men so measured and tested an interest in their own bodies. That is so complete a surrender as though there never had been war. A much more sweeping statement was made by Dr. Seaver, who at New Haven had fought so gallantly for dynamometers and charts, but had refrained from saying anything about the exercises to be chosen in consequence of such tests. He boldly came forward and declared that certainly there had been a great deal of misuse of developing exercises and developing apparatus. He gave it as his opinion that this faulty idea of developmental exercises and appliances should never have attained the present importance and dimensions, and would not have lived so long, had it not been for some manufacturers who wished to increase the sale of their developing machines and thereby kept the idea alive.

This statement of Dr. Seaver must be comforting to the directors of gymnasia fitted up at great expense with finger, wrist, elbow, etc., machines. Verily, the world moves. The late Baron Posse one day gave it out as his opinion that within a decade every gymnasium in the United States would look Swedish, more or less. The decade is nearly gone by, the change has not taken place ; but I predict that if our gymnastic friends keep on they will be talking German in a much shorter time.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

“\ 0

Digitized by
-89-

SCHOOL	GYMNASTICS.—SIDE HORSE.

(Chicago Normal School Envelope.)

APPARATUS.—Four, or more, side-horses, (pommels) chest height, on a line ; necks, left, croups right.

An equal number of spring-boards (class-side), highest edges on a line with the body of the horse.

Ditto mats, inner or nearest edges on a line with the bodies of the horses (off-side).

CLASS FORMATION.—Files of six or ten pupils each, aligned in front of and facing the horses in flank order (pupils behind each other), files at a distance from and behind the spring-boards; or, on the neck-side of the horses in front order (pupils next each other, facing the starting line), left flank of files at a distance of from 4 to 6 feet from the apparatus.

MARCHING ORDER.—Pupils leave head of files when approaching apparatus and return to rear of files upon leaving same, observing proper distance, files moving a step forward with each succession— when standing in flank order. Or, pupils leave front of files and return the shortest way, passing rear of files—when standing in front order.

The first or head pupils of files advance and take fundamental standing position on the spring-boards, facing saddles, upon the command ‘march!’ To command ‘grasp!’ hands are placed on the pommels, arms extended, body poised on tip-toe (heels together)—ERECT; to command ‘sink!’ or‘bend!’ the body is lowered to deep knee-bending position, knees turned outward in the direction of the feet, arms extended, trunk erect; to command ‘up!’ (when needed) the pupils spring lightly upward to front stem-support position—body resting lightly against the horse, legs and feet extended and closed. The respective exercises are now executed either to commands, as ‘mount!’, ‘off!’ or ‘over !’, or they are executed to ‘counts/ as ‘begin—1, 2, 3, 4 !’ They are repeated a number of times, if practical^ due attention being given to uniformity of execution. Upon the command ‘position! march1’ the pupils—after alighting to deep knee bending, quickly resume the first position and return to their places in step (to the rear, passing either left or right side of files, as ordered), the next pupils in order leaving their places at the same time—files in the mean time advancing a step. (Active chests must be maintained throughout all stem-support and stride-sitting positions, also during vaults—arms straight, or nearly so ; shoulders turned back.)

All exercises should be shown in an exemplary way before pupils are commanded to execute them.

Special care is advised to secure a faultless standing or starting position in the beginning—active chests, proper poise of heads, etc.; proper distance from saddle ; shoulders, and heels on a line.

Exercises are executed to the exclusion of all movements not included in the command.

All leg-swinging, as well as vaulting exercises are executed with legs and feet fully extended.

I.

1.	Raise, or swing left and right leg sideward alternately (height of horse— begin! 1-4. (Position! March!)

2.	Raise, or swing left and ri^ht leg backward alternately ! — begin !	1	—	4.

3.	Swing left and right leg forward alternately, (height of horse), turning right

and left flank toward hoDe—begin !	1—4.

4 Swing right and left leg forward alternately, turning right and left flank toward horse * begin! 1-4.

5. Swing left and right leg \ a kward alternately, turning right and left flank toward horse —begin !	1-4.

7 —T2. Repeat exercises from the deep knee bending portion as springing exercises.	(.Pupils alight to deep knee bending position between repetitions.)

II.

1.	Place left and light leg (foot) on neck and croup alternately— begin ! r — 4.

2 Swing legs outward (sideward) side stride movement - begin !	1-2.

3.	Swing left leg forward and right leg backward (simultaneously) turning right fl;ink toward hi rse — begin!	1—2.

4 Swing right leg forward and left leg backward, turning left flank toward horse —begin !	1—2

5.	Swing right leg forward and lelt leg backward, turning right flank toward h .rse—begin! 1—2.

6.	Swing left leg forward and right leg backward, turning left flank toward horse-begin! 1-2.

7 — 12. Repeat exercises from deep knee bending position as springing exercises.	(To	be	concluded	)

Digitized by U.ooQle
-90-

GAMES FOR GIRLS.

By W. C. SCHAEFER.

VII.

D) GAMES WITH STAVES.

36.	STAFF WRESTLING.

The staves for this should be about 1*4 inches thick and about 20 inches long. One staff is enough for about twelve players, but if the number be greater it is preferable to use more. The players form in a circle with a leader in the center. The leader summons two players who step into the circle. They are then given the staff, for the possession of which they struggle until one of them wins it. A new pair is now summoned. This is continued until all have had their turn. The winners of the different contests then repeat the work until tHe final winner is reached.

37.	RING WRESTLING.

This differs from the preceding only in the use of rings instead of staves.

E) GAMES WITH CASTING APPARATUS.

aa) With Use of Disk.

38.	DAY AND NIGHT.

The players are divided into two parties, formed in two lines, back to back, about three paces apart, as shown in cut.

GOAL.

DAY.

NIGHT.

X LEADER.

GOAL.

One of the lines is named the <ydav party,” the other the ‘‘night party.” The leader has a disk painted black on one side and white on the other. (A coin may be used in place of the disk.) In front of each party, at a distance of about fifteen paces, is a goal. The leader throws the disk into the air. If the white side is up when the disk has alighted, she cries out, Day. The day party then rushes toward its goal and the night party pursues, catching as many members of the day party as possible. These they take back to their own goal. The captured members are now out of the game. The sides now change, the disk is thrown again, and the party whose side turns up starts up as before. The game is continued in this way until all the players on one of the sides are out. This closes the game.

Digitized by Google
-91-

INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES.

By W. A. OCK.ER, M. D., Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

EXPLANATION :—AH swings begin from the starting position in which the arms are bent to an acute angle, the elbows pointing downward and held slightly away from body, hands the height of chin and as far apart as shoulders are wide. The clubs, grasped at the head and neck, are to be held vertically so that they form the continuation of the forearm.

In executing an arm-circle straighten the arm upwards and then swing a complete circle outward or inward, as the case may be, before returning to the starting position. The straightening upward and the swing constitute the first c*>unt, the return to the starting position, the second.

PRELIMINARY SWINGS,

i.	Armcircle outward right ( ‘outward” signifies the direction, “right” the arm, hence this is an armcircle with the right arm to be swung to the right) and return to starting position in two counts. Begin — i, 2.	1,	halt.

2.	Armcircle outward left: two counts.

3.	Armcircle inward right; two counts.

4.	Armcircle inward left; two counts.

5.	Armcircle outward, right and left alternately ; four counts.

6.	Armcircle inward, right and left alternately; four counts.

7.	Armcircle outward right, and inward left alternately; four counts.

8.	Armcircle outward left and inward right alternately; four counts.

9.	Double armcircle outward (both arms swing outward simultaneously);

two counts.

10.	Double armcircle inward ; two counts.

11.	Double armcircle to the right (right arm executes circle outward, the left swings inward simultaneously); two counts.

12.	Double armcircle to the left; two counts.

Exercises 1 -12 with touch step (dot step or step positions) outward right, left or right and left alternately.

(Step on the first count and return to fundamental position, i. e. lock heels, on second count).

Exercices 1 —12 with lunging outwards, right, left or right and left alternately.

Exercises 1 -12 with bent knee step positions.	(To	be concluded).

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE MILWAUKEE PUBLIC

SCHOOLS.

THE city of Milwaukee is a little short of funds. Where will they save? Of course, in the department of education ; it would be least noticed there. The new school board was told to be more economical and complied with the request by doing away with the special teachers of physical training, drawing, and singing.

We predict that such measures will produce a crippled school system and the thousands of teachers who come from all parts of the country will, no doubt, agree with us on this pv>int.

But we must not expect much:	A	resolution	in	favor of “corporal

punishment’’ was passed at the last meeting of this school board.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-92-

The Program of the Department of Physical Training of the N. E. A„ Meeting, Milwaukee, July 1897.

Miss R. ANNA MORRIS, President, Cleveland, O.

J. N. WILKINSON, Vice-President, Emporia, Kan.

H. B. BOICE, Secretary, Trenton, N. J.

Thursday, July 8.

1.	Opening Exercises—Invocation. Music Short Address by the President.

2.	Paper—“The Development of the Will through Physical Training.” By Dr. Wm. 0. Krohn, University of Illinois, Champaign, 111.

3.	Paper—“Delsarte and His Contributions to Physical Education.” By Mrs. Frank Stuart Parker, Chicago Normal School.

Discussion opened by Mrs. Anna P. Tucker, School of Expression, Cleveland, 0.

4.	Paper—“The German System of Physical Training.” B}r Professor Carl Kroh, Director Physical Training, Chicago Normal School.

Discussion by Dr. E. H. Arnold, Instructor of Plu’sical Training, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

5.	Exhibition of Gymnastics. By Classes of the Normal School of the North American Turner Bund, Milwaukee, Wis.

Friday, July 9.

1.	Normal School Class in Swedish Exercises. Directed by Miss E. W. Shrieves, Teacher of Physical Training, State Normal School, Milwaukee, Wis.

2.	Paper—“Elementary Principles of School Hygiene.” By Superintendent Aaron Gove, Denver, Col.

3.	Paper—“Normal School Plan of Introducing Ph\rsical Training into the Public Schools.” By Dr. J. M. Green, Principal State Normal School, Trenton, N. J. Discussion by Mrs. Erancis W. Leiter, Superintendent Physical Culture National W. C. T. U., Mansfield, 0.

4.	Symposium on Physical Training in the Public Schools. By Supervisors of the work in various cities. Miss Nettie D. Kimberlin, Detroit, Mich.; Miss Rebecca Stoneroad, Washington, D. C.; Miss Jessie H. Bancroft, Brooklyn, N. Y.: Mr. Henry Suder, Chicago, III.; Miss Ellen EeGarde, Providence, R. I.; Miss Clara G. Baer, New Orleans, La.; Miss Ada E. Thayer, Syracuse, N. Y.; Mr. George Wittich. St. Louis, Mo. Each speaker will give a brief outline of method, including plan of administration, theme, and aim of work, gradation of exercises as to the use of free-hand and apparatus work, attention to hygiene, employment of games. (Speeches limited to six minutes each, followed by general discussion.)

5.	Paper—“Physical Training in the Colleges.” By Dr. F. E. Leonard, Director Men’s Gymnasium, Oberlin College, 0.

6.	Question Box. Conducted by Prof. J. N. Wilkinson, State Normal School, Emporia, Kans.

The Normal School of Gymnastics of the North American Turner Bund and the Milwaukee Turn-Societies will give an extra exhibition of German Gymnastics Wednesday, July 7th, 3 o’clock in the afternoon. The following is the program:

1. Calisthenics:	Classes	of boys 6 to 9 years. Instructor Max Wolter.—2. Calisthenics:	Classes	of	girls

6 to 2 years. Instructor R. Reuter.—3. Exercises with Dumb-Bells : Classes of boys 9 to 12 years. Instructor W. Heck.—4. Roundel (Tactics with Singing) :	Classes	of girls 9 to 12 years. Instructor W. Fleck.—5. Exercises with Bar-Bells:	Classes	of girls 12 to 15 years. Instructor G. Schlaefli.—6. Tacto-Gymnastics with pyramids:	Classes of young men 15 to r8 years. Instructor R. Reuter.—/. Exercises with Clubs; Classes of

ladies. Instructor M. Wolter.—8. Exercises with Iron Wands:	Classes of men. Instructor W. Mauthe.—

9. Calisthenics: Classes of girls and boys. Instructor W. Fleck.—10. Exercises on Vaulting Bucks ; Classes of boys and young men. Instructors R. Reuter and W. Mauthe.—n. Exercises on Balancing Boards:	Classes

of girls 9 to 15 years, and young ladies. Instructors W. Fleck and G. Schlaefli.—12. Exercises on Parallel liars: Classes of men. Instructor G. Schlaefli.—13. Exercises on Horizontal Bars, Parallel Bars, and Vaulting Horse : Classes of men. Instructor W. Mauthe.—14, 15. Exercises of the pupils of the Normal School of Gymnastics. Instructor G. Brosius.—Gymnastic Games.—Fox in the Hole, and Black Man:	Classes of girls 6 to 9 years.

Instructors M. Wolter and W Fleck.—Cat and Mouse, and Wood-Tag: Classes of girls 6 to 9 years. Instructors R. Reuter and G. Schlaefli.—Day and Night, and Fox is Coming: Classes of boys 9 to 12 years. Instructors W. Mauthe and R. Reuter.—Three-High or Tag the Third, and Cock and Hens; Classes of girls 9 to 12 years. Instructors W. Fleck and G. Schlaefli.—Rider-Ball, and Center-Ball:	Classes	of	men.	Instructors W.

Mauthe and W. Fleck.—Cross-Tag, and Roll-Ball:	Classes	of ladies. Instructors M. Wolter and R. Reuter.

Digitized by Google
Closing Day Exercises in the Chicago Public Schools.

By HENRY SUDER, Supt. Phys. Culture.

(Concluded.)

DUMB-BELL EXERCISES FOR BOYS.

Part I.

1-	a. Raise left arm to cut and step-position forward left.

b.	Lower left arm, raise right arm to cut and place right foot forward.

c.	Lower right arm, raise left arm to cut and replace right foot.

d.	Lower left arm and replace left foot—1, 2, 3, 4.

The same exercise, but begin right—5, 6, 7, 8.

The same exercise, but lunge forward left and change position of knees— 9, 10, 11, 12.

The same exercise, but lunge forward right and change position of knees— 13, 14, 15, 16.

2-	a. Raise arms to cut and lunge forward left.

b.	Bend trunk forward, swing arms backward and change position of knees.

c.	Raise trunk, raise arms to cut and change position of knees.

d.	Lower arms and replace left foot—1, 2, 3, 4.

The same exercise right—5, 6, 7, 8, and repeat—9 to 16.

3.	As Exercise 1, but raise arms forward.

4.	As Exercise 2, but raise arms forward, bend trunk backward and arms to cut.

5.	As Exercise 1, but raise arms sideways to cut, place foot sideways (step) and

cross forward.

6.	As Exercise 2, but raise arms sideways to cut, lunge sideways, bend trunk

sideways left, while changing position of knees, and cut arms sideways.

7.	As Exercise 1, but raise arms sideways, step sideways left and cross right

foot forward.

8.	As Exercise 2, but raise arms sideways, lunge sideways, turn trunk left while

changing position of knees and raise arms to cut sideways.

Remark—Execute all exercises left and right alternately—1 to 16 counts.

Pose.

Part II.

1-	a. Raise left arm forward to a right angle, right arm obliquely backward

down, and lunge forward left and remain 4 counts—1 to 4 counts.

b.	Change	position	of arms and place left foot	backward—5th	count.

c.	Change	position	of arms and lunge forward	left—6th count.

d.	Change	position	of arms and place left foot	backward—7th	count.

e.	Lower arms and	replace foot—8th count.

The same exercise right—9 to 16.

2-	a. Lunge forward left and swing arms backward left (right hand on left leg,

(palm up) and bend trunk forward (remain 4 counts)—1 to 4 counts.

b.	Change position of knees, raise arms over right shoulder (arms bent) and

bend trunk backward—5th count.

c.	As position a—6th count.

d.	As position b—7th count.

e.	Return to fundamental position—8th count.

The same exercise right—9 to 16.

3.	As Exercise 1, but lunge sideways and cross foot backward.

4.	As Exercise 2, but lunge sideways, swing arms obliquely downward right

(left arm rests on left leg); at changing on knee-position bend trunk sideways right and raise arms over left shoulder.

5.	As Exercise 1, but raise arms to cover the head.

6.	As Exercise 2, but bend trunk backward, arms bend over right shoulder, at

changing of knee-position bend trunk forward and swing arms backward as in Exercise 2.

7.	As Exercise 1, but raise arms to cover the head and lunge sideways and cross

foot backward.

8.	As Exercise 2, but lunge sideways left, swing arms obliquely downward right

Digitized by VjOOQle
-94-

and turn trunk left; at changing of knee-position bend trunk backward and swing arms sideways obliquely upward left, right arm bent. Remark—Execute all exercises 1—16 counts.

Pose.

WAND EXERCISES FOR GIRLS.

Part I.

(Reverse Hold.)

1.	Swing wand forward (arms bent) and place left foot forward, backward, for"

ward and replace; then right foot—1 to 8.

2.	As Exercise 1, but bend knee of stationary leg, while placing foot backward

—9 to 16.

3.	Wind left and right alternately, raise wand sideways and rise on toes—1 to 8.

4.	As Exercise 3, but cross left and right foot backward with bending

of knee—9 to 16.

5.	Swing wand sideways left and right not higher than hips with waltz-steps

in place.

6.	.As Exercise 5, but swing wands as high as shoulders—9 to 16.

7.	Cross (wand) forward left arm over right, bend trunk forward and place left

and right foot backward alternately—1 to 8.

8.	As Exercise 7, but right over left, bend trunk backward and place foot alter-

nately forward—9 to 16.

Remarks—Exercise 6 may be executed with facings or with waltz-step forward and backward.

Practice the above exercises slowly.

Pose.

Part II.

1.	Swing wand upward (arms bent) and place left foot forward, backward,

forward and return, then right foot—1 to 8.

2.	As Exercise 1, but bend knee of stationarv leg, while placing foot backward—

9 to 16.

3.	Wind left and right and move wand backward downward and rise on toes—

1 to 8.

4.	As Exercise 3, but cross left and right foot backward with bending of

knees—9 to 16.

5.	Swing wand backward, downward with waltz-step in place—1 to 8.

6.	As Exercise 5, but swing wand sideways, backward as high as shoulders.

7.	Swing wand upward (arms bent) with Ys turn left, place left foot forward

and backward with bending of stationary leg and bend trunk forward, while placing foot backward—1 to 8.

8.	As Exercise 7, but Ys turn right and placing of right foot—9 to 16.

Remark—See remarks to Part I.

Pose.

WAND EXERCISES FOR BOYS.

Part I.

1-	a. Swing wand backward downward left and place left foot backward—1.

b.	Lunge forward and raise wand forward—2.

c.	Return to position a—3.

d.	Return to fundamental position—4.

2-	a. Lunge forward and raise wand forward.

b.	Bend trunk forward and change position of knees.

c.	Return to position a; and d, return to fundamental position.

3. As Exercise 1, but lunge sideways left and swing wand sideways right. 4-a. Lunge sideways left and raise wand sideways right.

b.	Bend trunk sideways left and change position of knees.

c.	Return to position a; and d, return to fundamental position.

5. As Exercise 1, but lunge backward and raise wand upward.

6-a. Lunge forward left and raise wand upward.

b.	Bend trunk backward and change position of knees.

c.	Return to position a; and d, return to fundamental position.

Digitized by

Google
-95-

7.	As Exercise 1, but raise wand forward left, right hand at left shoulder, lunge sideways left.

8-a. Lunge sideways left and raise wand forward left, right hand at left shoulder.

b.	Turn trunk left and change position of knees.

c.	Return to position a; and d, return to fundamental position.

Remarks—Execute all exercises left and right alternately—16 counts.

Pose.

« Part II.

(With Reverse Hold.)

1-	a. Wind left and swing wand backward downward left and lunge backward

left.

b.	Rewind left, wind right and swing backward right and lunge forward left.

c.	Rewind etc. to position a; and d, return to fundamental position.

2-	a. Wind left, swing backward left and lunge backward left.

b.	Rewind etc. as in Exercise 1-b, but kneel down on right knee with the

lunge forward left.

c.	Return to position a; and d, return to fundamental position.

3.	As	Exercise	1,	but raise	wand forward.

4.	As	Exercise	2,	but raise	wand forward.

5.	As	Exercise	1,	but raise	wand upward.

6.	As	Exercise	2,	but raise	wand upward.

7.	As	Exercise	1,	but raise	wand sideways	(left	and	right).

8.	As	Exercise	2,	but raise	wand sideways	(left	and	right).

Remark—Execute all exercises left and right alternately—16 counts.

Pose.

As this depends on the number of files and ranks in which the pupils are arranged, it is nearly impossible to describe the different poses; it is, therefore, left to the instructor to arrange those poses.

TO CLASS LEADERS AND ACTIVE MEMBERS OF SOC’S.

Under this column we would like to*publish your opinion upon practical subjects.

We will gladly revise articles and withhold names if so desired.

Come forward with your opinions and experience, all of you.

Dr. F. Pfister, Editor “Mind and Body”:—Cannot some way be found to force judges at a festival to do their duty ? I took part at the individual work at the St. Louis festival, did all the apparatus exercises and the field work. About a week ago I inquired of the technical committee about the number of points I made, and they tell me that I did not make one point in the field work. They say that the lists that contained my name were never turned in by the judges. If this is so, I think it is time, that the Rules and Regulations relating to contests be revised and some way be found to abrogate the usefulness (?) of such judges.

K.	B.

Editor “Mind and Body”:—I am glad that you have opened the discussion on our last “National Festival”. I agree with you that with all its shortcomings it was the grandest festival ever inaugurated, and I also believe with you that had the last two days been favorable, the time that was lost on Friday could easily have been made up again. It is wrong to hold only the Festival committee responsible for this loss of time. I saw many societies that were ready to go on with their exercises but they could not do so because the judges had to be hunted up. I took part in Milwaukee and I know that there such was the case also in a few instances. It seems however that many of the judges (who are always on hand when their traveling expenses are to be paid) took advantage of the immense field, and instead of attending to their business sought such places where large classes were exercising and where they hoped they could see something interesting. I know that the temptation to look at the work of other classes is great, but if these teachers want to do that they should not accept positions as judges aud get their fare paid. They will then have time to follow their own inclinations and will not do injustice to classes that have been doing their best for months while preparing for the festival.

An Active.

Digitized by kjOOQle
-96—

SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PHYSICAL TRAINING OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION at the Normal School of Gymnastics, Milwaukee, Wis. A Six Weeks’ Graded Course, from July 6 to August 14, 1897.

FACULTY:

George Wittich, Director. (Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools of St. Louis, Mo., and of South St. Louis Turnverein.) Theory and Practice of Gymnastics.

Emil Dapprich. (Director of National Teachers’ Seminary, Milwaukee, Wis.) Anatomy and Physiology.

Dr. Franz Pfister. (Professor of Orthopedic Surgury, Milwaukee Medical College, Editor of “Mind and Body.”) Orthopedic Gymnastics and Massage. Anthropometry. First Aid.

Dr. William 0. Krohn. (Professor of Experimental Psychology, University of Illinois, Champaign, 111., Editor of “The Child-Study Monthly.”) Psychology.

Dr. C. Herman Arnold. (Associate Director, Anderson Gymnasium, New Haven, Conn.) Comparison of Systems of Gymnastics. Applied Physiology. History of Gymnastics.

George Brosius. (Director Normal School of Gymnastics of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, Milwaukee, Wis.) Advanced Work on Apparatus.

Gustav Bojus. (Director of Physical Training, Elizabeth Turnverein, N. J.) Fencing, Wrestling, Boxing.

Dr. Karl Zapp. (Director of Physical Training, Germania Turnverein, Cleveland, 0.) Informal Talks on School and Society Gymnastics.

Miss Emma Schrieves. (Director of Physical Training, State Normal School, Milwaukee, Wis.) Theory and Practice of Swedish Gymnastics. Dr. Hans Rasmussen, Fencing.

For terms and pamphlets apply to Mr. Wm. Stecher, cor. 3rd and Chestnut Sts., St. Louis, Mo., or Normal School, 556—568 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis.

—At the invitation of the President and Trustees of Clark University the New England societies of the A. A. A. P. E. held, oh Saturday, April 24, 1897, at Clark University, Worcester, Mass., (1) a convention of delegates to organize the New England District of the A. A. A. P. E., and (2) a general meeting. The program was as follows :

MORNING SESSION, 10:30 A. M.: Address of Welcome, by Dr. G. Stanley Hall, President of Clark University.—Paper on the “Neural Elements in Physical Training,” by Dr. C F. Hodge, Assistant Professor of Physiology and Neurology in Clark University.—Discussion, opened by Dr. G. W. Fitz, of Harvard University, and Dr. D. F. Lincoln, of Boston.

AFTERNOON SESSION, 2:15 P. M.:	Paper on “Pedagogical Gymnastics,” by Dr. C. J. Enebuske,

Boston Normal School of Gymnastics.—Paper on “Public School Gymnastics,” by Miss Ellen Le Garde, Directress of Physical Training, Providence, R. I.—Discussion, by E. Harlow Russell, Principal of State Normal School, Worcester ; Dr. W. G. Anderson, of Yale University ; T. M. Balliet, Superintendent of Schools, Springfield, Mass.; C. F. Carroll, Superintendent of Schools, Worcester, and others.

Dr. Sargent, Director of the Hemenway Gymnasium, Harvard University, lectured, illustrated by stereop-ticon slides, on “The Physical Development of College Students,” on Friday evening, April 23, at 8 o’clock.

Commitfe of Arrangements: Edward M. Hartwell, Geo. W. Fitz, D. A. Sargent, National Council A. A. A. P. E.; H. J. Boos, Boston Physical Education Society; J. W. Seaver, New Haven Physical Education Society; Ellen Le Garde, Providence Physical Education Society ; Thomas M. Balliet, Western Massachusetts Physical Education Society.
-97-

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—One of Dr. J. H. H. Kellogg’s Universal Dynamometers is in use at the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union 558—568 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis., and may be inspected at any time.

—The Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn., announces a Summer School for Physical Training. Dr. William G. Anderson of Yale University and Dr. James T. Gwathmay of Vanderbilt University are the associate directors.

—The Oberlin, 0., College is preparing for another Two Years’ Normal Course in Physical Training for Women. Dr. Delphine Hanna and Dr. Fred. E. Leonard are the directors, with Alberta J. Cory and a large corps of teachers as assistants.

—Mr. W. C. Schaefer, one of our collaborators, will give private or class-instruction in the German language during the whole term of the Summer School. Terms moderate.

—The Examination and Closing Exercises of the Normal School of Gymnastics of the North American Gvmnastic Union took place June 21, 22, and 23.

—In conclusion of the report of the 27th International Gymnastic Festival of the North Aiperican Gymnastic Union at St. Louis the ‘‘Gymnast and Athletic Review” says, “We are still in hopes that we may yet live to see a festival, like the one described above, in England, which in this respect appears to be still centuries behind other countries.”

—Over $7,000.00 were cleared at the St. Louis Festival despite the bad weather.

—The “Turnlehrer-Tag” (convention of the instructors of the N. A. G. U.) takes place at Milwaukee August 1, 2, and 3.

—The Massachusetts Legislature in 1894 authorized the establishment and maintenance of an Educational Museum consisting of two departments : 1. The School Exhibit, 2. The Library. The latter will embrace all standard works and literature on physical training.

—Lawn exercises at the Field-Day of the Chicago Normal School, Wednesday, May 26, 1897.

i. Maze Drill, concluding with “labyrinth runs”: 300 teachers and 300 pupils. Chorus: “When the Bee sips.”—2. Exercises with Dumb-Bells: Boys, grades III to VIII.—3. Sack Exercises: Gymnasium class of teachers.—(Open-air Gymnasium, east of Students’ Hall.) 4. Exercises on Gymnastic Apparatus, in 32 sections: All grades (boys south, and girls north fiefd). Training Class chorus (east balcony of Students’ Hall); “Hark, hark, the Lark,” March (Reineke). Orchestra: “Alpine Song” (Rimbault).

—Closing exercises, 1896—1897, in the Department of Physical Training and Music of the Kansas City, Mo., Public Schools :

i. Overture: “Tancrede” (Rossini), Auditorium Orchestra, M. A. Lenge, Conductor.—2. Grand Chorus: “Come, Joyous Spring,” 500 voices, representing 23 schools.—3. Kindergarten Pays: a) March:	Imitation

Game, Follow the Leader; Skipping Game, Chickadees : Kindergarten, Adams School, Miss Simmons, Director, b) “Chickens on the Farm” (One day’s adventures of a mother hen and her chickens They are let out and fed in the morning. They go for a walk They meet a dog. The dnnk. The dust bath. Home again.): Kindergarten, Emerson School, Miss Brent, Director.—4. Class Singing, 24 Boys and Girls, 7th Grade, Garfield School: a) Vocalizing ; b) Song, “Breathe into this Quiet Vale.” Miss Emma Farren, Teacher.—5. Indian Club Swinging: 24 Boys and Girls, 7th Grade,?Bryant School. Miss Anna Rchcreek, Teacher.—6. Grand

Digitized by C.ooQLe
-98-

Chorus, “A Hungry Spider” <Music Reader),—7. Free Gymnastics, 48 Boys and Girls, 5th Grade, Irving School: a) Free Gymnastics, b) Boating Song, c» Tactics. Miss Iona Wilson, Teacher.—8. Fancy March: 32 Girls, 4th Grade, Franklin School. Miss Lucy Smoot, Teacher.—9. Class Singing : 40 Boys and Girls, 7th Grade, Woodland School: “In a Gondola.” Solo, Miss Anna Lewis. Miss Anna F. Spence, Teacher.— 10. Fancy Steps and Free Gymnastics: Scarritt School, a) Fancy Steps, 32 Boys and Girls, 5th Grade; Miss Emma Kube, Teacher, b) Free Gymnastics, 54 Boys and Girls, 4th Grade; Miss Bridget Cunningham, Teacher.—n. Class Singing: a) “The Happy Farmer,” 32 Boys and Girls, 2d and 3d Grades; Miss Maggie Cully, Teacher, b) “The Old Folks at Home,” Linwood School, 26 Boys and Girls, 5th, 6th and 7th Grades; Solo, Master Louis Sills. Last stanza, Grand Chorus and Orchestra. Miss Ellis, Teacher.—12. Fancy Steps.—

13.	Indian Club Swinging : 32 Boys and Girls, 7th Grade, Garfield School. Miss Grace L. Coffey, Teacher.—

14.	Giand Chorus and Orchestra : “America.”—15. Tableau : “The United States,” Hamilton School.

—The R. I. Gymnastic League held its meeting Wednesday, June 9> at the Y. M. C. A. Hall, Pawtucket, R. I. Following is the program:

1. Indian Club Drill, by Juniors of the Providence Y. M. C. A. Oliver L. Herbert, Director.—2. School Gymnastic Exercises, by a class from the Pawtucket Schools. Miss S. May Taylor, Director.—3. Drill, by a class from the Pawtucket Y. M. C A. David Pollard, Director.—4. Description of the Turnfest of the North American Turnerbund, by Miss Le Garde, Ph sical Director of Providence Public Schools. This gymnastic Fest (festival) gathered the greatest number of gymnasts (over 40,000) ever convened at one place. 10,800 children took part in one out-door drill.—Basket Ball in the Gymnasium at the close of the program.

CYCLE NOTES.

CARE OP THE CYCLE.

(An English Expert’s Advice.)

Sillier, one of the most noted and one of the oldest bicycle riders in Great Britain, contributes an article to the Cyclers’ News, which we abstract from The (American) Cycling.

When in use it is highly inadvisable to permit any part of the cycle to remain loose, apart altogether from the danger of accident necessarily involved. Thus, should the pedal come loose in the crank end, or the pedal nut come loose, where these are used, it is most unwise to neglect it whilst riding even a short distance, and for this reason—that there is a big leverage on the pedal end, and the threads of the screw, which hold firmly when the nut is screwed up or the pedal end is well gripped by the lock-nut, will very soon be broken and rubbed when those points are loose in the crank end, the consequence being great difficulty in screwing the pedal up satisfactorily, and in due season the thread will strip and cause much trouble before it is recuf. It may, indeed, be laid kown as an axiom, that all nuts should be kept tight, and should any particular nut be found to be constantly coming loose, it will be well to have it looked to by the nearest cycle repairer, lest it should give a great deal more trouble later on. The same thing applies very emphatically to ball bearings of the machine wherever they are fitted. These bearings are delicate pieces of mechanism in which, as will subsequently be explained, hardened steel balls run on coned surfaces, which admit of the adjustment of, or the taking up of, wear by closer approximation, whether as part of a threaded nut or actuated by it, and it is very necessary to keep ball bearings adjusted within a reasonable range. Of course, the bearing must not be to tight, or broken balls are sure to be the result, but a very loose bearing permits of irregular running, which, of course, means irregular wear; and in due season, when the bearing is properly adjusted, the irregularly worn cones cause it to be tight at one point and loose at another, with the result that the balls are broken, the internal faces ot the cones scratched and worn, and these roughened faces again react upon the new balls put in to replace the old ones. Every rider of a cycle should make himself conversant with the construction of the bearings and methods of adjustment used in the machine he rides, as in nothing is the wise saw about “a stitch in.time” so fully justified as in the care of the bearings of the modern cycle.

The bearings sometimes get clogged up with oil and dust, and if the machine is only occasionally used, they may get absolutely stuck; this state of things can be remedied by injecting a little naphthalin, which liquefies the thickened oil and cause it to run out if the wheels are vigorously rotated for a short time. When, after repeated doses, the bearings appear to be clean, they should be carefully reoiled with some suitable oil, and will, of course, be found much the better for the operation.

A

Digitized by GiOOQle
-99-

Careful adjustment is, of course, very necessary; a too loose, or a too tight, chain is bound to cause trouble anyhow, and of course when the chain mounts the cogs, or through being too tight, throws too great a strain on the frame and bearings, the results are certain to be more or less disastrons. The chain, then, should be kept properly adjusted, which, in effect, means just short of tight.

These few hints will indicate what is needed for the care of the cycle when in use, but it is well, also, to bear in mind that the best cycle will rapidfy deteriorate in appearance and in value when lying by, if it be not properly looked after, and this remark applies in a greater or less degree to any length of time. After a ride, especiallv if the roads have been muddy or rain has fallen, all the bright work should be cleaned and gone over with an oily cloth, otherwise the polish will rapidIv vanish for good; and great care is needed in removing mud from the enamel, which scratches if the adherent mud is removed too roughly; in a dry state it is best washed off with a sponge, and it will be found useful to run the oily rag over the enameled, as well as over the plated, parts of the machine.

All nuts should be looked after and tested in regular order, so that none may be missed, and this is the right time to look for any fault, because, should anything have broken during the ride, there will be plenty of time to procure another fitting to replace it before the next time of riding. Very often, in articles giving advise as to tours and the like, the writers will be found recommending a careful look over the machine just before starting, which is an obvious absurdity, unless repair and fitting shops are just around the comer.

As regard the tires, there is much divergence of opinion. I am myself a believer, when it is possible to do so, in slinging the machine, or turning it over on the handle bars and saddle, removing the lamp, of course, and deflating the tires, if it is not likely to be used for some time. It must be an advantage to take the strain off them, and it seems to me likely to cause them to last longer. When machines are being laid by for weeks it is advisable to remove the tire altogether, and whilst putting the machine itself in the dryest place to be found in the house, an attic, for example, the inner tubes and covers of the tires may with advantage be put in a relatively damp place, as nothing so soon causes rubber to perish as absolute dryness of the atmosphere.

Philadelphia, Pa., 916 Chestnut st., June 21, 1897. Editor “Mind and Body”. Dear Sir:—Those turners, who wish to participate in the 18th National Meet of the League of American Wheelmen, to be held at Philadelphia, August 4th to 7th, 1897, desiring any information relating thereto, can communicate with,

Wm. Friedgen, Jr., Local Consul, L. A. W. c. o. Philadelphia Turner Cyclers, 435 N. 6th St., Philadelphia, Pa.

LADIES' COLUMN.

Grace of Movement.

The neck being the pivot on which the head executes its movements, it is evident that it requires attention from the point of view of grace as well as of beauty. To how many women has it ever occured that as the feet are taught to dance lithely, the arms to execute eloquent gestures, so the neck should be trained to naturally assume graceful attitudes ? Any pains taken to acquire grace will not only multiply your own charms, but will establish a habit of graceful movement in your muscles which will be inherited by your children. It is owing to this circumstance that the children of truly refined families are born with ease, grace, and dignity of movement.

Very few persons are free from some stiffness in the muscles of the neck, as is evidenced not only by the rigid carriage of the head, but may be demonstrated if an attempt is made to roll the head around in the relaxed fashion of one nodding off to sleep. There is a Delsarte exercise of this kind which is very serviceable, and should be taken as a corrective of the influences of high, stiff collars and neck-wear.

A masculine neck is in good form if it shows traces of the sinews and muscles which.give it strength; but in a woman’s neck the feminine adipose layer under

Digitized by tjOOQle

/
-100-

the skin must obliterate all such traces of masculinity, especially the bones at the jnnction of the neck and breast, the prominence of wich suggests emaciation and disease.

WORLD’S BEST RECORDS.

RUNNING.

ioo Yd. Dash—94-5 sec.: H. M. Johnson, H. Bethune. *94-5 sec.: J. Owen, Jr,, C. W. Stage, W. T. McPherson, J. H. Hempton, B. J. Wefers, J. V. Crum.

220 Yd. Dash—21 4-5 sec.: H. Hutchins. *21 4-5 sec.: B. J. Wefers.

440 Yd. Dash—48^ sec.: R. Buttery. *47^ sec.: W. Baker.

880 Yd. Run—1:53^ min.: F. Hewitt. *1:53 2-5 min.: C. J. Kilpatrick.

One Mile Run—4:12)^ min.: W. G. George. *4:15 3-5 min.: T. P. Conneff.

*120 Yd. Hurdle Race—15 2-5 sec.: S. Chase.

*220 Yd. Hurdle Race—24 4-5 sec.: J P. Lee.

*12 tt> Hammer Throw—183 ft. 6 in.: Thos. Carrol.

*16 lb Hammer Throw—145 ft.	J.	S.	Mitchell.

*12 lb Shot Put—55 ft. 2 in.: G. R. Gray.

*16 lb Shot Put—47 ft.: G. R. Gray.

JUMPING.

Standing High Jump—5 ft. 8% in.: T. F. Kearney. *5 ft. 3^ in.: R. C. Ewey.

Running High Jump—6 ft. in.: R. W. Baker. *6 ft. 5 5-8 in.: M. F. Sweeney.

Standing Broad Tump—14 ft. 5% in.: G. W. Hamilton. *12 ft. g% in.: L. Helwig.

Three Standing Broad Jumps—41 ft. 2 in.: P. J. Griffin. *37 ft. 9 in.: Chandler.

Hop-Step-Jump (S.)—37 ft. % in.: f. F. Hartnet. *35 ft. 8*4 in.; J- Wall.

Hop-Step-Jump (R.)—48 ft. 8 in.: T. Burrows. *49 ft. 2j^ in.: W. MacManus.

Running Broad Tump—23 ft. 3^ in.: C. H. Biggar. "23 ft. in.: M. M. Roseingrave.

Pole Vault—11 ft. 7 in.: E. L. Stone.

NATATION.	ROWING.

*50 Yd. Swim—31 4-5 sec.: W. B. Izard.

*100 Yd. Swim—1 min.: T. Meadham.

*220 Yd. Swim—2:41^ min.: J. H. Tyers.

*440 Yd. Swim—5:43 1-5 min.: J. H. Tyers.

880 Yd. Swim—12:7^ min.: J. Nuttall.

One Mile Swim—26:8 min.: J. Nuttall.

*Swimming Under Water—113 yds. 1 ft.: J. Finney. *Plunging—80 ft. 8% in : W. Allason.

ROWING.

One Mile—4:28 min.: J. Stansbury.

*Two Miles—9:41 min.: Columbia College Freshman Crew.

Five Miles—30:44^ min.: Four-oared Crew.

*440 Yds.—57 sec.: E. Hedley.

*880 Yds.—3:8 1-5 min.: E. Hedley.

SKATING.

*100 Yds.—9 sec : S. D. See.

*220 Yds.—17 4-5 sec.: H. Davidson.

*440 Yds.—31^ sec.: J. S. Johnson.

*880 Yds.—1:22 2-5 min.: A. Norseng, K. Pander. *One Mile—2:45 min.; J. S. Johnson.

* Amateur.

GYMNASTIC LITERATURE.

Physical Culture for Public Schools.—H. Suder,

First and Second Grades.................... $.25

Third and Fourth Grades.......................25

Fifth Grade...................................30

Sixth Grade...................................30

Gymnastics in the School-Room.—Hans Ballin.

158 Photo-Engravings....................... 1.00

A System of Physical Culture.—Carl Betz.

Firs* Book:	Free Gymnastics...................75

Seco id Book:	Tactics.........................75

Thiro Book: Light Gymnastics..................75

Fourtl Book: Physical Ex. of the Playground... .75

Free G / nnastics for District Schools........50

Manual 01 Physical Culture for Public Schools.—

Anton L i bold ...............................65

Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish

System.—Nils Posse.........................  .55

Newcomb and Basquette. Games for the Gymnasium.—Clara G. Baer.......................  25

Whittaker’s Anatomical Models. A Pictor.al Representation of the Human Frame and its Organs... .75

Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics..... 3.00

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises.—L. Puritz..... .60 Pyramids for Gymnasts.—Lion and Puritz. Seven

Parts, each ..................................45

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Part ...................................70

Second Part...................................50

Adress: FREIDENKER PUBLISHING

School Tactics.—W. A. Stecher................... 1.00

First Aid in Illness and Injury.-T. E. Pilcher, M.D. 2.00 Physical Culture in Public Schools,—Hans Rasmussen........................................ 1.25

Maclaren’s Theory and Practice..................50

The Systematic Training of the Body.—Chas. H.

Schaible, M.D ... .......................... 1.50

A Handbook of Physical Diagnosis.—R. C. M.

Page, M. D.................................. 2.00

Outline lessons in Gymnastics for Public Schools.

—Wm. G. Anderson, M. D.......................	.25

Physical Education,—Fred. Treves, M. D........ 1.25

Jenkin’s Gymnastics and Club Swinging......... 1.00

Yeo’s Physiology............................. 3.00

Physiology of Exercise.—La Grange............ x.50

Physical Drills of all Nations.—A. Alexander. 1.50

Twenty-five Pyramids at Ropes (Pyramides aux Cordes)— Francois Reitz. Ti e newest and most

novel in this line.......................... x .00

Fans, with Illustrations from the Works of Puritz, Schroeter, Lion, Jenny, Schu tzer, and Others. .10

Beale’s Calisthenics and Light C mnastics.....	.75

Dick’s Art of Gymnastics......................	r.oo

Dick’s Art of Wrestling..........................25

Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing.....................  25

The Art of Attack and Defence. W. J. Elliott.....	.25

Handbook of Gymnastics.—J. M Watson........... 2.00

Manual of Calisthenics.—J. M. V atson........ 1.25

CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee Wis.

Digitized by CiOOQle