MIND AND

V»l. 41	MARCH	1935

BODY

No. 426

Scientific Foundation of Physical Education

Jay B. Nash, Professor of Education, School of Education, New York University

Investigations in the various fields of science in the past decade have laid very substantial foundations for education as a whole and particularly for physical education. A short paper of this type could not attempt in any way to cover all these foundations as they would necessarily have to include many of the researches in the field of neurology, psychology and that very broad field which deals with the building of attitudes and emotions.

Physical education is a cross-section of all education. It is not a compartment of education which can establish its own foundations regardless of other educational procedures, nor can it establish its objectives apart from general education. Education has many approaches and the approaches are all through what we would term activity divisions of the curriculum; thus, music is one approach, the manual activities represent an approach, home making is an approach, the sciences represent an approach, the social sciences another, etc.

It is to be noted that all of these approaches represent activities and hence physical education becomes one of these approaches to education. This approach to education might be likened to a group of men climbing a mountain and each taking a different path, but if they ever arrive at the top of the mountain they are all together. Applying the illustration, these various activity approaches lead to what we might term the top of the mountain —education. Physical education is one of these approaches. I* this paper on scientific foundations I am confining myself primarily to organic foundations. Another presentation will have to be made of neurological foundations and still another on emotional and impulsive foundations. Although these branches all have certain foundations in common they are not entirely the same.

We have known in general terms that the acquiring of organic power, health, can be set to a formula. We have seen power built in athletes, mountain climbers, mail carriers, blacksmiths, and engineers. We have seen it built in dogs and horses trained for the track. This power building process has been a normal part of the life of the race, a by-product of the way in which it lived, out in the open with lonjg hours of vigorous activity for the big muscles. In eveiy fiber of the human race are the roots of an activity drive, a thousand hereditary urges, hungers, which push the child forward in a round of challenging big

Digitized by v^ooQle
290

muscle activities. No one has had to drive the child to the pool, the hunt, the game, the chestnut trees, and the berry patch. As a by-product of this type of activity the child builds power. Today, when city life deprives the small child of these opportunities, we are beginning to realize how valuable they have been in the lives of the race, and are beginning to ask, “What price will we have to pay in this building of normality when children are deprived of these long hours of vigorous big-muscle activities during childhood and youth?”

To understand what we mean by organic development, which is the basis of health, it is necessary for the moment to look at the body in a strictly biological sense. The body must be viewed as a community of cells. Organic bodies range from colloidal dimensions to organisms of one cell or a few cells through organisms such as the human body containing, according to various estimates, cells numbered into the trillions.

The cell is the visible physiological unit of life. In the human organism a great community of cells has been built'—some specializing on digestion, some on reproduction, some on elimination, others on carrying messages, others on carrying food and oxygen to various parts of the body, and still others on keeping us in touch with what is going on in the outside world. Each cell is composed of a living substance called protoplasm. For the human organism to live, as in the lower cellular organism, two functions must be performed—reproduction which in the human organism is delegated to certain communities of cells, and nutrition, the ability of the cell to maintain itself in a functioning capacity. Thus in the living cell we see three types of non-living material—food substances on the way to the tissues, stored food material, and waste products waiting to be carried away from the cell.

So far as we know new striated muscle or nerve cells are not formed after birth. For the purpose of definition, growth from littleness to bigness has to do with increase in size of the cells. The mass of an organ may increase in bulk by the multiplication of connective tissue units as takes place in the brain where the neuroglia cells are responsible for the dimensions of the adult as contrasted with the child brain.

This conception of the human organism as a community of cells with the cells as the seat of life, gives us a conception of how power is built. Note the power building cycle. The living cell at birth has stored within itself small quantities of food such as glycogen and fat. At the time of exercise—muscular contractions—this food is burned and with the burning, heat and energy are released. This may be likened to burning of coal in a furnace. Heat and energy are released, waste products are eliminated and more coal must be forthcoming if more heat and energy are to be released. Unused clinkers must be raked out of the furnace. We have the following cycle: [1] exercises, [2] burning of stored material, [3] releasing of heat and energy, [4]
291

elimination of wastes, [5] taking in more food from the blood, [6] gaining more capacity to store food, etc.

It reminds one of the Iowa farmer who bought more land, to raise more com to feed more hogs, to get more money to buy njore land, etc. Each cycle in the period of development increases until we have pyramided power from that possessed by an infant to that possessed by an adult, from that possessed by a man of the street to that possessed by a trained athlete.

All the organic mechanisms including digestion, respiration, circulation, heat regulation, have one function, namely, supplying the conditions under which food may be burned and wastes removed. The cycle is simple. As a first step in digestion, food is taken into the body, or, in other words, a long freight train of raw materials passes through the body. These raw materials are prepared by a chemical process for absorption into the blood. That which the system needs is absorbed, the “clinkers,” unused materials, rejected materials and bacteria, are eliminated.

It becomes obvious that the whole body is one functioning unit. It is a great mosaic in which a harmonizing and an integrating of the whole is necessary for life. Power and life are resident in a cell. All of the body functions have to do with the preservation of life in the cell. All breathing is done by the cell, all eating is done by the cell, all power building is jvithin the cell. The whole process of feeding these cells is what we term nutrition.

Muscular exercise is the one element which can heighten the whole nutritive system. It starts the whole nutritive process'— food material is burned, a call is made for oxygen, circulation is stimylated and all the other body functions are heightened. The old phrase “we breathe with our legs and run with our heart” takes on new meaning. We breathe with our legs because the legs used in big-muscle activity constitute the great bulk of our cells. We run with our heart because we depend upon our heart to deliver oxygen and food and to remove wastes.

It is apparent then that gorging oneself with food does not increase body power. It merely clogs the distributing system. Taking in additional air through deep breathing does not increase the amount of oxygen used by the cells, for the red blood corpuscles will pick up only the amount “called for” by the cells.

Physical training increases or heightens the body functions by increasing the power cycle. This is sometimes called heightened nutrition. Physical exercise, under the proper conditions, builds power in childhood and helps to maintain power in adulthood.

The scientific foundations of organic development are concerned with physical education. The foundation of health is built in a number of delicate balances of the body. The point to be emphasized is that organic development is based upon training and in physical education training is largely what we term a “muscular” activity. It must readily be seen that muscular activity is likewise the basis of all activities in any phase of education— even thfc large muscles come into functional use in such activities

Digitized by LiOOQle
292

as manual training, gardening and in some phases of the social and exact science activities.

So physical education is not merely a total-body activity, it is one of the phases of total-body activity. I should say that physical education concerns itself largely with total-body activity represented in sports and games which dramatize racial struggle. In other words, physical education activities are largely recapitulatory. This gives us a means of distinguishing physical education activities from manual training activities and other activities which involve the total body.

One of the objectives of physical education activities is the building of power, power to sustain effort, to resist fatigue, or in other words it represents a means by which the body may acquire stamina, vitality and the ability to stand the wear and tear of life. What are these foundations and how may they be built?

I will enumerate a number of these specific results—foundations which are apparently the result of exercise:

1.	More Lactic Acid May Be Retained in the Cell.

We have already called attention to the importance of conserving lactic acid within the cell, as all that can be preserved enters into the resynthesis process and can be used over and over. Another reason for wanting to temporarily retain lactic acid within the cell is to prevent its being transferred to the blood thus tending to lower the hydrogen-ion concentration toward an acid reaction. The contractile phase of this process liberates heat, as represented by the equation C6H12C6---->2CsH6r2.	The	recov-

ery phase is represented in the following: C3H6O3 + 3C2—>3CC2^ + 3H2O. About one-fifth or 20 per cent of this lactic acid is oxidized in order to furnish energy in the contractile phase. The entire contractile-recovery phase of muscle contraction is then represented by the following: C«HioC5 + H20<:^=>C6Hi2C6<:=>2C3H6C3

glycogen	glucose	80 per cent

lactic acid

It is obvious that the more lactic acid that can be retained in the cell the less waste there will be. An example of an almost perfectly functioning mechanism is seen in some hibernating animals, especially the porcupine. This animal has a large flat belly muscle which contracts and pulls the organism up into a circle. The muscles of the body are then so relaxed that very little food is needed to maintain it. The contracted muscle is so efficient that it reconverts practically all of its lactic acid and hence it bums the products of contraction with little or no waste. It has been shown that people who have kept in training are able to conserve a large portion of lactic acid within the cell. This is especially noted in the researches of the Harvard Fatigue Institute and their experiments upon De Mar.

The resynthesis of lactic acid in this case kept pace with its formation. In trained subjects oxygen requirements are so fully met as to maintain an internal environment not unlike that of the resting state. Quite the opposite was shown in subjects not

Digitized by LjOOQle
293

accustomed to muscular exercise. This is well illustrated on the following page.

2.	Less Lactic Acid is Formed in the Cell.

Schneider1 quotes Lewis and Hewlitt to the effect that “the mechnical efficiency of trained muscles is increased. Consequently it seems that less lactic acid is formed by muscular contraction and that there is better oxidative removal of the lactic acid because of changes in the muscle itself or because of an increased oxygen supply to the muscle from the improved condition. Training, therefore, very materially favors the body in solving its acid carriage problem during exercise.”

Steinhaus2 explains this point as follows: “Since it has been established that in the presence of sufficient oxygen, phospho-creatin may be directly resynthesized without lactic acid formation the possiblity suggests itself that the highly perfected oxygen transport of the trained individual may provide the conditions necessary for more of this direct resynthesis, thus reducing the need for the indirect process involving the formation of lactic acid which, if not less efficient, is at least an extra burden. The finding of an increased glycogen content in an intermediate stage of training and its subsequent disappearance in highly trained dogs would take on significance in this light.”

There seems to be sufficient evidence to show that a trained individual can store more sugar in the liver and hence is ablest release it in times of emergency or when the carbohydrates in the blood reach a low point and there is need for blood sugar to sustain effort.

Although there is some difference of opinion, there seems to be evidence indicating that through exercise there is an increase in muscle glycogen. Embden and Habs3 demonstrated an increase in muscle glycogen which became apparent after five days, reached its maximum in twelve days of stimulation, and persisted for at least five weeks after the end of this form of training.

We have already noted that a catalyst often assists in certain chemical changes. Where jets of hydrogen and oxygen are passed over spongy platinum there is a flame, water is formed, the platinum remains unchanged; in other wdrds, the platinum acts as a catalyst. Sulphuric acid'plus starch turns starch to glucose. The acid here acts as a catalyst. In the human body, vitamins, enzymes and hormones act as catalysts. Inasmuch as the creation of heat and energy represents a long chain of chemical changes in each one of which a catalyst is present, it is readi- • ly seen that any exercise of functions which increases the enzymes enables the body to function more efficiently.

3.	Increased Amount of Buffer Substance That portion of lactic acid which escapes into the blood must be buffered. The blood must be kept alkaline—the ideal PH concentration is represented by the figure 7.4. The neutral point is represented by 7.0. Anything that falls below this figure is acid in reaction. The acid reaction represented by a PH concen-

Digitized by LjOOQle
294

tration of 6.9 is likely to result in immediate death. The sodium bicarbonate, ordinary baking soda, is known to be the blood buffer substance. The following equation indicates the result when lactic acid is thrown into the presence of this buffer:

HCsHsOs	+	NaHCOs	H2CC3	+ NaCsHsCs

lactic acid sodium bicarbonate carbonic acid weak lactate The acid H2CO3 is broken down into H2O and CO2, the water being used by the body and the carbon dioxide expelled through the lungs. The weak lactate is disposed of in a number of ways; it may be decomposed in unused muscles to form sodium bicarbonate it may remain in the blood to form part of the hydro-gon-ion concentration; portions of it may be excreted by the kidneys in the form of ammonium lactate; and part of it may be used to form glycogen. This hydrogen-ion concentration then, which is	H2CO3

NaH COs

is largely maintained by the presence of sodium bicarbonate, as in vigorous exercise a certain amount of lactic acid is always thrown into the blood. Schneider has shown that in exercise the body increases the amount of sodium bicarbonate—buffer substance—to keep pace with the demand. Steinhaus2 reports Walinski as finding an increase of 10 per cent in alkali reserve of five soldiers in a three months’ training period. He also reports a number of other experiments which tend to show that training increases the ability of the body to buffer the lactic acid. If this is the case, as it appears to be, exercise, through the increase in the amount of buffer substance, definitely increases the ability of the organism to sustain effort.

Investigation by the Fatigue Laboratory, Harvard University, furnishes excellent examples of the capacity of individuals for great and sustained physical activity. It will be noted that one subject, De Mar, who is a marathon runner of some twenty years’ experience, had little change in the lactic acid content of the blood. Others who approximated his capacity were also trained men. At thp lower end of the scale men were untrained. Dill,4 in reporting this, states that the “fact that there is such a wide range in perforpiance is all the more interesting when one bears in mind that these individuals would be rated as normal by an examining physician”. The lower part of the chart indicates also that the untrained performer was required to use up a larger amount of the sodium bicarbonate buffer in the bipod.

4.	Increase of Red Blood Corpuscles.

Inasmuch as red blood corpuscles are the carriers of oxygen, any increased ability to transport oxygen to the cell will quite definitely aid in the recovery process. It is not difficult to see that this would give the organism additional ability to sustain effort. This increase in the additional number of red blood corpuscles may take place in several different ways. Schneider6 indicates, “Regular exercise increases the number of red blood corpuscles per unit volume of blood and for the organism as a

Digitized by L^ooQle
295

whole.” He quotes Neser6 on comparing stabled animals and the fully trained racehorse, saying that he found an average of four million red corpuscles for the first, and twelve million for the latter, in a cubic millimeter of blood. This increased number of red blood corpuscles may be accounted for in three ways: first, by the speeding up of the manufacture of red blood corpuscles in the bone marrow, hence exercise becomes the pace maker; second, by increasing the toughness of the red blood corpuscles go that they may live longer; and finally, through the increase of the stored red blood corpuscles of the spleen. There seems to be no doubt regarding the increase in bone marrow activity in exercise. The only question arises as to how long this increased activity outlasts the actual exercise period. Schneider1 however, summarizes this in the following:

“It is also clear that in the sedentary individual, prolonged strenuous muscular effort results in an excessive destruction of red corpuscles and that the loss cannot immediately be made good. Consequently, some degree of anaemia results for a period of from several days to two or three weeks. It is furthermore clear that regular exercise, or a period of physical training, so develops the red marrow of the bones that any ordinary destruction of corpuscles is quickly made good during, or soon after, exercise and that the total mass of red corpuscles is permanently increased.”

The above are four of these foundations. There are in addition to these twelve or fifteen other phases of scientific foundations which space will not allow for treatment but which I have presented in book form.7

We have undisputable proof that training develops power and that efficiency lies in the muscle cell. In all probabilities the real beneficial effects are upon the metabolism of the tissues themselves. In other words, the cells acquire the ability to more efficiently transform fuel into heat and energy and to efficiently resynthesize, buffer or otherwise dispose of the fatigue products.

In practical application three conditions must be considered in connection with these scientific foundations of physical education which assume as their outcome power building. These three conditions are of vital importance, otherwise, physical education activities not only are not power building but they may be body destroying.

Condition No. 1. Physical training activities must go on in the absence of devitalizing drains. This means that the body must be free from infection which might throw off the delicate body balances. Hence, we see the necessity for careful medical examinations for children who are put into activity to insure their freedom from drains. Careful administration must also guarantee that children, returning to school apparently having recovered from colds, influenza, stiff neck, rheumatic fever, tonsilitis and that whole group of disorders, are not put into physical education activities which carries them to the. point of fatigue as the

Digitized by

Google
296

fatigue products plus drains from such disorders may do incurable damage to the heart.

Condition No. 2. Children must also be freed from handicapping strains. I refer particularly to the strains that have to do with fear, hate, worry and others which handicap the body. Strain in the presence of fatigue as exhaustion may prove disastrous. On the positive side we would say that the child should be in a joyous atmosphere as none of these strains may exist in the presence of joy.

Condition No.3. If the proper results are achieved from physical education, individuals must practice a number of reasonable health habits. In other words, the body must have enough relaxation and sleep for the disposition of fatigue products. There must be food, properly balanced, guaranteeing the various elements for total metabolism and there are certain rules which have to do with sunlight, cleanliness, exercise, etc. which are important. To a large extent the matter of health habits becomes an administrative affair. Health is not something we talk about but is largely a situation which we set up in which the child may react wholesomely.

Guaranteeing these three conditions organic power is built according to a formula. Power is a result of use. The old maxium “Function and use go hand in hand’’ is supremely illustrated here. One builds power through use. It is the way power has been built throughout the history of life. There is no short-cut to this power. It cannot be bought. It must be acquired as organisms have always acquired it through use. It is through use the body actually reaches beyond its grasp, and does the apparently impossible, and in that attempting to do the apparently impossible, gains power to achieve higher levels of power.

Implications In Connection With The Above Thesis

1.	All activities are concerned with mind-body relationships, hence, no activities are exclusively physical or exclusively mental.

2.	Physical	education	concerns itself	with	activities which deal

basically	with the	large muscles	and training becomes a

foundation for health.

3.	Physical	education	activities are	also	concerned with the

building of skills and proper emotional attitudes.

4.	Organic power, that is, body power as the basis for endurance, can be built through a training program.

5.	Training develops power and that efficiency lies in the muscle cell—the real beneficial effects are therefore upon the metabolism of the tissues themselves.

6.	Experiments in the field of physiology indicate that various physio-chemical changes tajce place in this power building process. These changes may be studied and controlled.

7.	Power building is largely centered in the years from eight to fourteen, hence special emphasis should be placed upon body building activities in these years of the child’s life.
297

8.	Power building or power maintaining must proceed in the absence of body drains—infections or devitalizing strains. In the power building process certain basic health habits must be followed.

9.	Power is built through use and hence we say “function and use go hand in hand.”

10.	Joy is an objective of education and one of the signs of good educational procedure. Hence, the presence of joy indicates that growth and development are proceeding harmoniously. Bibliography

1.	Schneider, Edward D., Blood Changes and Their Significance

in Exercise and Training. Reprint from the American Physical Education Review, March, 1927, p. 6.

2.	Steinhaus, Arthur H., Chronic Effects of Exercise, Baltimore,

Waverly Press, 1932, p. 139

3.	Embden, G., add Habs, H. Zeitschr., Physiol. Chem. Vol.

CL XXI, p. 16 [1927]

4.	Dill, D. B., Studies in Muscular Activity, No. VI, Journal of

Physiology, Vol. LXIX, No. 3. [May 31, 1930]

5.	Schneider, Edward C., Clark, Robert W. and Ring, Gordon

C., The Influence of Physical Training on the Basal Respiratory Exchange, Pulse Rate and Arterial Blood Pressure. Reprint from American Journal of Physiology, Vo. LXXXI No. 2 [July 1927]

6.	Neser, C. P., Biochemical Journal, Volume XVI, [1922], p. 770.

7.	Jay B. Nash, Editor. Interpretations of Physical Education,

Volume IV, Physiological Health, New York: A. S. Barnes & Co., 1933.

Health Work and Physical Education in Secondary Education

James Edward Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Serviec, National Recreation Association

For the past three years a most significant national survey of secondary education has been conducted by the Office of Education, U. S. A. The results of this intensive and thorough study have been awaited with great interest by the educator. A series of monographs on different phases of secondary education have been published.

Monograph No. 28 on Health Work and Physical Education is of vital interest to physical educators. It contains twenty-eight veiy valuable tables and charts. It gives a fair cross-section picture of the work being done throughout the country. It also makes many significant statements in regard to the trends.

Two outstanding trends are:—

1.	That all work of health and physical education is being coordinated into one administrative unit under one director.

Digitized by LaOOQle
298

2.	That physical educators are largely responsible for the health education program.

Here are some of the high spots from this valuable study selected so that he who runs might read:—

In a letter of transmittal, William John Cooper, Commissioner of Education, wrote to the Secretary of the Interior:—

“Within a period of 30 years the high-school enrollment has increased from a little over 10 per cent of the population of high-school age to more than 50 per cent of that population. This enrollment is so unusual for a secondary school that it has attracted the attention of Europe, where only 8 to 10 per cent attend secondary schools. Many European educators have said

that we are educating too many people.-------It is to be observed

that 50 per cent of the schools launched the health program between 1925 and 1929.., and 25 per cent more began it between 1920 and 1924. Therefore it is relatively new. In general, the junior high schools are found to have more highly developed health services than have the other types of schools. In many of them health work apparently came in with reorganization. Health examinations are quite common in the schools studied, especially in the reorgnized types. Seven items are included in the examinations given by 70 to 87 per cent of the schools. In the order of frequency these are: [1] The eyes, 2] throat, [3] teeth, [4] ears, [5] nose, [6] heart, and'[7] lungs. The teacher of the health work is very frequently the physical education teacher; this is evidence of a rather close integration between these two fields. In other cases the nurse teaches courses in health.

“Three-fourths of the schools require physical education; it is most frequently required in grade 9. Classes usually are held twice a week. It is interesting to find that the courses of study which were examined were dated 1929 or later, and that of 24 announced objectives, the teaching of exercies which would furnish proper and enjoyable recreation for living in later life was most often mentioned. The objectives next in point of frequency were likewise directed toward adult life. Obviously physical education and health are tending toward work which carries over into later life.”

TABLE 12—Number of schools reporting various requirements or plans for health examinations for secondary-school pupils Number of	Number

Requirement or plan schools Requirement or plan of

schools

on entering school 128 Examined once during

school career	18

165 Examined every other year 17 26 Examined whenever necessary	23

65 Examined before entering 223	competitions	12

60

Compulsory Compulsory periodically thereafter

Optional on entering school

Optional at all times Examined once during year Examined twice during year

Digitized by v^ooQie
299

TABLE 15—Numbers of schools reporting certain members of staff as teaching courses in health required of all pupils

Teacher	Number	of	Teacher	Number	of

schools	schools

Physical education teacher 108	Hygiene teacher	8

Science teacher	21	Home economics teacher 4

Regular teacher	21	Principal	3

School nurse	20	Physician	3

Health teacher	19

TABLE 17—Numbers of schools indicating that health instruction is introduced into certain courses

Course

Physical education

General science

Home economics

Biology

Civics

Physiology

Number of Course schools

322 Chemistry 300 Physics 284 History 237 Sociology 180 English 122 Agriculture

Number of schools 90 64 60 58 51 27

In the last chapter on Summary and Trends, the following excerpts are of interest:—

1. Health Work—Among 460 secondary schools included in this study the health work carried on has been launched as a definite program mainly since 1920. In the individual schools there is usually a close administrative relationship between the health work and the work in physical education. The groups used by the largest numbers of schools in carrying on health projects are: [1] Classes in physical education; [2] regular classes- for example, general, science, biology, etc.; [3] home rooms; and [4] clubs. A little more than half of the schools have definite outlines of study for health instruction. Twenty-four different types of workers are reported to give health instruction in the schools. The teacher of physical education, teacher of science, and nurse are reported by more schools to give this instruction than anyone else. Health instruction in connection with the work in courses other than the special health course is offered in almost all the schools. Those other courses are most frequently physical education, general science, home economics, biology and civics. Half of the schools report that the library is not specially equipped with books, magazines, etc., to supplement the health work done in the school. Only a little more than half of the schools indicate that home projects in health are carried on. In only one-fourth of the schools is any effect made to measure the results of health instruction. The entire health program in the schools is most frequently evaluated by the administrative head of the school. This person was designated almost as many times as all the 16 other persons combined. The three others reported by the largest numbers of schools are: [1] director of physical education or health, [2] county or school nurse, and [3] school physicians.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
300

2.	Physical Education—In the first place, the trend in the type of work offered in physical education has been for some time, and still is, away from calisthenics and formalized drill and toward games and free play. Consequently, in matters of equipment this changes the chief interest from heavy apparatus in the gymnasium to sufficient space and facilities for games, both indoor and outdoor. The trend in the size of classes in physical education is toward large groups. Instructors frequently stated during visitation that the size of the class caused less concern than the size of the gymnasium or the playing field. In many schools instructors are solving the problem of numbers through the use of pupil leaders. Physical education in general has not yet been subjected to a thorough program of testing. However, there is a strong move in the direction of adininistering not only physical examinations, such as those given by a nurse or physician, but te£ts of physical capacity. Increasing interest is being shown by the schools in the physical activities of pupils during out-of-school hours. The objective of making healthful recreation habitual to children, of developing desirable traits of character, and of learning games which can be played during adult life had led the schools in increasing numbers to supply playground supervisors after school in the evenings, on Saturdays, and during summers. Finally, schools in general are giving more attention to corrective and follow-up work in physical education. There is a definite feeling that the work of examining and instructing should be carried to its logical and fruitful conclusion.

3.	General—It has been notable through this investigation that, among the types of schools, the group of junior high schools is distinctly in the lead in the scope and effectiveness of the work done in both health and physical education. In a similar way, when schools of various sizes are compared, the larger schools have more effective programs of health work than the smaller. If any one of the five regions is outstanding in this work, it is, without doubt, the Middle Atlantic region. An outstanding trend among the schools is the tendency to unite under a single administrative head all the physical activities fostered. This includes health work, physical education, intramural athletics, and interscholastic athletics. Two shortcomings were reported by workers in health and physical education more frequently than any others. One of these shortcomings is the lack of effective programs of correction in physical education and of proper follow-up to facts brought to light through various tests and physical examinations. The other shortcoming is the failure to measure the effectiveness of the general programs in this field, the methods of instruction, and the materials used. The work in health and physical education, comparatively new so far as occupying a definite place in the secondary-school curriculum is concerned, has made large gains, even while other more traditional subjects were losing in prominence.
301

Recreation in Japan

By Dr. Seiichi Kishi, President, Japan Amateur Athletic Association.

In Japan there has been but little or nothing of the wide scale development in the field of recreation and playgrounds which has been true in the United States, and yet recreation, if I understand the implications of the word correctly, has not come about in our country simply as a concomitant of the so-called modern or Western influence on our modes of living or our civilization.

In Japan we have what is called “Sumo,” or a kind of wrestling, which requires great strength and power of muscle. This has been developed professionally only during the past three hundred years or so, but as long as two thousand years ago Sumo was very popular and wide-spread throughout our country as an amateur and recreational activity. “Sumo” has lost much of its former popularity, but the game still has a large following as a professional pastime, regular tournaments being held in the large indoor ampitheatre in Tokyo which seats some twenty thousand or more people. It is a spectacular sight to see such an audience breathlessly following every movement of the two giant forms as they spar for just the right position before leaping in a brief struggle which often lasts for but a few seconds.

Two other forms of athletics, perhaps more correctly described as recreational activities, which are very old in our country, are “Judo”, or “Jiu Jitsu”, as it is popularly known abroad, and “Gekken”, which is a kind of fencing in which sticks made of four bamboo strips bound together are used. Judo and Gekken formed an integral part of the training and education of the “Samurai”, or “Knights” of Old Japan. In former days the name for “Judo” and the literal reading of the Japanese character for the word was “Yawara”, having the meaning of suppleness of muscle. Today in all our Middle and High Schools Judo and Gekkan form a regular part of the physical education programme, one or the other of these exercises being compulsory for all boys in our secondary schools.

I want now to turn for a few minutes to a consideration of the development of certain sports and recreation activities which have been introduced into Japan from the West. One of the very first games brought into our country was baseball, a game which I vividly recall getting a great deal of enjoyment and thrill from during my student days as a member of the Tokyo Imperial University Baseball team. Along about 1880 a young American engineer was engaged by our then newly organized Department of Railways. He came to Japan, and it was this young engineer who not only helped us build railways, but who also taught us how to play baseball. The game soon became very popular, and all the boys and students soon learned to play. In those days, however, we didn’t play the game of baseball as it is known to-day, for we had no mits, gloves nor masks, and the

Digitized by kjOOQle
302

ball used was a sort of semi-soft leather ball. In a real sense I think I can truly say that baseball as it is known has become the national game of. Japan. I am sure you would all agree with me in this if you could go with me to any game of the regular Tokyo college series of games where you would see not only a splendid brand of the game being played but also a crowd of

65,000	of the most enthusiastic fans to be found anywhere, not excepting the United States. It came as quite a surprise in a way when one of the members of our Japanese Olympic delegation was approached on the boat on our way here by an athlete from a country where baseball is almost unknown, with the request to explain to him what those Waseda University fellows were doing on the deck with large gloves, tossing a ball back and forth between them!

Within a few days after the arrival in Japan of this game, the late Baron Kikuchi brought to our country a young English teacher by the name of F. W. Strange. Mr. Strange had been quite an athlete during his student days at Cambridge, and it was due solely to his enthusiastic interest and capable leadership that rowing, as well as track and field athletics were introduced and taken up by the students of our schools and colleges. Rowing quickly found a welcome place in the athletic life of our students, and the sport early enjoyed a wide popularity. When I was in the Imperial University I used to row and had the honour of being one of the champions. By about the year 1900 a great many other sports, especially lawn tennis, had been [introduced in Japan, and therefore for a period of some few years rowing rather faded out. About fifteen years ago, however, the formation and promotion of the Japan University Regatta served greatly to stimulate again a new interest, and this activity regained its former place of popularity on the athletic calendar of amateur athletics.

Mr. Strange had also been a well known track athlete, and soon after his arrival our young men were running, jumping and participating in all the other regular events of those days in a most enthusiastic manner. Mr. Strange passed away at a comparatively early age, but the interest which he had stimulated gradually grew and increased, especially at the Imperial University in Tokyo, the University birth-place of many of the foreign sports. At one time this college and university had a reputable team. The widespread interest in this branch of athletic sports dates from not more than about 25 or 30 years ago. Lawn tennis is very popular now in opr country and we are sending young athletes to the Davis Cup matches.

Japan’s participation in the International Olympic Games dates from 1912 when the Fifth Olympiad was held at Stockholm. Neither here nor at the Seventh Olympic Games at Antwerp in 1920 were athletes from Japan able to make a single point. Eight years ago, however, at Paris, Japan for the first time appeared on the summary list of place winners, Mr. Oda, present captain of our track team, taking sixth place in the hop,
303

step and jump. And four years ago at Amsterdam Oda took first place in the same event.

One thing which has been of great help and stimulation to our athletes has been the participation in the Far Eastern Championship Games. These contests have brought together the best athletes from Japan, China, and the Philippines, and have helped to create a fine spirit of sportsmanship in the Far East. The Track and Field Stadium in which these games were held two years ago in the Meiji Shrine Gardens has a seating capacity of

50,000	people.

Swimming in Japan comes out of the pre-historic past, and yet it was only as recently as the time of the Antwerp Games in 1920 that modern speed swimming in our country got its start. Our few swimmers there were the laughing stock of everyone as they attempted to compete with the world’s best swimmers with .their old side-stroke form.- There seemed to be no future for Japan in swimming, but our boys had their eyes opened. They bought books and came back to Japan to read, study and practice. Eight years ago at Paris the British swimming coach said to one of our officials that he was greatly surprised at the development the Japanese swimmers had been able to make during the four years. He asked if they employed an American coach, and was surprised when he received a negative reply. He said that certainly it was impossible for anyone to learn to crawl out of books. But this is literally just what they had done. The British coach went on to say that his swimmers would have to look out, for the Japanese swimmers might even be beating England in swimming by the time of the 1928 Games in Amsterdam. One week, not four years, was all the time he had to wait for the fulfillment of his prophecy and the realization of his fears, for even there at the Paris games our swimmers defeated the British participants.

This development in swimming came about in spite of our lack of any such splendid equipment in the way of swimming pools such as you have here everywhere in the United States. Tokyo’s only swimming pool up to a very few years ago was that of the Tokyo Y. M. C. A. Since then two other indoor, heated pools have been built, one by the Tokyo Y.W.C.A., and the other by one of our large private universities. A number of very satisfactory outdoor pools have also been built recently. We are especially proud of the pool constructed at the Meiji Shrine Gardens in Tokyo in time for the Far Eastern Championship Games two years ago. This is one of the finest pools in the world today, and has a seating capacity in re-inforced concrete stands of some 12,000. Especially since the earthquake of 1923, many of our Tokyo schools, even the primary schools are being provided with small 25 meter pools in connection with the physical education plants and programme.

The development of public playground facilities is also a comparatively recent movement, dating chiefly from the earthquake reconstruction days. It is true, however, that in many

Digitized by kjOOQle
304

cases the shrine and church yards and grounds have been used as a kind of community recreation and play center. To-day in Tokyo we have about eighty parks, some fifty-three of which have been constructed within the past five years. In many of these parks open spaces are set aside as play and recreation places. There is in Tokyo, however, only one public playground trained superviser, and she has more or less general supervision of all the city playgrounds. Some of our Physical Education Training Schools, particularly the Higher Normal School, the Oimachi Physical Training School, and the Nikaido School for Girls, are gradually introducing certain courses along this line, and we hope that this condition will be improved before long. In all our primary and secondary schools a good deal of emphasis is being placed on proper athletic and recreational equipment, as well as on proper personnel to direct this phase of school education. This is quite a contrast to the situation a few years ago when the older type of stiff Swedish gymnastics, introduced to Japan some sixty years ago, was so common in all our schools.

Some of the games which have come to be very widely enjoyed in Japan, such as basketball, volley ball and mass games, have been introduced and very largely promoted under the active and able leadership of Mr. Franklin H. Brown, former Physical Director of the Y.M.C.A. in Japan. It has been in large measure due to his enthusiasm and promotion that these games have come to have such a wide popularity in every nook and corner in our land. The Tokyo Y.M.C.A., under the leadership of Mr. Yan-gita, who is one of our delegates to this Congress and Trainer for our Swimming Team, has also been taking a very active part in the development of a new type of fundamental gymnastics, based on the system of Danish Gymnastics as worked out by Mr. Neils Bukh.

Japan owes much to the United States for helping to teach us how to play. We need to carry on this development much further, and yet you would be surprised to know how deeply athletics and recreational activities from Europe and America have affected our whole life in Japan, even to our vocabulary. A very large number of sporting words which have no exact counterpart in our language have been taken over as they are, and are found in common, every day use among our young people. One illustration may be revealing along this line. One of the members of our delegation had occasion a year or two ago to visit a rural, back-woods community, miles away from the nearest railway. As he was walking through the village, he came to an empty lot, and such lots, by the way, are not very plentiful in our country. There he saw a group of youngsters playing baseball. He stopped to watch them, and was greatly surprised to hear those young Japanese boys calling out, “home run”, “strike”, “foul”. When asked where they had learned such English words, their reply was that they hadn’t been using any English words at all. It is quite true that such English vocabulary derived

!

/

Digitized by kjOOQle
305

from western sports, athletic life as well as the movies, have found their way into the very language our young people are using day by day.

The Physical Educator in Guidance

R. A. Hinderman, Lecturer in Education—University of Wisconin

Economic circumstances have been unkind to the schools in many ways, but in some respects they have been of great assistance. We need more men in teaching capacities in our schools. Approximately half of our school population is made up of boys and similarly the teaching force should comprise a comparable proportion as regards sex. A decreased demand for men in other occupations has made it possible for the schools to secure them as teachers. In teaching the whole boy and the whole girl master of subject matter becomes only one part of a plan which also gives due recognition to the social and physical growth and development of pupils.

Perhaps nowhere in the life of a boy is there a subject so all important or a person so omnipotent as physical education and the coach during the Junior High School period. It would be literally true to say that Junior High School boys worship the coach.

In many cases seventh and eighth grade boys look forward to an assembly period as a great relief from the tedious cares of school work. This, however, is not true when an assembly encroaches upon a physical education period. The impatience to have the program end as well as the hurried attempt to get to the gymnasium when the dismissal signal is given always requires certain disciplinary measures. There is no question but that boys enjoy physical education.

Again, when a coach has caught the guidance viewpoint you can see permitted to crowd about his desk happy expectant looking youngsters just bubbling over with questions. Have you observed how these boys treasure the answers, suggestions and ideas that the coach very carefully gives out? No person holds such a strategic position with respect to boys of this age as does the coach. He is the idol, he has their innermost confidence and his advice is remembered and put into practice. In this situation lies a touchstone to successful guidance with the teacher of physical education as the key man.

The principal needs more physical education men with diverse interests so that their service may be more general throughout the school. Teachers of physical education should understand the regular educational problems and be prepared and ready to assume such responsibilities as being a home room adviser, club sponsor, or academic committeeman.

“Teacher-counsellor” is the name which has recently been given to this era of secondary school education by a number of

Digitized by v^ooQle
306

authorities. It is very significant in that it includes in teaching the idea of service to the whole boy and the whole girl. Persons who are designated as teacher-counsellors are said to have the guidance viewpoint.

A careful analysis of such teachers reveals three common activities which they perform. They at all times make a conscious effort to provide for individual differences. In many subjects and many instances the difficulty of determining to what degree such provision is being made greatly hampers educational work. Here the teacher of physical education has a great advantage because many of his pupils’ activities can be objectively observed and treated. The teacher-counsellor is not characterized so much by a special knowledge of methods of providing for individual differences as he is by a determination to make the provision an exploratory emphasis to teaching. Pupils’interests are whetted when they learn that physical education is directly related to playground work, swimming, leisure, health, coaching and innumerable other things important in life. Incidentally the teacher can acquaint them with information about all of these topics as a regular part of the instruction. The high school experience of youngsters should tell them something about their own strengths and weaknesses. With the assistnce of the teacher the pupil in physical education should be able to determine rather well his own level of coordination. The teacher’s duty is to help him to see himself as he is.

The last characteristic of the teacher-counsellor is the conscious attempt which he makes to stimulate pupils on to greater achievement. Given the strategic position which the teacher of physical education holds, the good that he can do along this line is unmeasurable. He just naturally has this last characteristic.

The teacher of physical education can make a- distinct contribution to the guidance program of a school. Permanent records vary from the point of containing very scanty data on credits and school marks to that of embracing a volume of detail which includes almost everything down to the color of the cuticle. An analysis of the uses to which school records are put indicates that they serve three purposes: to record scholastic achievement to record personnel activities and interests, and to furnish a health record.

The long lines of pupils which form before physical education department doors at the opening of school with the* superficial examinations plus the inadequate recording of data are lamentable practices to say the least. What is needed is a careful study of the situation and the formulation of a significant health record embodying the essential items of health about which we need information and about which we can later do something to help needy individuals. Here is a problem for a physical education teacner-counsellor.

Pupil adjustments along educational and personal lines can be greatly aided by the physical education teacher. The standards

Digitized by tjOOQle
307

for work in physical education should be high and the teacher should require that all team members do creditable scholastic work. The coach and the physical education teacher have been referred to a number of times as being the same person because this is true in so many instances. The coach has it in his power to exert a good influence over the boys and a part of it should be toward getting them to improve their school work.

Singing is an activity which is good for all of us, but frequently the boys of a school frown upon such activities as being only for sissys. One way to overcome such false notions is to get some athletic star to take a lead in an operetta. It sometimes happens that the coach is aware of a good voice amongst his squad members because of the singing which takes place on trips. The remaining arrangements and cooperation are at once apparent to the teacher of physical education.

Now consider a situation such as this: Election of football captain has just been held and to the great surprise of the coach and general student body the natural choice wasn’t made by the letter men. Why not? Because this person who has greater football skill is hypercritical of his mates. Sometimes the coach must give a second and even a third explanation to some boy before he gets the point. This boy does not appreciate a sharp comment from one of the other players.

At this stage the coach in conference goes over the matter of sympathetic consideration, tact, and human kindness at enough length so that the boy actually sees what he has done and what he should do in the future. Does he get the next captaincy? Does practice in sympathetic, considerate and tactful behavior help him in later life? Ask the boy or his physical education teacher-counsellor.

The role of the physical educator in guidance is high because his is an important position in the school; because he has already gone a long way toward acquiring the guidance viewpoint; and because he has special contributions to make with respect to the health program and with respect to pupils’ educational and personal adjustments.

How About LaCrosse for Girls?

Martha Gable

Ten years ago an English sportswoman introduced lacrosse to American girls in two New England colleges. Since that time, interest in the game has spread rapidly through out the eastern part of the United States, and present reports indicate that the popularity of lacrosse among women is evident in many sections of the country. There are some who predict that eventually its importance will parallel that of field hockey in American athletics. It is a significant fact that a number of physical edu-

Digitized by ^ooQie
308

cation colleges now include a course in the coaching and playing of lacrosse as a regular part of their courses.

There is no doubt that the enthusiasm for lacrosse in the East has been increased greatly by the activities of the United States Women’s Lacrosse Association which was organized in .1932 with Mrs. Joyce Cran Barry as president. There are now five local associations in that organization: Baltimore, Philadelphia, Westchester, New York, and Boston. It is expected that soon there will be several new associations formed in the Middle West and South.

These local groups conduct regular practices, with coaching, during the winter and spring for all in their respective localities who are interested in playing. In May, each association sends two teams to the national tournament, where United States first and reserve teams are selected. This year the tournament will • take place in Philadelphia during the week end of May 18.

Last year, due to the efforts of the national association, an English team visited this country in order to arouse interest in the game, and to increase the rather limited knowledge of coaching and playing technique possessed by players here. Exhibition games were played throughout the East, and many of the visiting players gave talks and conducted practice for schools, colleges, and clubs at each stop on their tour. Their marvelous speed and technique, their eagerness to help, and their generosity and patience captivated the Americans, and popularized the sport where-ever the group appeared.

In August of this year, the national association is planning to send a team to England, in order that our players may gain the valuable training and experience to be derived from playing with and among experts. It is expected that this team will bring back a wealth of knowledge to pass on to lacrosse enthusiasts in this country.

Because of the increasing number of schools and colleges which now include lacrosse as a reuglar part of their athletic programs, the Women’s Section on Athletics of the American Physical Education Association has created a committee on lacrosse, with Miss Betty Cadbury as chairman. This committee aims to supply information to those who desire it, and to encourage participation in the game. At present, plans are under way to conduct an exhibition game as part of the program of the national convention of the American Physical Education Association in Pittsburgh, April, 1935.

Perhaps it seems strange that this sport, which is comparatively new to women in this country, should receive an enthusiastic welcome. But the explanation is not difficult.

For some time, American physical educators and sportswomen have felt the need of an organized outdoor sport during the winter and early spring. There are many fine, crisp days during the so called “indoor season” when lacrosse becomes an ideal answer to this need. Those who have had experience with this sport, both players and coaches, state that when it is played in
309

December, it eliminates the “let down” period which follows the hockey season. In a few schools, where lacrosse is conducted parallel to the basketball season, it is found to attract girls who prefer outdoor activities, and it relieves the monotony of the long indoor season for those who play both. However, the majority of coaches agree that the most valuable time on the sports program for lacrosse is during March and April, after the close of the basketball season, when many sport enthusiasts, particularly in high schools, are forced to comparative idleness.

The fascination which lacrosse holds for all who play, lies in the rhythmical freedom of its techniques. For this reason it is a delightful game to coach or to play, for there is so much enjoyment to be gained during the learning of the fundamentals. Cradling, throwing, catching, dodging, are fairly difficult skills to acquire, but players are satisfied to practice them for long intervals, without the usual impatience of beginners to “play a game.” Once in a game, a beginner soon realizes that unless she can keep the ball off the ground, she is not playing lacrosse. And when the barest progress makes itself evident, the game becomes irresistable!

Because it is active and vigorous sport, no obstacle is presented by cold weather unless the temperature is very low. And since the game is “in the air,” it can be played satisfactorily on frozen ground and on ground which is slightly soft or bumpy. Those schools which cannot offer hockey, because of the poor condition of their fields, will find lacrosse an adequate and enjoyable substitute.

During inclement weather, practice may be conducted indoors. The most effective passes are short, straight throws, and therefore, can be executed in the average gymnasium. In very cold weather, many coaches conduct the first part of the practice period on fundamentals, indoors, and then go outside for the more vigorous play. In this manner, regularity of practice may be maintained throughout a temperamental season.

From the health standpoint, lacrosse is an ideal conditioning game for all sports. It develops speed and endurance, along with a correct, upright running position, with head, chest, and arms held high on practically every movement. Miss Applebee, well known English hockey coach, is of the opinion that every girl in sports should play lacrosse, in order to counteract the tendency to run in a slightly hunched position, which is particularly noticeable in hockey.

Unfortunately, there are a few people, unfamiliar with the game as played by girls, who feel that lacrosse is a rough, dangerous sport. Undoubtedly many of this group base their opinions on knowledge of the men’s game. However, the present rules for girls, which are now included in “Spalding’s Official Field Hockey Guide,” are the result of careful thought by experienced women physical educators. The simplicity of the rules adds to the enjoyment of the game, for there are no technicalities to confuse or to interfere with the smooth progress of play. But

Digitized by UjOOQle
310

the rules are completely adequate for the safety and welfare of the players, and strictly forbid physical contact and roughness.

The chief obstacle confronting those who are eager to introduce lacrosse to girls everywhere is the cost of equipment However, since crosses now are manufactured in this country, they can be secured for little more than half the cost of imported ones. Considering the cheapness of lacrosse balls, and the reduction in the amount of care necessary for a lacrosse field, compared to parallel expenses for hockey, the cost of lacrosse is now no greater than that of hockey. It is unfortunate that the general development of lacrosse is delayed, at present, by economic conditions. But without a doubt, it is here to stay.

And so, for those physical educators who are anxious to broaden the play opportunities offered to girls; for those who desire to lengthen the season of outdoor sports; for those who wish to equip girls with the knowledge of a game which they can play after graduation, in a local association; and for those who wish to enjoy another excellent sport themselves, the question is repeated, “How about Lacrosse?”.

SOFT BALL

The 1935 edition of the “Joint Rules of Soft Ball” has been published. In accordance with an agreement reached at the Recreation Congress in Washington, D. C., this edition contains the official rules used by all organizations. Copies of the rules will be made available to any group for publication and distribution.

The following important changes in rules for the coming year are incorporated in the new edition:

The pitching distance shall be measured from the front of the pitcher’s box nearest home plate, to the point on home plate nearest the catcher.

The bat shall not be more than 34 inches in length nor more than 2 1-8 inches in diameter at its largest part. The bat shall have a safety grip which shall hot be less than 10 inches and shall not extend more than 15 inches from the small end of the bat.

The ball shall not be more than 6 1-2 ounces, and its circumference shall be from 12 to 12 1-4 inches.

Blunt metal spikes, extending not more than 3-8 in. from the sole of the shoe, may be used.

The use of gloves is optional with the fielders.

At no time during the game shall the pitcher be permitted to use tape or any other substance upon the pitching hand or fingers, nor shall any foreign substance be applied to the ball; except under the supervision and control of the umpire the pitcher may use powdered rosin to dry his hands.

The pitching rule was made more stringent, in that a ball shall be called each tme the pitcher makes any motion to pitch without immediately delivering the ball to the batsman.

A foul hit ball which rises higher than a batsman’s head should not be considered a foul tip.

Digitized by kjOOQle
311

The distance from home plate to a fence over which a home run should be called was fixed at 200 feet. A ball bouncing over the fence or into the stands from fair territory is limited to two bases.

The overthrow rule was changed so that if an overthrow takes place in making a play on a runner at or beyond the base to which the runner could advance, the runner shall be entitled to advance one base at which the overthrow occurred and other runners shall be entitled to advance accordingly. The old rules provided that the advance of the runner on an overthrow was determined by the position the base runner was at the time the pitch started. Under the new rule the advance is determined by the base at which the overthrow occurred.

A new scoring rule was provided in that if the bases are loaded, the man on third shall score without liability of being put out if the batsman is awarded a base on balls. There was some confusion under the old rule in that a runner could only score on a hit or play—National Recreation Association.

SUMMER CAMP FOR UNDERPRIVILEGED CHILDREN

It is a pleasure to present the following report on the splendid project conducted so successfully and generously by the Phi Delta Pi National Physical Education Fraternity for Women dining the past summer.

Seven years ago Phi Delta Pi National Physical Education Fraternity for Women inaugurated among its members a birthday fund, which later became known as the Camp Fund for Underprivileged Children. This summer the fund had grown to such a point that it was possible to rent a camp for two weeks and take care of twenty-four girls for that period. The site chosen was Camp Brosius at Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin. The staff, all volunteers, included:

Camp Director—Miss Martha Gable, Philadelphia, Pa. Handcraft—Miss Lillian Hilbert, Philadelphia, Pa. Business-Manager—Miss H. Doris Rail, Toledo, Ohio.

Dramatics and Dancing—Mrs. Gertrude Dickman, Chicago, 111. Music—Mrs. Winona Lindley, Louisville, Ky.

Trained Nurse—Mrs. Sylvia Graves, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Camp Cook—Mrs. Freida Witzler, Toledo, Ohio.

Equipment Chairman—Miss Bernice Lorber, Chicago, 111.

All equipment such as play suits, underwear, bathing suits and caps, soap, bools, puzzles, balls, bats, etc. were donated by the Active and Alumnae Chapters of Phi Delta Pi.

The prospective campers were carefully selected through the co-operation of welfare workers in Milwaukee and were required to pass the Dick Test. The Children’s Service Association of Milwaukee provided a case history and a medical record of each child. Attached to the medical record was a form to be filled out by the Counselors at the end of the season, rating each girl on disposition, personality, physical condition and accomplishment.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
312

The girls ranged in ages from ten to twelve years and were all with the exception of one girl, underweight. But here the homogeneity ceases, for many nationalities and probably twenty four dispositions and twenty-four degrees of accomplishment were to be reckoned with.

An enthusiastic staff went to the station to meet the train on which the excited campers arrived. It did not take long to discover that some of the girls had experienced their first train ride, and that none of them had ever been to a camp before. As soon as it was expedient after their arrival, the girls were given a thorough physical examination. After this the real fun began. Play suits, tennis shoes, bathing suits and caps, and other articles were distributed and then all went for a dip in the lake. The program consisted of hand-craft, singing, dancing, tumbling, nature study, swimming, boating, harmonica, hiking, and planned night programs. Health instruction was provided daily and a rest period of one and one half hours was required. Assemblies were held each morning, and during the second week the various cabins were responsible for the assembly programs. Assembly consisted of devotions, announcements, reports of cabin inspections by Counselors, and the singing of camp songs, of which many new ones were learned. Very early in the camp period the girls were divided into two teams, the purple and the gold, and individual and team scores were recorded on all achievements. Fortunately, there was plenty of milk and good food available, for the delightful environment was conducive to good appetites as was evidenced by the racing from the cabins to the Mess Hall as soon as the bugle sounded “mess call.”

At the latter part of the camping period a demonstration of dancing, harmonica, tumbling and pyramids provided an evening’s entertainment. At the same time articles completed in the handcraft classes—paper, reed, raffia work, leather belts and bead bracelets were exhibited.

The last night at camp was Award Night. The girls who had fulfilled the requirements of the Audubon Society received the button bearing the picture of a bird. Ten girls who passed the test of swimming twenty-five feet were awarded Red Cross beginners’ buttons. Members of the Purple team received first place badges for earning most points during the season. Members of the Gold team received second place badges. An award was given to the little camper who made the greatest physical gain, which was an addition of eight pounds in the two weeks. The best all around camper received an award. This last evening’s program was curtailed by actual tears-shedding on the part of some of the girls who did not want to go home because the Phi Delts had given them such a happy, gloriously full two weeks.

If, at the beginning of the period, there was a doubt in the mind of any of the Phi Delta Pi’s connected with the camp as to the worthwhileness of such a project, there surely could have been no trace of a doubt left at the close of the period.

Digitized by kjOOQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 41	March 1935 No.	426

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE

Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

New York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Normal

College

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney High School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin EL Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public Schools

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor^ 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesotat under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorials

In this issue of Mind and Body Professor Jay B. Nash presents as in-interesting and informative discussion on the scentific foundations of physical education, thereby providing us with an up to date exposition of the more important facts on the subject. Progressive teachers are fully aware that if they are to conduct an acceptable educational program they must be kept informed not only on new scientific facts but on the relationship of such facts to the better known and accepted information. However, teachers find it difficult to obtain the information currently. Only too rarely do our professional journals carry the type of article which is needed. Accordingly, we are grateful to Professor Nash for his present contribution. For a fuller treatment of the subject we recommend a reading of “Interpretations of Physical Education”, Volume IV, Jay B. Nash, Editor.

In the article, “Health Work and Physical Education In Secondary Education” in this issue of Mind and Body appears the following quotation from Monograph No. 28 on Health Work and Physical Education which is a part of the report on the national survey of secondary education conducted by the Federal Office of Education: “In the courses of study examined, of twenty-four

Digitized by LjOOQle
314

announced objectives, the teaching of exercises which would furnish proper and enjoyable recreation for living in later life was most often mentioned. The objectives next in point of frequency were likewise directed toward adult life.” No one will deny the great importance of these objectives; but why they should be listed as the most important is rather difficult to understand. Surely the present developmental and recreational needs of the boy and girl should receive first consideration. If these needs of youth are satisfied it is not necessary for us to worry very much about the needs in later life, provided that communities offer the facilities.

Actually, in few school systems is much serious effort put forth to attain the first mentioned objective. The extent to which the objective is attained comes mostly as a natural consequence of a program of activities suited to the recreational interests of the high school boys and girls involved. It is unfortunate, however, that so many teachers who think mainly in terms of those objectives set up a program consisting solely of games.

Lacrosse for girls seems to have gained rapid headway during the last two years in some parts of this country. Our English sisters, however, are ahead of us both in the extent to which the game is played and in the skill of the players. Last year an English team of girls visited the United States on invitation to stimulate the sport among us.

Is the game too strenuous and difficult for girls? This is a question which will arise in the minds of many. The lacrosse enthusiasts say the game is an ideal activity for the spring season if played in accordance with the women’s rules which are a modification of those used by men. Teachers who will go to the Pittsburgh Convention of the American Physical Education Association will have an opportunity to judge the effects of the sport by attending the demonstration game to be played as a part of the program.

Soft Ball is a game which should be fostered to a much greater extent than is now the case. It is true that in some states it has attained great popularity, and the sponsors are to be congratulated for their efforts. The value of this game is especially great in relatively congested areas; and it has assumed increased importance in this era of leisure time. The game is interesting to players and spectators alike; two to four games can be played on an area required for regular baseball; equipment is inexpensive; danger of injury to players, spectators, and property is relatively slight; and a satisfactory game can be played by unskilled people. All that is lacking in many communities is some group or individual to stimulate interest. The logical organizations to do this are the public schools and the departments of recreation.

Emil Rath and Clara Hester of our editorial staff are conducting an interesting study with regard to rhythmic activities in an effort to obtain a consensus of opinion with regard to the proper scope and place of such activities in the program of physical education. In an effort to make the results of the study truely representative, teachers in the various sections of the country are being asked to express their opinions. It is hoped that teachers who are not approached will voluntarily send in their views. Teachers are asked to accept this editorial notice as a hearty invitation to join in the vaulable study.

Digitized by LjOOQle
315

Among the questions for which answers are sought are the following: What forms of dancing are most valuable and practical? To what extent can we expect children to understand musical structure in terms of time, tempo, accent, phrasing, notation, etc. so that it may be interpreted in terms of rhythmical movements? To what extent can children be expected to interpret rhythmical patterns? To what grade level can you go in expecting children to make such interpretations? To what extent should floor patterns be introduced into rhythmics? Are we wasting time in expecting the average pupil to do creative dancing? Can primary and intermediate grade children be expected to do creative work? Shall we distinguish between pantomime dancing and in dramatics? How?

When this interesting and important work has been completed, we shall publish the consensus of opinions. Will you help make it worthwhile?

Is it not an unpleasant commentary on our civilization that it required a world war to awaken our legislators and our “leading citizens” to the need for improving the physical condition of our population? And is it not a matter of great concern and discouragement to those who have the intrest of all the people at heart that these same leaders, now that there is no threat of war on the horizon, are ever ready to cut and even to eliminate the public support of physical activities for children? What sort of a government is it which will encourage and support the health of its constituents only when it is in danger of defeat.

Perhaps the condition is largely the fault of physical educators through failure to conduct an aggressive program of enlightenment. We must continually impress educational leaders as well as laymen by word and deed with the objectives and values of our work in order to obtain and maintain their active support.

It is true, of course, that there are still many places in which there has been progressive advancement in our work. But so close are the contacts and relationships of educators and of people in general everywhere today that in the long run we must all rise or fall together.

It is gratifying to note that there has been some increase in the use of bicycles during the last few years. This means for obtaining delightful and beneficial physical activity has been greatly neglected. The neglect undoubtedly has been a direct consequence of the advent and common use of the automobile.

The bicycle affords a pleasant and satisfying means of exercising the body * and getting where the beauties of nature may be enjoyed, as well as being an aid to health. With millions of dollars being spent for good roads for automobiles, why not spend some for the bicyclist? Portions of existing roads could be set aside, others built, and certain ones limited to the use of the cyclist. Such action was taken in several European countries many years ago. Our country with its great wealth can do as much.

Many of our parks set aside bridle paths for horses, why not for the bicycle?

We talk and write much concerning the use and importance of physical activities during leisure time. We modify our school programs of physical ed-cation in order to provide children with the opportunity to develop skills and

Digitized by v^.ooQle
316

interests which are valuable in the attainment of the objective of worthy use of leisure time. Then we turn the same pupils out of the schools into communities in which there are only the most meager facilities and equipment for participation in such activities. What more worth while project can physical educators undertake than the education of their repsective communitise in the importance of providing adequate facilities. In the effort to attain the objective, it is important as a first step to enlist the active cooperation of as many influential local individuals, organizations, and newspapers as possible.

Usually when the problem of leisure time is considered, thought and discussion dwell on the part people should play as active participants or as spectators. The universal desire for mere contemplation is entirely overlooked. People do not wish to be actively engaged at all times. There are hours during which we wish nothing more than to lie in the grass and watch the world go by.

Of course, main emphasis must be placed on the development of avocation-al interests and hobbies which involve activity because relatively few individuals have them, and further, because these same avocations and hobbies contribute greatly toward subjects of healthful contemplation. But generous provison should be made in communities for quiet places in parks where people may sit or lie down with nature and just look around and think.

In a recent issue of Hygeia, Dr. I. Newton Kugelmass emphasized the wrong which is being done to children by enforced molding to the means of mass measurement. He stated: *'‘Standardizing plastic youth into average patterns is detrimental physically to growing children, troublesome psychologically to perturbed parents and false biologically to the national ideal. Children are individuals, not average, in their body build and in their organs and tissues even to the single cells, twenty-five trillion in number, that compose the human structure. Every child is unitary and unique”. This is by no means new information to physical educators. However, it does serve as a reminder that we should not demand and expect the same quality and quantity of achievement from all pupils. Failure on the part of teachers to practice this rule leads to parental objection and pupil dissatisfaction and loss of interest, a condition which is extremely detrimental to the status of physical education as a form of required education. We must keep in mind that physical makeup and ability varies as does mental make-up and ability, and that in the lower half of the scale are to be found many “physical morons” who cannot now or later measure up to the “average” or superior physical type. It is fortunate, however, that from the standpoint of socialization there are some forms of physical education such as dancing and games of low organization in which all children can join in common enjoyment and profit.

Oxford Meeting, World Federation of Education Association.—The 1935 meeting of the World Federation of Education Associations will be held, August 10-17, in Oxford, England. The meeting will be in conjunction with two other strong international organizations, the International Federation of Teachers Associations [elementary] and the International Federation of Associations of Teachers in Secondary Schools, which guarantees representation from most of the countries. Persons who attend

Digitized by LjOoq le
317

will have opportunity for making interesting contacts with many lands.

Practical Material

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the seventh set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual w^y, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Climbing Ropes for school grades 9A and 9B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semester.]

Digitized by L^OOQle
Digitized by

CLIMBING ROPES — GIRLS — GRADE 9A

Fair

Good

o

o

Excellent

OO

FT

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb at least three steps. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb two steps. Change to the climbing position of the legs to the opposite rope. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing posi- One rope

tion on one rope. Climb Jump to a climbing position. Climb

five steps. Change to a three steps. Climb downward to

climbing position on the a stand. Then repeat.

second rope. Change to

the third rope. Climb

downward.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Cliinb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb to the top. Change the legs to a climbing position on the other rope. Climb downward.

Two ropes

Walk backward with one rope in each hand. Run forward [slide the hands upward on the ropes], jump to a bent-arm hang with knees raised forward and complete the forward swing. In the bent-arm hang swing backward. At the beginning of the next forward swing drop to a stand. [The hands slide down on the ropes in dropping to a stand and retain a hold on the ends of the ropes whe finishing.]

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb five steps. Change the climbing position of the legs and the one hand to other rope. Climb downward on one rope.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top! Climb downward half way. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb downward to a stand.
Digitized by

GRADE 9 B

Good

Excellent

o

o

n

!

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb at least 5 steps. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb 3 steps. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Change to the thir rope. Climb downward.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb three steps. Change to a climbing position of the legs on the opposite rope.

Return to a climbing position on the first rope. Climb downward.

One rope	One	rope

Climb to the top of one Jump to a climbing position. Climb rope. Climb downward. five steps. Climb downward to

a stand. Repeat immediately.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb three steps. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb an additional three steps. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb half way. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb to the top. Change to the third rope. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top. Change to the second and then to the third rope. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top. Climb downward a short distance Change to the second rope. Climb downward a short distance. Change to the third rope and climb downward to a stand.
Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top. Climb downward traveling to the second and third ropes.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb half-way. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb to the top. Climb downward.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Then change to the third rope. Climb downward.

O

CQ

o

o

o

Good	Two	ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb halfway. Climb downward in the bent-arm hang on two ropes without the use of the legs.

Excellent One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb downward without the use of the legs to a stand. Then repeat.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb half-way. Change to a bent-arm hang on the second rope. Climb downward without the use of the legs.

Three ropes

Jump to a bent-arm hang on one rope and climb half-way without the use of the legs. Travel sideward to the third rope with the use of the legs. Climb downward without the use of the legs.

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb downward halfway. Release the leg-hold and climb downward to a stand without the use of the legs.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top. traveling to the third rope before reaching the top. Climb downard without the use of the legs.
Digitized by

GRADE 9B

Good

Excellent

o

o

n

One rope

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb five steps. Climb downward without the use of the legs.

Two ropes

With one hand on each rope jump to a climbing position with the legs on one rope. Climb three steps. Climb downward on two ropes without the use of the legs.

Two ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the fop. Change to a climbing position on the second rope. Climb downward without the use of the legs.

One rope

Jump to a bent-arm hang and climb half-way without the use of the legs. Climb downward with the use of the legs.

One rope

Jump to a bent-arm hang and climb to the top without the use of the legs. Climb downward without the use of the legs.

Two ropes

Jump to a bent-arm hang on one rope and climb to the top without the use of the legs. Then take a leg-hold on the rope. Place one hand on the second rope and release the leg-hold. Climb downward in the bent-arm hang on two ropes without the use of the legs.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top, changing to the second and then to the third rope before reaching the top. Climb downward.

One rope

Jump to a climbing position. Climb to the top. Climb downward to a stand. Then repeat immediately.

Three ropes

Jump to a climbing position on one rope. Climb to the top. Travel sideward to a climbing position on the third rope. Climb to the bottom. Without touching the floor travel to the first rope and climb to the top. Travel to the third rope and climb downward to a stand.
322

Group and Couple Dances Suitable for High School Girls

Fred E. Foertsch

This is the second installment of a series of group and couple dances designed for high school girls. The first installment appeared in the March 1934 issue. These dances are not necessarily restricted to the grade indicated. They may be used in any junior or senior high school level and may also be found suitable for adult classes.

The primary purpose is to provide vigorous muscular activity by means of a series of interesting combinations of dance steps and figures in various rhythms. The floor patterns and the combinations of steps are similar to those found in folk dances. The dances are short and the combinations are not difficult. This adds much to the recreational values of the dances.

Flexibility with respect to floor space, size of classes, and musical composition has also been considered in arranging the dances. Large classes may readily be broken up into several circles in order to conserve floor space. In the open formations the range of movement in any given direction has been limited for the same reason. In connection with the music it will be noted that any standard composition may be used, provided the rhythm is appropriate. This permits the choice of sheet music, piano-player rolls, or victrola records.

It will be noted in this and future installments that a number of dances are prefaced by several “Preliminary Sequences”. This has been done in order to facilitate the teaching of a new dance step which appears in the dance.

The following dances in mazurka time have been arranged for Grade 7A [“A” representing the first semester of the grade]. Any standard musical composition in mazurka time may be used.

PREPARATORY SEQUENCES IN MAZURKA TIME

Music: “The Four-Leaf Clover” Mazurka—H. Engelmann, Op. 26 , No. 4, Published by Theo. Presser Co.

“Dainty Miss Daisy” Mazurka—H. Engelmann, Op. 607,

No. 3, Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Open Order Sequence I

1.	Three mazurka-hops left sideward .....   3	Measures

2.	Three stamps in place ................   I	Measure

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 right ........... 4	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

Sequence II

1.	Three mazurka-hops left sideward ....... 3	Measures

2.	Three light running steps in place with a 4-4

turn left ............................   1	Measure

Digitized by LjOOQle
323

4 Measures

r

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 right .

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

Sequence III

1.	Two Mazurka-hops left sideward .......... 2	Measures

2.	Three light running steps in place with a 4-4 turn left 1-2-3, place right foot sideward-4,

pause -5-6 .............................   2	Measures

3.	Repeat right ............................ 4	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

MAZURKA COUPLE DANCE

Music: “Primrose” Polka-Mazurka—Richard Goordeler Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Column of front couples, inner hands joined shoulder high. The column moves around the gymnasium.

Part I

All begin with outer foot.

1.	Four double-balance-hops forward............... 4	Measures

2.	Six light running steps	forward .............   2	Measures

3.	Partners release hands and move in a small circle

outward [starting away from each other] with three running steps—1-2-3, then jump in place with feet together and facing front with regrasping the inner hands—4, pause -5-6 ....... 2	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 but with the

jump with closing feet partners-face each other and raise arms sideward grasping each other’s hands........................................  8	Measures

Total ...................................   16	Measures

Part II

Partners are facing each other with arms sideward and hands joined.

1. Two Mazurka-hops sideward in the direction of

the leading couple.............................. 2	Measures

2.	Both execute three small running steps moving

clockwise in a small semi-circle, partners exchanging places -1-2-3, then both point sideward in the direction of the leading couple -4, pause -5-6 ............................:........ 2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 beginning with opposite

foot, moving in direction of leading couple .... 4	Measures

4.	Repeat all of above measures..................... 8	Measures

Total ,...................................... 16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

Digitized by A^OOQle
324

MAZURKA CIRCLE DANCE

Music: “Graceful Steps” Mazurka—H. Engelmann—Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Couples forming a single flank line in circle formation, partners facing each other. Ten to twelve couples in each circle.

Part I

1.	Two mazurka-hops left sideward, partners move

away from each other [one toward the center and one away from the center ...............

2.	Three running steps in place with a 4-4 turn

left -1-2-3, jump with closing feet—4, pause -5-6

3.	Two mazurka-hops right sideward returning to

partner ....................................

4.	Partners join hands with arms sideward and

execute three running steps [right, left, right] in a semi-circle counter clockwise. Partners exchange places during these three steps -1-2-3, and then jump with closing feet -4, and pause

-5-6 .......................................

NOTE: The one who went toward the center is now ready to move outward and the one one who went outward is ready to mov« toward the center.

2 Measures 2 Measures 2 Measures

2 Measures

5.	Repeat all of the above steps under No. 1 to No. 4. With the last three steps partners return to their original plates and face the center of the circle forming a single front line with neighbors’ hands grasped ............................   8	Measures

Total

16 Measures

Part II

1. All face left [neighbors’ hands remain joined] and move in a circle clockwise two double-balance-

hops forward] left and right ................. 2	Measures

2.	Six running steps forward ..................... 2	Measures

3.	Repeat steps under No. 1 and No. 2 above, but

with the last three counts jump [feet closed] with facing right about -1, pause -2-3 [hands remain grasped] .............................. 4	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 3 above beginning with the

right foot and moving in a circle counter clockwise. On the last three counts jump in place closing feet and face partner ................ 8	Measures

Total ...................................   16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

Digitized by kjOOQle
325

The following dances in schottische time have been arranged for Grade 7A [“A” representing the first semester of the grade]. Any standard musical composition in schottische time may be used.

The next issue of Mind and Body will carry additional dances in waltz rhythm.

PREPARATORY SE ^UENCES IN SCHOTTISCHE TIME

Music: “The Garden Party” Schottische—H. Engelmann, Op. 581, No. 4 Published by Theo. Presser Co.

“Rosebud Schottische”—H. Engelmann, Op. 336, No. 8 Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Column of front couples, inner hands joined. The column moves around the gymnasium.

Sequence I

1. Three-step-swing-hop [schottische] left and

right forward ............................ 2	Measures

2.	Four step-swing-hops forward ............ 2	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

Sequence II

1.	Three-step-swing-hop left forward ....... 1	Measure

2.	Two swing-hops [right and left] forward.. 1	Measure

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 beginning right .. 2	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

Sequence III

1.	Balance-hop left forward—1-2, step-swing-hop

right backward—3-4.......................  1	Measure

2.	Three-step-swing-hop forward [beginning left] 1	Measure

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 beginning right .. 2	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

Formation: Open order

Sequence IV

1. Three-step-swing-hop left sideward [step left sideward—1, cross step right in rear—2, step

left sideward—3, hop left with legswing right

forward—4], then repeat right sideward ... 2	Measures

2.	Four step-swing-hops forward ...........  2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 ............................ 2	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 2 but backward .............   2	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.

Sequence V

1.	Glide-balance-hop left forward—1-2, stepswing-hop right backward—3-4 ................ 1	Measure

2.	Three-step-swing-hop left sideward ...... 1	Measure

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 beginning right .. 2	Measures

Repeat until the steps are mastered.
326

SCHOTTISCHE COUPLE DANCE

Music: “Jewel Dance" Schottische—H. Engelmann, Op. 3, No. 4 Published by Theo. Presser Co.

“Gentle Shepherdess" Schottische—H. Engelmann—Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Column of front couples. Inner hands joined. All begin left.

PART I

1.	Schottische [three-step-swing-hop] left and

right forward ............................. 2	Measures

2.	Balance-hop left forward—1-2, step-swing-hop

right backward—3-4......................... 1	Measure

NOTE:—With the swing-hop right backward the left leg is carried from the forward to the sideward position preparatory to a cross-stride-

jump.

3.	Jump to a cross-stride-stand [left foot in rear]—1, jump to a side-stride-stand—2,

jump closing feet—3, pause—4 ............. 1	Measure

4.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 3 above, but with the

side stride jump partners face each other. 4 Measures

Total ................................ 8	Measures

PART II

Partners facing each other—both begin left.

1.	Schottische left and right sideward ..... 2	Measures

2.	Balance-hop left forward [toward each other grasping right hands, shoulder high]—1-2, then step-swing-hop right backward releasing

hands—3-4 ................................ 1	Measure

3.	Both take 4 small running steps forward exchanging places and facing each other, [in

passing each other both give the right hands] 1 Measure

4.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 3 above ............. 4	Measures

Total................................. 8	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

PLAYFUL SCHOTTISCHE

Music: “Impudence Schottische"—Alan Macey [arranged by Roily King] .Oliver Ditson Co.l Published by Theo. Presser Co.

“Dahlia” Schottische Impromptu—Richard Goordeler—Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Lines of front couples. The alternate lines face each other.

Digitized by Google
327

Diagram

i-

h

h

I-

I-

I-

h

I-

H	h	H	I-	H

-t	h	H	I-	H

H	h	H	I-	H

H	h	H	H	H

H	h	H	H	H

-i	h	H	h	H

H	I-	H	I-	H

-I	h	H	h	H

PART I

Neighbors’ hands joined shoulder high.

All begin left.

1.	Hop right and place left foot obliquely left forward—1, hop right and raise left foot

front of right knee—2, repeat—3-4 ......... 1	Measure

2.	Schottische step left sideward ........... 1	Measure

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 to the right ...... 2	Measures

4.	Both lines execute four running steps forward

toward each other—1-4.	NOTE: On the

fourth count raise hands forward and clap

hands with members of opposite line ....... 1	Measure

5.	Four running steps backward.............   1	Measure

6.	Face partner, armlock right and execute a

4-4 millwheel right in 4 step-hops. On the last step-hop all form in line as in the beginning .................................   2	Measures

7.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 6 above .............. 8	Measures

Total .................................16	Measures

PART II

Neighbors’ hands joined shoulder high.

1.	Schottische [three-step-swing-hop] left and

right sideward ............................ 2	Measure

2.	Eight light running steps forward [each line passing through the other to the opposite side]. As the members of the two lines meet the hands are released. After passing through the members face about regrasping neigh-

bors' hands. Both lines have exchanged

places .................................. 2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 returning to original

places .................................. 4	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 3 above ............. 8	Measures

Total ................................16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
328

Health Education

LIGHT AND VISION

Preston S. Millar

NOTE: SCIENTIFIC experiments prove that ocular fatigue and nervous fatigue are greater under conditions of improper illumination. Here is an opportunity to learn about lighting from an expert on the subject.

It is difficult to disassociate light from vision. Light reveals; vision perceives. Where there is no light, there is no vision. Where there is no vision, light is of no avail. There is a mutuality in the problems of the oculist and the lighting specialist that cannot be escaped. I presume that the oculist can do his work more intelligently if he is acquainted with the fundamentals of lighting. And I am very sure the lighting specialist can do his work more effectively if he is acquainted with the characteristics of the eye to which the lighting must cater.

Adequacy of Illumination

First, of course, when thinking of light, is the importance of providing adequate illumination. That is so obvious that it ought not to have to be demonstrated. Yet, peculiarly, in practice it is neglected rather than observed. All over the land people are trying to do visual work with inadequate illumination.

It is probably a common observation that ample illumination makes it possible to read on an eye chart type of smaller size than can be read with somewhat less quantity of light. Similarly, one can perceive motion when there is ample light which escapes notice under lower levels of illumination.

The importance of adequacy of illumination is well established in lighting lore and is supported by experiments in several directions. Laboratory investigations have demonstrated that ocular fatigue and nervous fatigue involved in the performance of a given visual task are greater under relatively low levels of illumination than they are when the illumination is adequate. In the industries it has been found repeatedly that when levels of illumination are increased, production of workers is increased and spoilage is diminished. In the lighting of city streets it is established that there is an inverse relationship between the number of traffic accidents and the amount of light provided in the streets at night. As the illumination of the streets increases, traffic accidents diminish. As the illumination of the streets is diminished, traffic accidents become more frequent. Engineers have investigated the economics of this matter with the conclusion that under ordinary circumstances a municipality would be justified economically in spending, say, three times as much money as is customary for street light in order to obtain more adequate illumination. Such additional expenditure would actually effect
329

savings for the community and this is quite aside from all humanitarian aspects of the traffic accident problem.

As a first requisite in lighting which is simple and obvious but widely neglected, it must be set down that an adequate quantity of light must be provided if the illumination is to be satisfactory and visual requirements are to be met.

Glare Avoidance

Sufficient light, however, is not enough. It is necessary to avoid glare. That, again, is thought to be well understood by the public. Everybody thinks he understands what glare is and, if course, knows that he should avoid glare. But, again, in practice, this is an injunction that is flagrantly neglected. Glare is to be found to a degree that causes difficulty in reading and in other ocular occupations throughout the homes of our land.

Take any circumstances in which print can be read easily. If a bright light source is thrown into the field of view, it is impossible or difficult to read letters near the glaring source.

Another type of glare, which is more prevalent and not avoided usually, is specular glare due to reflection of some bright surface or light source from a glossy paper or other work surface. Specular reflection from an observed surface handicaps vision and occasions ocular discomfort. In reading, very frequently this effect is encountered in a lesser degree where often it is not noticed. But the continued attempt to use the eyes under conditions of specular glare results in fatigue. Whether or not it results in ultimate injury to the eyes, oculists are better fitted to say than I am.

In any piece of visual work it is easy to determine whether or not from this standpoint of glare the reading conditions or working conditions are satisfactory. If through a mirror laid upon the piece of work one can see the reflection of a brilliant source of light or of a brightly lighted surface, there would result from the work surface some specular glare. The mirror test is especially practical in the home where children do studying. If they work at a desk, very often the light source is not properly located or their posture is not right or the light source is not properly diffused. A mirror laid upon the desk top, viewed from the ordinary position of the eyes, will quickly tell whether or not there is any source of glare which is causing disturbance through specular reflection from the page of a book. Once specular glare is identified it is easy to remedy. Changing the location of the light source may obviate the difficulty. The light may be diffused by interposing an opal glass or other diffusing screen. Or the position of the eyes may be changed so that one does not look in a critical direction toward a work surface.

For good results in lighting it is necessary that there be an ample amount of illumination and that there be absence of glare. Color

When we turn to the field of color, there is opened out to examination a vast new region of great interest in which the characteristics of both light and vision are involved.

Digitized by t^ooQle
330

Every school child knows in mixing paints that blue-green [minus red], crimson or purple [minus green] and yellow [minus blue] are the primary pigment colors and by mixing these with white paint in suitable proportions a paint of any color can be obtained. He knows that yellow and blue-green pigments mixed will produce green. That, of course, is not an ocuiar phenomenon in any sense. Speaking in a very general way the blue-green pigments absorb the reds, oranges and yenows. The yellow pigments absorb the blues and violets. Tne only rays that are not absorbed by the two kinds of pigments are greens. The green light is reflected. So we say blue and yellow pigments make green.

When it comes, however, to radiant energy which is of those wave lengths that we identify with colors in the visible spectrum, a very different set of primaries is involved. Red, green and blue are the light primaries. Discs of red, green and blue light if caused to overlap produce an approximation of white light. Another way of mixing coiors to obtain white is to present the colors in rapid succession to the eye. The eye receives the impression and through persistence of the sensation mixes them to produce a single color impression. If we could get colored papers or fabrics which were substantially pure color, we could with a color wheel show a mixture which wouid appear quite white. However, available pigmentary colors are by no means pure. Consequently their mixture produces gray instead of white.

The two illustrations, both well known, of radiant energy corresponding with red, green and blue and of the color wheel, are involved with ocular effects. The eye is revealed as a synthesizing instrument presenting one final sensation from the mixture of three hues.

There is a more obscure effect which may be illustrated with the aid of a Benham disk. When the disk is motionless it is seen that half of it is black and the other half is white with some black circular lines drawn on the white portion. When the disk is revolved at an adequate speed it assumes a.uniform appearance in so far as the two halves are concerned. Due to the persistence of sensations previously referred to, it appears as a gray disk instead of being half black and half white. Where the biack lines on the white field form arcs of circles, revolution produces an appearance as of continuous rings. When the rate of revolution is at a critical slow speed, these rings appear colored variously as red, tan, green and blue. There are no such colors present in the disc, so that the appearance of color is an ocular effect. In this case, seeing is not believing. The reader is referred to books on optics for theories as to the explanation of these effects. Color Vision

The spectrum of sunlight as seen, for example, in the rainbow is well known. With a prism or a diffraction grating, a beam of white light can be dispersed into its spectral colors for observation. Any red object displayed in the red band of the spectrum, of course, looks red. Placed in the green part of the spectrum it

Digitized by (^.ooQle
331

appears black because it would fail to reflect much of the green light. A green object displayed in the green part of the spectrum would be green but in the red part of the spectrum it would look black. A white object displayed in any part of the spectrum would take on the hue of the spectrum itself because a white surface reflects light of all colors. The normal human eye perceives these colors and we take it as a matter of course, rarely thinking about the fact that the eye is being stimulated by radiant energy of various wave lengths and that it is incapable of appreciating the various hues equally well. For radiation of uniform strength throughout the range of the visible spectrum the intensity of the sensation of light varies. The eye must receive many times more radiant energy of wave lengths near the ends of the spectrum, i. e., in the blues and violets and in the reds, than it must receive in the greens and yellows near the middle of the spectrum, in order to experience an equal light sensation.

Reverting to consideration of the spectrum, sunlight and light from the usually employed tungsten filament lamps produce continuous spectra in which the colors merge gradually from one to another without interruption of continuity. There are other light sources, however, which produce light having a banded spectrum. The energy from such sources is concentrated at certain wave lengths. Thus the mercury vapor lamp radiates principally at isolated points in the green, yellow and deep blue. The sodium lamp, newest of artificial illuminants, concentrates its radiation in one band of yellow light.

Much as red, green and blue light may be mixed to produce white,, so with commercial illuminants manufactuers may combine light sources of distinctive colors in such a way as to produce synthetic light of a different quality. In such practice, gaseous discharge tubes of the types used in signs are commonly utilized. These produce banded spectra and may be combined to produce light which appears to the eye to be white but which is not a true white light suitable, for example, for color matching purposes. Such a combination can be obtained by the use of neon to add red to the mercury light, and thus produce a light which seems white to the eye, which is not an analytical instrument but which discloses on instrumental analysis large gaps in the spectrum which may distort certain colors.

It is well known that the color appearance of objects depends largely upon the color of the light by which they are illuminated. Not infrequently purchases of colored fabrics have proved unsatisfactory because they were purchased under light of a hue different from that under which they were used.

HEALTH EDUCATION NOTES

Dental Decay.—Dentists have for many years sought the answer to the riddle of dental decay. Up to date the solution has evaded them although impressive partial success has in late years been achieved. In the latter part of the last century, W. D.

Digitized by v^ooQle
332

Miller, a dental investigator, definitely established the fact that decay starts on a tooth surface to which has become attached a colony of acid-forming bacteria. Such a surface is at least technically an unclean surface, and the realization of this fact, together with its logical, complementary implication, led to the formulation of the familiar slogan that a clean tooth never decays. The acceptance of this concept led to advanced efforts in tooth cleaning, and culminated in the training and legalization in many states of dental hygienists, young women trained to clean teeth. While efforts to prevent decay by tooth cleaning have not resulted in 100 per cent success, the part played by the so-called prophylactic treatment and by intensive attention to home care of the mouth in the prevention of dental disease is both impressive and encouraging.

In recent years the belief has been gaining ground, supported by much laboratory and clinical research, that dental caries is directly controllable by dietary means. Investigators have stressed vitamin intake, correct proportions and amounts of minerals, acid-base balance [ratio of alkaline forming to acid forming foods], eating of raw food, and diminished intake of refined sugar, white flour and so forth. There is lack of unanimity among these investigators as to which element or elements are most important in the proposed caries preventive diet, and at present it is not possible to offer any special diet or type of diet with assurance that it will accomplish the desired result. There is, however, general agreement that dental decay can be largely controlled by dietary means.

Diets recommended tend to be rich in all vitamins, to contain considerable lime and phosphorus and to be, on the whole, alkaline forming. Vegetables [green leafy], fruits, and milk form the foundation of these diets. Clinically the best results in the attempt to control dental caries by dietary means have been obtained in orphanages or in groups of children under equally rigid dietary control. Study of the menus in these institutions points to the need of enrichment in the elements mentioned far beyond the range found in the average American home and a restriction on many foods commonly found on the American table.—John O McCall, D.D.S. in Child Health Bulletin.

Treatment of Obesity in Children.—H. Mulier and A Topper [American Journal of Diseases of Children, 47:25, January, 1934] report the treatment of obesity in 25 children in whom careful examination showed no evidence of endocrine dysfunction. In all cases there was a history of overfeeding and of diets rich in carbohydrates and relatively high in fats, so that the obesity in these cases is to be regarded as purely nutritional. The treatment in these cases consisted in reduction of the total caloric intake to force the body to use up its stores of fat; a high protein content in the diet [40 per cent total calories] to stimulate growth and metabolism; reduction of salt and water to eliminate water retention; increased physical activity to stimulate metabolism.
333

Much of the carbohydrate of the diet was supplied by vegetables and fruits, supplying vitamins and mineral salts in adequate amounts. This treatment resulted in a reduction in weight of 9 to 24 pounds, averaging 13 1-2 pounds; the average increase in growth was 1 1-2 inches, while the expected growth for the period of observation was 1 inch. The basal metabolism was maintained at a normal level; and the children showed an increased well-being increased capacity for physical activity, and an increased interest in school studies. Better eating habits were acquired, which were maintained after the treatment was finished.

News Notes

The national convention of the American Physical Education association and its Eastern District Society will be held in Pittsburgh, April 24-27, 1935.

Friends and professional colleagues will regret very much to learn of the death of Dr. Herman Groth. Dr. Groth, who rendered many years of faithful and effective service in Tumvereins and in the public schools of Pittsburgh, died on the eve of the National Convention of the American Physical Education Association in Pittsburgh. Before his death, Dr. Groth had completed many of the arrangements which are so necessary in connection with a successful convention.

The loss of Dr. Groth will be felt quite as much by the American Gymnastic Union as by the Pittsburgh public schools. In connection with the former organization, Dr. Groth was until his death a member of the National Executive Committee and he held the very important position of Chairman of the National Technical Committee.

A Danger In Wrestling.—Trachoma, an eye disease which is one of the principal causes of blindness, has been noted recently among wrestlers, according to the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness. Lewis H. Carris, Managing Director of the Society, has asked the sports editors of the country to call the attention of wrestlers to this danger and to urge any whose eyes are bothering them to be examined by an eye physician, as a precautionary measure; this will not only protect the wrestler himself, but it may also prevent the spreading of trachoma to others, as the disease is communicable in close contact.

“Several eye physicians,” said Mr. Carris, “have reported to the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness that, in addition to professional wrestlers, many college athletes who engage in the sport are suffering from trachoma. It has been almost an occupational disease among professional wrestlers for a long time. The menace of this disease, however, has become

Digitized by kjOOQle
334

greater because of the increased popularity of wrestling in recent years and because such a large number of young college men have gone into the sport professionally.

“In wrestling, the bodies of two men are in close contact; their tears and their perspiration drip all over, and some of it naturally gets into the eyes of the other fellow. Thus the disease is transmitted from one to another; in fact, it is said that almost everyone who is a professional wrestler for a few months is in grave danger of becoming infected.”

Recreational Leadership.—Adequately trained leaders are easily the greatest factor in recreation programs.— Franklin Roosevelt.

“How Much Freedom in Education?”—Pulliam emphasizes that the individual and society are twin-bom. Complete individual freedom is not possible under any circumstances. He asserts that whereas the methods of the school should conform to the nature of the child, employ child’s motives, and use immediate purposes to the utmost, the ends of education must be determined by the type of society into which the pupil is emerging, and pupils are not able to determine these things for themselves.

There is no such thing as “recess” in Missouri. Congratulations! “Recess” is a poor word. What it means to most people is no activity, just standing around and fooling. So the word, “recess,” has been taken out of state materials and syllabi and the words “directed play” have been substituted. This js good psychology. . .Nat’l. Phys. Ed. Service.

Book Reviews

Fred E. Foertsch

ACHIEVEMENT SCALES IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ACTIVITIES by N. P. Neilson and Frederick W. Cozens; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., 1934; clothbound, 6”x9”, 171 pages; price $1.60.

For several years teachers of physical education have felt the need for a scientific solution to the series of problems involving—a] an accurate and equitable method of classifying pupils for practice and competition in athletic events; b] a reliable means of evaluating individual achievement in athletic events in comparison with a group standard; and c] an effective method of stimulating pupil interest in self improvement in the various athletic events. This book presents in a very thorough manner such a solution.

The approach and manner of solving the problem has been based upon accepted scientific methods under the direction of recognized leaders in the field of measurement. The achievement

Digitized by Google
335

scales for the thirty-three boys’ events and twenty girls’ events are based on the best records of over 79,000 boys and girls-The testing of the pupils in the fifth and sixth grades was done by supervisors assisted by teachers, while the testing of the pupils in the seventh, eighth, and ninth grades was done by the regular physical education teachers.

Chapter t ne discussed in a general way the factors involved in the problem of pupil classification and why the method of using age, height, weight is satsifactory and at the same time most practical.

Chapter Two gives in a very detailed and yet understandable way a description of how each event is to be executed and measured.

Chapters Three and Four give the achievement scales for the events for boys and girls.

Chapter Five tells how the scales may be put to practical use in promoting individual improvement and in intraschool or interschool competition.

The last chapter describes the techniques involved in the construction of the scales.

Without doubt this book is an outstanding contribution in the field of measurement in physical education. It is filled with evidences of care, expert knowledge, and thorough understanding of the problem. By many there may be an objection raised to the use of such scales on the basis of the great amount of time and labor required in record keeping. However, this can be no criticism of the book which has been done so well.

JOHN C. KIEFFER

THE HUSH OF HILLS by Ada Crozier is on sale at Stew-srt’s Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana, or may be obtained from Ruth B. Bozell, 2438 N. Penn. St., Indianapolis, Ind. Price: $1.50.

No one who knew Ada B. Crozier failed to recognize the splendid work she did as the teacher and director of physical education in the Indianapolis Public Schools. Few, however, were aware of her poetic gift. She began to write in 1927, but the majority of her poems were written during the years 1930 to 1933. Some had appeared in magazines and anthologies and Miss Crozier planned to publish a small volume of her work. With this in mind she selected those poems which she wished to include. Her serious illness in the fall of 1933, however, prevented her carrying out her plans, and it was not until October, 1934, that her poems were published posthumously under the title, The Hush of Hills.

The poems are delightful. A spirit of out-of-doors pervades the book as if the poems carried with them the fresh coolness of the woods and the peace of blue skies and quiet waters.

A delicacy of perception, a keen awareness of beauty, and an unerring handling of her verse patterns distinguish the book. One of the loveliest of the poems is “The Kiss.”

The spirit of Ada B. Crozier—her quiet beauty of living,

Digitized by kjOOQle
336



her honest thinking and understanding, her shy wistfulness, her deep loyalty—lives on in the poems.	K.	S.

HEALTHFUL LIVING by Jesse Feiring Williams; published by the MacMillan Co., New York; clothbound, 6x8”, 622 pages; price $1.56.

Many changes and additions in content and illustrations appear in this very worthwhile textbook. There has been a pronounced effort on the part of Dr. Williams to bring the material up to date; as witness chapters XXII and XXIII and the illustrations in chapter IX. However, some of the statements made in connection with frying foods [9.273], absorption of colonic poisons [9. 280], use of “roughage” to correct constipation [p. 280], and the existence of “tobacco heart” [p. 334] are subject to question; and the author should indicate the fact. The inclusion of the glossary and anatomic charts should prove helpful to the senior high school student of health; but the material on First Aid is too brief to be of much value. “Healthful Living” might well serve as a teachers’ reference text in grades below the senior high school.

HOWARD L. CONRAD

PHYSIOLOGICAL HEALTH by Jay B. Nash; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York; clothbound, 5x7 1-2”, 308 pages; price $2.00.

This book is the fourth in the series of five books on Interpretations of Physical Education. The present volume on Physiological Health is well up to the standard set by the first three books.

We know of no set of books in our field which is more comprehensive in scope, timely in appearance, or valuable as basic scientific and philosophical material than this series edited by Jay B. Nash. Volume I is on Mind-Body Relationship, Volume II covers Nature and Scope of Examinations, and Volume III deals with Character Education through Physical Education.

It is our recommendation that teachers acquire the entire set for reading and reference purposes. If budget limitations do not permit the acquisition of all of these books, we suggest the purchase of Volume IV.

Among the many topics presented by well known writers in Volume IV are: Philosophical Relationships of Forces Such As Heredity, Activity and Environment; A Measure of Health— The Capacity of an Individual for Work; The Results of the Exercise of Function in Physical Education Activities; The Unity of the Human Organism; Physiological Health and Neuro-mus-cular Development; The Interdependence of Physiological Health and Impulsive Development; Principles of Teaching for Health; Materials of Health Education; Criteria for the Evaluation of Visual Materials in Health; Administration Procedures for Procuring Health Results; and Selected Bibliography in Health.

B. I. L.

Digitized by

Google