Vol. la.

OCTOBER, 1905.

No. 140

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Directcr, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PF1STER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

AH business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE FIRST INTRODUCTION OF THE JAHN GYM-NASTICS INTO AMERICA (1825-30).

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

II.

GYMNASTICS AT THE ROUND HILL SCHOOL.

THE Round Hill School had been opened on the first of October, 1823, by Joseph Green Cogswell (1786-1871) and George Bancroft (1800-1891). Cogswell was born in Ipswich, Mass., studied for a year and a half at Phillips Academy, Exeter, N. H., and in Harvard College 1802-06, and after a voyage to the East Indies as supercargo in a merchant vessel spent two years in preparation for the practice of law. In the years 1809 and 1810 he went on another voyage to the coasts of the Mediterranean, visiting England also, returned to Boston and resumed the study of law early in 1811, and the next year opened an office in Belfast, Maine. From 1813 to 1815 he was tutor in Latin at Harvard College. Feeble health caused him to revisit the Mediterranean and spend the winter of 1815-16 in Marseilles. The succeeding four years, beginning with September of 1816, were entirely given up to study and

Digitized by t^ooQle
travel in Europe. Until the summer of 1817 he was with his friends George Ticknor and Edward Everett at the university of Gottingen, but with brief excursions to Berlin, Jena, and other points in Germany. In May of 1818, after a winter in Italy, he spent a day in Fellenberg’s school at Hofwyl, Switzerland, and another with Pestalozzi at Yver-don, afterwards, in the same year, revisiting the former “with even greater satisfaction,” to use his own words. The next winter he was in Edinburg, making side trips in Scotland and England, and then returned to the Continent, where he received his doctor’s degree in Gottingen, paid a second visit to Pestalozzi, and passed the winter of 1819-20 in Paris. The last summer was devoted to England and Scotland. In October of, 1820 he was again in the United States, and the following year became librarian and professor of mineralogy and chemistry in Harvard College. Bancroft, fourteen 'years younger, was also trained at Phillips Exeter and Harvard, graduating from the latter in 1817. Going to Gottingen the next year as a student, he received his doctor’s degree from that university two years later, studied for shorter periods in Berlin and Heidelberg, and afterwards traveled extensively in Germany, Switzerland, Italy, France, and England. Upon his return to America in 1822 he accepted a positiota in Harvard College as tutor in Greek. Neither of the two men, however, found conditions at Cambridge to his liking, and after some months of planning they severed their connection with the institution there in 1823, and removed to Northampton, Mass., to undertake together an educational experiment which for some years had been shaping itself in their minds.

A prospectus issued in June informed the public that “the subject of education is not new to either of us. We have both, during a long absence from our own country, had the means of observing the most celebrated seminaries of learning on the continent of Europe, and one of us is familiar with the discipline and character of the schools of England and Scotland. It may be proper to add that even while abroad we cherished the hope of one day erecting in our own country an institution such as we now propose, and that, to fit ourselves for the task, we spent much time in visiting and comparing those places of education which are in greatest esteem.’’ The school was designed “to furnish occupation for those years which in France are spent at a College and in Germany at a Gymnasium. A boy who has completed his ninth year is old enough to commence his regular studies, and . . on the other side we decline assuming the charge of anyone who has already completed his twelfth year.” The physical training of pupils was not to be neglected, for “we would also encourage activity of body as the means of promoting firmness of constitution and vigor of mind, and shall appropriate regularly a portion of each day to healthful sports and gymnastic exercises.”

The site selected for the school was the brow of a beautiful hill overlooking the Connecticut river, about half a mile from the village of Northampton. Two houses belonging to a Mr. Shepherd were rented for the first year, but in March of 1824 the entire Round Hill estate was purchased. Three square two-story buildings, one of soapstone, another of brick, the third of wood, and all erected about the year

Digitized by CjOOQle
—219—

1812, were now available. The two outermost were used as dormitories for the boys, with Mr. Cogswell in charge of one and Mr. Bancroft of the other, and the middle structure contained the kitchen, refectory, laundry, hospital, and other rooms. All three are still standing, two of them forming parts of Rogers Hall and Clarke Hall, of the Clarke School for the Deaf, and the remaining house used as a private residence. From Mr. Cogswell’s biographer and from the testimony of former pupils at the school we learn that “while it owed much to the proved scholarship and genius of Mr. Bancroft the historian, and to the large staff of officers under him, all ‘Round Hillers’ . . . agree in attributing to the singular combination of admirable qualities in the character of Mr. Cogswell its prosperity and success;’’ and that his power, and “the extraordinary manner in which he won and preserved the affection of his pupils, were due to his constant exhibition of the qualities and sympathies of a true Christian gentleman.’* “Of Mr. Bancroft the boys saw little except in school hours aud at recitations. He was absent-minded, dreamy, and often in abstracted moods, as well as very near-sighted ... He lacked sympathy with the feelings and ways of young boys, and seemed to be more earnestly bent on learning for himself than on helping them to learn.”

The prospectus had stated that at the opening of the school not more than fifteen pupils were desired, and not more than twenty would be received at that time; the actual enrolment was twenty-five, ten of them day scholars from the village, and these were picked from a much larger number of applicants. The next fall the attendance increased to forty, then to eighty, in September of 1826 it reached 127, and in the spring of 1828 Cogswell writes: “The multiplication of schools in our vicinity has not as yet drawn off supplies from us. We could, this moment, increase our number by twenty or thirty, but I have resolutely opposed that course, and now got Mr. Bancroft’s consent to reduce to one hundred, as soon as opportunity offers.” A circular issued in the summer of 1831 contains a list of 293 pupils who had been enrolled during the first eight years. The majority came from Massachusetts (102), New York (40), South Carolina (34), Maryland (32), Georgia (18), Rhode Island (12), and Pennsylvania (7); but eleven other states are represented on the list, and so too are Lower Canada (3), the West Indies (5), Mexico (4), Brazil (2), and transatlantic countries (2). Among these boys were found “sons of parents the most cultivated and wealthy the country could then boast,” and “there came to be a long list of applicants waiting for vacancies—pupils from prominent and prosperous families in all parts of the Union drawn together by the noising abroad of the method, the corps of teachers, and the promise of success of the institution.” Instruction in each of the modern languages —German, French, Italian, and Spanish—was intrusted to a teacher who was a native of the corresponding country, and there were at least two other Germans on the faculty. A newspaper report in 1826 mentions in all ten assistants, in a school of 112 boys, and names as studies, in addition to the ancient and modern languages, mathematics, the English language, history, moral philosophy, Roman antiquities, rhetoric and elocution, and mercantile arithmetic.

Digitized by Tooele
Cogswell was himself a man of very active physical habits. At Gottingen he “must needs walk ten thousand steps, at least four miles, every day,” and took weekly excursions of from fifteen to twenty miles with his teachers of botany and mineralogy. During his summer in Switzerland (1818) he had walked nine hundred miles in four weeks, and about seventeen hundred miles in all between May 1 and July 16, repeatedly covering forty miles, and on one occasion forty-five miles, in a single day. Extracts from some of his letters written before the arrival of Beck at Round Hill will show how these habits affected the life of the school. “We rise at six and meet soon after for prayers, study till eight, breakfast, play till nine, nine to twelve lessons, twelve-thirty dinner, play till two, two to five lessons, five-thirty supper, play till seven, reading, etc., till a little before nine,, and then... to bed.” October 26, 1823:	“For	the last fortnight we have

had a regular trial of skill in running around our wood, which is a measured distance of half a mile. Five minutes before eight we let the boys out for their morning exercise, and head them in a race. The shortest time in which the heat has been run is three and one quarter minutes. To-day I run twice round, making a mile, in six and one half minutes, and next week we have ordered a double heat for all the boys.” November 28: “We take a great deal of exercise, running, jumping, leaping, climbing, etc. Every Saturday afternoon we walk from twelve to sixteen miles. The day after Thanksgiving I took six of them with me to Hartford. We walked the first twenty-one miles before noon, and rode the remaining twenty-seven after dinner/' November 30: “We do not accustom them to make a great deal of little things. Neither cold, nor rain, nor snow keeps them indoors at hours assigned for play, nor do they mind a long walk, or run, or such fatigues as children of their age generally find quite beyond their strength.” March 28, 1824: “We have made several excursions of late with our boys, but none to any considerable distance, until yesterday, when we took nine of them a walk, or rather a wading through the mud, of five miles. The fine sun and genial breeze put them into such high life and spirits that the strongest division of them returned the five miles with me in exactly an hour. It was not in consequence of my putting them on, for I could not stop them.” August 5: “I took the boys a walk of ten miles through the woods in search of berries, and had a good frolic with them. For four miles we could discover no track by which to direct our steps, and often could not see the sun, from the thickness of the shades through which we crawled and crept. Still no creature of them flinched, although the flock consisted of eighteen of the smallest.” January 9,1825: “They [the boys] never appear to want means of amusement, even in this gloomy season of winter, for when it is neither skating or coasting down hill, they can always cut and saw wood, which we oblige them to do for themselves, as well as to make theii own fires in the rooms appropriated exclusively to them.” In another letter of about the same period he remarks that in sixteen months “we have never had a single case of illness, and scarcely lost an hour’s study of any pupil by slight indisposition.”

A picture of the school as it was a few years later is given in the

Digitized by ^ooQle
-221-

“Recollections” of George E. Ellis (1814-1894), published in the Educational Review for April, 1891. He refers to the buildings as situated “across the brow of a high and extended hill, commanding a superb view of river, valley, and wooded mountains. . . The back slopes of the hill, running far down into levels, were disposed for three different uses. The first of these gave spacious playgrounds, with a gymnasium [an outdoor Turnplatz, of the Jahn type], and a large space on the declivity, called ‘Crony Village/ where the boys might make huts, shanties, and burrows, in which, singly or in partnership, they could roast potatoes, apples, corn and chestnuts, frogs’ legs, and various other good things for outdoor appetites. The second division was laid off for garden-lots, where each boy who wished might raise flowers or vegetables, with seeds and tools furnished to him. The third took in Mr. Cogswell’s extensive farm-grounds for fruits, hay, and vegetables. There were spacious barns for cattle, horses, hay, and many wagons, one or more of huge size. The boys in turn might ride these horses; the wagons were used for journeys far and wide, often a mountain or other excursion by large or small companies. Dr. Beck, a splendidly formed and muscular man, would in the summer accompany groups of boys to Mill River to teach them swimming. In the winter he would go there with them for skating, but not on the Connecticut.” Mention is also made of the splendid and safe coasting on the long hill up which ran the only road to the school, and of the tools furnished for carpentry and for making bows and arrows, squirrel-traps and kites.

A descriptive circular issued by Cogswell and Bancroft a year after Beck’s appointment—it is dated March 25, 1826—reveals the serious purpose with which they undertook the introduction of gymnastics and other forms of physical training. “It may be impossible,” they say, “to engraft on any modern nation a system a physical education corresponding to that which prevailed in ancient Greece. But something must be done. Food, sleep, and exercise must be regulated, purity protected, life guaranteed against casualties, and temperance and exercise be set, even in the dawn of existence, to keep watch over health. Games and healthful sports, promoting hilarity and securing a just degree of exercise, are to be encouraged. Various means of motion are to be devised and applied; and where these are regularly used everything is done to assist nature in strengthening the youthful constitution. If in addition to regularity in the use of exercise, the kinds of it are so arranged that the several powers of the body may successively be brought into action and gradually led to greater exertions, it will not be long before the physical being assumes a new appearance, and in addition to the acquisition of a control of the body, beneficial results will be visible in general industry, deportment, and morals. The attempt, therefore, to provide the various means for gymnastic exercises merits to be encouraged; and whether the methods are by turns strange or common, complicated or simple, the best that are known should be employed. We are deeply impressed with the necessity of uniting physical with moral education; and are particularly favored in executing our plans of connecting them by the assistance of a pupil and friend of Jahn, the greatest modern advocate of gymnastics. We have proceeded slowly in

Digitized by ^ooQle
-222-

our attempts, for the undertaking was a new one; but now we see ourselves near the accomplishment of our views. The whole subject of the union of moral and physical education is a great deal simpler than it may at first appear. And here, too, we may say, that we were the first in the new continent to connect gymnastics with a purely literary establishment.”

Of the nature of this “first gymnasium on this side of the Atlantic,” and the work done in it, not much direct evidence has come down to us. One former pupil (George E. Ellis) writes: “‘Pitching the bar’ was generally done near the schoolhouse; but the regular exercise of gymnastics was upon the plateau just below the hill, where gymnastic appliances, then freshly introduced from Germany, were in abundance. We believe the thorough practice of a gymnasium, as is usual in Germany, under a most distinguished gymnast, was with us first introduced at Round Hill.” He elsewhere refers to a boy’s “ascending t'he ladder hand over hand” in the gymnasium. Dr. George C. Shattuck, another ‘Round Hiller,’ is quoted by Dr. E. M. Hartwell as follows: “Dr. Beck, the teacher of Latin, afterward the professor of Latin in Harvard University, was the teacher of gymnastics. A large piece of ground was devoted to the purpose and furnished with all the apparatus used in the German gymnasia. The whole school was divided into classes, and each class had an hour three times a week for instruction by Dr. Beck.” A newspaper article copied in the American Journal of Education for July, 1826, states that “M. Guignon (from New York) attends as an instructor in dancing; for which purpose the school [now numbering 112 boys] is divided into fourteen classes, each of which receives three lessons a week.” Classes begin at 5:80, others at 6:15, and breakfast comes at 7; from 7:30 till 9 the only exercises are in declamation and dancing, 9—12 other classes, 12—1 rest, dinner at 1, 2—5 more classes, 5—7 “exercise and amusement. At this time the classes in gymnastics have their instruction, when the weather permits.” The evening meal follows, and devotional exercises are held at 8, after which the smaller boys go to bed, and the rest study for an hour longer.

Indirect proof that the Round Hill “gymnasium” was only a miniature Hasenheide Turnplatz is abundantly furnished by the ‘Treatise on Gymnasticks, taken chiefly from the German of F. L. Jahn,” a translation of the “Deutsche Turnkunst” of 1816, which Beck completed and turned over to the publishers in January, 1828. In the preface he tells us that “The same causes which occasioned the publication of the original, in Germany, about twelve years ago, render a translation desirable in this country. F. L. Jahn was the first in Germany who established a gymnasium on a scale appropriated for the use of the community at large. . . The applications made to Jahn from all parts of the country, for advice and information in establishing gymnasiums, and directing the exercises, were so frequent that they induced him to render his experience more accessible to the public by publishing a treatise on Gymnasticks, which has become the standard not only of most gymnasiums in Germany, but also in France and England. The school of Messrs. Cogswell and Bancroft, in Northampton, Mass., was the first institution in this country that introduced gvranastick exercises

Digitized by

Google
-223-

as a part of the regular instruction, in the spring of 1825. Since that time the interest for this branch of education has been rapidly increasing, and frequent inquiries have been made respecting a subject much esteemed for its expected salutary effects, but little known as to its particulars. . . Wishes were expressed to me, by several of the most zealous and able friends and advocates of physical education, to translate a work which would be suitable . . or compile one. . . I did not doubt to which of the two ways proposed to give the preference. I fixed upon the treatise of Jahn for reasons contained in the preceding lines.”

“This work,” he continues, “both the original and the translation, is intended to guide the practice of gymnastick exercises. . . The work is a systematical series of exercises, calculated to call forth the hidden, and to cultivate and increase the rude strength; not a collection of single feats, which is a thing altogether foreign to our present object, and to Gymnasticks in general. . . The original appeared without engravings, except those of instruments. . . Drawings could be dispensed with where the exercises were introduced into most places by those who had seen and exercised themselves. Not so here. The interest is neither so lively, nor the personal intercourse so easy in a country of so great an extent. For this reason I resolved to aid the descriptions by a collection of engravings, drawn and engraved by Mr. Francis Graeter [the German drawing-teacher at Round Hill], a gentleman not only possessed of great skill #n his art, but also familiarly acquainted with Gymnasticks.” Jahn’s preface, and Part V (containing the bibliography), are omitted altogether by the translator; Parts III and IV have been transposed, a chapter on dumb-bell exercises is introduced in Part I, and there are a few other omissions and additions suggested by recent experience. Plates 7 and 8 are reproductions of the two in the original, but the sixty-three figures in the remaining six plates are new.

(To be continued.)

PROGRESSION IN GAMES.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

OUT-OF-DOOR gymnastics and games compose the largest part of physical training in the schools of Indianapolis. Both have been arranged so as to meet the mental as well as the physical development of the pupils of the eight grades. At the request of a number of colleagues I present the outline of the plan or division of work underlying our teaching of ball games for gymnastic ends. I hope that no attention need be called to the fact that we also play other games, and that these also have a well-defined progression.

The best two ball games of the grammar school population of oar county are baseball and basketball. It is a wellknown fact, pointed out best by Groos in his “Play of Man,” that in youth those bodily activities have the greatest charm for us which prepare us for higher, more complicated movements later in life. In arranging the following progressive forms of gymnastics this has been kept in mind. The attempt has been to train the pupil so that grade by grade he will

Digitized by
—224-

master the various activities in every increasing difficulty that go to make a good ball player. That the other demands of our course of study in physical training also help to accomplish this, goes without saying.

In Grade I the children are taught to toss and catch a bean bag. These simple movements train the sight and develop accuracy of motion. The games used are:	I.	The tossing up of the bag and again catching

it; 2. Tossing the bag to a partner; 3. Tossing it up, catching it and then tossing the bag to partner; 4. The so-called game of “Teacher.”

In Grade II the simple forms of the first grade are varied and made more difficult by introducing hand clapping before a bag is caught, for instance: Toss up, clap hands and catch the bag; toss up, clap hands twice, or three times, and catch. Tossing up for height is also practiced.

In Grade III throwing (in place of tossing) is introduced as a means for securing speed and accuracy of motion by greater freedom of the arm movements. Catching is made more difficult by using a ball instead of a bag, a basket ball or a large gas ball being used. The games take the form of distance throwing; throwing at an object; throwing to a partner, or tossing up a large ball and catching it. Boundball is played, which consists of throwing the ball to the ground and catching it when it rebounds; or in tossing it up into the air and catching it when it rebounds from the ground.

In Grade IV a small rubber ball is used to play the games of the third grade. As the accuracy increases the ball is thrown to partner. Later it is thrown up into the air, caught and then thrown to a partner. As Boundball it is batted against the ground with the hand as many times as possible.

In Grade V the children are led to throw and catch the large ball while moving about. The games take the form of Throwball. There are two sides, the pupils of one side always trying to throw the ball to one of their own side, running wherever they like in doing so. No talking or interfering is allowed. Here we find the beginning of team work. By means of Gracehoops accuracy is taught to the girls both in throwing and catching, while the boys acquire both judgment and accuracy in tossing Quoits or Horseshoes.

In Grade VI accuracy and judgment are developed still more by the addition of batting a ball. A ball game of low organization furnishes the means of developing team work. The game is Bat up. There are three positions in the game, viz: a batter, a pitcher, and fielders. The pitcher tosses the baM, which is batted with the open or closed hand. When the ball—a basket ball—is caught on a fly the batter is out, the one catching it taking his place.

Accuracy and quickness of movement are also developed by Passball. When playing this the class stands in a circle, facing inward, shoulder to shoulder. A basketball is quickly passed to the right or left, out of the way of the runner who tries to tag it. A variation is to have tbe runner on the inside and throw the ball over his head to a player standing opposite.	*

Throwing and catching a soft rubber ball is also practiced (a base ball is too dangerous in most school yards).

Digitized by

Google
-2nr>-

In Grade VII games of a higher organization hold the interest of the pupils. The sixth grade’s game of bat up develops into Batball with five positions. These are two batters, a catcher, a pitcher, a baseman and fielders. A large or a small rubber ball is batted with the hand or fist and the simpler, fundamental rules of baseball are learned. If a batter is put out all the players move up into the next higher place. The put out batter is made a fielder.

As a preparatory game for basket ball Captainball is played with from six to ten pupils an a side.

When a high blank wall is available Handball is played. This is an excellent game which in a high degree develops quickness, accuracy and judgment. It is one of the few ball games where only two, four or six players are needed in order to play a first class game.

In Grade VIII we have Basketball. This is played according to the revised rules. According to the size of the playground the field is divided either into two or three equal parts. If it is divided into two parts the centers have the right to run anywhere.

In this grade Baseball, the best of all organized team games, is played as hand-basketball. Each side has a full nine and the game is played according to the regular rules, the only exceptions being the size of the diamond, the ball, which is either a soft rubber ball or a basket-ball, and lastly the bat, the batting being done either with the open or closed hand. A few schools situated on the outskirts of the city are fortunate to have space large enough to play baseball with a bat on a fullsized diamond.

The gymnastic games described above, as well as the other games, are played at recess of which we daily have two of li minutes each; also during every second regular gymnastic period. At present the length of these periods in the lower grades is 5 minutes twice a day, and in the upper grades 10 minutes once a day. The play apparatus belongs to the school. It is bought with money realized by giving exhibitions, or by donations.

OVERFATNESS.

Overfatness, usually, measures the disproportion between diet and body work. In a few cases it may be the result of disease or heredity. Even in this last ease ‘ the lathers and mothers sinned against their bodies by overeating and under-exercising.” So men and women are, gtnerally, too fat because they eat too much and work too little, and then they become lazy because they are too fat. One should keep his weight down to normal by balancing work and diet. If one finds he is growing too fat, he must eat less (of fat forming foods), drink less and work harder with his body. Very fat persons are not liked by the insurance men, they call them bad risks, they are apt to die suddenly. Besides, we all like to look good (as long as we live) physically, and it is patent to any thinking person that an overlat person is no beauty. This is a good thought to remember: that beauty of face and form are soon lost by one who does not diet and exercise properly. One, if he is inclined to fatness, must watch out day b> day and weigh his body once a week or so and then eat and work as his weight tells him—if heavier he must, as above stated, eat less, drink less and work harder. As the middle third of the body receives less work than the legs, etc., in all persons that live an indoor sedentary file, it should be the part to be watched and worked the most. Rowing in connection with swimming and jog running and lie-down abdominal work is the thing that will help to keep the waist and weight nearer normal.—R. J. R.

Digitized by v^iOOQLe
SCHOOL HYGIENE.

THE SCOPE OF SCHOOL HYGIENE IN MODERN EDUCATION.

By THOMAS D. WOOD, M. D , Professor of Physical Education, Teachers College.

HE attention given to school hygiene at the present time is desultory

and spasmodic. This department of school work has as yet no well-defined and established place in educational theory and practice. The best developed phase of this field is the medical inspection of schools for the control and prevention of infectious and contagious diseases. This is important for school and communit}7, and is conducted measurably well in a number of our cities. It is primarily, however, a public health measure and represents only an external phase of school hygiene.

This subject, particularly in some of its more vital aspects, will not have* the recognition in practical education which it deserves so long as the schooling process is so abstractly cultural on the one side and so concretely utilitarian on the other; so long, again, as the conscious end of education is so partial and temporary, as compared with the responsibility of the school with reference to the entire life of the individual and the welfare of human society. Not until education has the advantage of a larger vision, a keener prescience, and is inspired to a wiser practice by an ethical principle,—an altruism which will subordinate the achievements of childhood to the realization of mature power, and, even more, subordinate the entire career of the individual so far as may be necessary to the present and future welfare of society find the race,—will some of the less conventional but more fundamental values in education receive adequate recognition and care, and among these the various interests belonging to the field of school hygiene. .

The argument for this attention to the various aspects of health begins in the very nature of life and in the manner of its evolution. The biologist defines life as the adjustment of an organism to its environment. In the organic world this is for the most part an instinctive, rather unconscious, and impersonal process. Human life in civilization, on the other hand, involves the conscious, intelligent understanding of both organism and environment. Successful human living requires the rational adjustment of the organism to the changing, complex, and increasingly difficult enviroment, a certain skilled adaptation of the environment to the organism, and the training and develoment of the child up to maturity, in order that he may play his responsible part in the intricate process.

Public education is the process by which the State prepares the individual for his immediate and larger life in society. The State, as the responsible agent of society, should, through public education, instruct and stimulate the home, as the most fundamental and important human institution, to do all that it can and will for the training of child life. Much of the important work of education will be expressed directly and indirectly in the home. But, after all, it is the function and duty of public education to do all in the care and preparation of the child for society and complete citizenship which cannot be, or is not, done in the home or elsewhere, even if this involves provision for physical and health needs.

Digitized by

Google
—227—

The first care of education should be the preservation and improvement of health and the securing of the highest organic efficiency possible to the individual. School hygiene in the past has been too largely concerned with the child’s environment and the external conditions affecting his health, such as the school building, its sanitary features, and the sources of infectious disease. These features should not be neglected, but the pupil with his own personal status and problems should be understood, and his adjustment to the environment of school and of his life outside should be more carefully considered. School hygiene should be responsible for all the cases of education directly related to health. These various interests, some already provided for in part, and many others as yet neglected, should be unified and co-ordinated as much as may be necessary for the effective attainment of health results and economic school administration. Special teachers or supervisors should be trained as health specialists, and made responsible for the different phases of school hygiene.

With reference to the scope of this subject, the first factor is one directly related to the field of child study. This is the biologic examination of the child. This investigation of the physical and organic condition and tendencies of the child should be repeated at intervals varying according to age and individual necessity. Dr. George Gould, in discussing the value of such studies, has called them “periodic biologic examinations.” They should combine certain features of physical, anthropometric, and medical examinations, and something more. No one and all of these terms with their ordinary meanings explain the full purpose of such examinations. It is not simply to determine the physical state, to measure and test the body, nor is it solely for the purpose of improving health, though all of these are important enough. This examination will not, in fact, for many reasons cannot, be made by the family physician. The examiner must have medical instruction, and besides this certain scientific and educational training which neither physicians nor teachers usually get.

The examination should be conducted from the standpoint of education, in a uniform manner and with a common purpose so far as any school or locality is concerned. The more formal examination should occur at the beginning of each school year. In most instances it is desirable to have a second examination near the close of the year. In special cases it may be necessary to reoeat the examination frequently, in order that abnormal tendencies may be watched. For the study of interesting problems of growth and development it will be desirable to make a few measurements and tests, perhaps quarterly or monthly. The inspection of pupils from day to day for the detection of disease may be carried on independently of the general examination, or, where more convenient, it may be a part of a combined system of health supervision. The medical inspection of pupils, where it is done at all in the United States, is usually conducted by physicians appointed bv the Board of Health. This medical inspection is very important for school and community. It is carried out more satisfactorily, perhaps, in New York* than in any other American city.

* An instructive account of the medical inspection of schools in New York City appears in "The School Journal" of December io, 1994, in an article entitled:	"Precautions	Used	by	the New York City De-

Digitized by C.ooQle
-228-

Worthy of special mention in this connection is the work of the school nurses who go about from school to school, in the more crowded regions of the city, carrying out the instructions of the doctors in the treatment of certain ailments of the children ; directing the mothers in the care which they should give to their children at home, and doing valuable service which would otherwise usually be neglected. This feature of the larger work of school hygiene was inaugurated in New York in 1902. At present there are nineteen school nurses in Manhattan.

Dr. Cronin closes his article-reference to which is given in the footnote—with the following very suggestive statements:

I believe that as far as the medical inspection of schools, per se, can accomplish good results, the work, as conducted bv the Department of Health of New York City, is obtaining its end; but there are many considerations over which our department has no control, ns for instance: (I) The proper care of the children’s outer garments at school. (2) The proper aeration of the class-rooms. (5) The proper lighting of the class rooms. (4) Ample accommodation for each child. (5) Sufficient playground facilities. (6) Establishment of baths in the public schools. (7) The adoption by the Board of Education of a sensible, honest, feasible curriculum of studies. Examination and compulsory care of the children’s teeth and oral cavities. Examination and correction of error of refraction. About 30 per cent, of 981 children examined showed refractive error in one or both eyes. (8) Correction of deformity of locomotive apparatus. (9) Exclusion of all nervous diseases from class attendance. (101 Removal of all hypertrophied tonsils and other adenoid vegetation. (11) The segregation of children with inferior mentality. (12) The unhygienic, filthy, overcrowded way in which families are compelled to live in dilapidated tenements whose only purpose to the municipality should be for destruction, requires to be changed before the millennium of health in school children can be reached. Absence of control over the above factors renders the predisposition to disease great and its annihilation insurmountable.

I certainly do feel hopeful, however, that while all the good that we would wish for may not be realized in the present generation of school children for the reason that they, too, are powerless to change their environment, the labor bestowed upon them now will so dissat slv them with their present conditions and surroundings that they will demand—and they must have, for no power can gainsay public indignation and dissatisfaction—better homes for the bringing up of their children, and the latent pride that is in their breasts will become active and exhibit itself in the better hygienic care of their children.

Then, as far as bodily cleanliness and disease are concerned, there will be no lower classes Education will have made us all equal, and the purpose of medical inspection of schools established by the Department of Health in the city of New York will have been realized.

Inasmuch as great numbers of pupils must be examined so rapidly, there is always danger that the inspection of the Board of Health physicians will become a perfunctory service, or result in the detection of only the most serious and obvious forms of disease, and that many conditions and tendencies will he overlooked. The inspection of the Board of Health should in no way take the place of the more general biologic examinations, which should be made by properly qualified school officials. There is a growing conviction on the part of those who appreciate the conditions of childhood through different lines and approach that such examinations are important and worth while. The laws of evolution operate in the human species as elsewhere. The fittest

partment of Health to Prevent the Spread of Contagious Disease in the Schools of the City,” by Dr. John Cronin. Assistant Chief Medical Inspector.

Digitized by C.oogle
—229 —

survive and the unfit gradually disappear in any case. But without the intelligent care of health and life which is possible there is inestimable human failure and economic loss that might be avoided. There is, perhaps. no more important development of wisdom and prudence than that which conserves the biologic human values, and most of all in childhood.

It cannot be taken for granted that the organic condition of the child will be sound. Under our present conditions of life and education it is possible in any case, and certain in a considerable number of cases, that normal growth and development will not proceed without individual care and adjustment; that there may be present, without special symptoms of disorder, physical defects of a more or less serious character. The only rational and adequate basis for the direction of the child at home or in school is the thorough knowledge of the physical status, so that existing conditions and tendencies may be recognized and important changes noted, and so that it may be known that growth and development are proceeding satisfactorily, or, in case of abnormalities of any kind, that these may be corrected as soon as possible.

Dr. Hertel, in his well-known investigation of the health of pupils in the better-class schools of Copenhagen before 1885, found that of the boys 31.1 per cent, and of the girls 39.4 per cent, were sickly.

Dr. Francis Warner in the examination of 50,000 school children in London found that 10.8 per cent, of the bo}rs and 8.5 per cent, of the girls had abnormal nerve signs; 7.9 per cent, of boys and 6.9 per cent, of girls were mentally dull; 8.8 per cent, of boys and 6.8 per cent, of girls had had some developmental defects. Of the cases with developmental defect, 38 4 per cent, of the boys and 49.9 per cent of the girls were mentally dull. Of those who were mentally dull, 57.6 per cent, of the boys and 52.6 per cent, of the girls showed abnormal nerve signs.

Dr. Risely examined the eyes of 24*J2 school children in Philadelphia and found that 44.7 per cent, had some deficiency of vision.

Dr. Sexton examined 570 school children in New York City and found that 13.3 per cent, had deficient hearing, in one or both ears. “Of these only one was known by the teacher to be defective, and only ten knew themselves to be deficient in this sense.” Many children have been considered mentally dull «Hnd backward who were simply partially deaf.

Examinations of 40,000 school children by school physicians in the Duchy of Saxe Meiningen, Germany, in 1900, showed that 23 per cent, were myopic, 10 per cent, or more had spinal curvature, and 60 per cent, had teeth which needed attention.

Examinations of 900 pupils in the Horace Mann Schools of Teachers College during 1902—1903 showed that 34 per cent, had mvopia, 12.9 per cent, had functioaal heart disorders, 5.6 per cent had spinal curvature with some vertebral rotation. 31.2 per cent, more had assymmetry of spine, hips, or shoulders, 14.6 per cent, had adenoids or chronically enlarged .tonsils. In over 10 per cent, of the cases letters were sent to parent's, recommending that medical attention be given to some physical condition.	(To	be concluded.)

Digitized by tjOOQle
-230-

HEALTH OF MIND.

THAT the physical health of mankind, especially in the free and enlightened countries like the United States where the people are prosperous, well fed, clothed and cared for, has improved wonderfully within a century, scarcely admits of a doubt. People know more about living than they formeily did, and they generally have the means to put their knowledge into practice. They dress more wholesomely; they have a better, more varied diet; more amusements; and they are not so intemperate. The late Abram S. Hewitt, of New York, once advised laboring men not to be so extravagant in their diet, to save more money and not to spend so disproportionate an amount of their income on food. This is a constant source of wonderment to all foreigners and to natives who examine the American workingman’s expenditure on his table. He lives as well as anybody, has meat three times a day, and “has everything there is.” Mayor Hewitt and others have called this extravagance, but many physicians declare that it is by a wise kind of instinct that the American, who works harder than any one else, keeps up his efficiency and maintains the health and vigor of his family.

Americans are well nourished and physicians know more than formerly. Many dread diseases have been conquered ; devastating plagues have been stopped; sanitation in cities and towns is positively a new science; people live longer; they are, on the average, stronger and healthier, if statistics prove anything at all. If statistics are doubted, any man not old or any person who reads old books may note that formerly when two or more women “gathered together” the main subject of conversation was their respective diseases and ills.

We are in rather good case relatively to past times in the matter of physical health; but Americans of today seem to be “troubled in their minds.” Never was a rich and prosperous country, with its conspicuous evidences of wealth, but there was an accompanying outburst of envy. This is as true as history. This ebullition, when it is a protest against undeserved fortune or that acquired by dishonest and unsocial means, is worthity prompted by a love of justice, as Hazlitt says; but when it is mere hatred of the good that comes to others it is the unworthy “antagonist of the fortunate.”

This malice and envy are as sure to come in the wake of prosperity as the dawn after the night, and may be disregarded, but there are evidences that the Americans are becoming an older and more sophisticated people. In the thickly populated parts of the country, and especially in the East, there are more people of the kind who debate whether “life is worth living;” who declare that the “social system is all wrong;” who protest against the present order, and say that there is “no good in anything.” Now it cannot be gainsaid that this is not a perfect world, or that fallible human beings have never succeeded in creating perfect government or in preventing awful wrongs and the most terrible suffering and woe; but it may not be denied, either, that it is a most unfortunate state of mind for people to get into, and especially for young people—this of not admiring anything, of distrusting the world and of railing unavailingly at it. The habit of finding

Digitized by CjOOQle
-231-

fault with the world and our place in it does not do any good, and often embitters existence and blasts the usefulness of one who gives way to that unmanly practice. If the cause of this attitude were accurately sought out, it would be found to be in many cases either unreasonable or to rest on lack of health of the body and stamina. A visitor to London ’Change, who watched the wildly excited brokers and then the hurling multitudes of London’s streets, said:

“If a messenger from Heaven were on a sudden to annihilate the love of power, the love of wealth and the love of esteem in the human heart, in half an hour’s time the streets would be as empty and silent as they were in the middle of the night.”

This ambition has seized the people of America as perhaps it never gripped any people in the world before. This, according to the teachings of political economists, is the highest state of felicity and safety and prosperity to which a people mav attain; the cause of the advance of civilization. Though we are gaining in health rapidly, the tenseness of the struggle is increasing more rapidly than the gain in strength and physical power, and we are at the same time living an artificial life in cities under conditions which ever tend to drag man down. In other words, too many people are “the poor creatures ridden by their work” of whom physicians talk.

“With temperance, health, cheerfulness, friends, a chosen task, one pays the cheapest fees for living, and may well dispense with other physicians,” it is said; but those who preach the doctrine of temperance in desire or content with little to Americans are as one whispering idly in the desert. The aim then should be to prepare for the mighthy struggle. The great antiseptic is fresh air, exercise, amusement and wholesome nourishment for the mind. A physician who has dealt successfully with consumptives in the mountains in the open air declares in his enthusiasm for the out door life that he could “cure a patient of anything but a broken leg” by means of fresh air and tent life. Live in the open air as much as possible, breathe the fresh air at night, seek the country, when you can, ride a hobby, be cheerful under all circumstances, increaese the chest girth, reside in the country if you must work in the city, and remember “that the body is a temple.” That is the modern teaching, and to it are added the maxims of old Confucius, the wise man of the Chinese:

“The way of the superior man is threefold, but I am not equal to it. Virtuous, he is free from anxieties; wise, he is free from perplexities; bold, he is free from fear.”

Which we have translated into the modern American injunction: Never worry.—Pkila. Ledger.

—9* ho* been commonly ttjougljt that the so-called “fads” in public schools, including physical training, music, drawing and sewing, are kept in use by the school officials against the wishes of the parents. A recent canvass of parents by the New York Globe of the schools of that city shows some unexpected results. On the retention of physical training the vote was—yes 6556, no 841; drawing, yes 6267, no 1068; music, yes 6341, no 1080; sewing, yes 5366, no 720. This rather complicates than otherwise the vexed question of what shall taught in school.—Boston Herald.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-232-

MfflP ftND BODY. ^

Hobhcriptlon Price, $ 1.00 per Year.

wmmmm Published Monthly.

»v

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Tree, ’Wlecon m&r\.

’ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wi Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

FOOTBALL AND BRUTALITY.

THERE is no denying that “Football” is an extremely active game, one that calls into play all the vitality and reserve forces of the individual. But it is not a game of the individual; it is essentially a team game, more so than any other in existence. It means that the combined forces of as many players as are available for a certain attack, and their well-calculated speed and momentum are called into action to strike the opponent with sufficient force to gain as much territory from him as is possible. In order to meet this attack successfully a well organized physical defense is necessary. Beside this line-bucking or -smashing tactic of advancing the ball toward the opponents’ goal another one is employed, namely, the running or open play, where a kicked ball from the opposing side, or one passed from the center to the backs is run forward until the carrier is “tackled” and thrown to the ground by an opposing player. Considering the force employed this game must be more or less dangerous, the more so when games are, as usually, played on hard frozen ground. Bones and joints are not made of iron and consequently are subject tp injury.

The daily papers are full of stories of such injuries.

The fact, however, that these accounts are most frequent during the early training, and that very little is heard of them at the close of the season leads one to believe that not everything is true that we read in this regard. Half of the team is usually reported crippled. The next following game, however, finds most of these cripples playing as intensively as ever before. The “bear-stories” which come from the training quarters are, as a rule, only gotten up to deceive the succeeding opponents. But these repeated stories naturally prejudice the mind of the general public against the game to such an extent that the opposition to it is growing stronger and stronger every year.

Football is a beautiful game, and would be more so if the existing danger to health could be avoided to a greater extent than this is done at present. Arguments for a more open style of play and for the abatement of the often displayed unnecessary roughness (sometimes amounting to brutality) have been advanced every year. Remedies, entirely insufficient, have been offered by the committee on rules.

That reform is needed is shown bv the efforts of even our President Roosevelt to bring about a change.

He invited prominent football coaches to a conference to Washington in order to discuss this question.

Digitized by U.ooQle
233-

An exchange writes as follows:	Football	has	been	accorded the

dignity of the highest official recognition. Recently representatives of Yale, Harvard and Princeton met with President Roosevelt for the purpose of considering reforms in the game of football and subsequently, and as a result of such meeting, Walter Camp, the general athletic adviser of Yale, issued a statement which says “at a meeting with the president of the United States” certain things resulted. The observing will note the language. The meeting was not with Theodore Roosevelt, individual, but with the president of the United States, and when it was decided among the college men that an honorable obligation exists to carry out in letter and spirit rules of the game relating to roughness, holding, and foul play the presumption is that the president of the United States was responsible for the idea—else why was any such statement necessary? Without suggestion from the president of the United States would such a statement ever have been issued? Hardly; and one is justified, therefore, in deeming the statement an act sanctioned by the executive and in effect a national affair.

Another great drawback to football is to be found in the fact that it is, and always will be, a game for only a few selected ones, such as are already physically well developed. It can, therefore, never become an educational game.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—We acknowledge receipt of the following announcements :	Muegge’s

Institute, St. Louis, Mo.; Birmingham Athletic Club, Birmingham, Ala.; Y. M. C. A., Scranton, Pa.

—Miss Ethel R. Weeden, for the past five years a member of the faculty of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics, has been appointed Director of Physical Training in the new Teachers’ College of St. Louis, Mo.

—An effort will be made by the play grounds committee of Washington, D, C., to secure an appropriation of $100,000 from Congress this year for the purchase and maintenance of grounds.

BENEFIT OF EXERCISE.

The human form is plastic until age has hardened its parts—it is but an image of clay which we may mould at will.

1.	Exercise imparts fresh vitality to the languid frame.

2.	Gives strength to weak limbs.

3.	Shbstitutiffs* grace of motion to awkwardness.

4.	Re-iUoulds the ill-formed bodies, anJ'features into symmetry and beauty.

5.	Postpones indefinitely the infirmities and deformities of old age.

6.	“Mens sana in corpore sano”------the sound mind in a sound body.

7.	Wards off any tendency of hereditary diseases.

8.	Forms a most efficient means of bodily strength.

9.	Develops the muscles and increases bodily strength.

10.	Imparts a command over the entire body. Makes one courageous and self-reliant.

11.	Physical exercise gives mental energy.

12.	By taking exercise a man works easier, eats more to nourish him, and is able to do better brain'work or manual labor.

13.	Becomes less sensitive.

14.	Will impart to the person grace, ease and steadiness of carriage, combined with strength, elasticity and quickness of movement.

15.	Will help men to do the work of life better.

Digitized by
—234—

A SELF REPLACING JUMP-STICK.

THE photographs show two views of a self replacing' jump-stick, invented by Major Ormond M. Lissak at West Point, N. Y., for which a patent has been applied for. It is intended to replace the present apparatus used for the running high-jump and the pole vault.

The wooden stick, instead of being supported on two post, is held in a simple mechanism on one post only. The mechanism permits the bar to be readily displaced in any direction whatever when struck by the jumper, and immediately returns the bar to its original position. This is accomplished by means of a counterweight and spring shown in the photograph, the weight moving the bar vertically, and the spring moving it in the horizontal direction through a chain that is wound on the upper revolving part of the mechanism when the bar is displaced.

The second photograph shows the attendant holding the bar in a position that it might assume when struck by a jumper. The bar has been knocked downward and forward, raising the weight and extending the spring. When released the bar will return from this position to the exact position before being struck.

The bar shown in the photograph extends seven feet from the post. The mechanism is affixed to the top of the sliding portion of an extensible post. Another form of it enables the bar to be adjusted to any height of a fixed post.

Digitized by

Google


BILL NYE’S REPLY.

The late Bill Nye replied as follows to a correspondent who inquired about his habits of work and life:

“When the weather is such that I cannot exercise in the open air I have a heavy pair of dumbbells at my lodgings, which I use for holding the door open. I also belong to an athletic club and a pair of Indian clubs with red handles. I owe much of my robust health to this.

The bar has been in use during the last season by the cadets at West Point and has been found by them a great convenience, especially in the pole vault. It obviates the troublesome replacing of the bar necessary with the present apparatus, tedious at all times and especially annoying when the height is great. This bar is always in position and the jumper need give it no consideration whatever.

As it requires only one post it will reduce the amount of apparatus needed in a gymnasium. Another advantage it possesses is that it will permit of the use of the apparatus by a greater number in a given time and thus will practically increase the capacity of the gymnasium.

Still another advantage offtred by this apparatus lies in the fact that as the bar is never knocked off its support it can not be broken by the jumper falling upon it. A saving is effected in the cost of sticks and the liability of the jumper to injury from a broken stick is entirely removed. It will also greatly facilitate class work in the gymnasium.

W. J. Koehler, Captain, U. S. A.

Digitized by L.ooQle
—236—

>

“I do most of niv writing in a sitting posture or in an autograph album. When I am not engaged in thought I am employed in recovering from its effects. I am very genial and pleasant to be thrown amongst.

“I dress expensively, but not so as to attract attention. In the morning I wear morning dress, in the evening I wear evening dress, and at night I wear night dress.”—Denver Times.

“APPETITE COMES WITH EATING."

ALMOST universal is the idea that the primary condition of enjoying a hearty meal is that one shall start out with a keen-set appetite. To talk, then, of obstinately planting one’s self down before a good dinner as a means of grace for getting up a sharp appetite, and of forcing one’s self to keep on eating till he begins to feel downright hungry, seems, at first sight, as absurd a contradiction as harnessing the cart before the horse and then whipping up the cart to strike a lively pace with the horse in tow.

It will never do, however, to administer a slap in the face to the recorded wisdom of the ages, or, like graceless schoolboys, to think to “make game of the patriarchs.” One will look in vein to find a people that has ever lived on the face of the earth which has not a distinct proverb of its own to the effect that “appetite comes with eating,” and that—whether one wants to eat or not—dry, mechanical, uninspired chewing away at distasteful food often results in the end in quite as keen a enjoyment of it as a feast for the gods as though one had sat down to it hungry as a wolf for a joint of spring lamb, to which his own sense of zest would furnish all requisite mint sauce.

No one who has eyes in his head—unless they should chance to be mere glass eyes—but sees this seemingly contradictory law of nature illustrated on every hand. Go, for example, into any domestic circle where there are five or six children to be brought up, and, almost invariably, will one of them be found who seems organically almost destitute of natural appetite. She is a little girl, say, and while her brothers and sisters are eager to fall on anything from buckwheat cakes to strawberry short cake, neither the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, the deer of the forest nor the vegetables and fruits of the garden exert the slightest attraction on her in the way of stimulating zest of food. She has, perhaps, the brightest mind of all the group, a hectic fever of intelligence shining in her eyes or burning on her cheeks. But eat she will not from any self-prompting of her own. Evidently she wants to be an angel and with the angels dwell, as, unquestionably, ere long she will be, unless some materially-minded mother shall come to the rescue with a dogged determination to keep her on earth till she can build up for her a stomach that shall crave food as instinctively as her devouring brain craves “Mary had a little lamb,” and, this time, lamb for less etherialized ends.

Blessed the embryo angel of this strain who has a mother of the heroic persistence of faith and work to insist on giving her child private lessons after each meal of half an hour each on the beneficent working of the venerable and age-attested doctrine that “appetite comes by eating.” Just as whereas Emerson says that every original thinker has '

Digitized by G.OOQle
— 237—

to educate and so create his own especial audience before his works can be appreciated, so will this mother find it to prove in her task. The new thought—that is the spoonfuls of milk, oatmeal, corned beef hash or what not—will have gradually to stimulate and evoke the latent responses of the languid and inert coatings of the digestive apparatus, till by degrees they are nourished to the extent of actually enjoying and craving a little more transcendental next time. With such a fly-away, gadding and will-o’-wisp stomach to deal with as patient, the mother will be called on to arm herself with the faith and perseverance of the saints. But let her never falter. Nolens volens, the food must be introduced, the objective and subjective vital contact established, the nutritive and assimilating processes set in action. Hers, no less than Emerson’s, is the work of creating a new sensitive audience of readers and hearers responsive to each flash of wit or reach of poetic insight— an audience, in the one case, intestinal; in the other, cerebral. It took Emerson twenty years to create an appetite in his audience. Hers may be made to respond tumultuously in a single year. And, ah! what a fate of misery through years to come may she have saved her child from by thus enforcedly stimulating in her the normal and healthy action of powers that would else have become practically atrophied and paralyzed, causing her to grow up puny, listless and incapable of sustained effort.

Now, in the whole realm of education, whether in literature, science, athletics, social gifts; whether in love with nature, music or poetry, not to omit the inspiration of comfort and religion, there is no one principle it is more indispensible to insist on than this apparently humble one that “appetite comes of eating.” Everywhere men and women are heard lamenting that they have lost all zest and interest in what once yielded them the richest pleasure. Once they delighted in going into company, where, indeed, they were the life and charm of the whole circle. Now they rarely, if ever, go out, but sit at home inert, silent and perhaps sulky. Once they took genuine pleasure in enlarging theif* stores of knowledge by reading. Now they rareley open a book or feel any real prompting to do it. Once they would go to the theatre, the musical concert the picture gallery, the political gathering, the church. Now. neither Garrick. Mrs. Siddons nor Phillips Brooks would have power to drag them out of their dens. They have lost all appetite, they sav, for such things.

Of course they have. Loss of appetite is one of the most common and fatal of all the diseases that assail human nature, and the surest to result in fatty degeneration of tissue, stupidity of intellect, selfishness of heart, reversion to contentment with mere animal existence.* But how came it about that they lost their appetite for all these good things? Mainly because they took no pains to keep it up on the sound old doctrine of the ages that “appetite comes with eating.” In other words, if they did not happen to feel hungry they refused to eat, and that at

* Loss of appetite is the earliest Hanger signal of possibly approaching pulmonary tuberculosis; in fact it prreedes the dry cough as long as from six to twelve months. For this reason alone, were it not for other ones, should mothers insist on the proper nutrition of their sons and daughters.

Digitized by tjOOQle
—238—

the very time when they most needed it. Refusing the proffered aid of one William Shakespeare to revive their interest in the drama, or one Antoine Paderewsky in the piano, or of climbing Mt. Washington to stimulate zest for mountain scenery, or of Dr. Channing to quicken their dormant sensibility to religion, the life of zest that was once in them died out. There were the varied kinds of food in the way of beauty, eloquence, inspiration, most of all demanded at the very time when their listless, or selfish, or socially-relaxed natures most needed quickening.

Of course, on many and many an occasion it might at first have cost strenuous effort to overcome the invited inertia standing in the way of their addressing themselves to such a varied feast. But this persisted in, what at the outset seemed dull or dry or repulsive, would soon have grown to be full of interest and inspiration and maintained itself as a delightful habit to the end of life.

BECAUSE IT QUENCHES THIRST.

(From the Chicago Record-Herald.)

“What will yours be?” asked the obsequious waiter at the club.

‘‘Buttermilk.” said the man.

“And yours?” resumed the waiter, with a slightly scornful look, as he turned to the next man in the group.

‘‘Why buttermilk, doctor?” asked the second man, leaving the respectful waiter to digest his slight scorn, and, turning to Dr. W. K. Spiece, who sat at the end of the table.

‘‘That’s what I want to know,” cut in the oldest man in the club. “I dropped in at the drug store to get a drink of something cooling to-day and when I asked the clerk for buttermilk he told me there had been none for hours. Why is there such a demand for buttermilk, doctor?”

‘‘Well, order your drinks, and I will tell you,” said the doctor. And after they had filled the waiter with instructions they turned to the man of medicine, and reasons.

‘‘First, because it quenches the thirst. Second, because it is not followed by a stronger desire for further thirst quenching. Most of the summer drinks are • refreshing while they are being swallowed, but they confer no lasting benefit on the tissues of the mouth and throat. Buttermilk leaves no legacy of thirstmaking, as most phosphates do, but the great thing about it is its healthful quality. The bacilli of dysentery and the germs of typhoid fever cannot live in the lactic acid that buttermilk is largely composed of. If children were given plenty of buttermilk, there would not be half the loss of life from what is loosely termed “summer comolaint.”

“What’s the matter with beer? asked the first man.

“It cools while passing down,” answered Dr. Spiece, “but its refreshing effects are not lasting. The alcohol it contains needs more moisture presently.”

“How about brandy and soda?

“Better than beer, but no drink that stimulates the heart action is good in warm weather. You are hot enough. Buttermilk cools you, quenches the thirst, aids in protecting you against the perils of disease incident to summer, and leaves no bad effect.”

The men made a note of it and found there was a general demand for buttermilk.

People seemed to know the truth of what Dr. Spiece said. The soda fountains were out of it. The saloons had the signs still displayed, but the bar man shook his head and declared he was all “drunk out.” The milkman said the demand lor buttermilk was so great he could not nearly supply it.

“Why, the drivers drink a gallon,” said the manager of one concern. “We always let them drink what they want, and in hot weather they want a good deal. But it is better than having them drink intoxicants. It doesn't hurt and it certainly does quench the thirst.”

Digitized by

Google
-239—

THE PRESUMPTION OF HEALTH.

By W. H. KINNICUTT, M. D.

The experience of the examination room brings to light many facts from which may be formulated principles of great significance and value.

It is astonishing to know how many men there are who have tried living on memories of youthful vigor; of course they failed, as all the men so doing must fail.

They always say, “I used to be so-and-so strong; a such-and-such champion; never had a sick day;** and all the rest of those things which you are or used to be. Then comes the history of long hours of work, exclusion of physical activity, and a final awakening to the fact that they are indeed “has-beens.” Then comes the effort to recover what has been lost. Usually they do regain a great deal, but at the expense of much more time and effort than would be required to maintain the original standard.

“If I were starting over again---vou know what they sav.

Now it’s the wise man who profits bv the experience of others. It is not enough for a man to have been brought up on a farm, although it is a great deal—the best men, physically, in the city, had country life; but it is enough, for any healthy man, to take a reasonable amount of physical exercise at regular intervals to keep the health he has to start with and to improve it.

It must be remembered that city life is tremenduouslv complex; that it makes demands upon the energies which country life never does. In the race for living, the artificial things which characterize the city supplant the normal conditions for which men are naturally equiped.

Imagine a man transacting business with another part of the city and walking to it—unless he is a postman; he has got to take a car. if he leaves the office at all; he usually telephones.

City life condenses everything, and one can’t afford to depend on legs for speed.

Then too, the city recognizes but little individuality—it only values machines which anyone can operate. So the individual has but little encouragement to promote physical ability.

Now all this would be all right if we were constructed so that vitality did not depend upon physical support—but we are not; and gentlemen, if you will live in the city, and if you must earn a livelihood under the conditions which the city imposes, you have got to preserve the essential thing which keeps you going, by intelligent exercise, as your only hope.

HERE IS SOMETHING GOOD.

From Clevelands Young Men. Read it carefully. If we could, we wfould put a copy of it in every young man’s hand who has been attracted by the “freak pictures in recent magazines.” It is entitled “Freak Pictures,” and is by W. H. Kinnicut, M. D.:

We hear a great deal just at present about physical culture. A poster, gotten up by a certain magazine devoted to things physical, hangs in one of our offices;

Digitized by CjOOQle
this has provoked the question of us scores of times, ‘How do you like--v—

giving the name of the publication—and elicited that it is widely read by young men.

This interest is a natural one, and the magazine publisher knows how to fix up the stuff to stimulate the buyer’s appetite. It runs to the sensational and to extremes. It is probably not particularly harmful in its influences, but it creates and develops a distorted and erroneous idea in physical training.

In the popular mind the term physical development always means muscular development; nothing was ever more of a misapprehension; that is only one phase of its meaning. It includes the strength of the heart, the capacity of the lungs, the integrity of the digestive organs and functions, and the balance of the entire physical system, one part with another.

The man who is big muscled but has not nutritive capacity to compensate, who is pale, bloodless and slow actioned, is poorly developed.

It seems to be an easier task to start young men toward a specific impossibility than toward a common sense objective that is to be easily attained.

How many ‘systems’ of ‘physical culture’ there are to-day which claim preeminence as health-producers, which are nothing more than muscle-makers; how many’ appliances of wire, wood, or rubber, each possessing miraculous power to produce Herculean physiques; wooden tubes, to blow through or to suck, which will insure lungs like baloons; and all with an immense sale.

Getting health is no miracle; keeping it has no element of luck, just common sense living, with enough wholesome food to properly nourish the body, enough work to feel honest, enough recreation to keep the body happy, enough exercise to renovate the system, enough sleep to allow thorough repair, makes a formula which is within every one’s reach.

The exercise, properly used, will cover a multitude of shortcomings in the other specified items. It is a great remedy.

Of course this regime does not insure a vaudeville physique, but most people in the city can’t afford such a luxury; it costs too much to maintain, and is liable to grow stale on your hands.

Don’t lose your heads over the pictures of some one else’s shape.

THE THRIFT OF BRITT, OR SEVEN BUSHELS OF

EASY MONEY.

James Edward Britt, California’s greatest native son, has invented a process for the purpose of startmg the entire visible supply of real money in his direction. He has no fear of its being stolen, as he is immodestly certain that no one else could get a wav with it. This explains his willingness to give a partial diagram of his plan.

I haven’t fully perfected this system, but I don’t mind giving you some of the leading points, he said at his quarters to-dnv. As you know, I am matched to fight a man named Nelson, and have just been training for the walk-over. I don’t need to work a minute. Mv training stunt is merely the money focus.

I start with a little charge of 50 “c” for admission to these quarters. The price will be advanced gradually until the day of the fight, when it will be five a throw, including the feeling of my biceps.

We are bound to have a crowd about, so I have sold the lemonade and popcorn privilege in the front yard and have arranged with the street car company for a percentage of the fares.

The hotel pays me something for being in this locality, but these are merely side issues.

One of my best producers are the gloves w'ith which I beat Nelson the last time out. I have 5.000 pairs in stock, all of them dirty' enough to look like the real thing. I let warm admirers have them for ten a throw. There will be a pair of the gloves with which Britt beat Nelson above every bar in the country.

Then there are the electric belt ads. The morning of the fight you will sec Britt in every paper of the country standing in battling attidute with a line of sparks at the belt line. That helps some. The tonic-makers also come down liberally for my testimonials.

Digitized by Google
-241—

At present I have in press ‘Britt’s Manual for Self-Defense,’ showing how to beat up a man who tackles you in the dark. The edition de luxe will sell at five per, one bone lor the popular edition and 50 “c” for the paper cover.

This is enough to give you the idea. Of course I have a few complimentary tickets to sell, will pick up $10,000 on the picture privilege and $30,000 on the fight itself.

I really look quite good to myself, considering that I haven’t mentioned the stage nor the saloon business, concluded the great fighter. Do you think I will do?

It strikes me, I answered, that there isn’t anyone or anything left to be done.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

f Continued. >

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game ‘4Knapsack Race.*’ As a preliminary, a short run of about three minutes. Gymnastic tactics. After receiving wands, form a front line and count off by fours or sixes, then open order forw. to two steps distance and turn r. or 1. face so that the shorter members stand in front.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

1.	Raise heels and raise wand forw.—1! Pos.—2! Raise i. leg backw. and wand overh.—3! .Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1,8!

Wand behind shoulders—place!

2.	a) Bend trunk forw. and stretch arms forw.—1! Pos.—2! bj 41	“ backw. 4 4	4 1	4 4 upw.—1! “	—2!

c) a and b alt.—1,4! Wan'd forw. to starting pos.—lower!

3.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Bend 1. knee and raise wand overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

4.	Bend knees and place wand on shoulders—1! Pos.—2! Raise 1. leg and wand sidew. 1.—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1,8!

Wand on shoulders—place!

March forw. four steps, then four steps back, turning 1. face on the 8th count. Repeat to the remaining three sides—9, 32! Repeat to the r. and begin step with r. foot—1, 32! Repeat 1. and r.—1, 64! Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

5.	Raise wand in front of shoulders, bend 1. arm over r.—1! Bend trunk sidew. I. and move wand upw. r , 1. hand in front of r. shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1,8!

6.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise wand in front of shoulders—1! Bend

1.	knee and move wand sidew. upw. obi. to the 1.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

7.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise wand in front of shoulders—1 ! Turn trunk to the 1., stretch arms forwv turn wand to vert, pos., 1. hand upw., r. downw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1,8!

Wand on shoulders—place!

8. a) Stationary run with raising lower legs backw.—1, 16or24counts. b) As a, but raise extended legs forw. Wand forw. to starting pos.— lower!

Digitized by
-242-

9.	Raise wand overh.—1! Lower behind hips (arms extended)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat 8 or 10 times.

10.	Breathing exercise—Inhale slowly and raise wand overh. in four counts; exhale slowly and lower wand to starting pos. in four counts. Repeat 6 or 8 times.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry!

Close ranks in reverse order to that of opening to a front line. Face toward the leader, march forw., deposit wands and form divisions, then march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: High horizontal bar and high-jumping.

Second “ High-jumping and high horizontal bar.

Third	“	Side horse and climbing rope.

Fourth “	Climbing rope and side horse.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

All exercises are preceded by a jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp—

1.	Swing; raise ankles to bar and kip to free front rest; underswing and down to rear side stand.

2.	Swing; ankles to bar, circle 1. leg under and immediately over the bar to outside knee hang and knee circle forw. to rest; V* circle 1. (backw.) with 1. leg to front rest, drop swing, ankles to bar and kip to free front rest, underswing and down.

3.	Swing; ankles to bar, squat backw. with 1. leg and knee circle forw. (between hands) to cross-straddle rest; reverse grasp of 1. hand, then Y2 turn 1. and V2 circle 1. with r. leg, transfer grasp of r. hand to ordinary and front rest on the far side of the bar; drop kip, underswing and down.

4.	Swing; ankles to bar, squat backw. with both legs and extend the same and hips over bar (back hip circle forw.) to rear rest; drop backw., squat forw., ankles to bar and kip to front rest and flank vault 1. (or r.).

5.	Swing; ankles to bar and kip to free front rest, immediately front hip circle backw. and lower to straight armhang; swing forw., turn 1. (release grasp of both hands and regrasp in ordinary on the far side of the bar); at the next front swing raise ankles to bar, squat backw. with both legs and side seat circle forw. over bar, the legs held at r. angle to body, arms extended, then forw. down.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division for the high-jump.

Start the bar about three feet and execute a few preliminary jumps as—

1.	Spring off of 1. foot. Same r.

2. As exercise 1, with V4 turn 1. and raise arms sidew. r. Same opp.

3. As exercise 1, with V2 turn 1. and raise arms forw. overh. Same opp.

4.	Try for height.

Note—Raise the bar two inches after each jump of the division.

Digitized by

Google
-243-

Second Division—High-Jump.

Sarae as first division.

Change place with the first division on the high horizontal bar.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

All exercises are preceded by a jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp—

1.	Swing; raise ankles to bar, circle 1. leg under and immediately over the bar to outside knee hang and knee circle forw. to rest; place the 1. hand in reverse grasp on the outside of the 1. leg; screw dismount forw. with *4 turn 1.

2.	Swing, as exercise 1, to outside knee hang, but instead of knee circle forw. immediately knee circle backw. to rest; Vi circle (backw.) 1. with

1.	leg to front rest; drop kip to free front rest, underswing and down.

3.	As exercise 1, but the 1. leg to squat backw. between hands and extended to cross-straddle rest; 14 circle backw. (once around the bar with extended legs, crotch circle backw., as termed by some directors); drop backw., immediately squat forw. with the 1. leg, underswing and down.

4.	As exercise 3, after the circle backw. (around the bar), Vi turn r. (changing the cross-straddle rest to far side of the bar); drop backw.; squat forw. r., ankles to bar, kip to front rest and flank vault 1. (or r.).

5.	As exercise 3, but with reversed grasp of both hands, then 14 circle forw. (around bar); Vi circle 1. with r. leg to rear rest and change grasp to ordinary; drop backw.; squat forw., ankles to bar and kip to front rest and rear vault r. (or 1.).

6.	An exercise free for all.

Note—Execute all movements 1. and r.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third division to begin on the side horse and the fourth on the climbing rope, then change places.

Side Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to front rest and place 1. foot on the neck (leg extended); dismount backw. to half bent-knee pos. on board and immediately jump to front rest and place r. foot on the croup; dismount backw. as before and repeat once 1. and r.

2.	Jump to front rest and place 1. foot on the neck; place r. foot to 1. to side leaning rest and place 1. hand on hip after the r. foot has been placed in pos.; dismount forw.

3.	Jump to front rest and place 1. foot on neck; swing r. leg to 1. and immediately dismount forw.

4.	Jump to side leaning rest on neck and place 1. hand on hip; dismount forw.

5.	Flank vault 1.

Note—Repeat exercise 6 several times until good form is acquired.

Repeat all movements 1. and r.
Climbing Rope.

1.	Grasp the rope at about the height of the chin, then lower backw. to leaning hang, rise and lower forw. to leaning hang. Repeat three times.

2.	Lower sidew. 1. to leaning hang, then rise and lower sidew. r. to opposite pos. Repeat three times.

. 3. Lower backw. to leaning hang, then circle body 1. four to six times.

4.	As ex. 3, to the r.

5.	Jump to squat rest (feet resting on the knot) arms extended); extend knees, hips, and bend arms; as first pos. and down. Repeat.

6.	Jump to bent arm hang, legs behind rope (hands under chin); down. Repeat two or three times.

7.	Jump to bent arm hang; raise knees forw.; lower legs; down. Repeat two or three times.

8.	Jump to straight arm hang; pull up (bent arm hang); extend arms, and down. Repeat once.

9.	Jump to straight arm hang; pull up and raise knees forw.; extend arms and lower legs; down. Repeat once.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and form ranks ol twos at one end of the gymnasium for “Knapsack Race.”

u *	..	T T T T T

Explanation.— T T T T T

The double ranks face toward opposite end of the gymnasium. The mem* bers of the front line act as ponies, those of the rear line as riders. All riders are carried as lively as possible to far end, where they dismount and exchange places, they carrying the former ponies back to starting point to decide the winning couple. Repeat once.

Order class to attention, clap hands once and dismiss. (To be continued.)

A SPANISH DANCE.

ARRANGED FOR LADIES.

By OSCAR E. RUTHER, Director of the Independent Turn Verein, Indianapolis, Ind.

Music: “Seguidilla.”—-Each dancer has a pair of castanets.

Class Formation	for Part /.

T T	T	T

T T	T	T

12	3	4

Counts.

1.	Rocking step left oblique forw. and right oblique backw. with

swinging arms left oblique forw. and right oblique backw..	12

Execution.—Step left obi. forw., draw the right instep to left

heel and swing arms oblique forw............................ 1—3

Step right oblique backw., draw left foot back to right on point	and	swing	arras	backw............................ 4—6

2.	% turn	left	(waltz)	with	arms to a circle overhead.......... 1—12

3.	Repeat	1.....................................................1—12

4.	Repeat	2.....................................................1—12

48
^ W KD ^

-245-

Part II.

Spanish draw.	Counts.

. Four	times	to	left, left arm to half circle.................... 1—12

41	44	44	right, right arm to half circle.................. 1—12

"	left, left arm to half circle......................1-12

. Three	“	44	right with pirouette right %	turn.................1—12

48

Execution of draw.—Step left foot to side, draw right to left, pointing to right side, right heel to left instep, trunk is bent slightly sidew. to opposite of draw.

Part III.

1—4. Repeat Part 1.......................................... 48

Part IV.

Counts.

1.	Lunge left oblique forw., kneel on right knee and arms to a

circle overhead............................................ 1—3

Circle trunk from right to left twice....................... 4—9

Rise and pirouette right....................................10—12

2.	Stamp	once with left foot and twice with right.............. 1—3

Repeat	three times............................................4—12

3.	Repeat	1 opposite.............................................1—12

4.	Repeat	2 opposite.............................................1—12

48

Part V.

T T T T

12	3	4

Counts.

1.	The center two, 2 and 3, encircle the ones on outside, 1 and 4,

by passing in front first with four (4) flying turns; during this time the outer ones take crosspoint step in front with outer foot, trunk bent forw., arms to a circle overhead; they stand in this position from 1—9, pirouette inw..........10—12

2.	The center two, 2 and 3, Spanish draw outw. behind 1 and 4.

The outer two, 1 and 4, do one mazurka and one rocking step inw., the same outw................................1—12

3.	The center two, 2 and 3, one mazurka and rocking step outw.

and inw.; the outer two, 1 and 4, face inw. and glide forw. 1. with hopping twice on left, right leg extended backw., left arm oblique forw. upw., right back downw., repeat right, left, pirouette and face to front.......................1—12

4.	Rocking step backw. of 1 and 4 and forw. of 2 and 3, so as

to form in fours side oy side in open order; they all have

changed places now and stand as follows.................1—12

48

T T T	T

2	14	3

Part VI.

1—4. Repeat Part V. 1 and 4 do flying turn..................... 48

Digitized by C.ooQle
—246-Part VII.

Count*.

1.	All balance left, right, left and pirouette..................1—12

Execution.—Step left sidew.; point right foot in front with rising

on toes and sink, same opposite.

2.	Repeat 1 opposite............................................1—12

3. Repeat 1 of Part IV..........................................1—12

4.	Repeat 2 of Part IV., intead of the stamping form two circles

for next part...............................................1—12

48

Part	y	t

With finishing 4, Part VII, they form ^	^

two circles. In the inner circle eight (8), outer ^	^	y *

circle sixteen (16).	Ay

In the inner circle left side to center.	T	*	.	^

“	“ outer “ right “	“	Y	*

The forming of these two circles is done in y	X

walking.	*	^

Count*

1.	The outer circle repeat 1	and 2 of	Part I\	l_9d.

44 inner “	“	2	‘ 1 “	“	1/..........

2.	All mazurka and rocking	step left	and	right.......1—12

3.	Repeat 2, instead of last	rocking stt p,	pirouette...........1—12

48

Part IX.

1—4. The outer circle perform Spanish draw as in Part II. The inner circle step cross-swing and hop left and right with left and right arm to a half circle overhead with each step, this is done left around in the circle.................................1—48

Part X.

1.	The outer circle perform four draws inward...................1—12

The outer circle perform two flying turns outw. with two draws..1—12 To the first 12 counts the inner circle make two flying turns

outw. with two draws, to the second 12 counts the same opposite (toward the center).

2.	In the outer circle face in couples, grasp right hand and circle

right once around, with a step cross-swing and hop 1 to 9

pirouette 10—12.............................................1—24

During this time the inner circle to draw inw. and outw. each 12 counts

48

Part XI.

1.	All form a half circle and face front......................... 12

TTTTTTTr

*>>

. \

Digitized by

Google
-247-

13-36

37-48

2.

3.

4.

Repeat 1 and 2 of Part I......................

All two pirouettes inw. (to center) and outw

Pose during the last part of music.

11X48 = 528

HOME EXERCISE.

Alluring advertisements appear in the magazines constantly, offering all the advantages of physical training to anyone who will buy a certain prescription of home exercise.

The idea of securing all the benefits of exercise by simply going through a few simple movements in one’s room for ten minutes a day is certainly very attractive. Many men pay from two to twenty dollars for these prescriptions and attempt to work their money’s worth out of the prescription. But without the all-important personal direction and inspiration of a teacher, the once enthusiastic pupil in a few days becomes discouraged at the monotony of the work and gives it up in disgust. Of course it is human nature to tell of good bargains made and to keep silent about poor investments; consequently very little is heard from the scores who have two or three sheets of paper at home, each representing a five or ten dollar note. Many prospective investors in these unique prescriptions wish to know something about their value before investing. Just a few facts:

1.	These home exercise lessons are purely and simply money-making schemes.

2.	All these lessons can be bought for one-half to one-tenth of the price advertised by simply answering the advertisement and waiting for propositions. These will come at intervals of about two weeks, each offering a reduction of twenty-five or fifty per cent, on the previous price.

3.	There is absolutely nothing new in any of these so-called “new systems”; they all use a few well-known exercises. The much-lauded resistive movements have been introduced periodically for the past twenty-five years.

4.	Serious permanent injury has resulted in some cases from these exercises prescribed by a stranger to a stranger.

5.	Only a small fraction of the benefits of exercise can possibly be derived from the best of these “systems,” and there is great risk of injury because these dispensers of prescriptions are not medical men and do not know the conditions of their pupils.

6.	The object sought by these men is simply increase in the size and strength of the muscles; whereas, scientific physical training aims to increase vitality and endurance.

7.	All the benefits of physical training can be secured in every well-conducted gymnasium, where a personal examination by a medical man, a scientific prescription of exercise, direct instruction by a teacher, bathing • facilities and the inspiration of numbers are provided for a nominal sum.

CORRESPONDENCE.

—W. J. Your society has never favored us with any reports of its doings; this is the reason that we have failed to publish them. This same answer fits your second question why so little is published in regard to the Milwaukee institution.

—Since we employ no reportorial staff we cannot prevent the Normal School of the N. A. G. U. from carrying on its work in secrecy. Our columns have been open to all institutions and organizations in the physical training line. We have read the editorial note in the American Physical Education Review.

Digitized by LiOOQle
Editor “Mind & Body,” Milwaukee, Wis.

Dear Sir: In keeping up with the physical work you may be interested in noting in your magazine the development of the Association Institute at Silver Bay, Lake George, N. Y. There weie enrolled in the Institute this August 90 as against 26 last year, 38 of whom were enrolled in the Physical Department. Geo. J. Fisher, M. D., physical work secretary of the International Committee, was Dean of that department of the Institute. Other instructors were W. S. Truslow, M. D., of Brooklyn, applied anatomy and special lectures on scoliosis; P. S. Phillips, M. D., of Amherst, physiology; H. E. Hale, M. D., of New York, anatomy; C. J. Lang, M. D., of Trenton, N. J., authropometry; W. H. Kinni-cutt, M. D., of Cleveland, special lectures; G. M. Martin of Toledo and F. B. Banes of Albany were in charge of practical gymnastics and athletic work.

The Silver Bay Association owns over 1500 acres on Lake George, and the facilities for gymnastics, athletics, games, swimming, boating, etc., are unexcelled.

G. M. Martin.

_ BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Pub!. Co., Milwaukee.)

—The “Heathen” sets the standard for the Christian. Within the last two years Japan has been setting up, for the gaze of the “Christian” world, new standards of dauntless valor on the field, of skilled mercy in the hospital, and at Portsmouth, of magnanimity in peace making. Thus the Japanese take first rank among the world’s sportsmen—for what is sportsmanship but fairness in contest and generosity in conquest? a fair foe and a magnanimous conqueror. Japan has shown greatness in her war against Russia, but a still higher degree of greatness in the generosity of the terms on which she granted peace to a foe that her armies and her navy have overwhelmed—crushed—literally outclassed at every point of the war game.

And this is the people that a multitude of half-educated zealots seek to “Christianize”!—(Caspar Whitney in “The View-point ”)

COLLEGE ATHLETICS.

Until recently a young man was sent to college for the training of the mind only, and no suggestion whatever was held out to him regarding the training of the body; consequently he received neither instruction as to how to care for the body, nor how to improve it. Witness now the large sums expended, and wisely, too, by the colleges and universities for gymnasiums, athletic fields, boat houses, etc.

The impressive totals of university funds invested in athletic equipment during the present year make the outlay for developing the “sound body” rival the endowment of classical chairs and foundations. In several of America’s foremost universities the outlay on athletics is more than on the dead languages which two generations ago were held to be the cornerstone of a campus educational. The University of Pennsylvania is completing an athletic field and a gymnasium in one magnificent quadrangle at a cost of nearly half a million dollars. Harvard has just thrown open a new field called the “Stadium,” at the cost of $200,000.

A movement is under way at the University of Chicago to endow athletics in order to remove certain objectionable features of an admission-fee system to struggles for college honors, and a half million dollars is the amount needed to provide sufficient capital to maintain the varied sporting interests of the institution. Columbia has recently purchased real estate valued at two million dollars, a part of which will be hsed for an athletic field, according to present plans. Princeton is building a gymnasium which will rival in cost and elaborate equipment any of her collegiate halls. There are several preparatory schools whose gymnasiums and fields added an outlay of $50,000 each.

Digitized by ^ooQle
>vummusmuuitut

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics) E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., DIRECTOR,

Otters

A Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

rnnrnirrnntmuma

mm mm mousti: union

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

558-S68 BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving full particulars, address GEORGE WITTICH, Director.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Complete Volumes

-----—OF—-------

“5IWI <L $>o<V’

75 Cents. Bd. $1.25.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Building,

Milwaukee, Wis.

if CTCTS'X OUT!

Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Steps

FOR THE

®sGYMNASIUM.=SS

*Y

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUNDGREN,

Formerly Physical Director of Kansas State Agricultural College and of the Young Women's Christian Association of Burlington, Iowa.

• Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Education.

PRICE, 50 CENTS.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by c.ooQle
PLAYGROUNDAPPARATUS

NEW CATALOG-JUST OUT!

WRITE FOR IT!

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO. -^^GYMNASIUM OUTFITTERS«=—

PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A.

We want and recommend

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS,

Athletic Coaches, and Teacheis, for high-grade positions in all parts of the United States. We have filled vacancies in some of the largest nniversitics. colleges, secondary schools, etc., in the country, at salaries ranging from $800 to $2,000 a year. If you would accept promotion, we can help you.

No advance fee required. Free service to employers. Write us to-day.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU,

212 S. Second Street, Rockford, 111.

Jacob Willig

MANUFACTURER OF

Gymnasium, Athletic and Sporting Goods,

71 W. Washington St., CHICAGO, ILL.

-----------

;Apparatus of all Descriptions. Equipping Gymnasiums a Specialty

	

Digitized by L,oogle