Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

CHAPTERS FROM THE EARLY HISTORY OF PHYSICAL TRAINING IN AMERICA.

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

II. THE INTRODUCTION OF “CALISTHENICS” FOR GIRLS AND WOMEN

(dating from about 1830).

A system of exercises intended for girls and women, and of a sort which had already met with some success in England under the name “Calisthenics/' was introduced into this country about the year 1830 by Catharine Esther Beecher (1800-1878), oldest child of Lyman Beecher and sister of Harriet Beecher Stowe and Henry Ward Beecher. -In 1822 she opened in Hartford, Connecticut, a select school for young women which later (1827) developed into the Hartford Female Seminary. During the ten years that she remained at its head this institution became widely known as among the very best of its class, and its pupils are said to have numbered from a hundred to a hundred and sixty, drawn from every state in the Union. That Miss Beecher was not content to ignore the

Digitized by C.ooQLe
physical welfare of her charges appears from the “Suggestions respecting Improvements in Education’’ which she presented to the Trustees of the Seminary, and which were published in 1829 at their request. *

“What is the profession of a woman?” she asks. “Is it not to form immortal minds, and to watch, to nurse, and to rear the bodily system, so fearfully and wonderfully made, and upon the order and regulation of which the health and well-being of the mind so greatly depends? But let most of our sex upon whom these arduous duties devolve be asked:	have	you	ever devoted

any time and study, in the course of your education, to any preparation for these duties ? Have you been taught anything of the structure, the nature, and the laws of the body which you inhabit? Were you ever taught to understand the operation of diet, air, exercise and modes of dress upon the human frame? Have the causes which are 'continually operating to prevent good health and the modes by which it might be perfected and preserved ever been made the subject of any instruction? Perhaps almost every voice would respond, No! we have attended to almost everything-more than to this; we have been taught more concerning the structure of the earth, the laws of the heavenly bodies, the habits and formation of plants, the philosophy of language, more of almost any thing than the structure of the human frame and the laws of health and reason. But is it not the business, the profession of a woman to guard the health and form the physical habits of the young? And is not the cradle of infancy and the chamber of sickness sacred to woman alone? and ought she not to know at least some of the general principles of that perfect and wonderful piece of mechanism committed to her preservation and care? The restoration of health is the physician’s profession, but the preservation of it falls to other hands; and it is believed that the time will come when woman will be taught to understand something respecting the construction of the human frame, the philosophical [!] results which will naturally follow from restricted exercise, unhealthy modes of dress, improper diet, and many other causes, which are continually operating to destroy the health and life of the young.”

An account of the Hartford Female Seminary which appeared in January of 1832** makes no mention of instruction in physiology and hygiene, but shows that the new exercises had found a place

*	See the (Philadelphia) Journal of Health, Vol. If, pp. 66, 190 and 191 (1830, October 27, and 1831, February 23).

*	* American Annals of Education and Instruction, Vol. II, pp. [62-68] (1832, Jauuarv). Taken chiefly from “The Annual Catalogue of the Hartford Female Seminary, together with an account of the internal arrangements, course of study and mode of instructing the same. Hartford, 1831.”

Digitized by C^ooQle
-291-

in the daily routine of school duties. “. . . .The first three quarters of an hour is devoted to instruction by the Principal, relating to the social, moral and religious duties of life, enforced by the authority of the Bible and concluded with reading the scriptures and prayer. After this the school journal, in which the behavior and recitations of the several classes during the preceding day are recorded, is read aloud.... The Governess next calls out the classes, each in succession. They form themselves in double files in the center of the hall and pass to the different recitation rooms assigned them.... Those who do not recite during the first hour remain in the hall either to write or to study. At the end of an hour the bell is rung and the classes all return and are seated in the hall. The pupils are then distributed in the different rooms in classes, and each, under the care of a teacher, performs a course of Calisthenic exercises. A recess of ten minutes for conversation and exercise is then allowed, and the scholars are again reassembled in the hall At the commencement of each hour the pupils are thus assembled and again distributed in their appropriate classes. In the afternoon, also, the exercise in Calisthenics succeeds the first recitation hour....,,

“The attempt to remedy physical defects,” Miss Beecher tell& us *, “came about in this manner:	An	English lady of fine person

and manner came to us as a teacher of what then had no name but now would be called Calisthenics. She gave a large number of the exercises that are now in my work on Physiology and Calisthenics,. published by the Harpers, and narrated how she had cured deformities in others by her methods. What interested us most was her assurance that, until maturity, she had a curvature of the spine that was a sad deformity, being what was called a humpback, and yet there she was, a model of fine proportion and gracefulness. The whole school took lessons of her, and I added others; and though the results were not conspicuous, they convinced me that far more might be done in this direction than was ever imagined or would be credited without ocular demonstration. From this came the system of Calisthenics which I invented, which spread all over the country, and which Dio Lewis, courteously giving me due credit, modified and made additions to. . . .”

In 1831 “A Course of Calisthenics for Young Ladies, in Schools and Families," a small volume of less than ninety pages, in the form of nine letters signed “M.’\ was published at Hartford. Internal evidence of the real authorship is lacking, although the book has been attributed to Miss Beecher. According to the Introductory Remarks the letters “were originally designed for the friends

* See an article on ‘’Hartford Female Seminary and its Founder.’’ in Barnard’s American Journal of Education Yol. XVIII* pp. 65-96 (1878).

Digitized by C-ooQle
-292-

to whom they are addressed,” and “the knowledge here communicated was acquired solely for the benefit of the author’s own family.. .. Excepting a few remarks in some of our best periodicals, nothing on the subject of Calisthenics has hitherto appeared in our own country. The works which have been published in England and France * on the subject have been consulted, and such exercises selected from them as were deemed useful and suitable for young ladies.... Calisthenics have stood the test of experiment. If the precepts and examples furnished by antiquity are forgotten, the modern examples of France and England have shown their utility. These exercises have been there introduced into many schools for girls and into private families, and are considered indispensable in the physical education of females. A few schools in our own country are beginning to adopt them, but hitherto they have had no manual of exercises.... It will not be long, I trust, before the practice of Calisthenics shall be perfectly familiar to every female school in the United States.”

Letter IV tells how Calisthenics are designed to arrest the evils incident to school life, and enumerates their beneficial effects. “They bring every part of the system into action, expand the chest, bring down the shoulders, make the form erect, give grace to motion, increase muscular strength, give a light elastic step in walking, restore the distorted or weakened members of the system, prevent tight lacing, promote cheerfulness, render the mind more active, are conducive to general health.” The apparatus employed consists of the triangle, wands, weights, patent spring, bells, oscillator, and grace hoops. The triangle, a favorite instrument with Clias, was a trapeze with the two ropes brought together above to give it a single point of suspension. The weights were of lead,

•Clias, during his stay in England (1822-25), had prepared and given a special course of exercises designed for women. G. P. Voarino -—or “Signor Voarino,” as he calls himself — who says that he was “for several years Professor with Captain Clias at the Royal Military Schools, and since that gentleman’s departure from England [had] been in the constant habit of teaching the exercises at several of the highest academies in the neighborhood of the jmetropolis” (London), published two volumes:	(1.)	“A	Treatise	on Calisthenic

Exercises, Arranged for the Private Tuition of Ladies,” London, 1827; and (2.) “A Second Course of Calisthenic Exercises,” London, 1828. Gustavus Hamilton, who styles himself “Professor of Gymnastics,” and refers appreciatively to Olias’s English book on Gymnastic Exercises, published at London in *1827 “The Elements of Gymnastics, for Boys, and of Calisthenics, for Young Ladies.” Clias’s own book on Calisthenics. “Kalisthenie oder Uebungen zur Schoenheit und Kraft fuer Maedchenwas published at Bern two years later. A French work on the same subject — “Calisthenic, ou Gymnastique des Jeunes Filles, TraitS ElSmentaire des differentes exercices, propres a fortifier }e corps, a entretenir la santS, et & preparer un bon temperament” — which appeared at Paris in 1828, is said to have contained nothing but Clias’s exercises for young men, applied to the training of the gentler sex with no modification whatever. These are probably the sources referred to above. letter II quotes from Voarlno’s “Second Course.”

Digitized by y.ooQle
-293-

iron, or tin filled with sand, in form like clock-weights and weighing four or five pounds, covered with thick cloth. The patent spring allowed resisted movements. The bells were “not dumb but tongueless, with wooden handle and a bell weighing about a pound. They are brought together and hit accurately so as to sound.” Of the oscillator, attributed to “James K. Casey, Esq., the inventor of the Patent Dormant Balance,” the author says that it is “probably the best machine in use for the cure of lateral curvature of the spine.” An outfit of apparatus for a school would include eight or ten weights, a dozen or twenty bamboo canes or light wooden ones, the triangle, the patent springs, the hoop and sticks for “La Grace,” two pairs of bells, and the oscillator — the last regarded as valuable, but not absolutely necessary. “In every seminary for young ladies there should be a teacher of Calisthenics.”

“.. .. Some of the French and English exercises which I have seen are improper for girls, and others appear to me dangerous.” Horseback riding, walking and the study of botany, and drawing from nature are recommended, “but these exercises do not supersede the necessity for regular ones, which can be practised at any hour, without asking permission of ‘wind or weather/ ” In Letter IX an order for learning the exercises is suggested and sixteen lessons are indicated. “The best time is in the morning, before breakfast, and in the evening for a half hour before going to bed. Besides this, fifteen or twenty minutes during school hours in the morning and the same in the afternoon.”

On account of impaired health Miss Beecher was compelled to resign her position at the Hartford Female Seminary in 1832. That same year she accompanied her father to Cincinnati, where he had accepted the presidency of Lane Theological Seminary, and with her sister conducted for two years in that city the “Western Female Institute.” A notice of the school in the American Annals of Education and histruction for August, 1833 (Vol. Ill, pp. 380 and 381), contains this information:	“The	number	is	limited	to

thirty pupils, and two ladies of experience, besides the two superintendents of the school, are devoted to their education. To aid in Physical Education, Calisthenics are adopted as a means of relaxation and exercise, and instead of the practice of some schools (which we confess has sometimes excited a smile and sometimes a sigh), of allowing but five minutes to this daily session, we are gratified to learn that half an hour is devoted to it each half day. It is rendered attractive by music, and serves at the same time as a lesson in musical rhythm. We are assured by those that have tried both that it is a far more efficient means than dancing for improving the form and the manners, without any of its evils. We hope this institution will prove as valuable as that established at Hartford.”
— 294 -

Long after the Cincinnati school had l>een discontinued, and through all the varied experiences of her later years. Miss Beecher's belief in the efficacy of calisthenics remained unshaken. The explanation of an interest so deep and abiding is found in a communication on “The Health of Teachers and Pupils in Our Country,” which she addressed to the American Association for the Advancement of Education and which was read in Detroit at the annual meeting of that body August 13, 1856 *. Referring to her own life-work she says: “At the commencement of that caieer 1 was among the earliest pioneers in advancing woman's claim to higher intellectual culture. So far as I knew then, the institution at Hartford, Connecticut, under my care, was the first to introduce Geometry, and Algebra, and several other branches never before studied by woman. And I stimulated my own brain and the brains of my pupils without fear or stint, as thousands are now doing; when suddenly and unwarned, at the end of ten years, my whole nervous fountain gave out, and my physical system was irretrievably ruined. And doubtless many of my pupils were equal sufferers from my ignorance. The last twenty years has been one [!] of incessant debility and prostration, while, as I journeyed or visited health establishments all over the land, 1 discovered the dreadful havoc that a similar course is effecting among teachers and pupils all over the land.”

One object of her communication was to bring to the notice of the Association her recently published Physiology and Calisthenics for Schools and Families (New York, 1856). a book intended to remedy the conditions she deplored. “The first part of this work,” to use her own words, “will consist of a description of the various organs of the human body and of their uses. The second part will present the rules for the proper treatment of these organs and the laws of health. In the third part there will be some account given of the manner in which these laws are often violated, and the evil consequences that follow. In the fourth part will be given a system of calisthenic exercises, designed to strengthen every part of the body, and to promote health, gracefulness, and beauty. In the last portion will be taught certain methods for curing disease and deformities by means of these exercises.”

Of the two hundred and fifty pages contained in the little volume a fifth are devoted to “Calisthenic Exercises, for Schools. Families, and Health Establishments.” “Calisthenics,” she explains in the preface, “is the name of a course of exercises designed to promote health, and thus to secure beauty and strength. Gymnastics, also, are exercises designed .to secure health and strength. They onli-

* See Halliard’s American Journal of Education, V«l. II. pp. 3MM0S (1S.>0. September.)

Digitized by C.ooQle
—295—

narily are more severe than this course, while they require apparatus, and a room set apart for the purpose. The following are the distinctive advantages offered:	I) This svstem can be prac-

ticed in schools of every description, in the family, in nurseries, in hospital^, and 'in 'health establishments, without apparatus, and without a room set apart for the purpose. 2) It excludes all those severe exercises that involve danger, either from excess or from accidents. It is maintained that many athletic exercises suited to the stronger sex are not suited to the female constitution. This is a system that contains all that either sex needs for the perfect development of the body.... 3) This system is arranged on scientific principles, with the design of exercising all the muscles, and of exercising them equably and harmoniously. It embraces most of what is to be found in the French and English works that exhibit the system of Ling, the celebrated Swedish Professor, whose method has been widely adopted in European schools and universities. It also contains, in addition, many valuable exercises that have been employed in Health Establishments for the cure of diseases and deformities. 4) This system is so illustrated by drawings, and so exactly arranged as to mode and time, that any person, young or old, can practice it without aid from a teacher, and in any place. . . . ”

The “First Course” includes fifty School-room Exercises, none of them requiring any apparatus, and for the dozen Hall Exercises of the “Second Course” nothing more is needed than a pair of “weights,” furnished by the pupil. These weights were merely oblong bags, from eight to twelve inches long and six inches wide, made of unbleached cotton and given the shape of bricks by partly filling them with corn. Two or three pairs of upright parallels or Chest Bars are to be placed at one end of the hall, for use in certain of the remedial exercises. Besides conducting the daily exercises of her pupils in the class-room and the “Calisthenic Hall" the teacher is advised to “select those who have any personal defects — such as projecting necks, round shoulders, crooked backs, toes turned inward, etc. — and direct them to additional exercises, to be performed out of school, for the cure of such defects.”

What is probably her last word on the subject of physical training is contained in Miss Beecher’s “Educational Reminiscences and Suggestions” (New York, 1874), published only four years before her death. “In Cincinnati,” she says, “I invented a course of calisthenic exercises, accompanied by music, which was an improvement on the one I adopted at Hartford. (The aim was to secure all the advantages supposed to be gained in dancing-schools, with additional advantages for securing graceful movements to the sound of music. These exercises were extensively adopted in

Digitized by
—296-

Schools, both East and West, but finally passed away. One reason was that they demanded a piano or some other instrument, and a large room without furniture; another was the want of appreciation of physical exercise, and of the importance of training young girls to simple gracefulness of movement and person. To meet die first difficulty I arranged a system of exercises which could be used in a school-room without removing desks and benches, either to be performed with or without music, and this method is found in my work on Physiology and Calisthenics, published by the Harpers, which has been extensively adopted. Dr. Dio Lewis' system of gymnastics includes many of my methods, with additions which seem objectionable in these respects: they are so vigorous and ungraceful as to be more suitable for boys than for young ladies. They also demand a large room, an instrument, and a dress for the purpose. They also demand an attention to the state of health which has sometimes been so affected by them' that not unfrequently they have done more harm than good and thus become unpopular with parents. When physical education takes the proper place in our schools, young girls will be trained in the class-rooms to move head, hands, and arms gracefully; to sit, to stand, to walk properly, and to pursue calisthenic exercises for physical development as a regular school duty as much as their studies. And these exercises, set to music, will be sought as the most agreeable of school duties.”
-297-

HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN*

A STATEMENT OF THE ENDEAVORS OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION TO CONSERVE THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN UNDER ITS CARE.

By LUTHER HALSEY GUL1CK, M. D., New York, Director of Physical Training. New York

Public Schools.

When one speaks of the schools of New York City, visions of great buildings containing thousands of children, situated in the congested parts of the city, come to mind. Public School No. 188, Manhattan, down on the lower East Side, has on its register 4,363 pupils. Public School No. 84, Brooklyn, has on its register 4,803 pupils. These enormous schools, embracing numbers equivalent to the population of a fair-sized village community, form, however, only one phase of the picture. Public School 121, Brooklyn, last winter had on its register 26 pupils. The total number of principals, instructors, assistants, and the like was—one. Public School 7, Richmond, had 26 pupils on its roll; and in place of the 66 class-rooms in Public School 84, Brooklyn, it contained but one room, thus corresponding exactly to those village school buildings that have become so well known in the history of the country.

In discussing the health of school children we are then discussing an enormously varied group of problems—those of the single-room building in a sparsely settled territory, where the children live a considerable distance from the school; and at the same time those of the great compact building situated in the most congested districts of the world, with narrow streets, high adjoining buildings, amid a population having the most varied national characteristics.

Ventilation.—There has been appointed upon the Building Committee, which has charge of the erecting and the equipment of all new buildings, a didy qualified medical man, Dr. Louis Haupt, thus insuring to this committee that expert council which is needed in all such work.

All school buildings now being erected are being ventilated by the so-called “plenum” system. The air is forced into the room and finds its way out through special vents leading to the roof. Special hoods are installed to assist the flow and to prevent back draughts. The air is taken at the level of the first or second stories, is carried through ducts to the cellar, there passes through a blower, and is carried into the class-room. It enters the class-room near the ceiling and is dispersed through all parts of the room by deflectors, finds its way finally to a vent near the floor, and is forced out by the incoming air. The system is planned on the basis of furnishing 30 cubic feet of air to each pupil per minute, the basis of calculation being 50 pupils to a room. Each room contains an average of 9,000 cubic feet, or 180 cubic feet per pupil.

In view of the fact that there has been considerable criticism, not with reference to the theory of this plenum system, but with reference to the efficiency with which it was administered in the New York public schools, Dr. C. Ward Crampton, Assistant Director of Physical Train-

* Read before the New York Academy of Medicine on May 24, 1906.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—298—

ing, in cooperation with the Building Department, recently made a series of tests of 23 rooms in different buildings. I quote below part of Dr. Crampton’s report. These rooms were selected, part of them in a direction toward the wind, part away from the wind; and in other respects as well the conditions sought were as varied as possible. I shall not burden you with a detailed report, but it was with great satisfaction that we discovered that the average income of air for these 23 rooms was 1,584 cubic feet per minute. This was not estimate, but careful measurement. “The air in the rooms, with but few exceptions, was rapidly changed in six or seven minutes. In those rooms where the air change was not complete, it was due to corners in which the air seemed to stagnate. This was the only evidence of failure in this system of ventilation. No pupils were seated in these corners.”

Heating—“In the plenum system the air strikes first a series of steam pipes, known as ‘tempering coils,’ which are only in use when the temperature of the outside air is below 40°. These coils bring the air to this temperature. The air is then passed through two series of steam coils. The upper one is set at 70°, the lower one at 68°. When the temperature of the air in the duct entering the class-room falls below 70°, the steam is automatically turned into the upper coil. Should it continue to fall below 68°, the steam is also turned into the lower coil. This is accomplished automatically by thermostats.”

Purity of Air—“The Department of Buildings is now installing an entirely new feature which will insure not only purity of air, but the proper amount of humidity as well. There is to be placed in one of the new buildings an air washer or purifier. The air passes a tempering coil and is drawn through a chamber in which it is thoroughly saturated with water from spray jets. It is next passed through a series of baffle plates which reduces the water and leaves the air at the 50 per cent, humidity mark. The surfaces of these plates catch all the excess moisture, and with it are deposited all particles of dust and impurities. The air then passes through the heating system and is distributed through the building. This is a great advance, as it insures the cleanliness of the air supplied to the class-room. It appears to me that this system of ventilation now in use is most highly efficient in that it unquestionably furnishes each child with the requisite amount of fresh air.” Accommodations.—That there should be over 70,000 children who can be only partially accommodated in the schools in their vicinity seems in itself to be a condemnation of the Board of Education, particularly in view of the fact that this condition has now obtained with greater or lesser severity for a number of years. The reasons back of these conditions are not primarily financial, as they are supposed to be, but they are administrative. For example, last year there moved out of the lower East Side of Manhattan 50,000 persons who went over to Brooklyn and settled in what is known as Brownsville. The school population of Brownsville at that time was 14,221. It was immediately increased by 3,123,-22 per cent, in one year. This was one of the most seriously congested districts in the city before the flood of immigration came. It had at that time 6,323 pupils on “part time.” The increase raised the number on “part time” to 11,031 and increased the

Digitized by CaOOQle
-299—

school population to 17,844. If this immigration had come to a district less seriously burdened, it would not have been so difficult to meet. The school accommodation, which was already inadequate, was overwhelmed. Extensive plans were already under way to remedy the congestion. These have been extended and hastened. Five buildings, which will accommodate 10,500 children, are now under way. Six thousand sittings would give each child a seat ; but the Board are so sure of the continued growth of this district that they have not only allowed a leeway of 4,000, but have already had recommended by the Sites Committee three additional buildings.

It usually takes three years after the need for increased school facilities has been demonstrated to discover the proper site, to have this site approved, the property condemned, plans drawn and approved, and the building erected. The difficulty is not that the city is growing faster than it is possible to plan ahead for it, but that it is growing in unexpected ways, in unexpected places, and at unexpected times. There are now approximately enough sittings in Greater New York to accommodate all the children, but the location of the sittings does not correspond with the location of the children. A building with 1,000 seats cannot accommodate 1,000 children without ignoring their individual needs bv dividing them into ten groups of exactly fifty each.

Lighting.—The standard size of rooms being placed in new buildings is 80x22x14 feet. The principle of unilateral lighting is regularly adopted, except in corner rooms. The so-called 4,H” building permits of the location of the school in the middle of a block and affords to everv room adequate light and area. This is a type of building which I understand was developed by Mr. Snyder, the Superintendent of Buildings. The amount of window space is never less than 20 per cent, of the floor area, nor more than 25 per cent. The top of the window is 13 feet 6 inches from the floor. The distance across the room is never over 22 feet, which is less than twice the height.

Vision.—However perfectly the school building may be ventilated, with what degree of perfection light may be regulated and admitted, temperature controlled, humidity adjusted, the desk perfectly fitted to the individual, period of sittings still shortened, and periods of varied bodily and manual activity lengthened—the central difficulty of school life remains. It is a difficulty which is dependent upon the fact that the treasures of civilization are stored in print—in minute black marks upon a white surface, which must be held relatively close to the eyes. This involves a conscious attention and strain of the ocular apparatus to which it was not adapted during the long ages when it was being developed. Even under the most favorable conditions the strain of civilization rests most heavily upon the child with reference not merely to the eye, but also to the nerve centers back of the eyes, and to that very great symptom-complex which is associated, as we have only recently discovered, with eye-strain.

Examinations made in many cities and those made in New York under the direction of the Board of Health, have satisfied us that not less than 30 per cent, of all children in our elementary schools are suffering from ocular defects demanding correction, and not less than 17

Digitized by Google
-300-

per cent, have ocular defects so severe as to be a serious menace to ihcir progress. These defects acquire their significance, not because they are defects merely, but because they are defects of that portion of the human organism upon which learning and education largely rest. The relation of this condition to school work is shown by the fact that ocular defects are in direct ratio to the length and time the pupil has attended school. This is the* point of strain, this is the point that demands more aggressive and constant safeguarding than any other of the systems of apparatus that we each possess.

For diagnosis and treatment the Board of Education must depend upon the Board of Health. All the Board of Education can do is to secure adequate lighthing and suitable print, to prevent long consecutive use of short focus work, and to get the children to hold the book at a. fair distance and at right angle.

Seating.—The largest sedentary class in the civilized world is probably that of public school children. The significance of this fact is fully realized when we remember that the ordinary effects of sedentary occupation are accentuated, because the individuals are growing rapidly. Hence the interference is not merely with function, but with growth as well. The effects of badly-fitting school desks accentuate the manifest evils of sitting still. A desk which is too high, too low, or too far from the pupil may easily be the indirect agent for causing scoliosis, producing: or aggravating myopia or astigmatism, interfering with the development of the legs through pressure upon the popliteal arteries, and the development of automatisms in the unconscious effort of the child to relieve the strained positions.

There are two ways in which the Board of Education aims to combat the evils that are incident to sitting at school desks. The first of these is by minimizing the length of time that the child shall sit still, and the second by having a school desk as nearly related to the child who is sitting in it as is feasible. Ever}' child in the elementary schools is required, at least twice in the morning and once in the afternoon, to take the so-called “setting-up exercise.” This exercise secures a large excursion of the diaphragm, thus accelerating abdominal circulation, increasing repiration and circulation in the arterial and venous system generally by the contraction of the large muscular masses of the back and legs. It also most forcibly extends the spine, calling attention to those parts of it which are bent forward chiefly in the sitting position, namely, the dorsal and cervical positions.

The modern school differs from the school a generation ago in no respect more markedly than with reference to its relation to the activity of the child. It seemed to be the earlier practice to regard the children as so many vessels that were to be filled with knowledge. The present situation is more accurately represented by the statement that the children are regarded as individuals, who have powers that are to be developed bv specific activities of various kinds; that these specific activities involve not merely action of the intellectual powers, but also involve the activities of the hands, of the body, and of the vocal organs as well. The result is that instead of sitting still five hours per day, there is relatively little sitting still. A rather careful inquiry

Digitized by CaOOQle
-301-

among the schools would indicate that in the lower grades less than 50 per cent, of the time is spent in sitting still, and that only in the last grades is more than three fifths of the time spent in relatively” motionless position. I think, then, it is clear that if children do not. sit still for any long, consecutive period and for not more than two hours out of the five, and that during the day they take exercises specifically' designed to counteract the effect of the predominating sedentary occupation—the problem is not as grave as it would be under the conditions of five hours of sitting still which obtained in the schools a generation ago.

With reference to the adaptation of the desk to the child there are very' important things to be said. The Board of Education, after careful investigation, has selected forms of adjustable school seats and desks, in order to give the children that which shall be best related to their needs. As a matter of fact, however, these seats are rarely altered, for the following reasons:

Pupils in high schools have no permanent seats, but go from room to room as they change subjects. Thus each pupil during the day will occupy four or five different seats. It is obvious that under such conditions it is neither necessary nor possible to have the seats adjusted to the individual pupil. All that can be done is to have the general grading of seats correspond to the general grading of the schools, and then to seat the tall children in the back of the room and the short children in the front. There is, however, in this administration, one obvious and thus far unsolved difficulty'. Children who are myopic or who are deaf in one or both ears, should be seated so that the disability will interfere with the progress as little as possible. If the case chances to be one of the tall pupils and the indications point to his being seated where the seats are low, the difficulty is real.

With reference to the elementary schools it must be explained that in the upper two years a large number of schools is organized on the so-called “departmental” basis, which means that the pupils go from room to room in pursuing the different subjects, exactly as pupils do in the high schools. The conditions that have just been described for the high schools apply, therefore, equally to these elementary schools organized on the departmental basis. This organization is proceeding rapidly and bids fair to become general.

Beginning now with the lowest grades in the kindergarten, we find small, solid chairs, which are designed to be moved into any part of the room where they are needed. These chairs are used bv different pupils and at tables rather than at desks, as the floor must be cleared for the games that occupy such a large fraction of the time in the kindergarten.

In the classes above the kindergarten and below the departmental grades, we find the following fact: In 70,000 cases the pupil is able to come to school but part of the day. This is because of congestion. These are the so-called “part time” classes. Two pupils each day occupy the same desk. The only adjustment possible in such cases is the general one and of having in each room such an assortment of such sizes of furniture as will suit the average class. The classes are promoted twice each year, but the changes of individual children from room to room and from school to school are so great as to constitute a serious

Digitized by t^ooQLe
-302-

difficulty in the way of adjustment of school furniture to the individual, even in those schools where there are no “part time” classes.

(To be continued.)

NEW GYMNASIUM GAMES.

Compiled by A. M. CHESLEY.

(From “Physical Training”, October, 1906.)

Medicine Ball Race. Divide the men into two equal teams (or; if you wish, have as many teams as you have floor space to run them), give each team a medicine ball of any weight, the larger the better, place the balls on a line drawn across one end of the floor, then one man from each team gets in front of a ball and at the signal starts to run backwards across the floor until he crosses a line at the other end of the floor, when he immediately turns around and runs back to the starting position where another one takes the ball and runs with it, and so on until all have run, the team finishing first winning. The ball is not to be carried, but has to be rolled along the floor by the man while he is running backwards by stooping over and rolling it after him. The means of rolling the ball may be varied by having the men roll it with both hands or with either hand or one way with one hand and the other way with the other.

Cross Legged Indian Club Race. Divide the men into teams. Place as many rows of Indian clubs across the floor as there are teams to run. The clubs to be three feet apart lengthwise (the more room between the clubs the better). The men are to run between each club in their row and return, then another takes his place and runs as before, the team finishing first winning. If a man kicks over a club he has to stop and replace it before he can finish. The men are not allowed to step over the clubs, but must run around each one.

Ball Match. Divide the men into two teams, have the teams sit on the floor facing each other about 20 or 25 feet apart. The legs are to be kept straight and in front of the man, and the heels together. The man ahead of the line has a light medicine ball, which he throws at the man at the end of the other line. If the ball is thrown properly and the man fails to catch it, or if he is tipped over in the attempt to catch it, he has to go to the other side- II he catches it and is not tipped over he throws it back to the second man in the other row and so on back and forth down the line, the man who fails is to go to the other side. A man who does not throw the ball so that the other man can catch it has to go to the other side. The object is to see w'hich side can get the most men in a given time, or which side can get all the men. This can be varied by making the rule that the man who talks during the game has to go to the other side.

With a little thought anv of these games may be varied and played over a number of times the same day without getting tiresome.

The above games were originated by W. E. Mack, Physical Director, Racine, Wis.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-303-

WALKING IS AN IDEAL EXERCISE IN WINTER.

Five months are now beginning in which the average American is prone to neglect'his exercise.

The time is come when baseball, golf, tennis, cricket and rowing are virtually impossible, leaving only # football to survive among the more important outdoor sports. Football, even in the association form, is far too rugged for the man who only exercises with the idea of protecting his health, and for the most of us exercise is now at an end until the thaws of next April make it comfortable to work in the open.

Yet the abandonment of the sources of strength for almost one-half of the year is a serious mistake. No indoor exercise can equal in benefit muscular action in the open air.

There are four cardinal rules for getting results from walking:

1. Walk fast. There is no profit whatever in slouching along. The slow walker never expands his lungs, snaps the muscles or gets the blood circulating.

2.	Make the exercise regular. An hour daily is better than nothing at all on week days and ten hours on Sunday. Walking to and from work forms an admirable means of exercise, providing one’s home is not more than three miles from the shop.

3.	Dress for walking. Let your shoes and clothes be loose and light as you can wear them without suffering from the cold. Don’t wear an overcoat, except when you have to, for it impedes the action of the legs. Don’t mind being a little chilly at the start of a walk on a cold morning.

4.	Breathe deeply. Every time you take a big draught of air through your nose and let it filter slowly through the lungs you are getting for nothing the best medicine.

While walking comes first, there are other sports brought by winter that are highly beneficial. Skating is ideal. It is splendid action, bracing and exhilarating. The bicycle is better in winter than in summer, and it is a matter for regret that Americans, who first made such a wild fad of the wheel, should have turned from \t.—Philadelphia North American.

Digitized by Google
/V\lWD ftND BODY. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

TuTI ~l-wWUconaln .

• Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wi«

Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

_____________ ________

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

CHANGE IN

THE EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT OF “MIND AND BODY.”

BEGINNING with the next issue, Mr. Wm. A. Steciier, Director of Physical Training of the Public Schools of Philadelphia, will assume the duties as managing editor of this journal.

Dr. F. Pfister of Milwaukee, who had charge of “Mind of Body” and who was responsible for the editorials under this column for over 10 years has resigned on account of other obligations.

Dr. Pfister wishes to thank his collaborators, and principally the members of the Editorial Committee, for the active support he has received and sincerely hopes that their good will shall be transferred to his successor.

It is gratifying to note that the number of subscribers of “Mind and Body” has steadily increased, but it cannot be stated to > often that there is considerable room for improvement.

“Mind and Body,” more than any other journal of its kind, has to satisfy a great variety of tastes and wants in regards to its policy and reading matter and—with its limited space and means can never hope to please everyone.

Dr. Pfister has at times found it difficult to make clear the point that only such matter as is of interest to a majority of the readers is acceptable.

He is aware of the fact that in taking this stand, and with the little time available for correspondence many an opportunitv for making friends has been lost.

Mr Steehcr’s name assures success and, considering his excellent qualities, a steady growth and a noticeable improvement of “Mind and Body” mav be expected.

Gut Heil!

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Tiie following changes in the program of the A. P. E. A Convention, Dec. 26 to 29, 1906, have been reported:

“The Needs and Dangers of Athletics for Girls,” Dec. 29, 11 A. M,, bv Miss Mary W. Butler, Physical Director, State Normal School, Cortland, N. Y., in place of Miss Elm a Warner.

“Address of Welcome,” bv Prof, fohn M. Tvler of Amherst College, S to 10 P. M.. Dec. 26.

— Dr. L., F. L. Sell.. 0. M. and others: Dr. Pfister wishes to thank you for your kind expressions of appreciation.

Digitized by
-305-

—Mr. N. Seuss, Cincinnati. Your “Quarterly” of Dec. 15th is just the kind of publication we have had in mind in our recent editorial. Clean and effective. It shows that it can be done. Our congratulations.

— We call attention to the excellent program for the A. P. E. con' vention which appears in this issue. The “Review of this association just published contains an unusual number of highly interesting articles

—The annual field meeting of the Southern District of the Amateur Athletic Union was held at Shreeveport, La., Nov. 20th, in connection with the Louisiana State Fair. The affair was highly successful, Shreeveport carrying off the main order. Mr. Otto Mauthe, formerly of Day-ton, O., who is director of the Shreeveport Athletic Association, had charge of the arrangements.

HOW TO BE HEALTHY THOUGH YOU WORK HARD.

By DR. MAURICE DE FLEURY.

WHEN it is said of a man that he is killing himself with work I never think that a reasonable supposition is made. Work in itself certainly is not murderous. On the contrary, it is one of the conditions of health, of functional equilibrium. One of the most ardent and without doubt one of the most sincere apostles of the collectivist doctrine recently announced the advent of a golden age when it would suffice that each one should work an hour and twenty minutes every day in order to satisfy his needs and fulfill his duties to the community; this is a perspective which inspires me with no enthusiasm; twenty-two hours and forty minutes of leisure would drive humanity into the saddest decadence, to the most somber stupidity, unless all the excess of unemployed force should turn us back to the probable ferocity of our ancestors. Long daily labor is a necessary reinforcement of our energies, a marvelous regulation of our nervous tension ; let us beware then of reducing it without consideration.

THE HYGIENE OF TOIL

There are, to be sure, trade maladies and evil conditions of labor. A man may become diseased because he has long inhaled deleterious vapors or dust. Without a doubt there exists a hygiene of toil, whether muscular or intellectual. But we must begin bv saying to the nonchalant that an organ which remains overlong in repose atrophies, whereas the organ which habitually functions continually develops and perfects itself.

What induces fatigue and illness is insufficient nourishment, badly chosen, badly apportioned; it is the abuse of bad tonics, stimulants, alcohol; it is unhealthy lodgings, badly ventilated workshops, in companionship with the tuberculous. The child labor law was excellent, because it has been demonstrated that we cannot without harm constrain to prolonged effort muscles that still are imperfect. But an adult who knows his measure, and who does not tipple, is wearied the less as his labor is the more regular.

Digitized by U.ooQLe
—306-

IDLENESS IS PERILOUS.

Born of sensibility, for it was the incessant stimuli coming from the exterior world which charged the tonicity of our muscles, our strength is in us not to vibrate in its place, but to go out of us and achieve, and to realize itself in deeds. Not without peril could it be left to accumulate in our nerve centers. Inaction leads first to madness, then to atrophy.

Let us cultivate, then, a love of labor, source of renewed energ}\ increased strength, of contentment and well being. Let us occupy ourselves unwearingly with the conditions of labor and the extension of hygiene and moderation in labor; let us require the sanitation of factory and home; let as multiply cheap hygienic restaurants, close the salons, civilize the workers; let us teach them to live decently and intelligently; let us arm them for the strife against poverty and disease.

The sort of work that we are accustomed to term intellectual because it necessitates slight muscular exertion seems less hygienic, less healthful than the labor in field and factory. Life in the shop and office has this evil, that it accustoms the organism to muscular lethargy and does not favor the elimination of the toxins.

EVILS OE SEDENTARY WORK.

However little of a gourmand a man may be, however lightly addicted to drink, however little he smokes, one who lives all the day in narrow spaces, badly aired, and who takes no exercise save that which consists in leaping into a cab to regain his home, is surely fated to a train of physical ills and a peevish old age.

With head hot and feet cold, muscles flabby and limbs weak, the office dweller knows earlier than the day laborer dyspepsia, obesity, gout, neurasthenia and an interminable series of maladies. Those who are weighted with serious responsibilities have added to these perils, in proportion to the multiplicity and ingenuity of their efforts, nervous tension, anxiety, fear.

The Anglo-Saxons who are drilled never to appear hasty or anxious, and who nearly always condemn any show of emotions, comport themselves like sages. The ontward calm serves to quiet the inner turbulence. Impatience, enervation, exaltation, are less matters of temperament than of custom. They are habits to which one may oppose the contrary habits. There often are people who work little and still expend much nervous energy, precisely because their indolence communicates to them an insecurity which distresses their minds. He who knows he has done everything he could awaits calmly the results of his efforts.

DO NOT WAIT FOR INSPIRATION.

The most illustrious of our writers do not wait at all on the coming of an inspiration from heaven; they solicit it in a simple fashion by extreme continuity and perfect regularity in their labor. The most Olympian geniuses set to work every morning at the same hour, just like good employes in an office; and it is the continuity of their attentUMt?ti the same object that multiplies their thought until it acqulttH?1* grandeur. For the majority their productive power w*as one
-307-

patience. Nothing is wiser than to set oneself with regularity to one’s task. For any one who is not endowed with a powerful will, with a prodigious moral energy, for him who is not endowed with sovereign human virtues, the simplest thing is to contract habits of usefulness; they are as tenacious as evil habits.

Let us regulate our lives minutely, and seat ourselves before our work tables every day at the same moment, in order that our brain will apply itself to its task in the same way as the stomach, automatically, and, like the stomach, become congested and crv famine at the accustomed hour.

HABIT IS A SECOND NATURE.

Habit i**, indeed, a second nature. It is the strength of the feeble and it is the secret of the strong. The famous Italian, Mosso, says with justice that continuity of thought on the same object singularly multiplies the value of time. It is an excellent formula. In three hours of intense labor which procures continuity of definite useful thought, one % makes more progress than in twenty scattered hours of vague mediation, of unprecise dreams which await the descent of the heavenly inspiration. The most illustrious writers in the world proceed thus; and the majority of them consecrate but two or three hours a day to their work, because involuntary meditation, the obsession of the work at hand, would drag them through the entire day.

The hygiene of the body also should be regulated. The man in the office must compel himself to take more muscular exercise every day under pain of upsetting his entire organism. A walk, a bicycle ride, gymnastics, are helpful provided they are not continued to the point of weariness.

EXERCISE SHOULD BE AUTOMATIC.

The muscular excertion should be automatic and not require the intervention of the will.

In order to prevent nutritive disorders, obesity and other ills, be sober—extremely sober. Habitual high living, exquisite wines, liqueurs, absinthe, injure our organs, change the brain, destroy equilibrium, serenity, and the reign ol thought; after some moments of exasperation they impart a heaviness, a funereal torpor. Plethora and dyspepsia do not promote genius. Nearly all our great writers drank water. For a man who wishes to lead a beautiful life of labor debauches and their disorders can be but a cause of disaster. But a noble love only can elevate the soul and waken the will to surpass even one’s own gifts. Women have a ta«tc for the fame of him whom they love; their presence is encouraging; their practical sense is an aid to realization, and their tenderness is the most magnificent recompense for the victory over indolence and the soft attractions of repose.—Chicago Tribune.

WORK AND PLAY.

Hearty aiid alert, despite his 88 years, Samuel Sloan, for three decades one of the country’s most powerful railroad men, associate and intimate friend of Jay Gould and Russell Sage, declared recently that the stress of present day com-merical life is no greater than it was a quarter of a century ago, and that men would not succumb to it if they observed the simple rules of life, as he has done.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-608-

“Much is required of the men who direct the affairs of the big corporations,’ 9 he said, “and the responsibilties are very great, but if they take good care of the constitxitions God gave them, sleep when they ought to sleep, eat good food and dispense with worry, there is no reason why they should not retain vigor and alertness until they are well past the allotted three-score and ten. The trouble with the men who are failing out of the line while they are yet young in years is that they neglect themselves—in their devotion to theif business they forget that their own bodies and minds require attention. Work and play combined make the successful business man and keep him young, but the trouble with many is that they know how to work, but not how to play.’’ —Exchange.

THE EFFECT OF STRENUOUS EXERCISE ON THE HEART AND KIDNEYS.

HE active campaign against football which was in progress last

season, and which had as its result a modification of the rules, was set in motion by the deplorably great number of gross physical • injuries incident to the game. The question as to what effects of a less tangible character violent exercise of this character produces is one which, though it has occasionally been considered, has hardly received the attention it deserves. It has been believed, in a general way, of course, that many well-known athletes die young, but scientific observations on the cardiovascular and renal changes in athletes, extending over years, are sadly lacking.

The question is brought up again by the recent observations of Baldes, Heiehelheim and Metzger* on the contestants of a twenty-mile walk. The facts which were brought out were not altogether new, though some data were added to the older ones of Leube, MacFarlane and others. The lesions produced by the excessive exercise were, in brief, the appearance in the urine in almost all cases of albumin, olten accompanied by casts and at turns by blood ; a decided decrease in the arterial tension, associated with some enlargement of the heart, and decrease or absence of the tendon reflexes. In two or three instances the observers were able to see contestants some days after the walk, and in these individuals it was noted that the heart and kidneys had returned to normal. These results, so far as the urinary changes are concerned, corresponds to those of Leube, who examined soldiers after long marches, and to those of MacFarlane, who examined football players before and after games. The new facts brought out by Baldes and his associates indicate a decided effect on the heart, and incidentally on the blood pressure, and also some effect on the nervous system, as shown by the changes in the deep reflexes.

The weak point in these observations is, as above stated, that they do not extend over a sufficient period of time. Do such changes when brought about at frequent intervals, as they must be in football players, for example, tend to leave behind them permanent structural changes in the organs most involved? So long as we are ignorant of the actual changes which occur it will be hard to answer this question. Is the heart lesion an acute dilatation? As eminent an authority as Schott believes that it is, though this view is opposed by good authority.

* Munch, n.ed. Wochschr., 1906, vol. IIII, p. 1865.

Digitized by

Google
-309-

The character of the kidney lesion which produces the albuminuria and cylindruria has led to much discussion. Leube regards the albuminuria as physiologic, but it must be confessed that clinicians are yearly becoming more and more skeptical regarding albuminuria so described. The urinary picture is that usually associated with an acute nephritis. The albuminuria can hardly be associated with changes in the blood pressure, as this is lowered, and, furthermore, the volume of blood is probably lessened by the profuse sweating. It may be that the excessive muscle work produces toxins which effect the kidneys. At any rate this has been suggested.

The whole matter is one which is capable of study and which is important enough to be studied. In colleges, especially, the physicians who are in charge of the physical side of the students’ development should be able in a few years to solve the questions here brought up.

THE PHYSICAL DEPARTMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY MILITARY SCHOOL.

By FRANK E. MILLER, Physical Director of the University Military School, Mobile, Ala.

Prof. J. T. Wright, Principal of the University Military School, Mobile, Ala., says : “There is no question that the most crossly neglected branch of education in our schools to-day is the department of physical training. There is little use in training our boy’s intellect if we do not at the same time give him the bodily vigor to endure a long and arduous life work. I aim to give every student an opportunity to secure and maintain that physical condition without which the highest moral and mental efficiency cannot be attained ’’ The department is in charge of a trained director who gives his whole time to the department. All students are given a thorough physical examination. If any irregularities of strength or development are found, special instruction is given. A report of measurements with Manual of Special Developing Exercises and Prescription of Exercise is sent to the parents for the student to follow. The work of the department is divided into eight regular grades corresponding to eight grades of the academic work.

Although this is a military school, it is so only because the principal believes that military discipline, being the most perfect discipline known to man, conduces most perfectly to the making of sterling, self-controlled manhood. The school makes no speeial display of its military work, uses it as no catch-penny advertisement to patrons or students, throws away no time preparing for special or competitive drills and wastes upon the military feature no effort that is valuable for other and higher work. The time expended upon actual drill-work comprises only an ordinary fortv-minute class period each day. But the spirit pervading the entire daily discipline of the school, in its every department, is the military spirit, and the securing of this spirit affords an invaluable and indispensable accessory to the educational work of the school.

There are two common errors concerning that system of school discipline called military : One is, that it requires much time that had best be spent in other exercises; the other, that its value is entirely plwsical and gymnastic. Both opinions are wholly erroneous. The chief value of the military system is in the mental and moral development of the student. There are certain life lessons which every young man needs to learn, chief among which are punctuality, obedience, order, courtesy and self-control.

It is the purpose of the military discipline to develop and train these virtues; and later, in the higher classes, to teach two other important lessons—the faithful discharge of responsibilities and the judicious exercise of authority. Thus it is that the military organization in schools leads to an orderly method and a manly and cheerful spirit of acquiescence in the performance of every duty of the school. The military work in this school is subordinated in its proper place as

Digitized by tjOOQle
-310-

an auxiliary to the character training. The production of soldiers is not the purpose of the school; and it carefully avoids compelling from its students a mere mechanical obedience by teaching them that they submit themselves voluntarily' to the discipline and authority of the school, as does a good citizen to the laws of his country. Boys who persistently refuse to conform cheerfully to the system are separated from the student body.

But, after all is said, it still remains true that the gradual reguiar and systematic training which results from the military drill, is of immense value to young men. The erect and manly carriage and the ease of bearing which such training invariably gives, are a life equipment which a young man cannot afford to be without. Forty minutes daily is devoted to the various exercises of the drill, the work being all athletic and gymnastic in character, and calling into plar and developing every muscle of the body. As an aid to practical military work, the cadet others have recitation and instruction in military science and tactics, which they in turn assist in imparting to the students of the lower classes.

Physical training in this school is no mere play or pretense; a thorough graded course is given throughout the entire eight years. Beside the forty minute drill period earh class has the special class period for physical training. Each student must wear a regulation uniform while in class. If the pupil is unable to do the woik of the lesson of that grade, he is marked ‘deficient” and required to stay after school for special instruction. If a pupil has “deficient” in lessons in the physical department and academic department, the pupil must report to the physical director for thirty minute* of practice before working up other “deficient” work. As the climate in Mobile is mild in the fall and winter seasons, all work i* done in the open air on the spacious athletic grounds of the school. The department is well equipped for its work, there being an athletic ground with ample space for baseball and football basket ball, tennis, etc., shot, hammer and discus throwing, vaulting poles, etc. For gymnastics proper there are provided parallel and horizontal bars, horses, ring«, wands, clubs, dumbbells, bucks, climbing ropes, etc. The dressing rooms contain lockers, shower baths, etc.

When the weather does not permit ihe regular class instruction on the athletic field the director lectures on physiology, personal hygiene, first aid to the injured, and kindred subjects.

The working for class standing is on a basis of too points :	For deportment in class, 25

points ; for proficiency in class, 25 points ; for knowledge and practice of special drills with and without calisthenic apparatus useful in developing the whole body and giving the pupil something to work on at home and all his life, 25 points ; for physiology and hygiene based on the director’s lectures, 25 points.

Digitized by

Google

J


IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

/Continued.^

A CLASS DRILL, apparatus work and closing with a relay race in squads. See explanation below. As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

After receiving Indian clubs, form a front line and count off to fours. Ranks open order forward, the r. flanker (No. 1) leading, to two steps distance, then turn 1. or r. face so that the shorter members stand in front.

INDIAN CLUB DRILL.

Clubs to starting pos.—raise !

1.	a) 14 double arm circle to the 1.—1 ! % double hand circle behind shoulders—2! Repeat G or 8 times, b) Same as a, to the r.—1, 2! 6 or 8 times.

2.	a) % double arm circle outw.—l! V-t double hand circle outw. behind shoulders—2 ! Repeat 6 or 8 times, b) Same as a, inward—-1, 2! G or 8 times.

3.	a) Alternate arm and hand circling, i. c.—Begin by 14 arm circle outw. r. and 14 hand circle outw. 1. behind shoulders—1 ! Then change to % arm circle outw. 1. and hand circle outward r. behind shoulders—2! Repeat G or 8 times, b) Same as a, but inward,

c)	Same as a, but double to the 1.

d)	Same as c, to the r.

NOTE.—The clubs may be lowered between the above exercises for a brief rest.

Clubs at sides.—

4.	Jump to cross-stride pos. (1. foot forw., r. backvv.) and raise both clubs forw.—1! Bend trunk forw., swing both clubs downw. and backw. on the r. side to horizontal or higher pos.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite—5, 8!

5.	Jump to a stride pos. outw. and raise arms forw. overh.—1 ! Bend trunk backw. and lower arms outw. on a level with the shoulders and clubs in line with same—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

The left club to starting pos., the r. arm forw.—raise !

R. (or 1.) face !

G. a) 14 arm circle forw. 1. on 1. side to overh.—1! Then cross 1. arm over r. and % short arm circle forw. on the r. side to overh. (figure 8)—2! Continue this G or 8 times without returning to starting pos. Same opposite.

Both clubs to starting pos.—raise!

b) Same as a, 1. and r., but as a follow movement, i. e.—The 1. club is raised upvv. and starts the forw. arm circling on the 1st count; the r. club to follow V2 circle later and swing down and backw. on the 1. side on the 2nd count; as the latter is passing backw. and downrw. on the 1. side the 1. arm crosses over the r. and M short arm circle forw. on the r. side on the 3rd count;

Digitized by U.ooQle
zc tc

-812

then ns the ). club is again overh. at its finish the r. club is moving downw. backw. (on the r. side), then overh. on the 4th count. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

Clubs at sides.—

7.	Stationary run with raising lower legs backw. alt. about 24-counts, then change to raising extended legs forw. the same number of counts, and halt.

8.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. overh. in four counts; exhale slowly and lower arms outw. in four counts. Repeat 5 or b times.

Class r. or 1. about face. Then close order to a front line. R. or 1. face, march forw. and deposit clubs.

APPARATUS WORK.

Class work on three or four long horses and change to climbing poles.

Long Horses.

Class Formation.—The class to stand in flank order in line with the horses. Arrange as many rows (or squads) of equal number as there are horses used.

A run of sufficient lengLh to precede all movements.

In case there are not enough horses available, one half of the class may work on perhaps two horses, while the other is on the climbing poles, then change places. An assistant ought to take charge of one division if the class is divided.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Rear vault mount r.; dismount sidew. r.

. Rear vault r.

. Rear vault mount r.; place hands in front of thighs, circle r.leg backw. to join .the 1. with Vi turn r. to front leaning rest; dismount backw. and immediately flank vault forw. 1. (over neck) to back side stand.

4.	As ex. 8, but instead of the r. leg joining the 1. the r. leg is to continue the circling to cross riding rest on r. thigh (% circle r. with r. leg); screw dismount forw. with Vi turn r.

5.	As ex. 4, but instead of riding rest carry the 1. leg along and flank vault forw. 1. to back side stand.

b.	An exersice free for all.

NOTE —Repeat all movements 1. and r.

Climbing Poles (six).

One member for each pole.

1.	Place r. lower leg against the pole (in back of same), the knee height of hip, the r. hand to grasp pole about the height of the head; jump to climbing pos. with bent arms, the 1. lower leg placed in front of pole and assist the r. to clamp the pole tightly, the 1. hand to grasp close above the r.; lower in reverse order. Repeat opposite.

2.	Jump to climbing pos. with bent arms (pos. the same as 2nd movement of ex. 1 ); down! Repeat opposite. %

3.	Jump to climbing pos. with straight arms; raise knees with pole

Digitized by CaOOQle
-313-

claraped tightly between lower legs; extend knees and hips and bend arms; bend knees and hips and extend arms; lower the legs to first pos.; down. Repeat once.

4.	Jump to climbing pos. as in ex. 3, then climb to upper end and descend; however, this time raise both knees and bend both arms simultaneously, then, when the knees and hips are extended, move the hands upw. alt. to nearly full extension of arms and repeat.

5.	Repeat ex. 4, as a competitive climb for every six members.

Remove the climbing poles and divide the class into three or four squads of equal number and strength for “Relay Race.” The. squads to stand in flank order back of the starting point, or in front order parallel with the course, the one nearest the starting point to begin the race. At the farther end of the gymnasium place bucks and horses lengthwise at a given distance from the starting point in line with each squad, around which the runners must pass, carrying an Indian club, dumbbell, or some other object over the course to the next, member in waiting at the starting point. This order to continue until each squad has finished and the winner is declared. Repeat once or twice if time permits. Either dismiss while in this formation, or have the class form a front line standing in fundamental pos., before closing.	(To	be	continued.)

(From Physical Education, London, England.)

BANG BALL.

A new game, for outdoors and indoors, invented by E. Sully, Director of Exercises, Exeter Hall Gym*

nasiumt London.

---T---

EXPLANATION, RULES, &c.

• * * ♦ * * *

The gods should be about 9 ft. high by 5 ft. across.

The figures 1 represent the goals, figures 2 the goal lines, and figure 3 the center of the playing space.

Distance between figures 1 and t (the goal keepers’ lines), about 20 feet.

The starred space represents players’ ground.

The length of the playing space and number of players depends upon space available.

The ball is made by taking the 1 india rubber) inside of an Association football, blowing it np well, and then covering it with some thin, smooth material.

RULES.

I.	The game may be played by equal sides of any number.

3.	Participants other than goal keepers are termed “players.”

3.	The game consists of the players, with their hands or heads; throwing, bouncing, hitting, or slapping the ball in any direction in order to obtain goals.

4.	The ball is never 10 be held (except by the goal keepers), but immediately “passed” backwards, forwards, upwards, sideways, or downwards—this is the essence of the game.

5.	The captains can place their men anywhere they choose within the players’ lines.

6.	In indoor games, if the ball scores a goal or not, and bounces into the player*’ lines, it is not “dead.” Otherwise the goal keeper throws the ball out into play again.

7.	In outdoor games, the ball, to score a goal, must pass through the goal posts.

8.	In starting a game the ball must be thrown up, from the center of the playing lines to a height of at least 8 feet.

9.	Penalties for “holding” the ball or stepping over the goal lines, a “free ’ throw from the center of the playing lines.

10.	No charging or tripping or holding permitted.

II.	The ball mast not be kicked with the knee.

Digitized by ^ooQle
-314-

TOURNAMENTS AND MATCHES.

REGULATIONS.

1.	The above may be arranged with a time limit (as in football), and five minutes’ rest at half-time, or the best number of goals.

2.	For a match, teams of six, eight or ten players and goal keeper will be most workable. Number of players can, of course, be increased if space permits. The captain should play back or keep goal.

3.	Teams should change ends after every goal is scored.

4.	In a tournament (any ev.-n number can take part) the names should be written oa a slip <*f paper and put in a hat. The first two teams taken out—these should play the best out of 3, 5. 7, 9 or f 1 goals ; then the next two teams, and so on till all have competed. Then the surviving teams according to the priority should compete till the only two remaining teams are in, then the best out of three goals decides the tournament. The names should not be takrn out of the hat till actually warned.

Non.—The essence of the game is not to “hold** to ball, but to “pass’* at once.

THE TAMBOURINE.

A STEPPING EXERCISE WITH ARM MOVEMENTS.

Carry* the tambourine with both hands above the head.

1.	Follow-step alt. 1. and r. forward.

2.	Same as (1) with a jump onto the foot to be placed forward.

3.	Same as (2) with a hop on the rear foot as it closes up to the forward one ; at the same time raise the heel and extend the stepping foot.

4.	With jump from r. to I. foot grasp tambourine in r. hand, and with hop on I. foot strike the drum with fingers of I. hand.

5.	Line up in couples, each of whom works in opposite directions, proceeding around the room.

6.	Head movements to be added, as lowering of the head to the side on which the jumping takes place.

The costume consists in brilliant-colored skirts and bodices, white full waists, short sleeves and low necks.

Musical accompaniment in polka measure.

This is a spectacular drill as well as a beneficial stepping exercise.

Edna B. Brown, N. H. N. S. G. ’05. Physical Director. Y. W. C. A., Terre Haute, Ind.

Digitized by Google


(From American Physical Education Review.)

REPORT OF THE CONVENTION OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOL PHYSICAL TRAINING SOCIETY.

Luther Halsey Gulick, M. Dm President.

Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, New York City.

The Public School Physical Training Society held its first convention in New York City, March SO and 81, 11*00. The general topic of the convention was, “Athletics for Girls.” The following program was presented :

Friday, March 30, 1900.

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL GYMNASTICS AND GAMES.

9.30 A. M.

Public School No. 6, Madison Avenue, and 85th Street.

Miss Katherine D. Blake and Mr. M. J. Thompson, Principals.

A demonstration of regular physical training in the elementary public schools of New York City was given under the direction of Miss Jessie Bancroft, Assistant Director of Physical Training. Boys’ and girls' classes, first to eighth years, showed story gymnastics, free hand and apparatus gymnastics and games in class-rooms, playground and gymnasium.

HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASTICS AND ATHLETICS.

Wadleigh High School, 114th St., west of 7th Ave.

Dr. John G. Wight, Principal.

12.55 i\ M.

A demonstration of regular class work in physical training for high school girls was given in three gymnasiums. Classes of the first, second and fourth years were on the floor.

2.45 p. m.

An exhibition of athletics for girls, including indoor baseball, indoor hockey and putting the shot, was given by the members of Wadleigh Athletic Association under the direction of Miss Josephine Beiderliase. Double relay races were shown by girls from the Curtis High School, under the direction of Mr. J. Blake Hillyer.

4.00 p m.

Auditorium of Wadleigh High School.

Paper:—“Inter-School Athletics,” Miss Elma L. Warner, Eastern District High School, Brooklyn. .

Paper:—“The Paid Coach,” Mr. Gustavus T. Kirby, Chairman, Advisory Committee, Inter-Collegiate Athletic Association.

A discussion followed the reading of each paper.

Mass Mfeting.

8 00 p. m.

Hall of the Board of Education, 59th St. and Park Ave.

Dr. William H. Maxwell, Chairman.

“Modifications of Athletics for Girls and Women,” Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent, Harvard University.

“General Health of Girls in Relation to Athletics,” Miss Katherine D. Blake, Public School No. 6.

“Ethical Value of Sports for Women,” Mis Frances A. Kellor, General Director of Inter-Municipal Research Committee.

“Athletics for Endurance,” Dr. E. Hermann Arnold, Director, New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

President’s Address:—“Athletics from the Biological Viewpoint,” Luther Halsey Gulick, M. D.

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 316—

Saturday, March 31, 1906.

9.30	a. m.

Public School No. 188, East Houston St.

Miss Mary F. McAleer, Principal.

Athletic games and rhythmical exercises for elementary school girls, under the direction of the Girls’ Branch of the Public Schools’ Athletic League; conducted by Miss Elizabeth Burchenal and Miss Adela J. Smith.

10.30	p. m.

Assembly Room of School No. 188.

Report on examinations of physical training teachers in the large cities of the United States.

Mr. J. Blake Hillyer.

Business meeting and election of officers.

A lively discussion followed the reading of the papers “Inter-School Athletics,” by Miss Warner, and “The Paid Coach,” by Mr. Kirby, resulting in the adoption of the following resolution:

Resolved, That all coaches should be responsible to the schools or organizations whose students they teach, rather than to the students.

The meeting at the Hall of the Board of Education, Friday evening, was largely attended. Dr. Wra. H. Maxwell, City Superintendent, presided. In discussing athletics for girls, the speakers all took a conservative view.

It was greatly regretted that Miss Frances Kellor, an authority on athletics for women, was unable to present her paper, “Ethical Value of Sports for Women.”

At the business meeting of the Society, held Saturday morning, there was an extended discussion of the general topic of the Convention. Miss McAleer, Principal 'of Public School 188, in which the meeting was held, was asked by the President of the Society to make some comments in reference to the effects of the dancing and games that had been introduced by the Girls* Branch of the Public Schools* Athletic League into her school. She was asked to speak particularly upon the noticeable effect upon the children that she might have observed, outside of the naturally good effect the bodily exercise itself would have. Miss McAleer spoke substantially as follows:

About two years ago Dr. Grossman, one of New York’s most distinguished pedagogues, while visiting our school, remarked that our children did not know how to laugh. The remark evoked indignation on the part of one of the teachers. I kept silent, for it set me thinking. I wondered if this could be true, and started to notice the children more closely. My observation brought me to the conclusion that Dr. Gross-man was right. Merely telling the children to laugh when they sang even failed to evoke a smile. Solemnity marked every action.

Shortly after Miss Burchenal started the classes for the rhythmical drills, I remained one afternoon to watch the girls—I think it was about the sixth lesson. Then, for the first time, I realized what Dr. Gross-man meant. This time the laugh was not facial, though every muscle was relaxed, but the eye of every girl was beaming with merriment and pleasure. ‘At last,’* I said, turning to a teacher who stood nearby.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-317-

“the girls know how to laugh. Look at their eves! Look at their mouths1 If this does nothing more than make our girls merry so that laughter will be genuine and natural to them, then I shall welcome it and urge its introduction into the curriculum.

Miss Burchenal has taught our girls how to laugh. We owe this to her and thank her most heartily for the lesson.

The following resolution was presented by Mr. George W. Ehler of Cleveland, 0., and adopted by the Society:

Resolved, That under present conditions we do not approve of inter-school athletics for girls, believing that most of the desirable results accruing from such activities can be secured by inter-school games, and many grave dangers may thereby be avoided.

The following resolution was presented by Miss Jessie H. Bancroft and adopted by the Society:

Resolved, That this Society disapproves of the admission of the general public to athletic games played by girls, and to sensationally' written or illustrated newspaper reports of such games, especially such articles a.s exploit individual papers.

The following members of the Executive Committee were unanimously re-elected :

President.........................Luther Halsey Gulick, M. D., New York

First Vice-President......................A.	E.	Kindervater,	St.	Louis,	Mo.

Second Vice-President................William A. Stecher, Indianapolis, Ind.

Third Vice-President.......................... George	W. Ehler, Cleveland, 0.

Fourth Vice-President............J.	Anna Norris, M. D., Springfield, Mass.

Director..............................................Emanel	Haug,	New	York.

Director..........................................J	Blake Hillver, New York.

Sec'y-Treas...............Josephine	Beiderhase, 202 W. 86th St., New York.

The following amendment of the constitution was adopted : Article 3, Section 1, to read as follows:

Teachers of Physical Training in public schools and such other persons as may be elected bv the executive committee, who are members of the American Physical Education Association, are eligible to active membership in this society. Associate members be elected to membership by theexecutivecommittee. Such members shall have no vote.

Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent of Harvard University was unanimously elected an honorary member of the Society.

There was a large attendance at all of the meetings of the Convention. Among those present were the following:

Mr. Egerton Winthrop, President of the Board of Education, New York City.

Dr. William H. Maxwell, City Superintendent of Schools.

Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent, Harvard University.

Mr. Andrew H. Edaon, Associate Superintendent, New York.

Mr. Clarence V. Meleney. Associate Superintendent, New York.

Mr. Gustave Straubenmueller, District Superintendent, New York.

Mr. Emerson Palmer, Secretary of the Board of Education, New York.

Mr. S. R. Guggenheim, Treasurer Public Schools’ Athletic League.

Mr. Arthur J. Trussed, Assistant Treasurer Public Schools’ Athletic League.

Digitized by Google
—318 —

Min Catherine S. Leverich, President Girls’ Branch, Public Schools’ Athletic League. Mrs. Arthur J. Trussed, Secretary Girls’ Branch, Public Schools’ Athletic League.

Mrs. Clarence Mackay, Member of Board of Education, Roslyn, N. Y.

Mrs. Egerton Winthrop, Miss Margaret Chanler, Mrs. Ruth Ashley Hirschfield, Members Girls’ Branch, Public Schools’ Athletic League.

Mr. George W. Ehler. Supervisor Physical Training, Cleveland, O.

Dr. E. Herman Arnold. Director New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

Dr. J. H. McCurdy, Director Y. M. C. A. Training School, Springfield, Mas*. -Baroness Rose Posse, Director Posse Gymnasium, Boston, Mass.

Dr. C. E. Ehinger, State Normal School, Westchester. Pa.

Dr. George L. Meylan, Columbia University, New York.

Miss Marien F. Carter, Dean New York School of Physical Education Dr. John G. Wight, Principal Wadleigh High School, New York.

Mr. Charles D. Larkins, Manual Training High School, Brooklyn.

Mr. William McAndrew, Principal Girls’ Technical High School, New Miss Katherine D. Blake, Principal Girls’ Department, School No. 6, N<

Mr. M. J. Thompson, Principal Bovs’ Department, School No. 6, New '

Miss Mary McAleer, Principal Girls’ Department, School No. 188, New Mr. Cecil A. Kidd, Principal Public School No. 184, New York.

Mrs. George Dickson, St. Margaret’s School, Toronto, Can.

^ Mrs. Margaret Stanton Lawrence, St. Agatlia School, New York..

Dr. j. Anna Norris, Supervisor Physical Training, Springfield, Mass.

Mr. Randall D. Warden, Supervisor Physical Training, Newark, N. J.

Miss Marion Newton, Supervisor Physical Training, Rochester, N. Y.

Mr. Harvey Went, Supervisor Physical Training, Bridgeport, Conn.

Miss Evaline Young, Girls’ High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

Mrs. Elizabeth R. Walton, Business High School, Washington, D. C.

The Senior classes of New Haven Normal School of Gymr New York Normal School of Physical Education, and the D of Physical Education of Teachers College availed themseh opportunities afforded by the convention.

Josephine Bbiderhase, Secretarv-Tre

THE FIRST BASEBALL GAME OF LONG

By J. H. SEARS.

IT is more than difficult to discover,—this first game of baseball,—bi whatever history of the game there is which is trustworthy goes t few thousand years B. C., and certainly the Egyptians, that race of an lineage, knew the game well when we first hear of them. I do not know they called it baseball, nor would they stand much of a chance to-day, in probability, against a professional nine; but they had a bat and bases, i they played with a ball, and there is not much else to the modern game—except a field which the Egyptians certainly had; although they may have played on the deserts along the banks of the old Nile, instead of on green turf. Nevertheless the great American game is, for all practical purposes, our own invention, because we have made it famous all over the world, because we have taken it out of the nursery and made it a science, and because nobody else had the wit to do that from the time of the old Egyptians to the days of the Anglo Saxons.

At all events, somewhere about 1845 the first record match was played by a club just organized in New York City and called the Knickerbockers. “Baseball,” or “Base,” or “Rounders” had been played before by boys of all ages; but this club, formed doubtless because of the growing interest in the sport, is undoubtedly the first organization which really made the game a

Digitized by CjOOQie
-319-

study and carried on regular practice and arranged regular matches They used to play on what was then called the Elysian Fields, not of mythological fame, but of the good city of Hoboken across the Hudson River from New York City.

The game in New York was in many respects different from the one played in Boston, but our present “old cat” is the basis of both. Boys had played “old cat” all over the country for forty years before the Knickerbockers ever thought of forming themselves into a club and making rules for the government of the sport. And such rules as these were! Comical in some respects they seem now, but you can see at a glance that the basis was there laid for the great game that was to come.

In New York there “were usually nine on a side;” but one good sportsman—full of the joy of the game he must have been, too — says that in Boston they usually played with six or eight men to a side. Then he goes on to say that “the finest exhibition of skill in baseball-playing is, I think, to witness the ball passed swiftly from ‘thrower’ to ‘catcher* who, being experts, seldom allow it to fall to the ground, and hardly move their feet from the position they occupy. The ‘pitching* or ‘tossing* of a ball toward the batsman is never practiced (in New England) except by the most juvenile players; and he who would occupy the post of honor as ‘catcher* must be able to catch expertly a swiftly delivered ball, or he will be admonished of his lack of expertness by a request of some player to ‘butter his fingers.* **

In New York at this time the ball had to be pitched and could not be thrown; and so the Bostonians not only put the New Yorkers to contempt but really anticipated the present rule on that point.

There seems to have been some concern in everybody’s mind as to the safety and health of the catcher, for one historian of the game remarks that the ball was thrown with such vigor that “it whistled through the air and stopped with a solid smack in the catcher’s hands, which he generally held in front of his face.” And it seems also that he stood from three to ten paces behind the ‘striker,* as the batsman was called, although there are some daring examples on record of catchers who stood as near the striker as they could without coming within the radius of the swinging bat which was usually wielded with one hand.

This bat, by the way, was interesting in itself. It was most likely to be the stout handle of a rake or a pitchfork, cut to a length of from three to three and one-half feet. The ball with which the Boston men played was five and one-half to six ounces in weight and two and one half to three and one quarter inches in diameter. It was made of yarn, thightly wound round a lump of cork or india-rubber and covered with smooth calf skin in quarters (as we quarter an orange), “the seams closed snuggly and not raised, lest they blister the hands of the catcher and thrower.”

So far the games seem to have been more or less similar in New York and Boston, the two centers of the sport, and of course it should be borne in mind that the elements of the game, such as the striking, running of bases, and so on, were in all places the same. But there weie, after all, great differences. For example, the New Yorker’s game was laid out on the field somewhat differently from that of the Boston players.

(To be concluded.)

—We are in receipt of the announcement of an extension course for teachers of the St. Louis, Mo., public schools. Miss Ethel R. Weeden of the Teachers College has charge of the physical training department.

Digitized by CaOOQle
“320—

—Dr. Robert Fischer, instructor of physical training on the public schools and the Turnverein “Vorwaerts”, Cleveland, 0., has been appointed director of physical training of the public schools of Indianapolis, Ind., succeeding Mr. Wm. Stecher.

BOOK REVIEW.

All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.).

—Le Maintien et le mouvement sexlateral et proportionnel de l’homme sain des deux sexes et db tout age gymnastique, natation, patinage, escrime, promenade, jeux, cyclisme, canotage, equitation. Par J. HAPPEL. Quatririne Edition. 12,000 figures et dessins dans le texte. Anvers, en vente chez l’auteur-^diteur et chez tous les libraires, 1900. Il%x8t6 in., 10+ 440 pages. Price, 12 francs. The author’s address is Gymnase Happel, 120 Avenue des Arts, Antwerp; or Institut Happel, 30 Rue de la Colline, Verviers, Belgium.

The high hopes with which one opens this imposing and beautifully illustrated volume are soon blighted by a perusal of its pages. The author was bom in 1833 in Mainz, and for fifty years has been active as a teacher of gymnastics in Antwerp. The book first appeared in 1886, and the second and third editions were published in 1894 and 1896. In the preface to the present edition we find British and American athletics and the Swedish and German systems of gymnastics criticized, and are informed that “complete, harmonious development of the body is perhaps not to be obtained except by the Belgian six-sided and proportional gymnastics.” He complains that commission after commission has been sent to Stockholm and elsewhere and finally the Swedish system introduced in the public schools, although a little observation would have shown that Belgium already possesses the best system and the best apparatus in the world! School gymnastics he believes to be the creation of teachers and not of anatomists and physiologists, and therefore only the rudiments of anatomy and physiology and simple rules of hygiene are necessary. Anyone who knows the parts of the body and the movements natural to each member can compose a scries of exerises which will conform to the most severe requirements of the scientist.

Pages 33—37 contain in four parallel columns the corresponding principal gymnastic terms in French, Fnglish, German, and Dutch. Such a comparative table might be of great service; but here again one is doomed to disappointment, for many of the English equivalents given are plainly drawn from the dictionary and not from knowledge of the terms actually employed by English-speaking teachers, and we fear the same may be true in the case of other languages. On page 41 we reach the core of the author’s own system. He tells us, that if one makes in the first exercise of a series a flexion of the trunk and other members forward, second a flexion backward, third a flexion to the left, fourth a flexion to the right, fifth a rotation to the left, and sixth a rotation to the right we obtain six-sided development of the body. This development becomes also proportional if in each series one moves all the members of the body (head, eyes, arms and shoulders, hands and fingers, trunk, legs and hips, feet and toes) an equal number of times, and each member through an equal amplitude in all the movements proper to it. All the exercises are grouped in nine orders (gymnastics, skating, swimming, walking, games, fencing, cycling, canoeing, horseback riding), and each of these is further subdivided into genera (free exercises, exercises with apparatus, exercises on apparatus), species, and degrees. Pages 68—120 discuss the composition of an exercise, pages 121—252 the composition of a series of exercises, and pages 253—296 the composition and conduct of a lesson. Free exercises and exercises with apparatus are described on pages 292— 358, the eight remaining orders of exercise on pages 359—384, marching exercises on pages 385—424, and the author’s “elastic cord” on pages 425—140. The book strongly suggests de Lasp^e’s “Calisthenics,” published in London in the Fifties, and it belongs with the latter in the group of gymnastic curiosities.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.