MIND AND BODY

Vol. 38	MARCH, 1932	No.	403

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianarolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STEC^EF, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, Editor, 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the pest ffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Qriginal articles and reprint§

SOME RECENT ADVANCES IN THE CHEMISTRY OF

NUTRITION*.

H.	C. Sherman, Ph. D. Professor of Chemistry, Columbia University, N. Y.

So numerous have been the recent advances in the chemistry of nutrition that to make a short review anything more than a list of items will require restriction of scope to a limited part of the field. Hence I shall restrict myself to some recent work on the factors through which, or the ways in which, food may serve to improve the general condition of nutrition; and, after touching on a few of the most recent observations, attempt some consideration of the interrelations involved and of what may be accomplished by the coordinated effects of simultaneous enrichment in the intakes of these factors.

*Read before the Section on Pharmacology and Therapeutics at the Eighty-Second Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Philadelphia, June 11,1931.

Digitized by kjOOQle
814

VITAMIN G

I will first consider vitamin G, recently differentiated from vitamin B.

In the study of vitamin G, as of vitamin A and of calcium, the rat has been found to be a good experimental animal. Throughout this paper, however, my purpose is to deal with problems of human nutrition, the rat being employed simply as a suitable laboratory reagent or instrument of research. This may be true even when the appearances of the effects of a given nutritional deficiency are considerably different in the two species. The first three illustrations are from the work of Dr. Bertha Bisbey now in progress in my laboratory.

It should also be emphasized that the penalties of such ill balanced diets as are here being considered come only slowly. This fact may leave room for skepticism, but it also gives time and opportunity for nutritional rehabilitation even when the -patient has been for a relatively long time on an unfortunate food supply. In general, the earlier the age the quicker the response; but when even a 'month old rat, corresponding to a child in its third year, is placed on a diet well suited to its needs in other respects but lacking vitamin G, there may be an interval corresponding to many months in the human life cycle before any distinct signs of nutritional deficiency appear; and there is considerable individual variability as to what sign appears first. Sometimes this is a stunting of growth which is usually accompanied by diarrhoea; sometimes it is a more distinctive symptom,. such as a soreness of the mouth or a dermatitis first evidenced by the falling of hair either around the eyes or in bilaterally symmetrical areas on the shoulders and back, giving rise in the one case to the so-called spectaclelike and in the other to the saddle-like dermatitic patterns. And usually there also develops a generally weak condition with depressed and apprehensive attitude, with increasingly severe digestive disturbances ending in death; or [especially if the diet, while deficient in vitamin G, contains a little of it so that death is postponed] there may develop a pronounced picture of premature senility[l].

Most emphatically I do not offer vitamin G as a panacea for the prevention of premature senility and the falling of hair! But just as a lack of this factor brings about a condition of malnutrition which may contribute to premature senility, so a liberal intake of vitamin G contributes to a better than average nutritional condition and thus to what McCollum and Simmonds[2] have aptly termed “the preservation of the characteristics of youth.”

Time permits only brief reference to the difficult problem whether or not the condition of vitamin G deficiency should be

1.	Sherman, H. C., and Sandels, M. R.: J. Nutrition 3: 395 [Jan.] 1931.

2.	McCollum, E. V., and Simmonds, Nina: The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition, ed. 4, New York, Macmillan Company, 1929.
815

considered an experimental pellagra and whether this nutritional factor should be regarded as a pellagra-preventing vitamin.

Laboratory research appears to have elucidated some but not all of the causes of confusion which this problem presents. Thus, several facts have been found which go far to explain the differing results obtained in different laboratories as to the appearance of pellagralike symptoms. The rough, red areas which the term pellagra suggests are usually so late a manifestation of the vitamin G deficiency as easily to escape observation unless the experimentation is both fortunately planned and very prolonged; for this particular symptom may fail to appear, not only because the experiment is not sufficiently prolonged by the observer but also because it is terminated by. the death of the experimental animal before the “typical” rough, red areas have developed. Just as on a strictly vitamin B free diet death often occurs before the appearance of a typical polyneuritis, so on a strictly vitamin G free diet death often occurs before the dark red areas of the “characteristic” [?] dermatitis have developed. It is when the food is not entirely devoid of the vitamin -but contains it in too small an amount for the needs of normal nutrition that the condition regarded as most clearly characteristic of beriberi or of pellagra, as the case may be, appears. -

The previous nutritional history may also have an important influence on the appearance of pellagra-like symptoms— partly, no doubt, because the body carries differing amounts of vitamin G in its tissues according to the relative abundance of this factor in the previous food of the individual or the family. The age or condition of development at the time of the vitamin G deficiency doubtless also influences the incidence of particular symptoms.

For these and other reasons there has been such divergence of experience in different laboratories as to cause skepticism in the minds of some workers; but when these causes of variation are taken duly into consideration there now seems no doubt that the condition of vitamin G deficiency is an experimentally reproducible reality, whether or not it should be called “pellagralike.”

Meanwhile, evidence of the importance of vitamin G in normal nutrition is rapidly accumulating. The Journal has editorially remarked on the increasing recognition and appreciation of the difference between “passable” and “buoyant” health. It is doubtless largely as contributing to buoyant or positive health that the “protective foods” act to preserve the characteristics of youth as described by McCollum, and probably also to prevent and to alleviate much of the socalled degenerative diseases as described by Langstroth[3] at the Portland session of the Association. At any rate, it seems reasonable to expect that most if not all therapeutic measures can be aided by the simultaneous im-

3.	Langstroth, Lovell: Relation of American Dietary to Degenerative Diseases, J. A. M. A. 93: 1607 [Nov. 23] 1929.

Digitized by AaOOQle
816

provement in general nutritional condition which recent research on foods has made possible.

It seems to be true of vitamin G, as also of vitamins A and C, that the optimal amount is much higher than the minimal [“actual”] requirement; in other words, that the body is able to make good use of a much more liberal intake than can be proved to be absolutely necessary. In the recent experiments of Ellis[4] in my laboratory it has been found that, with food consumption practically the same per unit of body weight at a given age, growth and development continued to show a favorable response to increased liberality of vitamin G intake well above what suffices to prevent any actual sign of deficiency. Vitamin G also appears to contribute to the betterment of longevity induced by Sherman and Campbell[51 through improvement of an already adequate diet. Thus, although the existence of vitamin G has been but recently recognized, there is already evidence that it is a nutritional factor of very far-reaching significance.

The vitamin G which is thus designated at present as a nutritional factor may include more than one chemically individual substance. Several workers have found reason to think that the substance essential to growth and that which protects from dermatitis are different, or that more than one growth essential may here be involved, or that both these possibilities may be true. To me, as to many others, it now appears that the present vitamin G is probably a multiple rather than a simple factor; but, if this proves true, it will detract nothing from the importance of this factor to nutrition and health.

INTERRELATIONSHIPS OF NUTRITIONAL FACTORS.

Let us now pass to a consideration of some interrelations of nutritional factors and the significance of some of these interrelations in the prevention or cure of disease and the promotion of positive health.

Probably each of the vitamins A, C and D bears an important relation to the metabolism of calcium and phosphorus in the development of bones and teeth. Especially as regards the relationship between vitamin D and calcium there is now a wealth of evidence, much of which is very recent.

Vitamin D undoubtedly plays a significant part in promoting the orderly development of the bones and teeth; but the evidence is conflicting as to how far it is a calcium conserving

4.	Ellis, L. N.: Columbia University Dissertation, not yet published.

6.	Sherman, H. C., and Campbell, H. L.: Proc. Nat. Acad. Sc. 14:852 [Nov.] 1928; J. Nutrition 2:415 [March] 1930.

6. Among other papers, Steenbock, Harry; Hart, E. B.; Riising, B. M. Kletzein, S. W. F., and Scott, H. T.; J. Biol. Chem. 87:127 [May] 1980. Hart, E. B.; Steenbock, Harry; Tent, E. C., and Humphrey, G. C.; Ibid. 84:359, 367 [Oct.] 1929. Hart, E. B.; Steenbock, Harry; Kline, O. L., and Humphrey, G. C.: Ibid. 86:145 [March] 1930. Steenbock, Harry; Black, A., and Thomas, B. H.: Ibid. 85:585 [Jan.] 1930.
817

and how far only a calcium and phosphorus mobilizing factor. In the enthusiasm of the past few years, there has probably been a tendency to expect too much of vitamin D. Quite recently, however, two of the most active and thoroughgoing groups of workers in this field, the Wisconsin group[6] on the one hand and Shohl and his co-workers[7] on the other, have pointed out with emphasis and cogency that neither irradiation nor the ingestion of vitamin D is a panacea for the problems of the calcum requirement and that, while the vitamin influences the intermediary metabolism of calcium, the supplying of the body’s quantitative needs must depend, on the calcium content of the intake. Both the published and the unpublished observations of my own laboratory are also in accord with this view, and McCollum’s experiments seem to lead to an even higher estimate of the optimal calcium intake.

While fully recognizing that the experimental evidence is in some respects conflicting and that there is still some divergence of opinion among investigators, one should, I think, conclude that after much study of vitamin D the importance of liberal calcium intake is more fully established now than it has appeared to be at any previous time.

Probably a larger proportion of the ordinary dietaries, both of adults and of children, can be improved by enrichment in calcium than in any other one chemical element. It is better to speak of the benefit of enrichment than of the danger of deficiency, because deficiency seems to be a somewhat ambiguous term whereas the benefit of a liberal intake of calcium is a matter of more positive knowledge to all who will study the experimental evidence.

The calcium balance experiments of Hawley[8] on children of different ages, with systematically varied intakes of calcium to find that which induced optimal retention of calcium by the growing body, were at once so careful and so comprehensive that they still seem to furnish the best evidence on this point. Though made before the realization of the existence and role of vitamin D, the experiments of Hawley provided amply for this factor in that before and during the experimental periods the children were much in the outdoor sunshine.

Optimal calcium retention in the growing child requires the joint action of a liberal provision of the antirachitic factor [whether by mouth or through the action of light on the skin] and a liberal intake of calcium in the food. For different individual children the calcium intake that will just support an optimal storage may range from 0.75 to 1 Gm. daily, the latter figure being a reasonably safe allowance to cover individual variations.

7.	Among other papers, Brown, H. B., and Shohl, A. J.: J. Biol. Chem. 86:245 [March] 1930.

8.	Sherman, H. C., and Hawley, E.: J. Biol. Chem. 53:375 [Aug.] 1922.
818

When the calcium intake is less liberal, the body may still be able to store calcium, but usually not at an optimal rate. Optimal development of the growing body involves the retention of relatively more of calcium than of other body-building material, for there must be an increase in the percentage of calcium in the body at the same time that it is growing rapidly in size and weight. Under these conditions, the optimal, rate of calcium retention is the maximal rate that the healthy growing body can attain, and 'to fall short of this is for the body to remain calcium-poor as compared with what the calcium content should be, for the best development, at the given age.

It is an important fact, perhaps too often overlooked, that children who are growing normally in height and weight often have bodies which are more or less calcium-poor, in the sense just explained, with nothing to reveal this condition even on the most careful and searching physical examination. Obviously, the direct further study of this point by chemical analysis of the body to determine its calcium content at different stages of its growth on different calcium intakes cannot be done on the children themselves. But when one has recourse to this sort of experimentation on the rat [as a suitable deputy because cf the likeness of his nutritional processes,^ in this repects to those of the human body] it is found, as shown by Sherman and "MacLeod^] and by the still more recent work of Booher,[10] that the calcium-poor condition of body may continue, with no outward sign to reveal it, throughout the whole growing period.

RESULTS OF A DEFICIENCY OF CALCIUM.

The influence of the calcium intake on the calcium content of the body is perhaps being the more slowly recognized because of the habit of thought which Liebig, with his great skill as a teacher and his characteristically emphatic manner of expression made current in his so-called law of the minimum, according to which that growth essential which is furnished in minimum amount [relative to the need for growth at a ncrmal rate] will thereby determine ’ the rate of growth, the organism growing only to the extent that it can grow to the ncrmal composition of its kind. But nearly ninety years of research has now intervened, and any such dictum must be reexamined in the light of the fuller knowledge cf today.

In some directions, as notably in Osborne and Mendel's [11] feeding experiments with purified proteins and amine-acids, this generalization has been strikingly confirmed; but, as animal bodies are not homogeneous structures but consist of several

9.	Sherman, H. C., and MacLeod, F. L.: J. Biol. Chem. 64:429 [June] 1925

10.	Booher, L. E.: Dissertation, Columbia University, 1928. Sherman, H. C., and Booher, L. E.: Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. & Med. 28:91 [Oct.] 1930;

J.	Biol. Chem. 93:93 [Sept.] 1931.

11.	Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: J. Biol. Chem. 12:473, 13:233, 1911; 15:311, 1913, and subsequent papers.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
0

819

highly differentiated anatomic systems, it is obviously not to be assumed that Liebig’s simple view will continue to express adequately the results of modern research into the rates and modes of development of all the differentiated tissues which the growing body contains. And as a matter of actual experiment it now seems to be established that while muscles grow only to the extent that they are able to maintain the normal amino-acid content of their kind, bones may grow in size while remaining relatively watery and calcium-poor; and this, when it happens, necessarily results in a calcium-poor condition of the body as a whole—a calcium content such as would be fully normal only for a younger individual of the species. This condition is apt to persist unduly whenever the food does not contain the high calcium content needed for the rapid calcification [ossificatio n] of optimal development, and it must be regarded as retarding the progress of the body from the condition of infancy to that of adulthood. And as emphasized by the resent analyses cf Boo-her,[10] this retardation of the chemical development of the body may coexist for a long time with normal gains in height and weight and excellence of physical appearance and so may continue to escape attention even when the child is systematically weighed, measured and examined, for, obviously, the physician’s examination of the child is essentially a physical rather than a chemical examination; chemical analysis of the body or bones, sufficiently complete and controlled to be conclusive, is feasible [with perhaps a few rare exceptions] only in work with experimental animals. But our children should get the benefit of our animal experimentation.

Very recently, then, the results of such experimentation have been brought to a point at which we may definitely conclude that, while in many respects the growing body does very closely “jobey” Liebig’s law, yet it may grow up calcium-poor because of calcium-poor food, or iron-poor because of iron-poor food. The iron-poor condition will usually be detected through some observable tendency toward anemia, while the calcium-poor condition is more likely to go undetected and may-------[pro-

bably often does] persist throughout growth and into adult life. Naturally, a liberal intake of phosphorus also is needed, for the calcium is laid down in the body chiefly as calcium phosphate.

If it be asked just what penalty ensues from such a calcium-poor condition of the body, the answer is not altogether clear cut: the condition described probably plays a part in a number of weaknesses and increased susceptibilities to infection without being exclusively responsible for any one of them. The interrelationships of nutritional factors will have the effect, on the one hand, of a divided responsibility for many suboptimal conditions, so that these while really nutritional cannot readily be proved to be so. On the other hand, however, it makes
820

possible the attainment of highly significant improvements in the general condition of nutrition through the joint effects of the interrelated factors.

IMPROVEMENT IN HEALTH AND LONGEVITY THROUGH BETTER DIETARY

True, it has usually seemed simpler and more orderly to study the factors concerned in nutrition one by one; but it would be a mistake to suppose that this is the only scientific method, for science has not yet reached a point at which it may safely be assumed that the sum of the known parts is equal to the whole; and, even if one were sure that all the parts were known, there is an important principle, scientific as well as philosophical, that a whole may be a sort of synthesis which is something more than a mere summation of its parts. For example, early in their epoch-making feeding experiments with isolated food substances, Osborne and Mendel[121 emphasized strongly and clearly the nutritional superiority of their “natural protein-free milk'' over any “artificial protein-free milk” that they could prepare even in the light of their unprecedentedly thorough investigation of the substances involved. In the two decades of active research since their publication of this fundamental finding, its general purport has been repeatedly confirmed, and even the discovery of half a dozen vitamins concerned in mammalian nutrition still does not enable one to account completely for the nutritional value of milk or of protein-free milk.

Are there other vitamins essential to human nutrition still to be discovered, at least in the sense of differentiating into two or more substances what is now called vitamin G; or is milk one of those “wholes” which, while chemically a mixture,-is in the philosophical sense a sort of synthesis whose significance is greater than that of a mere summation of its parts? Very probably, both; that is, very probably there are here involved both substances and interrelationships whose nutritional significances are even greater than is yet fully appreciated.

The view that the evolution of mammals has produced, for them, an especially significant nutritional “whole” in milk does not imply the desirability of any long period of exclusive milk diet: in fact, our present knowledge rather warns us against such exclusiveness. It does imply that by a larger use of milk in ordinary mixed diet we may be able to bring about a better-than-average nutritional condition. And this may be true— though in view of their place in nature, probably to a less extent—of the other “protective foods” as well.

Hence from the point of view of today, we need not stop with the findings of what provides adequately for each known

12.	Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Publication 156, Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1911; J. Biol. Chem. 15:311, 1913; 31:149,1917.

Digitized by UooQle
821

nutritional factor but may proceed to explore the 7one which lies between the merely adequate and the optimal in nutrition.

To the extent that food can make the difference between a merely average and a better-than-average nutritional condition, it may also function as a more potent resource in the physician’s armamentarium than has yet been generally appreciated.

In general, however, we should not look for quick results from improvements in human nutrition. One of the most impressive features in recent discoveries regarding the relations of food to health and vitality or that the benefit of better feeding usually becomes fully apparent only when it is continued throughout a large part of the life-cycle, and often the benefit is greater to the second generation than to the first. While they may seem slow from the standpoint of therapeutics, it would also seem to indicate that the effects of food or vitality may be fundamental and far-reaching.

Through simply a wiser emphasis in the daily choice and use of ordinary staple foods there may result improvements in the vitality of the individual or the family, all well within the bounds of normal nutrition but of very real significance for the maintenance of health or for recovery from disease.

Here again we turn to the evidence derived from experimentation on laboratory animals, partly because this permits of controlled conditions and partly because we can experiment thus with the influence of food on the health of an entire lifetime and even of successive generations.

We have families of rats which are thriving in the twenty-seventh generation on uniform diet—certainly a sufficiently rigorous demonstration that the diet is entirely adequate. Yet on enriching this already adequate diet in certain of its chemical factors by increasing the proportion of milk in the food mixture, there results an- improvement in the general nutritional condition as shown by a whole series of criteria, such as more rapid and efficient growth, lower death rates and higher vitality at all ages, an increase of 10 per cent in the average longevity of adults, and greater extension of the prime of life, in that maturity is expedited and senility deferred in the same individual.

As there has been so strong a tendency to attribute longevity entirely to hereditary factors, it may be worth while to emphasize the fact that here in parallel groups of exactly the same heredity the influence of food on longevity is demonstrated with such degree of mathematical certainty as is represented by “chances” much better than 10,000:1, or with a hundredfold greater certainty than is usually considered necessary for the conclusive establishment of such scientific observations.

My associates and I are now engaged in working out the role of individual chemical factors in this improvement of an already normal nutritional condition. Increased calcium intake and increased intake of vitamin G [and perhaps other factors which accompany it in the water-soluble part of milk] have
822

so far been found to have contributed to the improvement in health and longevity just described. Experiments to determine the influence, if any, of increasing the intake of still other chemical factors in an already adequate diet and to elucidate further the interrelations between these factors in their functioning for the betterment of an already normal nutritional condition are still in progress.

NORTHERN [SCANDINAVIAN] GYMNASTICS.

By K. A. Knudsen, Inspector of Gymnastics, Copenhagen.

An Address at the International Congress for Physical Education, Venice,

llth-13th May, 1931.

I have the honour of speaking to you about Northern [or Scandinavian] Gymnastics. By Northern Gymnastics I mean that form of gymnastics originated in Sweden by Pehr Henrik Ling, and which is used in the five Northern countries, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark and Iceland. The foundation of it was laid about the year 1800. In order to understand its nature one must compare it to other forms of physical exercises in Europe.

About 150 years ago the philanthropists in Germany were the . cause of the renaissance of physical education which led to the powerful development of physical exercises of to-day. The development since the rebirth of physical education has followed three main lines: The German, the English and the Northern.

The leader along the German line is Guts Muths. He was an educationist, and consequently he planned his gymnastics for the school. He was, however, soon overshadowed by Jahn, who was principally interested in the young manhood of his land. The latter wished to awaken Germany after the Napoleonic wars; he wanted to produce strong, able-bodied young men.

The chief characteristics of Jahn’s Turnen are the main pieces of apparatus [parallel bars and horizontal bar], and the “volkstiimliche Uebungen.” Jahn worked with poetic, almost prophetic, power and his system spread during the first half of the 19th century to most European countries—not to Sweden, however—and applied almost exclusively to the adult male youth. His principal exercises largely involved the arms. On the horizontal and the parallel bars it is the arms principally that must carry, move and swing the full weight of the body. The exercises are inciting because of their difficulty and the strength and coura-ge required in doing them. But they are one-sided and produce over-development of the arms and shoulders; their effect on the heart and lungs is somewhat doubtful because of the involved fixation of the chest. The Germans, long ago, have realised that these exercises ought to be supplemented by activities such as games; as a result, exercises on the bars are not occupying the same dominant position as formerly.

Digitized by v^ooQle
823

The “Volkstiimliche Uebungen” [popular exercises] have had a different fate. One may perhaps even say that they have formed the foundation of the modern free athletics which—under different names such as “jLeicht Athletik”—comprise Running, Jumping and Throwing; they have, at any rate, greatly helped the growth of German Athletics.

The English line may be characterised by the term Games. Ball games consist principally of running. Running is of all exercises the most classical one, not because it was the chief, and at one time the only, exercise at the Greek Olympic games, but also because it develops in particular degree such organs as the heart and the lungs. To this may be added another advantage: ball games are competitive, not merely man against man, but team against team—one organised side [or small community] against another. The English ball games have had their share in developing English character, finding expression in such a phrase as “Jair play,” one that has made its mark also outside England. One can well understand why ball games march victoriously through the world.

But the English line shows one-sidedness. As the Germans through their system have been one-sided by over-emphasis of arm action, so the English have been one-sided in using the legs . mainly in their games.

Both systems need supplementing if the ideal is to be reached, that ideal which the ancient Greeks characterised by the fine and appropriate word ‘harmony,” and which excludes exaggeration of all kinds, physical as well as psychical.

This supplement is provided by the Northern line.

The Northern line is the Swedish gymnastics created by P. H. Ling. He was Jahn’s contemporary, being born in 1776, and Jahn in 1778. Ling made acquaintance with Guts Muth’s system in Denmark. He used that system as his starting point, but soon went his own way.

When comparing Ling to the other pioneers, one notices that he characteristically demanded knowledge of the organism which he strove to develop. He therefore studied anatomy. He was also an artist with a developed sense of form. His knowledge of the human body and his sense of beauty of form influence his gymnastic system and provide that supplement which the German and English activities stand in need of. That supplement does not consist of exercises of agility on apparatus; though such exercises are indeed to be found in Ling’s system and they form that element of manly exercise which must not be lacking. No, the supplement will be found in the so-called free standing exercises together with some class exercises closely related to them and performed on certain Swedish apparatus, in particular, wall bars. These exercises form the central part of Ling's system; it is by them that this system gives that bodily development which no other system can give; these simple exercises have made the Swedish line through physical education—the line which

Digitized by LjOOQle
824

has now become the Northern line, because the other Northern countries have followed Sweden,

What, then, is the characteristic of these free standing exercises?

All exercises of games and athletics must aim at some external object. If I want to do a high jump, all my movements must be directed according to this object. They are limited both as regards to range and form by my aim: to clear the bar. The more I practise high hump, the better I learn to adapt my my movements to the clearing of the bar. Just the same holds good regarding vaulting over and on the horse and exercises on the parallel and horizontal bars, and also as regards athletics; in order to throw a discus or a javelin, all movements must be minutely practised. In ordinary bodily work it is most noticeable that the movements of the body and limbs have to conform to the work in hand and to nothing else.

But are the movements of the various forms of games and athletics not sufficiently many-sided and varied to secure a good physical development?

All movements directed towards an external objective have one obvious failing: the movements do not move the joints to their full extent.

The movements of games as well as of bodily work keep to the middle or, one might say, neutral part of the range. If a joint can be moved, let us say, 90 deg., the exercise only claims movement of it through 60 deg. or deg., and always through the middle range, never through those parts near the two limits.

What is the result of this? It is that the mobility of the joint will diminish, following the biological rule, “what is not utilised is lost.” Bodily work provides numerous examples proving this, because here is a case of working hour after hour, year in and year out. Everybody knows that bodily work produces stiffness: but so do the movements of athletics. A gymnast indulging in exercises on the parallel and horizontal bars will get stilf shoulders; a player of ball games will lose some of his mobility, even of the legs; because running does not demand "full movements of the joints of the legs.

Here the contrast between bodily work, games and athletics on the one side and Lingian free standing exercise on the other, manifests itself most clearly. By the Ling exercises no external objective is in view; they may be formed exclusively according to the good effect on the body. Ling has created a series of exercises of such a form that all joints involved are moved to their extreme limits. The main exertion is demanded when the limits of the range of movement is reached; it is not found in the middle of the movement. By these movements the Ling gymnastics are especially suitable as regards the persevering or the regaining of natural mobility. What suppleness implies in relationship to good physical development and physical wellbeing during advancing years cannot be discussed here, but it is generally recognised that suppleness is a sign of youthfulness and health, just as
825

stiffness characterises old age and frailty. It is hardly necessary to add that by suppleness is meant natural suppleness and not the exaggerated mobility of the acrobat, the value of which is rather doubtful. This work, producing or preserving suppleness, is one of the characteristics of the gymnastics along the Northern line.

The otfter characteristic feature is the exercises of the trunk. One must remember that exercises [gymnastic, athletic and games] that reauire skill are all exercises that are principally performed by the limbs, according to the German line the arms, and according to the English line the legs. During the work of the limbs, naturally a good deal of work is done by the trunk to which the limbs are joined; but the effect on the trunk is too accidental and not sufficiently thorough and all-round to direct its growth and give the trunk a harmonious development as regards suppleness and strength; in particular, it will not be able to correct a faulty carriage already established.

To give the trunk [the joints of the spine and its muscles, the dorsal and abdominal muscles] a thorough and all-round exercise a special series of exercises are needed, the so-called trunk exercises. The invention of such a series of trunk exercises is perhaps Ling’s greatest achievement. They are matchless in their ability of forming and shaping the trunk, in making it strong and supple and in giving it good carriage.

These exercises, which are quite necessary when working with high aims in physical education, are not as spontaneously attractive to youth as exercises requiring skill. Exercises of skill usually require both agility and strength, they are competitive, and they call for applause. The work with trunk exercises has no such incentives. The movements do not surprise by skill or agility. This may be said to be a disadvantage but in that fact their real strength lies; for their simplicity puts them within reach of everybody, young and old, men and women. If trunk exercises are taught with proper life and spirit, their effect is one of wellbeing and they become attractive.

The Ling free-standing exercises are of two-fold importance: they produce or preserve suppleness and they work through and develop the central part of the human body, the trunk. In this respect the Lingian free standing exercises excel the free standing exercises of other systems, and therefore they provide that supplement which the Northern line can contribute to the international work of physical education. One might wish that they were more easily accessible than they are. It is not easy to teach the Lingian free standing exercises. The proper teaching demands a thorough study of the exercises themselves and a fair knowledge of the human body.

Very often foreign visitors to the North are attracted by these exercises and try to introduce them in their own countries; but too often the attempt fails. By seeing them only, one may grasp the shell but fail to get the kernel. If the teacher does not understand them thoroughly, he will not fully appreciate their

Digitized by f^ooQle
826

importance and he will not have the necessary perseverance and patience while using them; neither will he manage to instil into his pupils the proper understanding; and they will lose their effect.

Also in physical education the various national conditions and temperaments make themselves felt. Therefore physical exercises will always bear their national stamp. But the national stamp is put on the outward form. Fundamentally physical exercises are international or, still better, humane, for the human body is universally the same. Hence the German, the English and the Northern lines carry a message to all nations who have the physical education of youth at heart. Consequently international meetings of this kind are useful both from a technical and a human point of view. By their common basis physical exercises take their share in the beautiful work of bringing the various peoples together and furthering the aim of the League of Nations: the brotherhood of man.—[Trans. F. B. H.]

The 1932 Olympic Games [10th Olympiad] will be held at Los Angeles, California, from July 30 to August 14. The Stadium has seating capacity for 105,000 people. Opening Ceremony [Parade of Nations], July 30; Track and Field Athletics, July 31 to Aug. 7; Demonstration Lacrosse, Aug. 7, 9 and 12; Field Hockey [Finals], Aug. 8 and 11; Gymnastics, Aug. 8 and 12; Demonstration American Football, Aug. 8; Equestrian Sports [Finals], Aug. 13 and 14; Closing Ceremony, Aug. 14.

FUNDAMENTAL NATURAL DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE

SEXES.

Translation by Ernst Thoma. in Discobolus, Cincinnati.

Professor Matthias extends his comparative physical study of .man and woman to the differences in circulation and respiration. He admits that many organic differences will diminish in direct ratio as woman will practice strenuous physical exercise, but assures us that they will never be entirely eliminated. Characteristic is the weight differences in liver and spleen, which differences are tied up intimately with sex, differences decreed by nature to remain as long as sex itself continues to exist. The thorax of woman being both relatively shorter and narrower, its capacity must necessarily be smaller, which fact determines that the organs contained therein must be smaller.

The heart is smaller as is also its volume. The same is true of the lungs. These differences are also maintained in proportion to entire body length. The lung capacity of man is 22 to 24 c. m. to 1 c. m. of body length, compared to only 16 to 17.5 c. m. in woman.

Man’s Energy Greater

The composition of blood also shows sexual differences. After puberty the specific gravity, long recognized by the medical

Digitized by CjOOQle
827

profession as the indicator of quality of the blood, is higher in man. The red corpuscles are more numerous and the volume of blood circulating through the lungs is greater per minute in man, 5 liters to the woman’s 3.5. The volume moved by each heart beat is 77 c. m. in man as against 47 c. m. in woman. As the female blood carries less red' corpuscles, its capacity to carry oxygen is less and its power of oxidation and resulting energy is less.

This is only partially compensated for by increased pulse rate; a double disadvantage, for it means a greater expenditure of energy and quicker exhaustion, and still a smaller amount of oxidation.

Larger Liver in Woman

In comparing the relative sizes of the liver and spleen, the tables, however, are turned, for they are larger in the woman in proportion to body weight. The body weight of man is 41 times greater than his liver, the woman’s only 36.5. The volume of man’s lungs exceeds that of his liver 100 c. m.; but in woman the volume of the liver exceeds that of the lungs by 240 c. m.

The difference begins at birth and increases until shortly after puberty the extreme is nearly reached. The relative size, volume and development of the spleen parallel those of the liver.

So here again we have to do with a fundamental natural difference between the sexes. The liver, the largest gland in the body, is active in a high degree in metabolism. The relation of liver activityto the. formation of glycogen has long been known, but later research has revealed the fact that the liver participates in lymph formation and that it secretes a heart stimulating hormone. The spleen not only functions as a destroyer of exhausted blood corpuscles, but also acts as a reservoir for a reserve supply of blood. Though the body tissues will in emergencies involving loss of blood, supply an amount of fluid, this will not be effective if the relative number of red corpuscles are not also supplied, and this function is assumed by the spleen.

These facts become especially significant for woman when we consider that during the menstrual period there is a considerable loss of that which is so important in the total of life’s performance as well as in nutrition, development and growth— blood. The spleen must replace this loss and the liver must, by secretion of its hormone, aid the heart which is also involved in the situation.

Trunk Exercises Important

Beginning several days before, there is a congestion in the abdominal organs which disappears with the onset of menstruation. But also at other times these organs act as blood reservoirs and it happens that these congestions become too great and cause various disturbances, even of a physical nature. This will happen in cases of sedentary occupations and habits. And to the contrary, it may happen that the menstrual function

Digitized by

Google
828

may be disturbed by a state of anaemia of the genital organs, caused by prolonged overstrain of the exterior organs, the muscles. It is evident that an important problem in female hygiene is the maintenance of a normal blood supply and a normal circulation. It also plainly indicates what a rational system of woman’s gymnastics should be, a system of trunk exercises. This contention is further strengthened by the following observations.

The recurring periods of congestion and the greater compactness caused by the organs in the female’s abdomen, is cause of the greater tendency toward dyskinosia in woman. The tendency to excessive deposits of adipose tissue in this region has some connection with this too, as also the formation of varicose veins and hemorrhoids. This is all accentuated when the already mentioned falling or sinking of the abdominal organs occurs.

Rational Gymnastics Needed

Thus a rational woman's gymnastics must tend to stimulate abdominal circulation, must dispel excessive congestion and prevent, on the other hand, local anaemia. Such gymnastics will also promote a normal development of the female organs during the adolescent period. Excessive physical activity of the adolescent girl, especially when combined with unfavorable general hygienic and social conditions, will often develop the asthenic constitution, which is characterized by a general slackness of muscles and ligaments and a pronounced narrowness of the pelvis.

Excessive sport activities during this period has the tendency to develop a narrow high pelvis, characteristic of the record making girl, and the long, slender, leptosomatic type of women. Extreme activity of the muscles of the extremities, be it vocational or sport, causes a one-sided distribution of blood to these, establishing a comparative anaemic condition in the abdomen which is detrimental to the normal development of the sexual organs and may become a source of menstrual disturbance.

The demand for regulating the abdominal circulation during puberty by purposeful gymnastics cannot be ignored. This demand deviates somewhat when the climacteric age is reached. The long established routine of recurring congestions and following loss of blood, is discontinued. It is evident that such a profound physiological change must have some influence upon the entire organism, physically and psychically.

Even Distribution of Blood.

The disturbances are often so apparent that this age is commonly referred to as the critical period of a woman’s life. The readjustment of the circulation is accompanied by disturbances of the nervous system and of nutrition. The congestion in the abdomen being eliminated, the blood is driven to other parts as for instance to the brain, causing hot flushes. The hygienic problem therefore at this age is to provide an even distribution of the blood stream. There are other aids besides
829

gymnastics, such as regulated baths, etc. But the efficacy of gymnastics will and must be recognized.

To equalize the blood circulation, aid the withdrawal from the abdomen and prevent its congestion in the head, it must be activity of the general musuclar system. It must still aid in maintaining the plasticity of the muscles forming the floor of the pelvis. Such activity will also counteract the tendency to the accumulation of adipose tissue, which is frequently evident at this age, as well as be a functional stimulus to all organs.

VENTILATION*

In 1913, the governor of the state of New York appointed a state commission on ventilation, which published its report in 1923. At that time, a reorganization of the state government failed to provide for a continuance of the commission. It was then reconstituted on the invitation of the Milbank Memorial Fund as the New York Commission on Ventilation. This commission began its work in 1926, and its final report has just become available. The report is of great significance since it indicates that many municipalities and states are now attempting to conform to obsolete regulations requiring the installation and maintenance in school buildings of systems of mechanical ventilation which have been shown to be not only unnecessary but perhaps even a menace to health. Twenty states require that there be an air supply of 30 cubic feet per minute for each person, a condition that can be obtained only by mechanical ventilation involving the use of fans. Such systems are not only costly but may produce drafts and overheating.

The point of view regarding ventilation has changed during the past generation. It was thought at first that the only bad air was that which contained more carbon dioxide than it ought to, and less oxygen than outside air. The modern point of view is that ventilation is required primarily to remove excess heat giveh off by the human body, and thus to maintain a comfortable atmosphere. Except where air contains poisons or dust due to imperfect combustion or industrial processes, the problem of ventilation is a physical rather than a chemical problem. Moreover, in small rooms or in large auditoriums containing many people, the air may. become unpleasantly contaminated by odor. Thus, a certain amount of movement of air is necessary for suitable ventilation. The conclusions of the New York Commission orr Ventilation state succinctly the present views concerning factors involved in good ventilation:

1.	The major objectives of schoolroom ventilation shall be the elimination of heat from the body surface without the production of objectionable drafts. This means the maintenance of a room temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit in corri-

•Editorial Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by Tooele
830

dors, gymnasiums and shops; of 75 degrees in swimming pools and adjacent dressing rooms, and of 68 degrees in all other occupied rooms.

2.	The avoidance of overheating is of primary importance for the promotion of comfort and efficiency and the maintenance of resistance against disease. Sipurces of direct radiation, therefore, shall be so designed or protected as to prevent overheating of persons,in adjacent seats.

3.	All classrooms shall have at least 15 square feet of floor space and 200 cubic feet of air space per pupil and shall have a system of heating and ventilation which shall provide means of air supply and exhaust capable of avoiding unpleasant odors and of avoiding, without chilling drafts, an increase of room temperature above 68 degrees Fahrenheit.

4.	Such ventilation shall be accomplished by any means which will attain satisfactorily these specified results. For the average school, favorably located, window-gravity [open-window] ventilation seems to be the method of choice on grounds of comfort and economy.

5.	Every schoolroom used for instruction, study, assembly, and physical recreation shall be provided with at least one thermometer of a grade that will give a reading accurate to within one degree Fahrenheit. The thermometer should be so located as to give a representative reading of temperature at the breathing place of the pupils.

6.	Such ap approved system of ventilation shall be maintained in operation whenever school is in session.

Legislation is almost invariably behind science in its attempts to provide suitably for public health and safety. The development of knowledge or of new technic and apparatus may not be applied under legal requirement before several years, sometimes not even for a decade. New schools are constantly being erected, and authorities are expending considerable sums to meet legal requirements which are scientifically obsolete. In a period of national economy it would seem to be desirable that legislators attempt, as soon as possible, to free taxpayers from such unnecessary expenditure by revocation or amendment of existing legislation.

SKIN TEMPERATURES IN CHILDREN.

The familiar fact that observations of the temperature of the body are only less frequent in medical practice than those of the pulse or the tongue is'a sufficient reason for serious consideration of the mechanisms of heat production and dissipation in the body and the regulation of these processes* Prior to the introduction of thermometers the acquisition of knowledge in this domain depended largely on sensations and was slow, and the conclusions were sometimes fallacious. The introduction of accurate methods of measuring heat in the body therefore ini-
831

tiated great progress. The observation was made that despite wide variations in the environmental conditions such as are represented by the height of summer and the depth of winter the temperature of the human body remains approximately constant. Deviations from the normal body temperature are therefore regarded as fundamental physical signs of disease; and the clinical thermometer has become an indispensable aid to the practitioner.

Until quite recently measurements of temperature on man have been confined to the interior of the body or to some equiva- • lent, such as readings of the thermometer in the mouth, rectum, groin, axilla, vagina or freshly voided urine. These data represent the results of the equilibrium between heat production and heat loss; they do not betray which group of factors happens to be dominant at any moment, nor. do they demonstrate the disturbance of any agency in the remarkable regulation. Benedict[l] has pointed out that under normal conditions of rest about 75 per cent of the heat lost from the body is from the skin, chiefly by radiation, and 25 per cent is by vaporization of water from the lungs and skin. Hence the measurement of skin temperature of itself becomes suggestive in studying the conditions of heat loss. Determinations of the effects of exposure to cold and of exercise on the skin temperature also are useful, since they enable an approximate estimate of the heat lost by radiation to the environment. Thus far in physiology emphasis has been laid in large

Eart on rectal temperatures. In recent years, however,importance as been attached to the skin temperature as a factor that may prove of great value, not only in physiology but likewise in pathology.[2] We may bear in mind, as Talbot[3] has noted, that if the protective mechanism against cold is broken down or the environmental changes are too great, the person becomes more susceptible to infections, the metabolism is slowed down, bodily functions become less efficient and, finally, when the body temperature remains approximately constant, small changes of temperature are observed under some conditions. Probably, however, the heat-regulating apparatus of the body is so delicately adjusted that the normal variations in body temperature are kept within a. narrow range. Talbot adds, however, that this is impossible for man under certain climatic conditions unless he provides some artificial protective covering, such as clothing. Progress in the study of skin temperatures has been made possible by the development of a simple technic for the measurement of skin temperature, based on the well known thermo-electrical principle.

The problems of skin temperatures are particularly significant in early life; hence the importance of the investigation just pub-

1.	Benedict, F. G., and Parmeter, Hazeltene S.: Human Skin Temperature as Affected by Muscular Activity, Exposure to Cold, and Wind Movement, Am. J. Physiol. 87:633 [Jan.] 1929.

2.	Cobet, R.: Ergebn. d. Physiol. 26:439, 1916.

3.	Talbot, F. B.: Skin Temperatures of Children, Am. J. Dis. Child. 42:965 [Oct., part 2] 1931.

Digitized by (^.ooole
832

lished by Talbot from the Harvard Medical School and forming a separate part of the October issue of the American Journal of Diseases of Children. Many of their results parallel those of F. G. Benedict and others on adults. There is a local variation of the temperature of the skin over different parts of the body,even in normal children, the temperature of the trunk being highest, the- face next and the extremities lowest. The temperature of the feet tends to be lower than the temperature of the hands. Sur-, rounding temperature has a definite effect on the temperature of the skin of the body even when the child is clothed. The cooler the room is, the lower the temperature of the skin. There is also a seasonal effect on the temperature of the skin. Noteworthy is the rapid loss of heat from the surface of the body on exposure. This affects the face least, the body next and the extremities most. There is a greater variation in the reaction of the extremities to different surrounding temperatures than in other parts of the body. This suggests that the extremities act as safety valves for the conservation or the elimination of heat.

These facts cannot fail to have some bearing on the choice and adjustment of clothing—a subject that has heretofore been considered less enthusiastically from physiologic points of view than otherwise. Talbot found that in normal children the natural choice of clothing considered comfortable for everyday life usually compensates for temperature changes in the environment. Premature infants have long been known to require special consideration. As Talbot remarks, the fact that it is commonly necessary to supply external heat to maintain the body temperature of the new-born infant at the normal level is evidence that the heatregulating apparatus is usually not fully developed at birth and is ' almost completely absent in the premature infant. The mechanism that maintains the body temperature at a uniform level must develop rapidly, for it appears to reach full efficiency in early childhood and possibly in infancy. In the premature infants, however, Talbot has supplied further evidence that the heat-regulating apparatus is not developed. The temperature of the skin of the premature infant, as well as that of the body, is affected directly by the surrounding temperature and to a greater degree than it is in normal babies. According to Talbot, among the factors that favor lowering of the body temperature in the prematurely bom infant are the relatively great area of the heat-eliminating surface, i. e., the skin, as compared with body weight, the normal lack of subcutaneous fat, which prevents escape of heat from the more vital tissues of the body, the normally low production of heat by the organism itself, and the failure to increase this production by shivering, crying and other forms of exercise when the environmental temperature falls below that optimal for the child. Adequate protection against a rise in body temperature is also lacking in these ‘^unfinished” children. When for some reason the heat production in the body increases, or when the environmental temperature is above the optimal level, there is no corresponding increase in the elimination of excess
833

heat. The sweat glands do not function as efficiently as they do in the fully developed or ‘^nature” new-born infant, and sometimes they do not act at all. All the newer scientific observations justify the long exercised clinical precautions directed toward careful maintenance of the body temperature of the newborn and the prematurely born infant.

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL CONVENTION of the

AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

Benjamin Franklin Hotel, Philadelphia. April 19-23, 1932

Pre-Convention Program FROM Tuesday, April 19, 9.:00 A. M. UNTIL Wednesday

Noon, April 20.

■ We suggest that convention visitors arrive a day or a half day before the official opening in order that they may participate in the pre-convention visits to schools and points of interest. Arrangements have been completed for the transportation of visitors to schools and points of interest that may be designated.

Public Schools	Education for Handicapped Chil-

1	Normal School	dren	Special	Classes	in P. S.

14 Senior High Schools	Orthopedic

22 Junior High Schools	Cardiac

2 Trade Schools	Mentally Retarded

1 Demonstration School	Sight Saving

198 Elementary Schools	Deaf

15 Special Class Centers	Disciplinary

Universities and Colleges

There are many colleges and universities in and hear Philadelphia including three which prepare teachers in Physical Education. Clinics Cardiac Orthopedic Psychological

Institutions

Overbrook School for the Blind; Pennsylvania Institute for the Deaf; Home for Crippled Children Recreation Centers There are many recreation centers, settlement houses, and clubs in Philadelphia.

There will be opportunity to see:

Historic Places of Interest

Independence Hall Betsy Ross House Horticultural Hall Valley Forge Carpenters’ Hall William Penn House

Other Places of Interest

Navy Yard United States Mint Zoological Gardens Commercial Museum University Museum Rodin Museum

Digitized by v^.ooQle
834

Art Museum Academy of Fine Arts Convention Hall Eastern Penitentiary New Public Library Graphic Sketch Club Municipal Stadium High School Athletic Fields Aquarium

Acad, of Natural Sciences American or National League Baseball

Convention Program

[General Outline]

Wednesday, April 20

2:00- 5:00 P.M. Several Discussional Demonstrations and Section Meetings [Swimming, Dancing, Athletics and Therapeutics]

5:45- 6:30 P.M. Dinner as guests of Temple University 8:00-12:00 P.M. Opening Session, Reception and Dance

Thursday, April 21

7:30- 9:15 A.M. Breakfast Meetings 9:30-10:45 A.M. General Session

11:00-12:15 A.M. Section Meetings—Public Schools’, Teacher Training and Therapeutics 12:30- 2:00 P.M. Reunion Luncheons

2:15- 4:00 P.M.. Section Meetings—Men’s Athletics, Recreation, Research and Women’s Athletics 4:00- 5:00 P.M* Pennsylvania State Physical Education Ass’n. Meeting

5:00- 6:00 P.M. Round Table Discussion on Women's Athletics 7:00 P.M .-1:00. Convention Banquet and Dinner Dance

Friday, April 22

8:00- 9:15 A.M. Breakfast Meetings 9:30-10:45 A.M. General Session

10:45-12:00 A.M. Section Meetings—Camping, Swimming, Dancing

12:15- 2:15 P.M. Convention Luncheon and Luncheon Program 2:30- 3:15 P.M. Section Meetings—Public Schools, Research, Therapeutics, and Women’s Athletics 3:30- 5:00 P.M. General Session

5:00- 6:00 P.M. Discussion Group—Women’s Athletics 8:00-10:30 P.M. Demonstration by schools, colleges, and clubs

Saturday, April 23

9:00-11:00 A.M. Student Meeting 9:00-12:00 A.M. Trip to Valley Forge

Franklin’s Grave Fairmont Park

Pennsylvania Hospital [First hospital in America].

Digitized by LjOOQLC
835

Features of the Convention

Visits to Schools

Addresses by most of the prominent physical educators of the United States.

Discussional demonstrations covering a wide variety of activities

A monster demonstration of physical activities by public schools, colleges, recreation centers, and clubs A Convention Banquet and Dinner Dance College and Fraternity Reunion Luncheons A dinner as guests of Temple University A trip to historic Valley Forge as guests of Philadelphia teachers

Week-end trips to New York City, Atlantic City, and Washington at very low cost.

A general id time which will be remembered for years.

PSYCHOLOGY TO THE AID OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Some of the Principles of Psychology Involved in the Teaching of Physical and Health Education.

W. P. MacLean, J. Sterling Morton High School, Cicero, Illinois.

"Mills,[28] the greatest exponent of individual freedom, never intended his doctrines to apply to children.”

Even adults, as' a matter of course, do not choose the exercise that they most need for balanced recreation, superior muscular tonus. Witness, for example, the mail carrier taking his holiday walk? the chauffeur going a motoring, the sailor enjoying his boat ride and the cavalryman ridin c his horse for fun.

In speaking of athletic games, Hetherington[29] says, "The significant part of this movement at present is the growing emphasis on educational athletics as distinct from spectator's athletics. Because educators neglected the direction of these activities, as part of the education of youth, and let them grow up under the influence of the spectator, a bad spectator attitude has developed. Consequently, inter school contests in universities, colleges, and most high schools are dominated in spirit and management by the ideas of the partisan spectator. But in spite of this the athletic movement has established national athletic sentiments and ideals which are being rationalized by the struggle for educational athletics.”

28.	John Stuart Mills, Essay on Liberty, Holt, 1898 p. 394.

29.	Clark, W. Hetherington, School Program in Physical Education, World Book Co., 1926. pp. 10-11

DON’T MISS

Digitized by

Google
836

In speaking of the materials in a program of physical education, Hetherington[30] says, “The activities must be classified under three broad divisions, or classes, as follows:

First, the natural; second, the related; and, third, the formal

physical training activities.”

Under, “Natural or Playful Activities ;[311 activities arising out of instinct tendencies,” he. places “self-testing activities, achievements or stunts, dramatic activities, rhythmical activities; dancing, hunting plays and games, athletic activities or contests, personal combative activities, water activities and winter activities”.

In placing all of these under “Instinct Tendencies,” he has followed Groos with little attention to Carr's activity analysis.

Hetherington[32] holds that “the principles determining the selection and adaptation of activities involves, on the one hand, a classification of age, incentives, capacities and needs with sex differentiations and individual differences; and, on the other hand, a psychological analysis of all the play activities in which children engage.”

In teaching health, it is almost an impossibility to begin with the near and the concrete. Students do not sufficiently know their own bodies. Although we are considering things of primal interest, we are faced with profound ignorance. Instead of the pupil’s body mechanics, functions, processes, that which is nearest to him, being the point of departure, we must begin with fulcra, levers, combustion engines, carburetors, pumps, store houses, chemical laboratories, etc., away from him as the things more familiar, and lead back to the body.

Once familiarity is established, however, the degree of attention given to its object is increased. The health teacher must gain this active attention by carefully and logically making the student known to himself.

As soon as established, this active attention may be utilized as a starting point for establishing health habits. These habits successfully nurtured to automaticity, carry the desirable behavior to the state of secondary passive attention just like that which our unlearned reactions determine that we give to particular objects, with little or no conscious effort.

The health teacher may use passive attention by determining through questioning and the use of exploratory and motor ability tests what the pupil really is familiar with at the start and using this knowledge as a king log to which to anchor the components of the gradually spreading apperceptive mass by natural interest and desire.

Even with high school students, the little habits of personal cleanliness, proper feeding, regular sleep, open windows, keeping

so. Ibid 15.

31. Ibid 16-19. 82. Ibid. VIII.

Digitized by ^ooQie
837

common tools and utensils away from the mouth, regular elimination, etc., must be taught.

Following James’s[33] advice, "Make automatic and habitual as many useful acts as you can as soon as you can, so as to free the mind for higher things.”

Safety habits, motor habits, health habits, hygiene habits are all merely modifications of behavior by means of experience. The experience may be either first hand or vicarious, and the first duty of the health teacner is to provide for his pupils the optimal educative experiences; introduce him to real life situations that are pertinent; give him actual practice in the activities of high grade physical living.

James says further, ‘Tsychology is a science; teaching is an art.”	,	.

"Munsterberg says, ‘The teacher’s attitude toward the child, being concrete and ethical, is opposed to the psychological observer’s which is abstract and analytic,’

“Education is to organize tendencies and behavior, habits and conduct. There is no reception without reaction, no impression without correlative expression—motor consequences, the sensation of having acted. Graft on to native reactions acquired reactions.	.

"The native reactions are fear, love, curiosity, imitation, emulation, ambition, pugnacity, pride, ownership, expression, collecting, constructiveness, vanity, shyness, secretiveness. . . . . 99-100 per cent of the adult’s activity is automatic and habitual.”

The health teacher must study these “native reactions” in order to choose healthy stubs on which to graft significant and useful habits and attitudes.

It is true that the teaching of health habits should be largely positive, and little consideration need be given to the Dunlap doctrine that "if you want to get rid of a bad habit, the best way is to voluntarily perform the act.” This and the Hall theory of Katharsis are related to the Freudian theory later referred to.

The sublimation of an emotion is its reconstruction and its expression vicariously through an imagined situation. Art is the sublimation of cruder emotions and instincts, raising them to a higher level and somewhat diluting them, making them paler. This sublimation is socially more acceptable than Dunlap's practice and must be used upon those of James’ "native reactions” which we cannot make use of in a more positive fashion in their natural state.

"Start early and vigorously. "IF we could save the first mis-spelling of a word, it would never be misspelled.”* *****] Continuity of training is the greatest means of making the ner-

88. William James, Talk* to Teacher* on Psychology, and to Student* on Some of Life’* Ideal*. Holt, 1899. pp. 160-200.
838

vous system act infallibly right," says James. Therefore the activities of high grade physical living should be practiced regularly, every day.

“Every impression that comes in from without makes conscious connection with other material already there and finally produce? wnat we call our reactions.”[341

"But even yet we have much to learn concerning the laws of mental and physical hygiene and rarely do we appreciate the full extent to wnich our mental, moral and physical characteristics are a product of. our experiences during the formative period of childhood. The human worth of many types of experience is still capable of a conwiderable revision in toms of their ultimate significance”.[2J

The health teacher must create situations for intentional learning. He must, through proper motivation, awaken the will of hip pupils to learn. He must lead his classes to form new associations, develop new responses to certain stimuli and weaken the permanency of bad associations already formed, by new and interesting suggestions to activity wnich he interpolates, i. e. retroactive inhibition.

He must understand and use to advantage the secondary laws of association: recency, frequency, vividness and mental set. He must study the general nature of innate tendencies, evidences of heredity, the effect of feeling upon accomplishment, individual differences, etc. Fe must strive to moderate piercing voices and overtension. He must teach the child to relax overused muscles, and, as a part of each day’s work, to sit quite still for a few moments as an antidote against over-emotion, over-expression.

Over against the Dewey-Johnson insistence On freedom, we have this advice from James,[34] “Keep the faculty of effort alive by doing something difficult so that when the time of need draws nigh, it will not find you unnerved and untrained to stand

the test..............The	hell to be endured hereafter is no worse

than the hell we make for ourselves in this world by habitually fashioning our habits the wrong way.”

‘^Any object not interesting in itself,” says James, may become interesting. through an association with an object in which an interest already exists, and thus things not interesting in their own right borrow an interest which becomes as real and as strong as that of any natively interesting thin".” Therefore in teaching the child, begin with his natural interest?.

“Voluntary attention comes in beats. We attend to things we care for, or things that are associated with things we care

for........If you only care enough for a result, you will almost

certainly attain it.

“Thus are your pupils to be saved: first by the stock of ideas you furnish them, second by the amount of voluntary

2. Harvey A. Carr, OP.Cit., 806.

34.	Wm. James, Ibid.

Digitized by Google
839

attention that they can exert in holding to the right ones', and third by the several habits of acting definitely on these latter to which they have been successfully trained.”

The health educator is certainly handling material that the pupil cares for. His disadvantage lies in the fact that the homes and lower schools send him raw material already quite saturated with bad habits and undesirable modes of reaction.

In this regard, it has been pointed out by Turner and Betts [35] that habit teaching should be positive. James advises us to inhibit by substitution rather than by repression because in the case of repression both the good and the bad ideas remain in the mind of the pupil. Spinoza adds, “A man can only be free who habitually acts under the name of good.”

“<Act cheerful and you are cheerful.” Strong feelings about oneself tend to arrest the free associations of one’s objective ideas and motor processes, especially if the feelings are of a negative nature. “At some time in each period of formal works teach the class to relax completely,” James advises.

Thomdike[36] says, “Any education is a change.” In what? How much? How make it? The health educator makes his changes, and they may be large enough to be noticeable as mental changes as well as physical change". Cental efficiency is so dependent upon physical well-being that the health teacher’s work is a concomitant of that of every other department. He is largely responsible for the sum total of learning that the pupil accomplishes and vice versa. Psychology must devise a way to measure what the health teacher does to his pupils. We nave test® of motor ability and physical achievement, but the former each pupil brings with him, and the latter is a small part of the total outcomes of physical and health education well done.

“Physical activity is an inherent tendency,” writes Thorndike. “Everything that lives exhibits movement of some kind. Added to this is the inherent tendency toward manipulation and to react to extraneous stimuli. Our native reaction tendencies are in need of modification, reorganization and supplementation. Education should be considered, not as a moulding of perfectly plastic substance'*, nor as the filling of empty minds, nor as a creation of powers, but rather as the provision of opportunity for healthy bodily and mental life, of stimuli to call forth desirable activities in thought, feeling and movement, and of means for their wise direction, for the elimination of their failures and futilities, and for the selection of their useful forms.”

Health and physical education can be no less. vIn cultivating interests,” Thorndike says, “the chief danger is in mistaking one for anotner and so getting the wrong one.” Thus, the boy may be taught to play football or to excel

35.	Egbert M. Turner, and George H. Betts, Laboratory Studies in Educational Psychology, Appleton, 1924 pp. 175-95.

36.	E. L. Thorndike, Principles of Teaching Based on Psychology, Seiler, 1906. pp. 50-150. *

Digitized by LjOOQle
840

on the gymnasium floor because of his supposed interest in bodily perfection, when his real interest is in seeing his name in the

Eapers, being applauded by large audiences, or admired and envied y his fellows.

"The chief defect of school instruction with respect to the acquisition of interests is that, as a consequence, they are not permanent. Interest is not always pleasure.”

Health activities can be made intrinsically interesting and from their nature they will, ultimately at least, bring pleasure. There should be a positive correlation of all the activities of the health education department. Each one should mean something to the others and to the ultimate educational objectives, or be dropped.

"Extended discussion of wrong acts which would be done only rarely and by just a few pupils is folly.[37]

“There is a fundamental difference between getting ideas of what is good and wishing to be good. The first is a response of knowledge, the second of attitude. There is an equal difference between wishing to be good and being good. The latter is a response, not of attitude but of action,” Attitude helps make action habitual,-4ugt_as habitual action creates an attitude.

"Cultivation and^pfes^vation of desirable emotional responses in play, health habits&tc., js necessary. In the long run our feelings grow into harmony With our conduct. No information, or ideal, or habit of thought oXeeling has done its work until it has done something in conductjv Moreover the naotor responses which an individual makes, reactVjPon his own intel-lcct and character **

It is insufficient then, the foregoing, lon^v quotation Thorndike tells us, to talk health ideals and teafj1 w"at health habits are desirable; there must be positive motor^fesPOIlse as a result before the teaching is complete.	\	...

Thorndike.[38] "In motor learning example i£,VjT., ^better than rule, imitation more efficient than explanation, anfi , e Ior' mation of abstractions is rarely useful or necessary.	con'

Crete thinking about the particular thing is required, sential thing is what the pupil does. The chief danger in

ing f >rm is neglect of imitation. Don’t explain---------show.

“Capacity to make precise movements matures gradual1^,* Do not try to teach elementary movements first. Work towEv\a the end in view. Have pupils give attention to the guiding se^" sation and very little attention to the movements themselv* Keep in mind the whole finished production. Attend to t] situation and the result, and the movement will attend itself.”

Parker[39] agrees with the above directions for motor learn' ing and adds, “'Dial and accidental success are used in the finer!

87. E. L. Thomdyke, Ibid.

38. E. L. Thorndyke. Ibid.

89. Parker, Op. Cit. 251-6

The es-ach-

Digitized by Google
' 841

adjustments. Separate training on the elements is rarely valuable. Some analysis of movement is sometimes helpful. Help or outside guidance is of doubtful value.”

Freeman[40] says that directions should be positive rather than negative and that the pupil should be shown what to do rather than what not to do, except when he has fallen into bad habits which must be broken up.

Judd,[41J on the other hand, writes, “while progress is slower under the distracting conditions of analysis, it will be valuable because the performer will know why; he will know how to borrow from others and how to make a comparative study. Consciousness is never entirely absent during the performance of a purposeful skillful act.”

According to Carr,[42] “The most systematic experiments on the influence of tuition have employed the stylus maze problem. It has been found that any information given to the subject concerning his mistakes will aid in their elimination. This information is the most effective when it is given during the initial trials. Knowledge of an error is not essential to its correction, however, for it has been found that errors may be made and eliminated without the subject being cognizant of the fact. The speed of learning may also be influenced by preventing the subject from making mistakes. Errors may be prevented by a series of verbal instructions or by guiding the stylus over the correct pathway by hand. Both forms of guidance have proven effective. The most beneficial results are obtained when the guidance is introduced for a limited number of trials during the early part of the learning process. The number of trials required to learn the maze problem may be reduced by one-half when the proper amount and distribution of guidance is given. Detrimental results are also obtained when too much guidance is given or when it is introduced during the final stages of mastery. The number of trial? required to master the problem may be doubled by such means. The detrimental effects of too much guidance establishes a very important principle of learning. A certain amount of error is essential to the perfection of an act of skill, for the act will never be mastered when all possibility of error is prevented. It is necessary; to make and eliminate a certain number of mistakes in order to learn how to execute the act properly. The process of error elimination cannot be wholly explained in terms of the gradual strengthening of the correct response in virtue of its repetition; the establishment of the correct act is also due in part to the elimination of the errors. We learn through the correction of our mistakes. The right act

40.	Frank N. Freeman, and Mary L. Dougherty, How To Teach Handwriting. A Teacher’s Manual. Houghton Mifflin.

41.	Charles H. Judd, The Psychology of High School Subjects, Ginn & Co. 1916. Ch. VI—[Manual skills.]

42.	Harvey A. Carr, Psychology, A Study of Mental activity, Chicago: 1927; Longmans, Green, pp. 236-87.

Digitized by CjOOQle
842

is established in part by learning what not to do. The right act is fixated not only by repeating it but also by making mistakes and correcting them.”

The optimal plan seems to be to have the child learn through a great many trials in imitation of a good example. If he fails after great perseverance, analyze the failure and give specific directions for overcoming the fault. When he succeeds he should be taught to analyze the act for the transfer values.

It should be constantly borne in mind, however, that while they may be concomitants, skills and abilities are not the main objectives of physical education. The chief aim is to lead the pupil to sentiments, attitudes, interests and habits that will result in continuous high grade physical living.

Sandiford[43] writes, “Motor power is complex. It may refer to voluntary control, the rate of movement, the variety of movement and the actual strength of the muscles.”

Bolton[44] found that brighter children increase in motor power with advancing age; so also do backward children, but the improvement is not so great. “Lack of mental alertness is accompanied by a deficiency in motor power. There is increased steadiness of motion, greater- rapidity and nicer precision, the older the children grow.”

Bryan[45] showed experimentally that the finger improves most, followed by the wrist, elbow and shoulder in the order mentioned. The wave passes outward, “for that which improves most must have been developed least in the beginning.”

Johnson[46] stated the following conclusion: “It is indicated that practice is the most significant factor in the determination of muscular steadiness and control”.

Also, in a second experimental test for motor coordination in rhythmical tracing, he found “the influence of practice significant.” These scientific data, together with Judd’s emphasis on the value of muscular coordination, got only by practice, indicates that well selected, carefully graded, interestingly varied and enthusiastically directed gymnastic stunts and exercises may have a place in a health and physical education program.

Individual differences in temperament are pointed out by Averill. ‘'‘One child is developing a cheerful, Sunny disposition in connection with and as a result of his school work and experiences, while another is in extreme danger of becoming gloomy and morose. One pupil wills to do his best, another to do as

43.	Peter Sandiford, The Mental and Physical Health of School Children, Longman’s Green, 1913 p. 21.

44.	Thaddeus L. Bolton, The Relation of Motor Power to Intelligence, The American Jour, of Psychology, XIV—615—31, 1901.

45.	W. L. Bryan. On the Development of Voluntary Motor Ability, American Journ. of Psychology. V—125-204.

46.	Buford S. Johnson, Experimental Study of Motor Abilities of Children in The Primary Grades Johns Hopkins Uni. Studies in Ed. No. 2. Johns Hopkins Press, 1917.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
843

little as possible. One find? encouragement, and even inspiration in his tasks, and another finds discouragement and ennui.

‘■‘One grows in self confidence, another in diffidence. Some children are ready and eager, at all times, to express themselves, other children are reticent and in danger pf becoming morbidly self-conscious and retiring. Some are growing in self-reliance, others in dependence upon the teacher and the learners. One is bold, another is timid. One is buoyant in his work, another is irritated and depressed by it.

“Lack of rational adjustment to the school environment expresses itself in the establishment of those mental, emotional and volitional habits and attitudes which, given opportunity to develop, become a little later the very ear marks of the unstable and ill balanced personality.

‘’‘Personality evolves largely a? a & ncomitant of the educative process. Failure to develop adequate power of attentive control often manifests itself in later life in ill-health of body and mind, and it then falls to the physician to correct it a? best he may by a process of reeducation.” [47]

[To be concluded next month].

47. L. A. AveriH, Elements of Educational Psychology, Houghton Mifflin, 1924, pp. 150-81.

+—-------------------------------------4>

Gymnasium and playground

* ------------------------------------—4*

MODEL EXERCISES

McKeesport Turn & Gesang Verein, Buffalo National Turfest, June 24-29, 1930.

Arranged by Harry Dippold.

Arranged for 10 men	and 5	women-aligned as follows:
M	W	M
M	W	M
M	W	M
M	W	M
M	W	M
	I.	

Step left obliquely forward and swing the arms forward upward .......................................................... 1

A deep slow lunge right forward, sitting on the heel, with lowering the arms downward and backward with the palms forward. Movement should finish on the 4th count............ 2- 4

Digitized by G.OOQle
844

Transfer the weight to the left foot and with 1-2 turn right execute counts 1 and 2 to the right. Direction in relation to the starting position is now right obliquely

forward .................................................   5-8

In this oblique direction, jump to a side stride stand in the vicinity of the right foot, and swing the arms forward

upward ........................................... .......... 9

Lower the trunk forward slowly and touch the floor with

the finger tips, arms and back in a straight line.........10-12

Bob the trunk up and down 3 times with swinging the relaxed arms inward to sideward position [3-4 double arm circle inward], to a crossed position in front [1-2 double arm circle outward], to a sideward position [1-2 double arm circle inward]. With fingers extended and with transferring of weight to right foot, and with 1-8 turn left,

straighten trunk, raise left leg sideward................JL3-15

Lower leg and arms sideward downward.......................... 16

Repeat all starting with right foot.

II.

Note: In this exercise the movements are all continuous.

Cross left foot in front and 3-4 double arm circle inward.	1

Step right sideward and 5-8 double arm circle outward.....	2

With 1-2 turn left on right foot, swing left leg in a large circle outward to a deep layout left backward swinging the

relaxed arms downward and backward........................  3

Dip the right knee once and swing the relaxed arms forward

[right into the next movement]............................. 4

Deep lunge left forward kneeling on right knee with a whole

double arm circle backward..................................  5

Bend the upper trunk backward slowly and slowly carry the right arm upward and backward. Head is back, arms in

a straight line........................................6....8

Face front, with transferring the weight to left foot, cross

right foot in front and a 3-4 arm circle inward............ 9

Step left sideward and 5-8 double arm circle outward......	10

With 1-4 turn right on left foot, swing right leg in a large circle outward to a deep layout right backward and swing

relaxed arms downward and backward.......................  11

Dip left knee once and swing the relaxed arms forward......	12

Lunge right forward and 1 1-8 double arm circle backward

finishing with fingers extended.......................  13-14

Face front on right foot, straighten right knee, swing left

leg sideward and carry arms sideward...................... 15

Lower leg and arms sidedownward............................. 16

Repeat all starting right.

III.

With 1-8 turn left, jump to an angle straddle stand with pendulum swing of the arms, crossing them in front first, bobbing the trunk 4 times.......:......................... 1_4

Digitized by v^ooQle
845

Straighten trunk slowly and swing the arms downward and upward, fingers extended [trunk and arms in a straight

line] .................................................5....8

Step left forward...........................................  9

Deep slow lunge right forward, bending right knee slowly and carrying the arms down and back with the palm forward, slowly finishing the movement on count 12...........10-12

Transfer weight to left foot and repeat counts 9 to 12 with 1-4 turn right [direction is now obliquely right forward in

relation to starting position]......................... 13-15

Transfer weight to right foot, swing left foot sideward with

1-8 turn left on right foot and swing arms sideward...._“and”

Lower leg and arms sidedownward............................. 16

Repeat all starting right.

Ladies

Slide balance hop left forward, swing the relaxed arms forward upward..:............................................ 1

Knee swing hop right forward, bending the trunk forward

ward and swinging the arms downward and backward.......	2

Step and close left backward, swinging the arms forward..	3

A “wave” forward, bringing the hands in to the shoulders and executing a pushing movement to position of arms upward ..................................................  -	4

Bend trunk forward and swing the arms downward and

back .....................................*...............  5

Bob the trunk and swing, arms forward........................ 6

A “wave” forward with 3-4 arm circle forward...........  7....8

Balance stand left, with carrying the arms sideward....... 9-15

Position with lowering the arms sidedownward..............   16

Repeat all right.

Men

Jump with 1-8 turn outward and with outside foot a little ahead of the other, bend trunk forward and swing arms

forward..................................................... 1

Bob the trunk and swing arms backward......................... 2

Rise on toes, straighten trunk slowly and carry arms foreup-

ward and sideward, arms loose.............................3__4

Repeat once more..........................................5....8

Balance stand on outside foot.............................. 9-15

Face front and lower inside foot and arms sidedownward....	16

Repeat all starting with inside foot.......................17-32

V.

With 1-4 turn left, lunge left forward and swing right arm

forward, left arm back...................................... 1

Dip the left knee and change arm positions.................... 2

Dip knee and change arm positions............................. 3

Dip knee and change arm positions, this time facing front with straightening left knee and swing the arms sideup-ward, fingers extended....................................-	4

Digitized by Google
846

Slowly bend right knee and carry arms sideward, palms up... 5....8 Circle trunk slowly to the left with carrying arms upward

[trunk and	arms	in	a straight line].................... 9-12

Dip the trunk forward twice and place hands in rear of

neck.....................................................13-14

Transfer weight to left foot, straighten trunk, swing right leg sideward and straighten arms sideward, fingers extended ..........................................................  15

Lower leg	and	arms	sidedownward...........................  16

Repeat all starting right.

VI.

With an 1-8 turn left, jump to a forward straddle stand and

swing arms sideward....................................._	1

Bend left knee slowly and slowly carry arms upward ...... 3____4

With straightening left knee, turn right about on both heels, . and immediately bend the right knee slowly and carry arm

sideward slowly.........................................5....8

Jump to a side straddle stand and carry the arms upward.... 9 Slowly bend left knee, bend trunk to the right and the left hand to 1-2 circle overhead while the right hand is slowly lowered obliquely sidedown with palm up and parallel to

leg .................................................... 10-12

Dip trunk sideward	right	twice.........................13-14

Face front, turning left, left leg swings sideward, left hand 3-4 arm circle inward and right arm is raised sideward,

fingers extended'.................................    :.... 15

Lower leg and arms	sidedownward.............................  16

Repeat all starting right.

Note: Music—"Kiss of Spring”—Rolfe.

MODEL DRILL

By the Ladies Class of the Syracuse Turn Verein, Syracuse,

New York.

FREE EXERCISES AND DANCE STEPS

Music: Waltz by Gustav Luettgers.

INTRODUCTION:

On the last measure of the Introduction, raise the arms forward-upward;

EXERCISE I:

A]-4 double arm circles outward with rising on toes on the upward and lowering on the downward

swing ....................................Meas.	1_4

3-4 double arm circle outward, trunk bending forward and dip [trunk rebounding] ..........Meas.	5

Straighten trunk and rise on toes, swing arms in the obliquely side-upward position looking upward ....................................„Meas.	6

Digitized by LjOOQle
847

Repeat measures 5 and 6 ........................Meas.

Repeat measures 1 through	8...................Meas.

One double arm circle forward-backward with

lowering and rising on toes ....................Meas.

Lower heels, bend arms to thrust ...............Meas.

Rise on toes, thrust arms obliquely sideupward ....Meas,

Repeat measures 21 and 22	....................Meas.

Repeat measures 17 through 24...................Meas.

Repeat all, measures 1 through 32 ............  Meas.

Dance Step:

B]-Balance step left and right sideward, arms 4th

left position to 4th position right.............Meas.

Step cross and step swing left sideward, arms 2nd

to 4th position............„....................Meas.

Balance hop right forward, arms in 3rd amplified

position .................................      Meas.

Step swing left backward, arms in 4th position ....Meas, Pirouette right, arms through 5th to 2nd position .........................................  Mea*.

Repeat 1 through 8 but starting right ..........Meas.

Repeat all, measures 1 through 16 ............. Meas.

EXERCISE II:

A]	-Stride left sideward, arms sideupward ______Meas.

and bend trunk forward, swing arms foredownward

backward............:........................Meas.

Straighten trunk, with knee dip swing arms forward ..........................................Meas.

Body wave and 1-1 arm circle forward ........Meas.

Bend trunk forward, swing arms down and backward ...........................   .	.'....... Meas.

Straighten trunk, with knee dip, swing arms fore-

upward ......................................Meas.

Arms sideward...................... ........M.eas.

Close left to right, arms downward ..........Meas.

Repeat measures 1 through 8, starting right .Meas.

1-4 turn left, step left forward, circle arms backw.

upward .............................. ,......Meas.

Bend knees to squatting position, hands on floor Meas. Straighten legs backward to a support lying frontways position, return to squat position .....  Meas.

Straighten knees and	face front ...*.......  Meas.

Repeat measures 17 through 24, starting right ....Meas, Repeat all, measures 1 through 32 ............ Meas.

B]	-Dance Step:

Same as B] Dance Step of Exercise I.

EXERCISE III:

A]-Lunge left sideward, swinging both arms left sideward with pulling motion ......................  Meas.

Change knee bend, arms pendulum swing to right Meas. Repeat measures 1 and 2 ....................  M	eas.

7-8

9-16

17-20

21

22

23-24

25-32

33-64

1___2

3___4

5

6

7.... 8 9-16 17-32

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9-16

17-20

21

22-23

24

25-32

33-64

1

2

Digitized by CjOOQle
848

Straighten knees, 1 3-4 double arm circle right

and turn trunk right ..........................Meas.	5....6

Bend trunk backward, lower arms sideward backward and rebound ............................. Meas.	7....8

Repeat measures 1 through 8, to the right ...._Meas, 9-16

1-2 turn left, step left forward, 3-4 double arm

circle right ..................................Meas.	17

Raise right leg backward, lower trunk forward and

raise arms sideward, to a balance stand .......Meas.	18-20

Straighten trunk lower right leg and raise arms

sideupward, ■..................................Meas.	21-24

Repeat measures 17 through 24 in opposite direction and finish with facing front, arms down .Meas. 25-32

Repeat measures 1 through 32...................Meas.	33-64

Introduction of 8 counts.

BJ-Dance Step: 2-4 time:

Step-cross-step swing left sideward ...........Meas.	1....4

Balnace hop rignt forward .....................Meas.	S....6

Step swing left backward ..................... Meas.	7....8

2	step hops right and left with 1-1 turn	right ..... Meas.	9-12

Jump to side stride stand, swing arms sideupward

clap hands .................................   Meas.	13

Jump to close stand, arms sidedownward .......Meas.	14

Repeat measures 13 and 14 .....................Meas.	15-16

Repeat measures 1 through 16 3 times more starting right, left, right ........................Meas.	17-64

EXERCISE IV: 3-4 time

A]-Introduction 4 Meas...........................

On last count of introduction, raise arms foreupward; With knee and trunk dip, 1-1 double arm-

circle forward backward on left side of body .Meas.	1

Circle trunk right, arms remain in the upw. position ....................................      Meas.	2

Repeat measures 1 and 2 twice more ............Meas.	3 6

Bend trunk forward and swing arms foredown-

ward-backward .................................Meas.	7

Straighten trunk and swing arms forw-upward	...Meas.	8

Repeat measures 1 through 8 starting right ...Meas,	9-16

Finish with stepping left sideward—

With knee and trunk dip 1-1 double arm circle on

left side of body .......-...................  Meas,	17

Same as Measure 17, on right side .............Meas.	18

Turn trunk left and bend trunk forward, swing

arms forward-downward and backward ............Meas.	19

Straighten trunk and swing arms foreupward.....Meas.	20

1-? trunk turn to left and repeat measure 19 .Meas.	21

Repeat measure 20 .............................Meas.	22

1-2 trunk turn to left and repeat measure 19 .Meas.	23

Straighten trunk and swing arms foreupward facing front .....................................Meas.	24

Digitized by VjOOQle
849

Repeat measure? 17 through 24 starting right ,_...Meas. 25-32

Repeat measures 1 through 32....................Meas. 33-64

B]-Dance Step:

As B] Dance Step of Exercise III, but on last 4 measures omit side stride jump stand and finish with step-courtesy. Submitted by Fritz Nicke, Instructor Syracuse Turn Verein, Syracuse, New York. May 23, 1930.

t--------- —----------------------------------------------------♦

THE HEART OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE OLYMPIC GAMES

The changes in the heart caused by athletic activity have been the object of medical investigations in recent years. Dr. Herxheimer, who works with Professor von Bergmann in the medical clinic of the Charite hospital in Berlin, was invited by the director of the Olympic laboratory, Professor Buytendijk, to come to Amsterdam to study the hearts of participants in the Olympic games. The results of these investigations are now accessible. Dr. Herxheimer’s report is based on the size of the heart in relation to the body weight of 246 participants in the Olympic games. The various branches of spcrts are presented in this number. It is evident that the athletes who came to Amsterdam were well trained. They were individuals who through several years of intensive training had prepared their bodies for the highest physical accomplishments. The size of the heart in the “Mehrkampfer” [persons taking part in several sports] and in the short distance runners differs only slightly from that in average individuals. Among the ten branches of sports which are especially mentioned by Dr. Herzheimer, the “Mehrkampfer,” with an average weight of 79.06 Kg., rank third according to weight, while according to the size of the heart they rank last. The short distance runners rank seventh in weight, which averages 66.05 Kg., and ninth when rated according to the size of the heart.

The computations were based on roentgenoscopic examinations of the heart. The roentgenograms were made during respiratory rest, at a distance of 2 meters and with an exposure of 1.2 seconds. The persons were standing; this is significant because there is a difference of 2 mm. in the transverse diameter of the heart in the standing and in the sitting positions. By comparing the transverse diameter of the heart with the body weight, Herxheimer computed the heart quotient, which indicates the ratio of the body weight to the volume of the heart. The larger the quotient, the smaller the heart. In the “Mehrkampfer” the quotient is 1-63.3; in short distance runners, 1-62.3. Long distance swimmers may also be counted in this group; with an average weight of 79.51 Kg., they are the heav-

Health education notes
850

iest athletes and at the same time they have the smallest hearts, the quotient being 1-63.8. There is considerable difference in weight between them and the Marathon runners. Marathon racing taxes the heart severely. Marathon runners, with an average weight of 59.39 Kg., have the largest hearts, their quotient being 1-46.4. Sportsmen with a weight of over 79 Kg. are, besides the “Mehrkampfer” and the long distance swimmers, the heavy weight athletes. Their average weight is 79.43 Kg. Their hearts, however, are comparatively larger, their quotient being 1-56,8. The oarsmen, with an average weight of 75.2 Kg., also belong among the heavier athletes. They have comparatively large hearts, the quotient being 1-51.7. The long distance bicycle racers, with a quotient of 1-48.7, are in regard to the size of their hearts surpassed only by the Marathon runners. The boxers with an average weight of 61.18 Kg. and with a quotient of 1-51.7 may also be counted among the athletes with large hearts. The short distance bicycle racers, with a quotient of 1-55.1, have a. much smaller heart than the long distance bicycle racers. However, their average weight of 69.52 Kg. somewhat surpasses that of the long distance bicycle racers. The medium distance runners are about midway between the short distance runners and the long distance runners. With an average weight of 65.28 Kg., their quotient is 1-55.1. The comparison of the runners indicates clearly that the increase in the size of the heart is parallel to bodily exertion. On the whole there is no danger of overtaxing the heart by athletic activity, if one keeps within moderate limits and does not strive for record accomplishments.

SOME NONRACHITIC BONE DEFECTS

Rickets and related disorders have attained prominence in recent years not only in the medical clinic but also in discussions by the public. This interest has been stimulated by the demonstrations of methods of inducing rickets experimentally in animals so that the manifestations and the requisite treatment might be more effectively investigated. Then the discovery that the lack of ultraviolet radiation may become the cause of rickets, and that suitable irradiation prevents or relieves the symptoms, aroused enthusiastic consideration everywhere of the rickets problem. A. F. Hess has remarked that our concept of rickets may be divided broadly into two periods, the one, which may be termed the clinical and pathologic era, comprising the long span between 1650 and 1918, and the other, that of the “newer rickets”, embracing the subsequent period. The latter, which still is in fruition, is a by-product of the discovery of the vitamins. One consequence of this progress has been the widespread dissemination of information, so that the manifesta-

•Editorial. Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
851

tions of rickets are commonly recognized: changes in the cranial bones—craniotabes; beading of the ribs in the form of the "rachitic rosary,” and other thoracic deformations; deformities of the extremities, with enlargement of the epiphyses; and various other "signs.” The mention of "soft chest” or "flat head” or “flat foot” is more than likely to bring rickets into the consideration of causation. One danger in all this ultramodern familiarity with a wide-spread, physique-distorting malady lies in the resultant tendency to offhand diagnosis. Hence it seems particularly timely to point out that many assumed rachitic symptoms do not warrant the diagnosis of rickets. As Hess remarks, it is not so many years since this word was used to include a motley aggregation: congenital syphilis, infantile scurvy osteopsathyrosis or fragilitas ossium, chondrodystrophy, osteitis fibrosa and other pathologic states of the bone. Accordingly, attention has been directed anew to a peculiar nonrachitic softening of the ribs that may result in the sinking or flattening of the walls of the chest in children and may persist into adult life. A pronounced flattening of the occiput is often noted; it is due to pressure and may persist for years. Bowing' of the legs and flat foot are sometimes associated with these deformities. These symptoms occur without roentgenographic abnormalities of a rachitic character; the calcium-phosphorus levels and ratios in the blood may be normal. Familiar antirachitic treatment does not effect a cure. Diet seems to be unavailing in attempts to alleviate the condition. Hess, who has observed and described a number of these anomalous cases, concludes that the syndrome consisting of flat head and soft chest does not belong in the category of rickets and should be differentiated from this disorder. In his judgment it is a form of osteoporosis that may be of congenital origin.—Editorial Journal, Am. Medical Ass’n.

NEW GLASS THAT ADMITS ALL SUN RAYS PROBABLY BETTER THAN HOPED

Hospitals and many private homes where there are children have been intensely interested in the new glass produced in recent years to admit the ultra-violet rays that the ordinary window glass almost shuts out. Manufacturers proved by experiments in physical laboratories that the new glass admitted these very necessary sun-rays. An interesting'point has been raised by Dr. W. T. Bovie of the Northwestern University Medical School at Chicago, Illinois. Dr Brvie claims that he has had even better results with chicks than the laboratory experiments would lead anyone to suppose. Professional men are divided, however, in what they really think about this ultra-violet admitting glass. Some of them swear by it and use it in their playrooms for their own children. The most authentic and conservative reserve their judgment. Meanwhile Dr. Bovie, experimenting with chicks finds it more effective than the physical tests would suggest.

Digitized by L^ooQle
852

THE LIVER AND VITAMIN A

The normal coloring matter of some of the natural foods has acquired a new and unexpected significance through the discovery that carotene, the familiar yellow pigment of carrots, yellow com, sweet potatoes, egg yolk and a variety of other foods, functions as a precursor of the indispensable vitamin A. The plants manufacture carotene; the animals that eat foods containing it profit accordingly thereby. Carotene is converted into vitamin A in the animal organism. The colorless yet potent cod liver oil derives its vitamin A indirectly from carotene-containing minute organisms consumed by the fish. It has recently been demonstrated by Moore, to whom we owe fundamental researches in this field of study, that when products rich in carotene are fed to animals their liver oils invariably contain vitamin A at extremely high concentrations, the oils themselves in several cases giving higher values than typical cod liver oil concentrates. This seems to be true for various species. Capper, McKibbin and Prentice of Queen’s University, Belfast, for example, have observed that the vitamin A content of hen liver oil is high. A new dietary virtue is thus imparted to the delectable chicken livers. In Moore’s tests, indications of the presence of vitamin A were usually shown by the “storage” fats of the body, the concentration per unit of fat, however,, being not more than about 1: 100,000 of the concentration found in the liver oils. Similar indications were given also by the lung and kidney oils of certain animals, but in general negative results were obtained in all organs other than the liver. • He has reached the important conclusion that the conversion of carotene to vitamin A probably takes place in the liver, that the efficiency of the conversion is by no means quantitative, and that the liver plays an important part in the regulation of the concentration of the vitamin throughout the remainder of the body.

THE HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN

The Berliner Verein fur Schulgesundheitspflege, which was founded thirty years ago, has resumed its sessions, now that the general introduction of full time school physicians has been carried out in Greater Berlin. At the recent meeting, the chairman, Professor von Drigalski, stadtmedizinalrat, spoke on the essential biologic requirements of the air of schools and hospitals. For a long time it was held that, through the gathering of many persons in closed rooms, changes in the air take place that are injurious. Especially carbon dioxide was incriminated. Fliigge has shown, however, that the amount of carbon dioxide must exceed 0.1 per cent and the temperature must be above 20 C. [68 F.j in order to justify the statement that the air is bad. The direct cause, however, is not the carbon dioxide but the vapors. It is the vapors and the excessive heat that cause dizziness and lessening of capacity. He contends that the air

Digitized by LjOOQle
853

in the schoolroom cannot be too dry. Experiments have shown that the daylight in the center of Berlin is usually capable of weakening pathogenic bacteria and of gradually killing them in large quantities. The deduction is that school and hospital rooms should open toward the sunny side. The windows should be arranged so that, when the weather is favorable, the closed room can be readily transformed into a half-open rest-room or veranda. The light should be allowed to flood the room as much as possible and, if that is done, special and expensive glass that is permeable by ultraviolet rays will not be needed. In place of gay colors that destroy the rays of biologic value, light and white colors should be used in the rooms.

PREVENTION OF PHYSICAL AND MENTAL DEFECTS

At a meeting of the National Public Health Association, of Budapest, Dr. Leopold Szondi discussed how physical and mental backwardness can be prevented if treated before the age cf maturity. He stated that teachers and parents are in error in dealing with backward children when they simply say that in time they will outgrow their defects. Thus with folded arms they allow years to pass and the children remain handicapped, although their defects might have been improved, if cared for in time. The intervention of the physician is necessary in three cases: [1] in disturbances of growth, [2] in disturbances of sexual maturity, and [3] in manifestations of disorders of mental development.

As regards disturbances of growth, it is an old observation that, in private practice, physicians find that the majority of children brought for examination exceed the average height or, at least, reach it, while children seen at the outpatient department of hospitals are frequently far below the average. This is easily understood, for the better class of people can give more care to their bodily welfare than the poor people. Disturbances of growth can be traced back to external and internal circumstances; for instance, climate is a factor; in the colder climates people grow higher than in warmer territories. Housing is an important element and the quality of foods is of great importance. The question is, Which is to be preferred: early or late maturity? The response of the physician to this question is that there is not much good in excessively quick progress. This is shown by the experience that quick sexual maturity involves early senescence. At present, when the problem of rejuvenation occupies the minds of men, this question is of especial importance. Rejuvenation should be begun in the juvenile age by the postponement of puberty. The youth of' those men whose puberty has been delayed lasts longer, and they reach senescence much later.

As regards mental disturbances, in the first years of life the brain develops in direct relation with the growth of its capsule and that of the skull. Medical science for a long time held the view that the size of the brain is determined by the growth of

Digitized by Google
854

the skull. It is known today that the contrary is true, for the development of the brain regulates the growth of the skull. It is to be regretted that in many cases of backward children the parents do not know that their children need medical supervision. It should be the first task of school physicians to call the attention of parents to this fact because the development of physical and-mental defects can often be prevented.

COURT DECISION CONCERNING FOOTBALL IN FRENCH

SCHOOLS

The character of the games permitted, during recreation periods, on the playgrounds of educational institutions is of interest to parents. The court of appeals rf Paris was recently called on to render a decision in the matter of football. The principal of a school had permitted the organization of a football game on the playgrounds. In the course cf the game, a youth was thrown to the ground and one foot was badly injured. Considering the principal responsible for the accident, the father of the injured had brought suit for damages before the court of appeals. The court sustained the demand of the father, basing the decision on these considerations: “Rugby football is a violent, and even dangerous, form cf exercise that should not be indulged in, during a simple recreation period, on grounds that have not been expressly prepared for the purpose, and without the explicit consent of the parents.” The decision of the court was, then, to the effect that rugby football is a sport that pupils should not be permitted to enter into other than on grounds especially prepared, and then only in case parents accept the risks; it is not to be regarded as a f rm of physical exercise for pupils to participate in, at will, anywhere on the grounds of the institution, since such exercises imply a surveillance and an accountability on the part of the school principal.

PANACEAS FOR THE COMMON COLD

With the first blasts of wintry air a considerable number of our citizenry begin to develop the running cf the nose, the lacri-maticn, the depression, the fever and the other symptoms commonly associated with the onset of a cold. No doubt, the vast majority of the practice of physicians is concerned witn symptoms of this character. Probably no other disease is responsible for so much temporary disability. From the teachings of the hygienists, the sanitarians, the public health writers and physicians most of the public have learned that the symptoms can be abated and the cold controlled in the majority of instances if the patient will go promptly to bed and stay there for at least three days.

♦Editorial. Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by LjOOQle
855

Actual observation indicates that less than one half of one per cent of people really follow this advice.

The promoters of various types of devices and foods associated with health maintenance have been prompt to take advantage of every possibility for exploiting their materials in connection with the universality of the common cold. Vitamin D has been vaunted for this purpose in the form of ultraviolet rays, cod liver oil, cod liver oil concentrates, irradiated foods and what-not, notwithstanding the fact that there is not the slightest scientific evidence to indicate that excess of vitamin D will prevent a cold or have any effect in curing it.

More recently evidence has been offered to indicate that in mice an excess of vitamin A favorably affects the tissue of the respiratory tract. Thus far, however, there is not sufficient actual evidence to warrant any claim at all for the use of vitamin A in preventing a cold. Nevertheless, the National Dairy Company, through one of its subsidiaries, presents the following statement in its advertising:

“Dr. E. V. McCollum, world-known nutritionist from Johns Hopkins, in an address before the American College of Physicians, stated that lack of Vitamin A and common cold are linked together.

“Think what this means!. If your body contains plenty of Vitamin A, you are not so likely to get a ‘cold,’

“What common, economical food is the best source of Vitamin A? Milk! If you consume four glassfulls daily— either as a beverage, or in cream soups, creamed vegetables, custards, ice cream, etc.—you will have enough of this priceless vitamin to help guard you from ‘colds.’ ”

F( r this statement again jt may be said there is not adequate evic ence.

An c id English general practitioner, when asked what was the best thing to get fra c ld, replied “Two dozen soft linen handkerchiefs.” The tendency of the common cold is to be self-limited. At the end rf three days the patient is generally better or beginning to get a more serious disease. The simple home remedies established by use in the last century will continue to be empl yed with considerable satisfaction by most people. They involve going to bed, indulging in perspiration by the use of hot water bottles and warm drinks slightly alkaline, the prescription of remedies somewhat anti-pyretic and analgesic, and watchful waiting for the onset of symptoms indicating any complication.

In the meantime, both the physician and the layman may well be advised to distrust conclusions as to the prophylactic value of any device or preparation for the common cold beyond the well established hygienic advice to stay out of crowds, to keep the head cool and the feet warm, and specifically to keep away from people who have colds. Our modem housing and transportation make the last mentioned measure almost an impossibility.

Digitized by t^ooQle
856

As concerns vitamin A particularly, it has been estiablished that it has in mice the virtue of maintaining the integrity of the epithelial linings of the mucous tracts and the skin. Acceptable evidence in support of its specific virtues as related to the common cold is not available. Indeed, such evidence as is available tends to indicate that it has little if any important virtue in this regard.

• >	—

Foreign items of interest

Physical education course® for ministers in Prussia are to be held as follows: for evangelical ministers from August 17 to 26, for catholic ministers from September 14 to 19th. For those latter ministers a course was held from June 8 to 16th.

Mrs. G. Grey has been appointed inspector of physical education in England by the British minister of education.

The economic condition in Berlin has led to a resolution by the city council to curtail the use of shower baths in schools.

According to a notice in the last issue of “Die Leibesuebun-gen” [Physical Education] the economic condition in Germany makes it necessary for this publication to change from a bimonthly to a monthly of 48 pages.

The German Association of Physicians for the Promotion of Physical Education just published its annual report. 64 cities are organized into 15 state societies with a total member-ship of 2696. The headquarters of this association are located in Berlin. The organization publishes pamphlets and articles on health, anthropometric charts; it also issues certificates to its members that qualify as sports physicians.

At its last meeting held in Barcelona, Spain the International Olympic Committee decided that the 1936 Olympic Games are to be held in Germany.

Swimming is an obligating subject for all pupils above the fifth grade in Hamburg, Germany. In the school year 1929-30 the following number of pupils became swimmers, 3572 boys and 2791 girls. To become a “swimmer” means to have the ability to swim 100 meters. During the same year 2215 boys and 1484 girls received a proficiency certificate showing that they could swim half an hour.

Digitized by LjOOQle
857

Rowing for exercise. The German Rowing Association encourages the members to use rowing over long distances as their form of regular exercise. The association recently decided to grant certificates during the year 1931 for the following age accomplishments during the period April 1st to October 31st. Age 35 years those who rowed a distance of 1500 Kilometers, 40 years, 1200 Kilometers, 50 years 900 Kilometers.

The Swiss National Gymnastic Association was organized April 23, 1931 at Asrau. To celebrate the completion of its ears of existance a national festival will be held at As rau

23 and 24, 1932. This demonstration will undoubtedly be one of great importance.

In speaking of the results of the last national gymnastic festival at Stockholm, Miss Greta Adrian says that a distinct change in the type of work for women was noticeable; there was less of the formal and more of the graceful to be seen. In commenting on the work of boys and men she says that it is to be deplored that their work still is dominated by the “old tradition”; that much more joy might be given to the participants and that it is to be deplored that the joy and stimulation that work on the parallel bars, the horizontal bar and the rings is still being denied to the male sex.

Augustinus and Sport. A recent issue of “Deutsche Ju-gendkraft” has an exceedingly interesting research-report upon the life of Saint Augustin who has been dead over 1500. years. He was the son of wealthy parents who was sent to Carthage for additional schooling and who -incidentally took part in the recreation and amusements of the young men of that city. In his “Confessions” he has the following to say that should interest teachers of physical education. “The theater and the sports appealed to me. Until late at night, following our bad habits, we played on the playfields. We sinned because we wrote less and read less and thought less of our vocabulary than had been assigned to us. We were not lacking in memory and talent, but it gave us greater pleasure to play. I was punished because I played ball and therefore did not learn my lessons as fast as I should have. I was glad when I was a winner in a competition. But I also tried to win by crooked means when I was in danger of losing. At the same time, nobody criticized unfair play stronger than I when I discovered such doings. If I was discovered, however, I stormed and fumed rather than confessed. I was jealous of every one who played better than I, and in my vanity I strove for the applause of the mass in the arena and for fleeting rewards.”

Note by editor. Well, if it was possible for such a boy to become a saint, there is hope that the efforts of teachers will produce good citizens even in our days, with the emphasis upon spectacular athletics for gate receipts.

Digitized by
858

♦ ------ . »

News, notes and comments +------------------------—♦

Achievement Standards for Girls. A committee of women representing various parts of the country has been appointed to organize physical achievement standards for girls similar to those which have been established for boys.

New York University, in cooperation with the National Safety Council is making a study of accidents in physical education and athletics.

The National Safety Council, 1 Park Avenue, New York, has valuable publications for free distribution in regard to safety education in schools. Write them for their publications which they will be glad to send you.

The National Recreation Association has appointed a National Committee which is making a study of the surfacing of playgrounds. A preliminary report will soon be issued which will contain valuable information on surfacing school yards and playing fields.

Physical Education Gets The Credit. In a recent article in the Buffalo Evening News, Dr. William Brady reports that the average weight, height, chest measurement and lung capacity of college girls have increased, according to data for 6000 freshmen girls recorded in five colleges during the past 50 years. He says, “Frankly, we should give credit where credit is due. It is the gradual insinuation of physical education into the common school and high school course that deserves most of the credit for the bigger and better women that bless the world today. . .” [New York Bulletin],

Child Guidance Work Grows. An increasing tendency to seek medical advice and treatment for mental disorders, behavior and personality problems, and other form? of human maladjustment, when the earliest symptoms appear, is reported by the National Committee for Mental Hygiene, which has recently finished a nation-wide inventory of existing facilities for the study and management of these conditions outside of institutions.

This tendency is reflected in a marked growth in the number of mental hygiene and child guidance clinics established in various communities in the United States during the past, ten years and

Digitized by

Google
859

signifies, according to the National Committee, a recognition of the importance of mental health in the daily lives of increasing numbers of the population. In 1920 such clinics, the Committee states,- were comparatively rare. Today, the study shows, there are some 674 clinics which provide a regular mental health service to the public in 34 states, most of these having come into existence since 1922.

Unguessed Gifts. A lad in the eighth grade is labeled “weak” but, twenty years later, he becomes one of the strong executives in the country. A “slow” boy turns out later to be one of the fastest of professional baseball players. A girl scolded for “bad” art work in school grows up to secure an international reputation as a portrait painter. These are illustrations that could be duplicated by the hundreds to show that the school measuring rod for strength, speed, or achievement is net always dependable.

A boy who fails in chemistry makes one cf the most fascinating of modern chemical discoveries. A professor will give a lad no credit for a college course in “gas engine”; but he turns out later to be Charles Lindbergh whom the world has credited rather high in gas engine. Edison is sent home from school with the suggestion that he is not intelligent enough to do the work. These are further examples.

Lately the school has been reexamining its yard sticks. It has at last been applying intelligence to its measures of intelligence. The school cf the future is less likely to make these stupid prophetic blunders cf the past. We are studying children with a more affectionate interest in their future welfare, with more faith in their abilities to achieve.

We are discovering that dull children by one measuring rod may be really bright children when a different scale is used; that slow children may have concealed storage of speed; that inept youth may really possess qualities approaching genius. Abstract of address by Hughes Mearns, T\S.E.A. Convention.

The following figures are not related to one another, but may be of interest:—

Sir Arthur Keith in a recent lecture gave the following figures in connection with the brain. In the brain of an ordinary European, weighing about 48 oz., the number of nerve cells in the cortex of the brain is about 14,000 million. Many of these are never used. * If a nerve cell in the central nervous system is destroyed, it cannot be replaced; but since we do not use anything like all our cells, this may not be serious; also there is apparently room for much further development. The total population of the earth is something under 2,000 million, so that, on this calculation, there would be enough neurons in one brain to give every person living on the globe seven of these elements of the brain and still have a few left over.

Another way of expressing is it to say that if you take a postage stamp and put it over the cortex of the brain the area

Digitized by CaOOQle
860

covered by the stamp will contain more cells than there are people in Greater London. That shows something of the abundance of the nerve cells in the cortex of the brain. By the form of the convolutions of the brain the surface is increased, so that if the cortical surface were spread out, it would require 500 postage stamps to cover it.

It is always being asked whether the quality of a brain can be judged by its weight. Does an increased weight of brain necessarily mean an increase in the capacity? These figures show that, other things being equal, it is a good thing to have an increased amount of brain, but the extra cells are not much good unless actually used. Evidently it is not only weight of brain, but degree of connection of neurons and superficial area that will settle the quality of the brain, provided there is a certain minimum quantity, which is 32 oz. If a person has less than 32 oz. of brain, he will be an imbecile. That is a fact to which no exception has been shown.

To turn to another set of figures, we all know of the necessity of certain ductless glands for the proper development of the body. The thyroid is an organ which is of a respectable size, its average weight being about 36-60 gr. for those living inland or on the hills and 20-30 for those living at sea-level. The female thyroid is about one-third as heavy again as that of a male. The pituitary gland, however, which is equally important for satisfactory skeletal growth, weighs only just over 1-2 gr., which shows that an extraordinarily small organ is able to carry out vitally important functions. The parathyroids are three or four little masses each weighing only about 0.03 of a gr., and yet they have an extraordinarily important bearing on the functions of the muscle.

Turning to one last subject. Have we any knowledge of the actual amount of vitamin of any kind we ought to take in the day in order to keep us healthy? Beyond the knowledge that it is something excessively small we have nothing definite to offer except in the case of the anti-rachitic vitamin. A substance called “ergosterol” has been obtained which, when it is irradiated, protects against rickets and has many of the properties of vitamin D. The necessary dosage of that is 1-1,000,000 gr. per kilo of body weight. Putting it another way, if at birth a child were presented with 1-2 oz. of irradiated “ergosterol” he would have enough to last him throughout life if he lived to be ninety. That gives some idea of the amount of these illusive substances— the vitamins—necessary for the body.

The physiological facts expressed in these figures are no doubt familiar to you all, but I hope that in presenting them in this rather different manner I may have given you a fresh conception of some of the marvels of the body and perhaps of the greatest marvel of all, the extraordinarily beautiful way in which the different systems of the body work together and make, in spite of these inconceivably numerous elements, of each one of us a single individual person.

I
BOOK REVIEWS

“Health Through Projects”, by G. D. Brock; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., Inc., New York, 1931; clothbound, 6” x 9”; 268 pages, 27 illustrations; price $2.00.

The scope of Mr. Brock’s suggested projects includes ventilation; cleanliness; mental health; sleep and rest; cereals and breads; fruits; vegetables, beverages and sweets; special senses; height, weight, growth; pupil health organizations; posture; safety education; teeth; clothing; fatigue; diseases; first aid; correlating health; quacks and nostrums.

In addition to these projects, there appears a lot of material on health evaluation in terms of a health census, health score charts for schools, pupils, and parents, and a self-testing score chart for teachers. In the appendix there are presented temperature charts, suggestions for poster making, and a brief treatment of illustrative material for blackboard use.

. Some excellent projects are found in the topics Sweets and Desserts, Safety Education, Clothing, and Quacks and Nostrums. On the other hand most of the suggested projects are open to the same criticisms that have been true of projects since they became fashionable over a decade ago. They are frequently vague; often administratively impossible; and in many cases create a lot of activity but no tangible results.

HOWARD L. CONRAD.

“An Outline Of Physical Education For The First And SecOhd Grades”, by Leonora Andersen, and Florence McKinley; published by A. Barnes and Co., Inc., New York, 1930; clothbound, 7” x 10”; 137 pages;..price $2.00.

_ This book was written to meet the need for “a suitable variety of the different types of activity adapted to the interests and abilities of first and second grade children” and “to serve as a useful guide in organizing play activities in such a way as to secure the greatest benefits from them”.

It is classified in four parts: the first presents “Dramatic Play With Music” including suggestions for teaching, type lessons; and adapted dramatic plays with music; the second considers ‘■‘Dramatic Play Without Music” including suggestions for teaching and dramatic play activities for the first and for the second grades; the third if concerned with “Games for Playground and Schoolroom” suitable for first and second grades and includes valuable suggestions for teaching, stunts and relief drills; the last part includes “Planned Programs for the First and the Second Grades”.

To those interested in the play and education of small children this book should be particularly interesting and helpful. The suggestions for teaching the activities make the book a valuable one especially for teachers with limited training or experience. The best in music and literature has been used to inform to the high standards which the authors have set for 5PS work.	JOHN	C.	KIEFFER.

th,s

Digitized by CjOO^lc
