Yol 15.

MIND AND BODY

MAY, 1908.>	No	169

» Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa„

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa . All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

THE CAUSE OF THE INCREASE IN SPEED OF SWIMMING DURING THE PAST TWENTY YEARS, AND THE REASON WHY ONE STROKE IS FASTER THAN THE OTHER, VIZ:-BREAST, BACK, OVER ARM, TRUDGEN, AND THE NEW CRAWL STROKE.

By ROBERT SANDON, President Amateur Swimming Club, England, London.

A comparison of the time taken for swimming given distances by the fastest exponents of the art of the present day, compared with those taken by the best swimmers of twenty years ago, fills one with amazement at the tremendous strides taken in this branch of athletics during a comparatively insignificant period of time—that is, insignificant when compared with the long period during which we have a certain knowledge that swimming has been practised. A few records taken in championships are here given for comparison.

100 3’ard ..... In	1885,	1	m.	12	sec....... In	1904,	0	m.	58	sec.

220	“	  “	3	m. 8% sec...	1902,	2 m.	28% sec.

500	“	  “	7	m. 51% sec.	  1905,	6 m.	7% sec.

% mile ........... 1881,	14	m. 35Vfc sec...	“	11m.	11%	sec.

1 “	  1885,	32	m. liy2 sec...	“	23 m.	16% sec.

This extraordinary improvement must be due to one or more causes, and it will be my endeavour to set forth the main causes which have conduced to this improvement. It is hardly necessary to point out that no sport can show the improvement comparable with swimming. In a casual glance at the best of records for sports—without mechanical aids—it is seen that a number of records made 20, 30, or more years ago are still unbeaten. For example, 120 yards running in 11 3-5 secs., made in 1887; 1,000 yards running in 3 m. 13 secs., made in 1881; 1 mile in 4 m. 12 3-4 secs, in 1885, are still unbeaten, while 2 miles in 9 m. 11% secs., made as far back as 1863, was not beaten till 1904.

We cannot say that the present conditions are more conducive to speed in swimming than they were 20 years ago; indeed,-the opposite is the case. Twenty years ago records were made either without bathing

Digitized by	Le
-82-

drawers, or with the smallest apology for them. Now all are made in swimming costumes, beneath which bathing drawers are worn. Probably the effect of this is not great, but my point is that, if anything, it is certain that the conditions are not easier for putting on records. The answer to this question must therefore be looked for in the swimmers themselves. Now, it is idle to assume that the record-breaker to-day is a finer athlete than those of twenty years ago, when we consider the latter included such fine athletes as “Peggy” Bettinson (probably the finest all-round athlete in London at the time), E. C. Daniels, Horace Davenport, J. B. Johnson, etc. Neither has there been any special development in methods of training. Perhaps at the present day the methods adopted for training at all sports are more natural than in olden times, but I do not believe that swimmers ever allowed themselves to be cursed with the frightful training tasks and tortures inflicted on devotees of others sports. We are thus led by the process of elimination to the only remaining explanation, namely, that increase of speed is due practically entirely to alterations in the style of swimming adopted, and this will lead us on to the second part of our enquiry, “Why one stroke is faster than another?”

A little reflection will convince us that there are two aspects of this question:—

•

(1)	One of mechanics simply—the way to apply a force of a certain

power most effectively in driving a body (the human body) through the water.

(2)	One of physiology—how a body (again the human body) can

develop either greater effective power or greater endurance with the same expenditure of muscular force.

Before settling these questions it will be instructive to make a few remarks on the different strokes used during the past 20 years—(1) breast, (2) back, (3) under arm side, (4) over arm side, (5) trudgen, and (6) crawl.

1.	Breast Stroke.—In' this stroke the arms are shot forward and brought back at right angles to the body, while the legs are shot outwards, and then drawn together and upwards. The drawbacks to this stroke as regards speed are:—

(a)	The large amount of the body out of the water—the entire head

and part of the neck and sometimes the shoulders;

(b)	The resistance to the forward movement due to the entire width

of the chest striking the water without anything in the nature of a cut-water;

(c)	The low position of the feet due to the incline of the body;

(d)	The great resistance, acting as a brake, due to the “recovery”

-	of	the stroke; and

(e)	The progress is made by a series of jerks.

The only advantage for speed is ease in breathing.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-83-

2.	Back Stroke.—In this stroke, the arms, when they are used— and no one would race without using the arms if he were allowed to use them—are put behind the head and swung with a circular movement towards the feet, white the legs are alternately opened and closed, giving a swishing movement with the lower part of the legs. The drawbacks to speed are:— ^

(a)	The great resistance of the body due to its position;

(b)	The position of the legs whereby they cannot exert their full

power most effectively;

(c)	The resistance to the moyement of the legs on the recovery of

the stroke; and

(d)	The progress is not continuous.

The advantages are: Firstly, ease in breathing, and secondly, the recovery of the arm stroke with only a little resistance, namely through the air instead of water.

3.	Under Arm Side.—In this stroke the body is on one side, the legs are alternately opened and closed, somewhat like a pair of scissors, and the arms are alternately shot forwards and backwards under the water. The drawbacks to speed are:—

(a)	The resistance of the water on the recovery of both arms and

legs;

(b)	Some difficulty in timing the breathing; and

(c)	The progress is not usually continuous.

Advantages are: Firstly, the more horizontal position of the body, enabling the legs to rise nearer the surface, and thus apply more of their power to drive the body forwards, and not upwards; secondly, more of the body immersed; and thirdly, the less resistance offered to movement through the water.

4.	Over Arm Stroke.—This is very similar to the last stroke described, except that one arm, the upper one, is thrown forwards through the air. The advantages and disadvantages are also similar to the last, except that an additional advantage is gained by the reduced resistance due to the recovery of the top arm, while an additional disadvantage consists in the increased difficulty in timing the breathing, due to the tendency (with incompetent swimmers) of the head to sink when throwing the upper arm forwards out of the water.

5.	Trudgen.—In this style the arms are thrown forward one after the other out of the water and pulled back beneath, while the body lies in a more or less horizontal position and the legs move in a somewhat similar manner to the side stroke.

The drawbacks are:—

(a)	Increased exertion owing to the arms being so much out of the

water,* and thereby causing more work to support the body

on the surface;

(b)	The difficulty in keeping the legs near the surface;

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-84-

(c)	Increased amount of body out of the water; and

(d)	Some increase of resistance due to the position of the body.

The advantages are: Firstly, further reduced resistance of the recovery due to shooting both arms forward through the air; and secondly, ease in breathing, due to the position of the body.

6.	Crawl Stroke.—We in England have seen little of this stroke, but as shown by (the late) B. B. Kieran, and explained by Mr. James Taylor, chairman of the New South Wales A.S.A., it is distinct from any other swimming stroke. The legs are kept as straight as possible, but bent from the knee, and each foot is lifted alternately, striking the water with the instep. There is no opening of the legs or drawing up of the knees, as in other strokes. The swimmer is almost square on his breast, and the arms are dipped in, bent at the elbows, just beyond the head and drawn smartly back till they come out of the water fully extended along the sides of the body. The right arm enters the water with the left foot, and vice versa.	*	-

The principal drawback is, in addition to those of the Trudgen stroke, the exertion necessary to support and propel the body, all of the limbs being at one time or another out of the water.

The advantages are: Firstly, less resistance still on recovery due to the legs as well as the arms being out of the water for a portion of the stroke; secondly, the resistance offered by the water to the sudden entrance of the legs when making the stroke; and thirdly, the good position of the legs to make the stroke.

One point I would like to mention with regard to all the methods of speed swimming, and that is the timing of the different parts of the stroke, upon which, I think, much depends. I, however, believe that a development has taken, and is taking, place in this matter.

It will also be observed that we have developed from all the limbs beneath the water at all parts of the stroke to all out of the water at some portion of the stroke. The effects of this remarkable development will be considered later.

When considering, however, the question of the increase of speed during the past twenty years, the first three of the six methods of swimming I have mentioned may be omitted, as, by almost universal practice, none of these have been used by pur fastest swimmers when they have had the choice of stroke. The forth and fifth have been continually used for racing purposes during the whole of this period, and the sixth has recently come into use in Australia, and will, I have no doubt, soon become acclimatised in this country.

Regarding the last three strokes only, the following points are most important:	1.	The	timing	of	the	parts	of	the	stroke. 2. The resistance

due to the recovery of the stroke, and 3. The breathing. In my opinion it is the improvements in these three points which are the principal causes of the marvelous increase in speed we have witnessed.

1.	The Timing of the Parts of the Stroke.—Those who have watched swimmers closely, must have noticed that at some part or other

Digitized by ^ooQle
—85—

of the stroke certain swimmers appear to progress by a series of jerks. This can easily be seen by watching the head. With some it appears to go forwards with a bound, then stop _dead or even appear to go backwards, whilst with others it seems to go forwards continuously. This is due, in my opinion, entirely to the timing of the stroke. If a swimmer make a stroke with both arms and both legs simultaneously, he will get a great forward impulse, but he will next have to recover both pairs of limbs simultaneously, and the resistance of the water will be so great that his forward movement will be entirely stopped. The result will be like a machine which has to get up speed, stop dead, and get up speed again about 20 or 30 times a minute. This can obviously be avoided by cultivating a stroke, if possible, wherein there is no instant without an arm or leg effectively making a forward stroke. The swimmer then, having once got up speed, has only to exert himself sufficiently to keep up that speed. Most swimmers know the truth of this to a certain extent in the breast stroke, and the advice to “hang on to the stroke,” as applied to the arms is common knowledge. Few appear to have thought of it in regard to other strokes.- Mr. C. M. Daniels, however, the American swimmer, is one who did so think when at practice in the tank of the New York Athletic Club, and he argued to himself that if he could make his arms act, not only at different times to one another, but at different times to his legs, he ought to gain in speed. Putting his theory into practice, in three months he was able to strike with his arms after the leg stroke was finished, and he informs me that in that period he improved no less'than 11 secs, in a hundred yards. Here we have one explanation why the side, trudgen and crawl strokes are faster than the breast, the arms work one after the oth6r; and one reason why the crawl is faster than any other stroke is that the legs are made to work in the same way. As there are four limbs, the worst timing of all is obviously that when all of them make the effective part of the stroke simultaneously, and the best, when each succeeds another by a short and regular interval, that is, when there are four non-synchronous movements. The first would correspond to an engine having a single pisto7>, the latter to one with four.

2.	The Eesistance to Recovery.—Twenty years ago the side stroke was taught and practised entirely on the wedge principal as regards the leg movements. That is, the legs were opened as widely as possible, then brought together with all the force the swimmer was capable of. There is no question as to the impetus given by the kick in this case, but the resistance of the water when the legs are opened to the extent required, greatly neutralized the effect of the kick. In this connection, it is worth remembering that water acts more and more like a solid body as the speed with which it is struck increases, and it increases very much faster than the speed, indeed, to be accurate, it increases as the cube of the speed. In other words, if a person could make a stroke twice as fast as another, other things being equal, his stroke would be eight times as effective in producing a forward move-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—86—

ment. Everyone knows that when a stone is dropped into the water it sinks instantly, while a cannon ball, weighing hundreds of times more than a stone, shot from a cannon, will richochet two, three or more times before it sinks. The water in fact will, not get out of the way quickly enough to allow the shot to enter it, so that the shot rebounds as if it had hit an absolutely impenetrable surface. As the speed is reduced, the water and shot are in contact for a longer time, and the water has more time to get out of the way, till finally it gets sufficiently out of the way to allow the shot to enter. This principle is most important to swimmers. Every swimmer knows by experience the great increase in the feeling of exhaustion when he increases the speed of his stroke much above his normal rate. This is due to the extra work done in consequence of the increased resistance of the water. But this law of resistance of fluids interests us in another way. If we could take an infinite time in making the recovery of the stroke, we should feel no resistance, but as we cannot, the water to a certain extent impedes our progress. The air, however, offers an enormously less resistance, hence, by throwing one or both arms or legs out of the water during the recovery portion of the stroke, we, as it were, dodge the resistance due to the water. Herein lies the great advantage of the trudgen and like strokes, the arms are practically only in the water at the time when the resistance of the water will assist progress. The reduction of resistance due to the water in the recovery of the stroke is further diminished by decreasing the distance to which the legs open. The old proverb asserts that you “cannot eat your cake and have it too/ and if you do not open your legs so widely you cannot get so big a kick when making your stroke. This, however, is partly neutralized by causing the legs not only to meet at the end of the stroke as in the old way, but to actually cross each other. Those who have seen Jarvis swim, know that this is one of the secrets of his pace.

3.	Breathing, etc.—The trudgen stroke as practised by Kieran was a revelation to us Britishers. As a famous swimmer remarked in my , hearing, “All the books on swimming must be re-written. What about the wedge-action now?” This latter remark referred of course to the iheory of the legs opening widely and driving out a wedge of water behind. One maxim of the trudgen stroke to which nearly every English swimmer pinned his faith, was “keep steady, do not roll.” Yet here we found Kieran consistantly rolling from side to side at each half stroke. As this was, at any rate at first sight, the most striking feature of his stroke, it is natural to expect it to have something to do with -his phenomenal stroke. Can we find an answer? I think that this action gave him two advantages: 1st, it enabled him to reach further forward and thus increase the length of each arm stroke by probably nine inches, and 2nd, it enabled him to breathe twice where an ordinary swimmer would only breathe once. Both these advantages are enormous gains. All swimmers appreciate the increase of speed, practically without extra exertion, due to increase of length of stroke, but not all

Digitized by CjOOQle
-87-

appreciate the advantage of increased breathing. Yet it is a fact that exhaustion is more often due to an insufficient exchange of air in the lungs than to actual fatigue of the muscles. What more natural to expect then, that a swimmer who lias two opportunities of breathing to every one of another swimmer should be able to continue longer. Indeed, I am convinced that Mr. Kieran’s stamina was due more to his thorough and regular breathing than to his own physique. Among our own swimmers we can show several men who would be picked out before Kieran—well developed as he was—on the point of physical development, and therefore capable of more exertion.

Conclusions:—To sum up then, there are several contributory causes for the increase of speed during the past 20 years in swimming and for the advantage of one stroke over another, the principal being:—

1.	Limbs acting non-synchronously—one after the other instead of

more or less together.

2.	Decreased resistance in the recovery of the stroke due to:	(a)

opening of the legs less widely, (b) recovering as much as possibly in the air instead of in the water.

3.	Breathing more frequently.

Before concluding, I would say that this essay does not pretend to exhaust the subject. I have not the time, and probably not the ability, to follow out the questions raised to their full conclusions, and hope that someone will take up the subject where I have left off. Twenty years ago, a few daring persons might have been found who might conceivably have prophesied that 100 yards would have been swum in one minute, but they would most certainly have been laughed at. Ten years ago, however, the question was beginning to be seriously asked. To-day, it is not only an accomplished fact, but it has already been beaten. Have we reached finality? He would be a bold man who would deny the possibility of further, if not so great, improvement. If such improvement is to come, in what directions are we to expect it? I have indicated what I think are the principal points to be considered. Improvements in the past have been mostly brought about by “rule of thumb.” A man has, more or less by chance, got into a style varying somewhat from the recognized style. If he has been successful in races, he has found imitators; if not, his peculiar style has died with him. This however is not scientific, indeed, one may say, not an intelligent method of seeking for improvements. By all means, see better swimmers than yourself, and if you find anything good, adopt it. But the true scientific method is to reason, and if the reasoning leads to a theory, then put that theory into practice for a sufficient time and under varying circumstances to prove whether the theory be correct or not. If not, try to find out the fallacy in the theory, and when the fallacy has been found, vary the theory accordingly. If the practice proves the theory to be correct, then consider the theory proved, and adopt it entirely, following it wherever it leads. This is essentially work for a young man.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-88-

An old swimmer cannot readily adapt himself to new styles of swimming, and would often denounce a theory as a fallacy, whereas it might be only his own incompetence or non-adaptability to put the theory into practice. Such a young swimmer should be one who can stand disappointment. He might probably find after working for months at a theory that it was all wrong, and that at the end of the time he was swimming far worse than he was at the beginning, so that he would not » only have to begin afresh, but get back to his original form. But what a reward when his theory comes out true in practice! Perhaps, not a substantial reward as understood by pot-hunters, but the far nobler and more enduring one of feeling that he has been of some use in the world, and will probably add something by his endeavours to the sum of human knowledge. Such a feeling cannot be bought. By such means as this, it is possible we may see great improvements in the futuie, but by our old haphazard methods I believe no further substantial advance is possible. Mr. C. M. Daniels, as I mentioned, formed a theory and carried it out successfully in practice. Him I hail as the forerunner of the new scientific improver of the art of swimming, a^d I trust that the future will show more like him.

WATERV1EW PARK PLAYGROUND.

(PHILADELPHIA, PA.)

By PHILIP G. LEWIS.

x Waterview Park Playground is situated at Haines and Underhill Streets (22nd Ward), Germantown. In the spring of 1903, a committee of ladies of the Germantown branch of the Civic Club, headed by Miss Sophia L. Rose, to whom too much credit cannot be given for her untiring efforts,obtained permission to use a corner (about one acre) of what was at that time an unimproved lot for playground purposes. In tame the children cleared this space of its rubbish, and some apparatus, such as swings, see-saws, swinging and traveling rings, horizontal and parallel bars, basket ball court, punching bag disc, sand pits with covers, a shelter and small tool house were erected and some flower and vegetable plots laid out. This work was carried on until this year when the city converted the whole block into a public square and offered the committee the whole space (5 acres) to be used for playground purposes. The committee accepted this offer and shouldered this great responsibility willingly; they deemed it necessary to have a man on the grounds all the time, this was done. On May 23 (1907) the apparatus was put into use for the first time in the season. Two regulation tennis courts were laid out and an iron backstop erected on three sides, three (two small and one regulation) baseball diamonds and 60 garden plots were laid out and, giant strides erected.

An elaborate program was arranged and on June 21st the formal opening took place, from which day on until September 7th, the close of the Summer Vacation, the ground was crowded with children, both

Digiti ‘ j by v^,ooQle
-89-

small and large. On this day the formal closing took place with an interesting program following a street parade by the children. Owing to our great success the committee deemed it wise to continue the work and the ground and apparatus remained in use until the weather became to unsettled and on October 19th the apparatus was taken down, the work ending after a season of five months.

During the months of July and August the Board of Education paid the salaries of the principal and two teachers. Otherwise all expenses were met by subscriptions. Some members of the committee spent stated afternoons at the playground assisting the principal and his corps in successfully carrying out the program. The cost per child per playground-day of seven hours is about 4 cents in Philadelphia.

The apparatus consists of swings, see-saws, horizontal and parallel bars, giant strides, punching bags, tether ball, croquet, sand-pits, jumping pits, quoit alleys, two tennis courts, three baseball diamonds, basket ball court, 60 by 50 feet, a game space, 50 by 50 feet, a 50 yard dash and 60 garden plots (vegetable 12 by 10 feet, flower 10 by 8 feet), all of which can be used at the same time without interfering with one another. (At the closing hour swings, giant strides, rings and see-saws were chained and locked out of reach.)

Tennis racquets, baseball bats, tennis and base balls, basket and foot balls, quoits (rubber and iron), punching bags, etc., were furnished for the chidren, the child using the articles leaving its hat, coat or some article on deposit; this insured its careful use and sure return.

Accurate figures of attendance are an impossibility. The playground being surrounded by an iron and wire fence with four entrances it was impossible to keep an accurate count of those attending. The attendance was very much effected by the bath which, being open from above, depended very much for its attendance on the weather and temperature. The attendance varied, on Monday and Thursday it was lighter and on Tuesday and Friday it was heavier. Saturday, owing to the baseball games and tennis matches, the attendance was generally large. On rainy days the apparatus was not in use, but the children used the schelter and sand boxes.

To get the figures given below it was necessary to make a conservative estimate three times a day; middle of morning, middle of afternoon and evening.

May 23 to 31.................... 2,050	(including	Memorial Day).

June	1	to 30............... 10,029

July	1	to 31............... 21,018	(including	July 4th).

Aug.	1	to 31............... 20,815

Sept* 1 to 30................... 8.834	(including	Labor Day).

Oct.	1	to 19................ 4.558

•Total............... 67,305

* This is the playground attendance, bath attendance is given below.

Special Patriotic Exercises were held Memorial Day, July 4th, and Labor Day; the programs consisting of FlagKaisings, Balloon Ascensions,

Digitized by CjOOQle
-90-

Singing, Athletic Contests, Tennis and Quoit Tournaments and Base Ball Games.

On Saturday, September 7th, about 300 children gathered at the ground and, headed by a Bugler and Drummer (furnished through the John Wanamaker Commercial Institute) and banners, paraded the streets of the vicinity gathering children and returning to the grounds where a flag was raised, paper balloons sent up, races and games, baseball and tennis played (about 400 to 500 children participating).

Discipline played a most important part in the success of the season's work, and considering the great number of children using the privileges the cases of discipline were few. Boys and girls were kept separate except in the kindergarten. “Fair and Square" was our motto;, selfishness was regarded an offense and treated with moral suasion.

Smoking and profanity were seriously dealt with, the punishment being suspension of from one to two weeks. Repeated vulgarity was punishable by expulsion.

I feel safe in saying that our success was due mainly to the system of discipline, the harmony and the program (suited to conditions) carried out by our force. The difference in race, nationality and, religion kept the children in constant strife if they were not carefully watched and handled with diplomacy. The small number of 45 cases of discipline are on record, of which 43 are for smoking, profanity and repeated disobedience; the other two (two larger colored girls) for a serious breach of propriety.

I might add a few simple rules used by us in handling the children: Always come to a full stop before getting off the swings. Swing but one way and that is facing the gardens; never run under. Do not swing too high or stand up on the swings. Always begin at ring number one and get off at number eight of the traveling rings; never travel backwards.

GIRLS' WORK.

With the additional play space it was deemed necessaary to open some special work for girls and a competent teacher was placed in charge. This plan met with great success, the number of girls rapidly increasing and the work becoming very popular. Kature talks, stories, games, gymnastics, basket ball, races, tennis, etc., comprised a day's program. Monday and Thursday evenings from 7 to 9 the play apparatus was reserved for the girls.

Special instructions in sewing were given on Monday. Wednesday and Friday afternoons, 31 cambric petticoats and 17 suspender and jumper dresses were made and kept by the girls. Materials were furnished and prizes for best work were awarded by the committee. The average attendance was 39.

BOYS' WORK.

This branch of the work was the most popular attractive and extensive. Boys were often dealt with personally, advice and help given wherever necessary.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-93-

Special instructions were given in apparatus work, athletics and tumbling. In the bath house swimming and diving instructions were given every Tuesday and Friday afternoon. Tennis, baseball, bag punching, basket ball and quoits were very popular, and tournaments were held at various times. Two baseball teams were organized, one for Juniors (boys under 16) and one for Seniors (boys over 16), match games being arranged with outside teams for Saturdays and holidays. The Senior team making the enviable record of winning 21 out of 25 games. The children, especially the boys, took great pride in the teams and enthusiasm was always at a high pitch. The boys managed their own affairs, the expenses for uniforms, balls, bats and carfare for visiting teams was borne by the members of the playground teams.

Tuesday and Friday evenings special work for young men was carried on. It consisted of apparatus work, athletics, tumbling, bag punching, basket ball, tumbling and swimming.

GARDENING.

This work was carried on each afternoon and attracted such a large Dumber of children that it was necessary to have a waiting list; in many instances two children working in the same plot; children who wished a place came day after day in hope of getting a plot, as those irregular in attendance lost their places.

Radishes, beets, beans, tomatoes, lettuce, herbs, broom corn and peanuts were raised and taken home by the children. The large quantity of flowers raised were given to visitors or sent to the Germantown Hospital.

At the close of the season, early in October, prizes were awarded to the most proficient young gardeners. The following is the result of the ^season’s work: 5200 radishes, 3200 beets, 52 pecks of beans, 25 baskets of tomatoes, 12,000 heads of lettuce, and 150 bunches of flowers.

KINDERGARTEN.

Kindergarten was held every morning (except Sunday) from 8.30 to 12 and attracted a large number of children ranging in age from 3 to 34 years. It will be seen by this that children much over the regular kindergarten age were attracted by this class, mainly due to the teacher in charge and the method pursued by her. The general appearance and manner of the children showed improvement toward the close of the season. Songs, nature talks, games (marching and gymnastic), rhythms, patriotic songs and exercises, raffia and paper work, etc., constituted the morning programs. Children who attended this class very often brought infants, for whom hammocks were furnished.

' BATH.

There is a free public bath on the ground which has been there for the past ten years. It is under entirely separate supervision and has no official connection with the playground, but owing to the exceedingly deep interest in the playground taken by the gentleman in charge the children imagined it a part of the playground. The harmony existing between the two places reacted favorably on the attendance of both.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-92-

The rules governing the bath held good in the playground and those in the playground held good in the bith; for example, if a boy was suspended from the playground he forfeited his privileges in the bath.

The pool is 70 by 35 feet , from 3 to 6 feet in depth; lockers on two sides, the water constantly running in and out. The water is run off on Monday and Thursday mornings when the tank is thoroughly scrubbed and disinfected. Every night the entire bath is flooded, every precaution being taken against dirt and disease.

The bath is open from 6 A. M. to 9 P. M. week days and from 6 A. M. to 9 A. M. on Sundays. Mondays and Thursdays are set aside for girls and women. Twenty minutes time in the water is allowed bathers, at the expiration of which others take their places, the former dressing. The bath opened on June 17th and closed on September 29th. The total attendance for that time was 200,508, of which *7,494 were girls and women.

PROGRAM.

That a program is necessary for successful playground work is my earnest opinion; not one that is iron clad, but one that can be chapged to suit the conditions and circumstances as they are. Children want to know and should know when to expect certain things of pleasure to them, and, as I have stated before, to our program do I attribute a great part of our success. It did not take the children long to learn what to expect at various parts of the day and much time and energy were saved answering such questions as what’s next? when do we do this and when do we do that? The following is the general program:

8	30—9 00: Ftee play on swings mid see-snws.

9	00-9.30: Songs, nature talks, stories.

9.30—10.O0: March games rhythms.

10.00—10.30: Games-races, etc.

10.30—11.30: Occupation (Raffia—Paper Cutting, etc.), sand boxes.

11 30—12.00: Songs—Patriotic Exercises (flag racing once a week).

(Other apparatus in use by those not attending kindergarten: Baseball, tennis, quoits, tether ball, etc.)

12.00—1.00: All apparatus is put out of reach and all children sent home to lunch except those carrying lunch.

1.00—	2.00: Free play, stories, quoit games, apparatus, materials.

2.00—	4.00: Games, races, apparatus work, baseball, tenuis, etc.

4.00—	5.00: Special instructions, athletics, apparatus work, tumbling,

swimming.

5.00—	6.30: Free play, supper, reading, etc.

6.30-	7.30: Baseball, free time on apparatus.

7.30—	8.30: Special apparatus work, athletics, tumbling.

8.30 -9100: Free time, special instructions, swimming.

(No child is compelled to take part in any work, everything is optional. Athletic contest once a week.)

TEACHING STAFF:—Philip G. Lewis. Principal and Teacher of Gymnastics and Boys’ Work; Miss May Beatty, Teacher of Kindergarten and Gardening; Miss Bertha K. Fisher, Teacher of Gymnastics and Special Girls’ Work; Mrs. A. R. E. Nesbitt, Teacher of Sewing; Hobart Dodd, Superintendent of Bath; Wm. Radheffer, Bath Officer; Leonard Elliott, Playground Officer; Harry Muschert, Groundkeeper.

Digitized by t^ooQle
THE PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS IN SCHOOL

CHILDREN.

Abstract of a Lecture Delivered at Teachers College, New York, by ABRAHAM JACOBI, M.D., LL.D., Emeritus Professor of Diseases of Children, College of Physicians and Surgeons.

(Concluded.)

Other modes of entrance of bacilli into the system are the following: The finger naiJs of babies, like those of adults, are unclean. Though they do not exhibit the unappetizing spectacle of a mourning ring, they are always unclean and harbor microbes, both uninjurious and injurious. A few years ago there was a report of a New York mother whose cheek was slightly scratched by her playful baby. The baby had erysipelas microbes under its nails, and the mother died of erysipelas. Thirty years ago I lost a warm friend, a great physician, vjjio, while in quiet thought, scratched a small pimple on his cheek. His erysipelas originated in that very spot. Two German authors (Preisnitz and Schutz) published in 1902 their observations on the finger nails of children of from, six months to two years of age. They proved that fourteen out of sixty-six had tubercle bacilli under their finger nails. No fixed star is more immovable than the fact that every one of these young ones had their dangerous pretty fingers in their noses and mouths. Now, tuberculosis will rarely make its appearance suddenly. Years may pass before the invalid lymph glands of the throat and neck give up their captive microbes and allow them to travel downwards. That is the time when your pupils develop their tuberculosis, no matter whether they imported it from flying dust of the street or the dry sweeping of the rooms, from their own nails, from the crumbs they picked up, or from their intimate comrades, the boys.

Microbes, no matter in what numbers, may invade the nose and throat and are devoid of danger as long as the mucous membrane covered by them is healthy, but they prove, or’ may prove, dangerous whor a catarrh destroys the fine film of epithelia which protects the surface. That is why a cold is always enumerated amongst the causes of tuberculosis, of diphtheria, of rheumatism, even of erysipelas of of scarletina As practical people and bent upon caring for yourselves and others, you will ask me for the methods of keeping the mucous membranes in a sound condition, and thus preventing disease. That can be done by attending to the general health, and mainly by the hardening process.

Much has been said about hardening. Wh^t does it mean? Nothing but this: that the resistance of the child to the effect of external influences should be strengthened. Is there a uniform method applicable to every child, no matter of what age or constitution? Certainly not. But there is one object which should be accomplished in every infant and child, viz., the invigoration of external circulation. The surface of a child from two to ten years measures from three to ten square feet. In and under that surface there is a lake of blood. In vigorous health this blood is in constant and rapid circulation; within two minutes it enters and leaves the surface, comes from and leaves the center of circulation—the heart. Slow circulation in the surface retards the flow of blood in the

Digitized by Gooq
“=-94-

whole body, and impairs the nutrition of the heart and every organ, causing congestion and insufficient function, and disease. Rapid circulation ,in and under tlie skin, causing rapid circulation everywhere, propels the totality of the blood in the child’s body (from two to six pounds according to age—from two to twelve years) into and through the lungs, in which the contact with and the absorption of the oxygen of the atmosphere take place. Now, the best stimulant of the circulation in general is, besides muscular exertion (exercise), the stimulation of the skin by cold water and friction. A child of two or three years should have a daily cold wash, either after a warm bath, or standing in warm water which covers the feet, or lying on the attendant’s lap, or on a mattress. A brisk rubbing with a wet towel one or two minutes and with a dry towel until the surface is dry and warm, is sufficient. Older children may have a wet sponge queezed out over them, this procedure being followed by the same effective friction; or they may plunge into cold water, in the winter in a single moment, in the summer several minutes. While in any bath, the skin should be thoroughly rubbed.,

This rule must not become a routine applicable to every individual. Cold water and friction require a healthy heart and a certain degree of strength. A usually healthy child, when taken sick or when convalescent from a disease, lacks the necessary vigor, and the routine must be interrupted. That is why a newly bora baby or an infant of less than one or two years should be spared a low temperature. This is also why a child whose feet, after a bath or washing, do not get so warm as the rest of the body should be rubbed down, not with cold, but with warm water, or with a mixture of alcohol and warm water in which table salt or sea salt has been disolved.

It would be wrong, however, to rely on a single method alone for the purpose of preserving the healthy condition of the skin, the mucous membrane, or the general circulation. Whatever aids of injures one part of the body is apt to aid or injure all. No child can have a normal circulation in the chest when the abdominal organs are compressed or their circulation interfered with. Children, for instance, who suffer from constipation, no matter from what cause—I have described one form which results from an abnormal length and bending upon itself of the lower end of the large intestines,—or others who suffer from prolonged sitting, or those who bend over on account of near-sightedness, all compress their abdominal blood-vessels, and are often afflicted with nose bleeding, cogestive headaches, and general ill-nutrition. That is one of the frequent occurrences which necessitate the watchful care of a school physician and of the teacher.

Physicians and humanitarians have always protested against premature schooling, too long hours, and too short recesses, and objected to overcrowding of the curriculum, and to the vanity of incompetent schoolmasters and mistresses, who utilize the poor victims in behalf of exhibitions—mostly in vain thus far. In regard to the exhibitions, and the examinations preceding them, I am sure Dr. Weir Mitchell has struck a

Digitized by C^ooQle
-95-

keynote. Only last week in a public lecture delivered in Philadelphia, he expressed himself strongly in regard to the influences exerted by the worry and fear and over-exertion connected with school examinations. It is true enough that without some sort of examination the standing of the pupils in large schools is hard to determine, but, on the other hand, whoever has seen much of children or young people about the time of examinations must be fully satisfied that some modification or other must be discovered.

Now, as to school hours. A child of seven or nine years should not; have more than two or three hours daily in school, one of which should be spared for an an intermediate recess. From nine to twelve years the school hours should be three or four; after that age, not more than five hours, with frequent and ample recesses. The best exercise during the recesses is play in the open air. Compulsory gymnastics in badly ventilated localities cannot take its place successfully and may add to exhaustion and ill health.

The summer ’-acations of school children ought to be four weeks longer than they are. The public schools ought to be closed about the middle of June and reopened in October.

Teachers are principally concerned with questions connected with the conditions of the school buildings. They should be ample and sunny and not moist; they should be exposed to fresh air, have ample light and sufficiently large rooms. There should be ample light, not only for the purpose of being enabled to see the dust where it accumulates and the mud, but light is a remedy in itself. It is true that only in the last few years has it been utilized for the direct cure of general and particularly of local diseases, but it was known previously that disease-giving microbes that live a long time in dark places will be speedily destroyed under the influence of light.

Air space should be ample. It is difficult to say exactly how many cubic feet are the proper supply. The amount of cubic feet in a schoolroom, which is occupied a number of hours daily, need not be what it is in a living room, in a bedroom or in a hospital. In the latter more than 1,000 cubic feet for a person is the least that should be demanded. A schoolroom that is occupied only a short time may perhaps furnish about 200 cubic feet for a child. A room of 30 by 25 feet and 12 feet high, containing 9,000 cubic feet of air, should not harbor more than 50 children. At best that would give 180 cubic feet for each child. I have known of a schoolroom, indeed, of many schoolrooms, that were meant for 60 children and contained for a long time an excess of 130. It is natural that a good deal of sickness must be the result among teachers and pupils.

Everybody is theoretically convinced that the blood cannot be fully aerated, and that the health must suffer, unless the air we inhale is pure. The young organism suffers in this respect more than the old, for it requires more oxygen, comparatively. Unless a sufficient supply of oxygen is kept up and the percentage of carbonic acid contained in the air is below seven-hundredths of one per cent, good health is impossible. The

Digitized by Google
-96-

deteriorations you have to fight in the air of your schoolrooms are as follows: It is too dry under the influence of our heating apparatus. Furnaces and most other other heaters furnish a dry air which impairs the surface of the mucous membranes in the nose, the throat, and the lungs. There is no more voracious oxygen eater than the gas stove. Carbonoxid is the result of imperfect combustion, and a very frequent deadly poison. So are the chlorine gas and the nitric and sulphuric acid contained in our coal supply. They arc liable to change former health resorts, on account of the increase of factory chimneys, into questionable or dangerous localities. Add to this—and you cannot exclude them—the dust of the houses and streets with all it contains, particles of stones, metals, vegetable remnants, and microbes, and, further, the poisonous exhalations of the skin and intestines, such as sulphides, and you will no longer wonder why there are so many cases of catarrh, bronchitis, pneumonia, infectious fever, and tuberculosis.

The heating should be considered one of the most important factors of health or disease. The first requirement of a good heating apparatus is to give no dust and not to render the air more dry than it naturally is. Our furnaces furnish a dry heat; so does most of our steam heating. The result is frequent catarrhs. The temperature in a schoolroom in dry weather should be about 64 degrees, in wet weather about 68. I have been in many schoolrooms that are surely overheated. In order to modify the heat windows are opened. The children sitting under or near these windows contract in a great many instances a catarrh, and even pneumonia, and I have seen them die from such exposure. Perhaps it is too much to expect circumspection and mature judgment from a young teacher. But there should be no such thing as a really immature teacher. We are learning from' our predecessors, the rules of hygiene are well understood, and the people have a right to expect they should be known and obeyed. In that respect as in many others, a schoolroom and a school building, like a hospital should be models for the whole'population, but not dangers. The halls of a school building should be slightly cooler, but slightly only, than the schoolrooms, in order to avoid drafts and a sudden change of temperature.

The main points connected with the origin and prevention of disease should be known to every educated person. Only in this way the public at large, which has to rely on superior judgment and is unfortunately more readily led astray than guided correctly, can be benefited. We doctors are never more pleased than when our patients understand the why and wherefore, in the same way that you are most enchanted with pupils that ask for and comprehend the why and wherefore. Unfortunately no walk of life is proof against ignorance. Moreover, our education is too often an instruction which runs in ruts. Nothing is more common than that men and women of good minds and moral instincts should be satisfied or compelled, by lack of time or opportunities, to neglect widening the horizon of their mental possessions beyond what is nearest to their profession or inclination. That is why thousands in our

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-97-

better classes are so often the victims of quackery and sectarianism, of faith cures, clairvoyance, and unchristian “science.” Faith belongs to the realm of religion, not to science—of the other, not of this world. Now, the professions of doctor and teacher are least apt to be caught by glittering improbabilities or impossibilities. We teach the realities of both the physical and the intellectual world. In your professional work, and in your social contact with the little and the big ones, you will have ample opportunity, I hope, to put them into effect.—“Summer School (From If. Y. Med. Journal.)

PLAYGROUND ROUNDEL.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

A Roundel to the Music of “Summer Breezes.”

This roundel has been arranged for older pupils who in their gymnastic work have had dancing steps with added halfturns, 'fhe music to which the roundel is written, “Summer Breezes,” is a well-known English school song by Arthur Richard. All movements must be performed in excellent form, and before attempting the steps the children must learn the song so as to be thoroughly familiar with its rhythm. When the roundel is danced the air either may be played on a piano, ot, perhaps, sung by* the children.

The pupils form in a column of twos, the inner hands are grasped shoulder high, the outer knuckles are placed on the hips. Those standing at the left begin the movements with the left foot, the others with the right foot. To simplify the following description the movements of only the one standing at the left are given; the one standing at the right performs to the opposite side.

Measure:	Part	I.

1.	Beginning with the left foot. Three steps forward, then place the right foot crossed behind the left leg and slightly bend the knees (heels raised from the floor).

2.	As 1, beginning with the right foot, crossing left.

3.	Step left, then place the right foot crossed behind the left leg, slightly bending the knees; then perform the movement to the opposite side.

4.	Two change steps.

5—8. Repeat 1 -4.

Part IT.

9.	With three steps forward perform a half turn right, then place the right foot backward (on the toes).

10.	As 9, but facing left and placing the left foot backward. (The hands retain their hold during these steps.)

11.	Place the left foot forward, backward and a change-step left.

12.	Place the right foot forward, backward and a change-step right.

Part III is a repetition of Part I.

Repeat the three parts as often as desired.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
	Summer Breejes.
Words by William Comery.	VOCAL GAVOTTE.  Composed by Arthur Richards.

London: NOVELLO AND COMPANY, Limited; and NOVELLO, EWER AND CO., New York

Copyright, 1904, by Novello, Ewer & Co. By permission of the Publishers.

Digitized by v^oooLe
play;	Come	then	chil - dren,	come	a	way 1	Join our
glee;	Child -	hoods	days should	ev -	cr	be	Given to
(1d	Id	:d'	1 LA :1	Id	:1	18	|n .f :s .1 J

■ Digitized by □ogle
-100-

Publuhed Monthly.

Misp

mV BODY.

SibieriptioB Friee, 91.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

3«C11w«lvl3b««v Wlacone1r>.

tar Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, xso Pomona St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—HERMANN LIEBER, the president of the North American Gymnastic Union, suddenly died on his way to California. How closely this grand man approached the ideal citizen, and how far-reaching his influence was in affairs of the Union is so admirably said in an editorial from the Indianapolis “News” and in a note from Mr. Kroh that we reproduce both.

' A GOOD CITIZEN.

“Herman Lieber, whose death has just been announced, was an adopted citizen of the class of whom it is often said gratefully by native Americans that they bring a most desirable element into our national life. Germans as a race have been a valuable and important addition to our population, but this is especially true of the intellectual and cultured men among them, of which Mr. Lieber was a notable example.

He was a good citizen in every sense of the word—public spirited, cautious and conservative, yet deeply in earnest and pursuing with zeal every movement that seemed likely to promote the common good. Even his private business meant more to him than mere personal gain, for he was a genuine lover of art, and to promote the art spirit was with him a labor of love. His educational influence in this direction has meant much to Indianapolis always, but was of particular value in the years of the city’s development, when its people had but little leisure and opportunity for the cultivation of esthetic tastes.

Personally he was a man of broadly liberal views and had in a marked degree the German characteristic of taking an eager interest in the thing of the moment—a characteristic that is in reality the spirit of youth and that often causes more sedate Americans to look with a sense of wondering envy upon the joyousness of their German friends. Mr. Lieber never obtruded himself on public notice, but was nevertheless a force in the community—a man whose opinion, was sought and carried weight in matters of public moment. He was a good man and will be missed.”

President C. J. Kroh of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union writes us anent the death of Mr. Herman Lieber: “With Mr. LiebePs sudden demise the college, thus early in its existence, has lost one of its staunchest supporters. We have sustained a griev-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-101-

ous loss. As President of the Board of Trustees, Mr. Lieber had been largely instrumental in carrying out the plans of the college, transferred to Indianapolis in consideration of the superior facilities offered in the equipment of the German House—‘Das Deutsche Haus’—whose founder he was. He followed the plans of the reorganization of this oldest school in the country for the education of teachers of physical training with the 'keenest interest, and iii his capacity as President of the National Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union safeguarded its future in every conceivable way. He was more than a mere official with the qualities of the far-sighted man of affairs, he was advisor, counsellor and friend, and enthusiastically upheld on every occasion—and the occasions have been frequent since I have been here—the doctrines of the organization he so efficiently represented. He exerted a profound and lasting influence on all who came in contact with him. His personality was lovable. He was preeminantly an ideal citizen in all that the term signifies in its loftiest sense—one of the foremost citizens of the city he helped to make. The students of the college, with whom he freely mingled, and who had enjoyed his hospitality, were deeply affected when the announcement of his death was made/’

Mr. Lieber’s wise, kindly council will often be missed by those of us who were fortunate enough to be associated with him for any length of time.

—THERE IS AN AWAKENING not only in nature at this time of the year, but the following editorial from the “Chicago Tribune” may be taken as an indication that also in the ranks of our great daily newspapers there is an awakening and an endeavor to understand what sane physical training really stands for. Signs are cropping forth showing that we are progressing, and that our demands are receiving intelligent consideration. To us who for many years have been fighting for this recognition there is nothing “humorous” in Dr. Sargent’s proposition. But let us gain comfort from the fact that we now at times find physical training thoughtfully discussed in the editorial columns of great dailies and must not look for it under the head of physical “culture” somewhere on the “sporting” page or in the “Ladies Columns.”

“There is a humorous touch in Dr. Sargent’s proposition to connect scholarship and physical training in a new way. There has been much talk about the scholarship of athletes, and regulations have become increasingly severe in the standard of classroom work set up as an absolute prerequisite to intercollegiate competition in football, baseball, track or other popular sports. The veteran Harvard director declares that consistency demands that such regulations should be coupled with another, providing that no student shall be given honors in his studies unless he attains a certain standard in gymnastics or athletics.

After all, however, this proposition simply puts in a striking form the familiar saying about the desirability of a sound mind in a sound body. The plea for physical training as a compulsory subject which Dr.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—102—

Sargent makes in the current number of the School Review emphasizes the importance of physical training rather than that of athletics. It is an attempt to awaken more interest in the necessity of caring for the body as the mind is being trained. It asks for such training in secondary schools and higher institutions as well.

The claim is made that some of the specific mental and physical qualities which would be developed by systematic training of the body are increased power of attention, will, concentration, accuracy, alertness, quickness of perception, perseverance, reason, judgment, forbearance, patience, obedience, self-control, loyalty to leaders, self-denial, submergence, of self, grace, poise, suppleness, courage, strength, and endurance. That is quite a catalogue of virtues. At the same time it is not difficult to see how much there is in the claim set forth for physical training as a dominant influence in developing them.

There are some evidences that the subject is occupying the attention of educators more and more each year. Some colleges require physical training of one sort or another of every undergraduate. In others ihis work is compulsory for the first year men or for those in the first half of the course. In many secondary schools the gymnasium is advertised as a drawing card, its work being emphasized not as a means of developing a few athletes but as a part of the education of manly boys. The military schools often find favor quite as much for the effects of there training upon the body as for the belief in the benefits of military discipline upon the mind and the personal habits.

The physical condition of children in the lower schools is often remarkable. Defective eyesight, defective hearing, and diseases of various sort are found in abundance. More stress is being laid upon school hygiene, the preservation of health, and the correction of physical and mental defects are being desired. Dr. Sargent believes that the work should not stop there, but should be carried along with the successive stages of education. It should be constructive in character, helping the individual to develop his body, through whose strength or weakness future usefulness is in a large degree to be determined. His paper attracted widespread interest when it was presented to the New England Association of Colleges and Preparatory Schools a few months ago. It will stimulate more thought as it finds permanent form in the educational journal mentioned.”

—SPECIAL ATTENTION is called to the excellent article in this month’s issue by Mr. Robert Sandon on the various swimming strokes and the cause for the increase in speed during the last twenty years. Mr. Sandon was awarded the silver medal of the Royal Life Saving Society for this interesting and instructive essay.

—ACCORDING TO THE REPORT of the government swimming instructor of South Australia, 4,024 children were taught to swim by public instructors during the last spring season. In parts of Australia the art of natation is taught to school children, and as much time is de*

Digitized by LaOOQ i
-103-

voted to this part of the child’s education as is given to arithmetic, geography, or spelling. Swimming is a much neglected sport among the school children of America. Water sport has been declared the best of contributors to all around development of its devotees. The value of swimming as a means of saving life surely needs no comment. The American public will not forget the General Slocum disaster of a few years ago, when hundreds of children were sent to watery graves within twenty-five yards of shore because they lacked the knowledge of the art of swimming. Swimming can be learned easily and quickly, and the number of deaths by drowning in this country annually shows how neglected is the attention paid to this essential part of a child’s education. There should be provision made by municipal * governments for the instruction of boys and girls in the art of natation. When swimming becomes a part of our public school education the Reaper’s annual summer harvest will be diminished greatly.—Exchange.

-—"THE PHYSICAL WELFARE JOURNAL” is the name of a new monthly publication in the physical training field. Its object is to supply information concerning health education and methods of living hygienically. The subscription price is 60 cents a year. The publishers are located in the Pope Building, Boston. We welcome this champion of rational living, and hope that the high ideals it has set for itself will soon be reached.

—THE PUBLIC BATHS ASSOCIATION of Philadelphia sends out its tenth annual illustrated report which will be of interest to all teachers whose gymnastic conscience embraces more than their own gymnasium and its immediate surroundings. While the report of this private association, organized in the interest of cleanliness and good health, shows us the progress of the public baths movement in a large city, it will also interest social workers in the small cities where, as a rule, public bathing opportunities fl,re usually few and far between. Connected with the shower baths of the association are washing, drying and ironing facilities. A strange light is cast upon city conditions when in the report one reads that in every one of the last few years nearly twice as many men as women used hese facilities for washing their clothes. Baths cost five cents each, children accompanying an adult are free. During 1907 132,155 men and boys paid and 5,339 were admitted free; 9,408 women and girls paid and 2,258 were admitted free. Beginning with one small bath house the association now has three houses and is negotiating for a fourth.

—THE TIME IS NOW upon us when swimming pools, athletic fields and playgrounds will take the place of the gymnasium. This change from the formal work of the indoor gymnasium to free outdoor activity should be encouraged to its greatest extent. In order to give cities that contemplate the erection of playgrounds definite information of how successful playgrounds are managed we print two descriptions of this work from two cities.

Digitized by Google
-104-

—SUGESTIONS AND DIRECTIONS for teaching Hygiene and Physiology in the Elementary Schools is the title of a pamphlet issued for the elementary schools of Indianapolis, Ind. Nearly three years ago a committee of teachers was appointed to study the problem of selecting suitable subject matter for this course. An inscription on the title page stating that “To talk and demonstrate without taking measures to sedure any prompt realization of the ideas in personal experience, is a waste of power/” shows the standpoint from which the work was undertaken. The result of the study is a pamphlet with definite outlines for the different grades, and also suggestions of how the topics can be woven into the “Morning Exercises.”

—CAPT. VICTOR ' BALCK and Major Silow have resigned from the Faculty of the Royal Central Gymnastic Institute at Stockholm. The reason assigned was a controversy between the Faculty members who insisted on the maintenance of an unadulterated Swedish system and those, who desired to adopt from other systems what by them was deemed both profitable and progressive. Capt. Balck and Major Silow represented the conservative element in this interesting incident.

—A COURSE IN SWEDISH GYMNASTICS has been announced for German gymnastic instructors desiring to study Swedish methods. The course has been arranged by three prominent gymnastic officials of Germauy and will be given in Lund, Sweden, April 4—19. Two hours of practice, two hours of theory and two hours instruction in compiling Day’s Orders, per day, are scheduled. Special discussions are also provided. The participants, limited to 30, will visit Copenhagen and Malmoe to inspect the work at those places.

RANDOM THOUGHTS.

Experiential work in its resultants is as distinct from mere attuitional or observational ‘interest’ as is character-building from knowledge-getting. The former leads to opportunity, to ability and efficiency; the other not infrequently to purely speculative conclusion.

The experiential doer’s convictions are supported by fact. His confidence and skill develop power—the background of ideals.

There will always be a preference for the qualified doer. In the measure in which he is produced will he be sought.

GUTSMUTH’S TEN COMMANDMENTS.

FOURTH COMMANDMENT.

Thou shalt trust in God, and live in the consciousness of thy acquired power—thy strength of body, its prowess, and endurance-— that thou mayest possess courage in time of need, wherewith to withstand the dangers which may beset thee, for thine own sake, and that of thy family, and for thy country’s sake.

Interpretation. Thou mayest trust in God, be reliant in Him, and in thy body’s strength and agility, wouldst thou possess courage. Both are wherever thou art, where aught else would fail thee. Thou shouldst not be without either—only then canst thou have wholesome courage.

Digitized by Google
-105-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

,	,	('Continued,	'i

A LESSON FOR GIRLS FROM 10—14 YEARS.

A Class Drill, consisting of a simple series of dancing steps, followed by an Indian club drill, class exercises on the apparatus and closing with the game “Indian Club Relay.”

The class in flank formation* with hands in front support (or if arranged in couples, the inner hands may or may not be grasped on a level with the shoulders), moves in the direction 1. or r. around the sides of the gymnasium.

A.	Dancing Steps.

Music % time.

1. Step forw. 1.—1! Raise r. foot behind 1.—2! Repeat opposite— 3, 4! March forw. three steps and close on the eight count—5, 8! Repeat, but start r.—9,16! Repeat all—17, 32!

2.	Hop on 1. leg and raise r. foot behind—1! Hop on 1. leg and extend r. leg forw. obi.—2! Hop on r. leg and raise 1. foot behind—3! Hop on r. leg and extend 1. leg forw. obi.—4! March and repeat as ex. 1,—5, 32!

Music % time (Waltz).

3. Bend trunk sideward left, bend right arm overhead and place left	hand on	hip—1, 2, 3! 1st measure. Starting

position—4 5, 6! Same opposite—7, 12! 3rd and 4tli measures. Step forw. 1.—1! Hop on 1. leg and swing r. leg in front of

1.	knee slightly bent—2, 3! 5th measure. Same r.—4,5,6! 6th measure. As 5th measure—7, 8, 9!	7th measure. Stamp r., 1. and

r. on place—10,11,12! 8th measure. Repeat, but start r.—9, 16 measures. Repeat all—17, 32 measures.

NOTE.— Hands in front support during 5 to 8 measures.

Music 2/i time.

4.	Hop on 1. leg and raise r. foot behind 1.—1! Hop on r. leg and raise

1.	foot behind r.—2! Repeat 1. and r.—3, 4! (Jete 1. and r. alt.) Then marching order as under ex. 1,—5, 8! Repeat three times.

Music % time (Waltz).

5.	Bend trunk forw. and raise arms'forw. to a circle—1, 2, 3! 1st measure. Starting pos.—1,5,6! 2nd measure. Bend trunk backw. and raise arms forw. upw.—7, 8, 9! 3rd measure. Starting pos.—10,11, 12! 4th measure. Then repeat second part of ex. 3,—5,8 measures. Repeat 7, 32 measures.

NOTE.—Swing arms sidew. to same side of step during 5 to 8 measures.

Music % time (Polka).

6.	a) Glide (slide) forw. obi. 1.—1! Hop on 1. leg and raise r leg be-

hind and knee slightly bent—2! Same opposite—3,4! March

Digitized by v. oQle
-106-

three steps forw. and close heels on four, hands in front support—• 5,8! Repeat, but start r.—9,16! Repeat, all—17, 32 or continue to 64 counts, b) Repeat a and add raisingg 1. arm forw. upw. obi. to the 1. and r. arm backw. downw. obi.—1,2! Same opposite—3,4! Hands in front support while marching—5, 8! Repeat, etc., to 32 or 64 counts.

NOTE—The above steps may be repeated more frequent than as stated above.

After receiving Indian elubs, form ranks of fours and open order to full distance.

B.	Indian Club Drill.

Clubs to starting pos.—raise!

NOTE.— Extend arm upw at the beginning, return (finish) through the upw. pos.

1.	4/4 arm circle outw. 1. and bend arm to starting pos.—1,2! Same r.—1,2! Same, but both outw. (double arm circle)—1, 2!

2. Same as ex. 1, but inward. Clubs—lower!	v

3.	Raise arms forw.—1! Bend trunk forw. and move &rms downw. and backw. (clubs point upw. obi.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

Clubs to starting pos.—raise !

4.	4/4 double arm circle to the 1. and bend arms to starting pos.—1, 2! Same r.—1,2! Clubs—lower!

5. Raise arms outw. (sidew.)—1! Bend trunk sidew. 1.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

Clubs to starting pos.—raise !

6. 4/4 hand circle forw. 1. outside of arms, repeat eight or ten times. 4/4 hand circle forw. r. outside of arms, repeat eigth or ten times. 4/4 double hand circle outside of arms, repeat eight or ten times.

7.	Same as ex. 6, but backw. hand circle. Clubs—lower!

Clubs to starting pos.—raise!

8.	4/4 arm circle outw. 1.—1!	4/4	hand circle outw. 1. behind 1. shoul-

der—2! Repeat six, eight or ten times and return to starting pos.

Same r. Same,with both outw.

NOTE.—This exercise is added for the purpose of trying out the pupils and as an introductory for a later period.

Close ranks, file 1. or r. to flank formation and deposit Indian clubs.

C.	Flying Rings (height of shoulders).

Class formation.*-The files face toward the rings if there are more than two pairs. If only one or two pairs, the class may be divided so that one half of the class exercises on the rings, the other on the balance boards.

Advance and retreat as is the usual wav on other apparatuses.

1.	Lower body backw. to front leaninghang and circle the body r. four or five times.

2.	Same as ex. 1, but opposite.

Raise the rings to height of head.—

3.	Step back as far as possible for a start, then run forw. and swing up;

Digitized by tjOOQle
-107-

raise both lower legs backw. and swing backw. to starting pos. Repeat three or four times.

* 4. Step forw. as far as possible for a start, then run backw. and swing up; raise both knees forw. and swing forw. to starting pos. Repeat three or four times.

5.	As ex. 3, but spring off sharply on 1. foot at the end of the front swing, swing the r. led up forcibly and add y2 turn 1.; then with the next forw. swing untwist the ropes or execute y2 turn r. and repeat three times.

6.	Same as ex. 5, but opposite.

Change place to balance boards.

Balance Boards.

# Place four or six balance boards parallel to each other far enough apart so that neighbors’ hands may be grasped oil a level with the shoulders in the cross stand.

Class formation.—The class to stand in open order, or in line with the balance boards and facing the ends of the same in cross stand. The members at the head of the files advance to the near end of the boards, place r. foot on the end and grasp neighbors hands on a level with the shoulders.—

1.	Step up and place 1. foot in front—1! Close r. foot to 1. (Follow-step)—2! Repeat to farther end.

NOTE.—When the first step down at the farther end, they should walk about three or four steps from the boards, turn about face and wait until all other members have finished.

As the other members step down, they should form behind the first.

After the members ahead have advanced about four steps on the boards the next *et of fours or sixes begin in order to save time. There is no need of waiting for each set to finish before the next one begins.

If the members have not had the preliminary exercises, then the class may be counted off im ones and twos; then while No. r exercises, No. 2 assists and sice versa. Later as the pupils become experienced each member may exercise without grasping neighbors’ hands.

2.	Same as ex. 1, but followstep forw. r.

3.	Walk forw.

4.	Walk backw.

5. Step forw. 1. (stride)—1! Rise on balls of feet—2! Lower—3! Same r.—4, 5, 6! Repeat to farther end.

6. As ex. 5, but kneel on r. knee—2! Rise to first pos.—3! Same r.— 4,5,6!

7.	Step forw. 1.—1! Bend 1. knee, swing r. leg forw. and again straighten knee, then place foot on board (this is a kind of dip motion)—2! Same opposite—3, 4! Repeat to farther end.

In back cross stand.

8.	As ex. 7, but backw.

Remove all the apparatus.and prepare for the game “Indian Club Relay.” The class may remain standing in the formation as it finished on the balance boards and place five or six clubs on the floor about five feet apart in as many rows (files) as the class was divided into, i. e. in the same manner as a potato race.

The order of the game is the same as a potato race, however, all clubs must remain standing a$ they are placed side by side at the starting point. In case one or more clubs fall over, the pupil must put them in position before he can run after the next in order.

After conclusion of the game order the class to position stand; clap hands once and dismiss.	(To	be	continued.)

Digitized by Google
—108—

A WAND DRILL FOR GIRLS.

Peformed by 300 girls of the Wendell Phillips High School at the Field Day,

June, 1907.

Arranged by GEO. W. STEFFENS, Physical Director of the Wendell Phillips High School, Chicago, 111*

The wand is short, about three feet long. (Ribbons may be fastened at eaeh end of the wand.)

Formation: A front column of 4’s, 6’s, or 8’s, in oi>eo order with about 4 steps distance.

Each exercise has two parts:

A: Movements in place (two counts to each movement).

B: Movements from place (one count to each movement).

Music:	A	well accentuated waltz. (For instance, “Danube Waves, ”

rearranged; or “Faust Waltfc,” rearranged).

Starting position of wand:	Horizontal	position	in	front	of thighs, arms

straight, upper hold, and hands about width of shoulders apart.	*

Remark: In most exercises move the head so that the eyes follow the wand. In Part B of each exercise one hand is placed on the hip; and while stepping and swinging the wand, follow the natural inclination of trunk rotation.

PART I.

Exercise I.

A.

1.	Place L. foot forward and raise arms forward, wand horizontally.

2.	Cross L. foot in front and turn wand in horizontal position, L.

arm above the right.

3.	Return to 1.

4.	Return to starting position.

5—8. As 1—4, but opposite.

Repeat 1—8, all in 32 counts.

B.

1.	Step forward L. and holding wand in L. hand, swing wand downward-forward to position obliquely fore-upward.

2 Right foot follows left, swing wand in half circle downward on the R. side of body.

3.	Step forward as in 1.

4.	Pose in 3.

5—6. One follow step backward R. and swing wand in half circle down-forward.

7—8. One follow step backward R. and starting position.

9—16. As 1—8, but opposite.

Repeat 1—16, all in 32 counts.

Exercise 2.

A.

1.	Place L. foot sideward and raise arms left, wand in horizontal

position.

2.	Cross L. leg in rear and turn wand to horizontal position, left

arm under right.

3.	Return to 1.	'L

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-109-

4.	Return to starting position.

5—8. As 1—4, but opposite.

Bepeat 1—8, all in 32 counts.

B.

1.	Step sideward L. and, and holding wand in L. hand, swing wanct downward to position obliquely side-upward.

3.	As 1.

4.	Pose in 3.

5—6. One follow step sideward right and swing wand in two half circles downward-sideward.

7—8. One follow step sideward right and swing wand to starting pos. 9—16. As 1—8, but opposite.

Bepeat 1—16, all in 32 counts.

Exercise 3.

A.

1.	Place L. foot backward, bending B. knee, and raise wand back-

ward to horizontal position on L. hip.

2.	Place L. foot forward, stretching B. knee, and turn wand to

horizontal position, left arm forward, B. hand in front of left shoulder.

3.	Betum to 1.

4.	Return to starting position.

5—8. As 1—4, but opposite.

Repeat 1—8, all in 32 counts.

B.

Step backward L. and, holding wand in L. hand, swing wand down-'	backward.

2.	Follow with B. foot, swing wand in half circle down-forward.

3.	Step as in 1, and swing wand donward to position obliquely

down-backward, execute slight trunk-bending toward the front, eyes on forward foot.

4.	Pose in 3.

5—8. As 1—4, but opposite.

Bepeat 1—8, all in 32 counts.

PART II.

Exercise 1.

A.

1.	Place L. foot forward and raise wand forward vertically^ left arm

above.

2.	Place L. foot backward, bending R. knea and placing L. hand

On hip, lower the upper end of wand forward to touch the floor.

3.	Return to 1.

4.	Return to starting position.

5—8. As 1—4, but opposite.

Repeat 1—8, all in 32 counts.

i

Digitized by ^ooQle
-110-

B.

1,	2, 3, as in exercise 1, Part I, but at 3 swing wand over L. shoulder, body in full erection.

4.	Pose in 3.

5—6. Step backward R. with pirouette R., raising wand upward, arms bent.

7—8. One step backward to starting position.

9—16. As 1—8, but opposite.

Repeat 1—16, all in 32 counts. .

Exercise 2.

A.

1.	Place L. foot sideward and raise wand, to vertical position, L.

hand at L. shoulder, R. arm over head.

2.	Cross left leg in rear, bending R. knee, and, placing L. hand on

hip, swing wand in circle upward and lower sideward obliquely downward R., one end touching the floor.

3.	Return to L. (Move wand in a circle upward.)

4.	Return to starting position.

5—8. As 1—4, but opposite.

Repeat 1—8, all in 32 counts.

B.

1, 2, 3. Step as in Exercise 2, Part I, but at 3 swing wand over L. shoulder and bend trunk left, eyes on left foot.

4. Pose in 3.

5—8. Side-whirl-step, holding wand over head, arms bent, lower wand at 8.

9—16. As 1—8, but opposite.

Repeat 1—16, all in 32 counts.

Exercise 3.

A.

1.	Place L. foot backward and raise wand to vertical position down-

ward left.

2.	Place L. foot forward, kneel on right, and, holding wand in R.

hand, swing wand in a horizontal circle to the right to horizontal position on the small of back, regrasping wand with L. hand.

3. Return to 1.

4. Return to starting position.

5—8. As 1—4, but opposite.

Repeat 1—8, all in 32 counts.

B.

3, 2, 3. Step backward and swing wand as in Exercise 3, Parti, but at 3 swing wand over left shoulder and bend trunk toward the front, eyes on forward foot.

4. Pose in 3.

Digitized by ^ooQle
-111-

5,	6, 7. Three small steps forward, raising leg forward with each step, and carry wand over head, arms bent.

8.	Starting position.

9—16. As 1—8, but opposite.

Repeat 1—16, all in 32 counts.

PART III.

Designate odd and even numbered files. Repeat Part I, but the odd numbered files start with Exercise 1, Part A, while the even numbered files start with Exercise 1, Part B.

PART IV.

Designate odd and even numbered files. Repeat Part II, but the odd numbered files start with Exercise 1, Part A, while the even numbered files start with Exercise 1, Part B, and follow with Part A.

Parts III and IV may executed in above order by alternate rants, also, in circle formation; for instance,

A column with ranks of “fours” marches to a large circle facing inward (thus we have four concentric circles), number the ranks “1” and “2” and exercise as follows:

Ranks “1” start with Exercise 1, Part A, while

Ranks “2” start with Exercise 1, Part B, and follow with Part A.

—In a paper read recently by Dr. Fenton B. Turck, Professor of Diseases of the Stomach and Intestines, of Chicago, on the “Effect on Longevity of High Living,” and published in “The Medical Examin. or and Practitioner”, he describes the results of numerous interesting experiments which he made with meat extracts on dogs, rats and mice. He comes to the conclusion that the damage done to the animals experimented upon is due to the extractives of meat; also that meat when freed from these extracts is highly beneficial in a variety of diseases and even curative in some.

He says that high living as we understand it, aside from the excessive use of alcohol, is most frequently associated with the improper and excessive ingestion of albumenous and carbohydrate food. An excessive amount of fat ingested is not so detrimental and such a burden upon the human mechanism, because it is deposited in the various organs of the body without passing through the different chemical stages or processes of metabolism, but albumenous and carbo-hydrate food, when partaken of excessively, result in great disturbances that have a direct bear ing upon life’s expectancy. The improper and excessive use of albumenous food containing meat extractives, not the muscle proteid, myosin, produces great harm and is a prominent factor in the development of Euch diseases as gout, rheumatism, liver and kidney trouble. Another proof for Hie correctness of his conclusions is the fact that peoples in warm climates, who live chiefly on rice, etc., and again those in the north, like the Esquimaux, who live almost exclusively on fats, are practically exempt from these diseases.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-112-CAPTAIN BALL.

The American teams going to Europe in July to participate in the gymnastic festival at Frankfort -on the Main, besides taking part in the competitive work, will show two American games at present unknown in Europe, i. e., Baseball and Captain Ball. (Basketball is being played especially in Germany for quite a number of years.) At the request of some subscribers we reprint a description of the game of Captain Ball as it has developed, and the new rules governing the game.

The field is an oblong 30x60 feet, divided into two equal parts.

Ten players form a team. They are divided into five basemen and five guards. Their positions are as shown in the diagram. The bases are two feet square.	,

The object of the game is to get the ball (a basket ball) successively into the hands of two or more basemen of a side.

The game is played in two halves of from 10 to 15 minutes.

RULES.

Guards are not allowed to go into the territory of their opponents, nor to step into the boxes.

Basemen must always have at least one foot in their boxes. They are, however, allowed to jump up into the air to catch the ball

The game is in charge of an umpire, who calls all fouls. At the beginning Qf the game he tosses the ball up in the center of the field between the two guards who face him.

After one, two or three points have been made he again tosses the ball up in the center.

If a ball is held by two players he tosses it up between them.

In case of a foul he decides which bkseman shall have the ball for a free throw. (In a free throw the baseman having the ball may not be interfered with, but the other players of his side should be guarded.)

There shall be a- scorer, who is also timekeeper.

If in the course of the game the ball rolls outside of the field it shall be put in play by one of the guards nearest the place where it rolled out.

Points axe made as follows:

1.	If the ball successively gets into the hands of two basemen of the same team, this play counts one point.

2.	If the ball successively gets into the hands of a baseman and then to the captain, this play counts two points.

3.	Should the succession be captain, baseman and then again captain, the play counts three points.

4.	If the ball succeessively gets into the hands of two basemen and then to the captain, the play counts three points.

Fouls are made as follows:

1.	Carrying the ball.

2.	Striking the ball when in the hands of a player.

3.	Holding, pushing, striking or tripling an opponent.

4.	Getting out of a box with both feet at the same time.

5.	Stepping into the opponents5 territory or boxes.

Digitized by Google
—113— .

DIAGRAM OF FIELD FOR CAPTAIN BALL Captain

Captain

The shaded portions are occupisd by one team and the unshaded by the other. Name your teams the “Reds” and the “Blues,” or any other colors, as it simplifies matters.

PLAYGROUNDS AT PROVIDENCE, R. I.

By E. K. COOP.

For. several years the people of Providence, R. I., have been interested in Playgrounds, but it was not until 1906 that Playground work, on anything larger than an experimental scale, was begun. In 1906 an enthusiastic committee was elected and under Mayor Dyer plans were laid for Playgrounds in the most congested parts of the city. Miss Mary Josephine O’Connor, who was a Principal in the Summer Playgrounds of New York City, was requested to look over the ground and pick out the most favorable sites for playgrounds, and also submit a plan ' f the work to be done and an estimate of the cost.. Miss O’Connor’s plan, which was modeled after the New York City playgrounds, wras accepted with a few changes.

Seven school yards were selected as the 'best places to establish playgrounds, because they were near the children’s homes. They have yards for boys and girls, and they have the school building with the use of

Digitized by C.ooQle
-114-

water, toilets, and rooms for a library and games on rainy days. The playgrounds were open from 1.30 to 5.30 P. M. every day except Saturday and Sunday, and the term lasted eight weeks. There were three teachers in each playground, two women and one man. One of the women was a gymnastic teacher and the other a kindergartner. The appropriation was small as a great deal of the apparatus was borrowed. Besides the games and gymnastics the work included crocheting. sewing and basketry for the older girls, and kindergarten games and occupations for the little ones. Then there were sand pits and baby swings for the very little children.

Digitized by Google
-115-

Attractive features were introduced, such as a Baby Show and a Field Day, which was held at Roger Williams Park. Prizes were awarded to the schools doing the best work in athletics and occupation. The sum appropriated for this work was $3,000.00. With this sum 1,953 children were kept busy, happy and safe during the long hot days of the summer vacation. The attendance, was good and regular, showing that the children took an interest in the work and enjoyed it. The cost per day for each child was less than four cents.

In 1907 the same plans were carried out with some additions. All the apparatus was purchased except that which was loaned by the school department. This included dumb-bells, wands, Indian clubs, three parallel bars, three jump stands, and kindergarten materials which are not perishable, such as tables, beads, pegs and peg-racks.

♦ Plans are laid for a large and well equiped playground at Roger Williams Park and it is hoped these plans will be carried out this year. "

COMPETITION.

By WILLIAM E. DAY.

In the happy days gone by, a young man went to school or college for 6tudy; now he goes in for athletics and study (merely on the side), and in due course of time returns for *a post graduate course in football, baseball, athletics or rowing. William Blaikie used to tell us that he never allowed his studies to intefere in any way with his athletics. Things have improved immeasurably since Blaikie’s time but there is still much opportunity for the improvement which is gradually going on., Last season one college athletic association so far forgot itself as to “induce” seven out of eleven players to attend that particular college. The advent of a new physical director, however, put a stop to all this, placed athletics on a clean sport basis and the insatiable desire to win was quenched. The real value of a game is in the playing and not in the winning. The students are not to blame for this state of affairs, as the faculty or “powers that be” who permit the student body to dominate in this matter should have absolute control as in the studies. Not only is this condition of affairs harmful to the college but this pernicious influence is carried into a number of Young Men’s Christian Associations by the “callow youth” who cannot or will not understand that Associations cater not to the athlete as such, but rather should strive to do the greatest good to the largest number by rational physical training which is a sane blending of class work, competition, recreation apd relaxation. True, this question of competition is not a new one, but it is still vital and will continue to be so, as long as physical directors are drawn away from the real purpose of physical training. However, there are signs of an onward movement, and if it be true that “coming events cast their shadows before,” the shadows cast by the past failures of the students to properly govern their athletics and meet the real needs of the student, should be warrant

Digitize* ■ CaOOQle
-116-

enough for the authorities to take full control of all forms of physical training, thus giving them the power to properly train the body as well as the mind. When this comes to pass, and, altjio not a prophet nor the 6on of a prophet, I predict that it is coming (note Columbia University), it will come none too soon for the good of the colleges themselves, of the high schools and such institutions whose athletics they color.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS.

THE EXCLUSION OF FAT FROM THE DIET.

Physiological considerations would imply that many minor ills of the body would be avoided if only care were taken to include a sufficiency of fat in the diet. Fat, we know, is about the most compact form of fuel which we possess, while it exercises a favorable effect upon the processes of the intestinal tract. In excessively cold countries a rich, fatty diet is indispensable, for fat is the only food substance which will rapidly replace the heat lost by the body, and travelers in the Arctic regions have related that they could only be kept warm and comfortable by a generous supply of fatty food, in comparison with which the effect of extra clothing was inappreciable. The tendency of to-day in many quarters is to exclude as much as possible the fatty portions of animal foods. Pieces of fat are carefully cut off the slice of ham, mutton or beef, and only the lean parts are eaten. Indeed, for some unaccountable reason the eating of fat is regarded by not a few as positively vulgar. Such attitude, of course, displays an ignorance of physiological facts. Cold feet, hands, fingers, ears and chillblains would in many instances be avoided under a generous diet of fatty food. A digestible fat favors nutrition considerably; it spares much waste of the tissue-forming elements of food. When lean meat alone is given large quantities are required in order that nutrition and waste may balance one another, but if fat be added the demand for flesh is less. Besides, therefore, giving an advantage in regard to making good the repair of the body, the use of fat is economical from the point of view of pounds, shillings and pence. The absorption of large quantities of fatless meat again tends to overload the blood with nitrogenous waste products. In anaemic persons the partaking of an easily digested fat is commonly followed by the best results, nutrition is greatly improved, and the condition of the blood is often restored to normal. It is well known, again, that easily absorbable fats, such as butter, cream, cod-liver oil, bacon fat and dripping, are especially valuable to sufferers from wasting diseases. The indioduction of the old-fashioned and well-prepared suet pudding into the diet is in perfect accordance wTith scientific teaching, and from the dietetic point of view, especially in the feeding of young growing people, does probably a really, beneficial service to the country. The assumed aversion to fat on the part of a great many people is silly and mischievous, for there can be little doubt that a reasonable proportion of fat in the diet is calculated

Digitized by C^ooQle
-117-

to preserve the standard of health. Cases of true repugnance or intolerance do, of course, exist, but on the whole they are rare.—London Lancet.

“Many are the men who wear out a hand mirror in inspecting their tongue, who examine their pulse almost hourly, who take their temperature every day, and who fret about a little increase of girth. They are in a perpetual state of fidgets about their health, and their solicitude is fed by what they read in the newspapers and on the display signs with which the public conveyances are adorned, so many philanthropists are there who are ready to interpret every little irregularity of their bodily condition and put them on the high road to health and longevity. There are the numerous cereals, each of which is heralded as the one article needed to insure good digestion; there are the multifareous machines for taking the place of regular exercise; there are mysterious agencies for augmenting vitality: there are “chest protectors” and articles of apparel that one cannot do without if he would preserve his health; and there is the endless list of drugs to supplement all such appliances if not to supplant them.

Learned men there are in abundance, or men assuming to be learned —wise, too, above ordinary—who write books and magazine articles setting forth the minutiae of the art of prolonging life. They are clever apostles of the plausible, and they have reduced the whole range of hygiene to a faultless system—

Till you ask with surprise why anyone dies,

And what’s the disorder that kills, my boy.

They prate of proteids and other things mystifying enough to be impressive, and they all join in the chorus “We eat too much.” Many of them are champions of the “hardening” process. They tell us of lurking poisons to avoid as one would shun the wiles of Satan. A slight drawback to the amount of good that they might accomplish springs from the fact that they do not all agree, and meantime there are some of us who 'are rash enough to go under the more or less complete guidance of inclination, which in the happy brutes generally answers the purpose.”— (From N. Y. Med. Journal, Febr. 29, 08.)	♦

COMING EVENTS AND OPPORTUNITIES.

^Please send notes for this column to DR. D. BESSER, 606 Erie Ave., Philadelphia.)

—The “Northern Circuit” of the North American Gymnastic Union, comprising the districts Wisconsin, Chicago, Minnesota and Upper Mississippi, will hold this years’ competitive meet at Madison, Wis., on June 27th and 28th.

—The Executive Committee for the coming national festival of the N. A. G. U., to be held at Cincinnati in 1909, has been organized. The committee consists of:	Mr.	Aug. Herrmann, President; Mr. Henry

Digitized by Google
-118-

Hoefle, I. Vice-President; Mr. Geo. F. Dieterle, II. Vice-President; Mr. Geo. A. Singer, III. Vice-President; Mr. Gns. Clemens, Corr. Secty.; Mr. Ernst von Bargen, Finance Secty.; Mr. Adam Benns, Treasurer; Mr. N.

C.	Seuss, Physical Director.

—The Physical Directors School of the Y. M. C. A. will be held at Lake Geneva, Wisconsin, from July 4th to July 31st, and the school at Silver Bay, Lake George, New York, will be held from August 4th to August 31st.

The Annual Physical Directors National Conference will be held this year in the early part of June at Long Branch, New Jersey.

—Summer Schools of Physical Training open to all teachers (which have send us their catalogues or notices) will be held at the following places:

Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., apply to the registrar.

New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics, New Haven, Conn., apply to the director Dr. E. H. Arnold.

Chautauqua Normal School of Physical Education, apply to Dr. Jay W. Seaver, New Haven, Conn.

University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis., apply to the registrar.

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., apply to the registrar.

Columbia University, New York City, apply to the registrar.

Monteagle Assembly School of Physical Education, Monteagle, Tenn., apply to Clara G. Baer, director.

Posse Gymnasium, Boston, Mass., apply ^;o the director Baroness Bose Posse.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NOBMAL COLLEGE OF THE NOBTH AMEBICAN GYM-NATSTIC UNION.

With the beginning of the second term of the second semester the students of the Normal College began teaching in the public schools of Indianapolis. Work assignment covers the eight elementary grades. The ^students follow the current work of the manuals provided by the school authorities. Gymnasium work in the High Schools will be included in the schedule of practice teaching in the schools. With the opening of the school playgrounds the students will also assist in teach-ing outdoor gymnastics, sports and games.

The spring vacation of the college students was spent by some of the students in attendance upon the Northern Indiana State Teachers* Meetings at which Dr. Elliott of Harvard, Andrew F. West, Dean of Princeton University, Prof. Bichard Burton of Minnesota University, Prof. Chapin of the Pennsylvania Normal School, Dr. Gunsaulus of Chicago University, and others spoke.

Messrs Allen and Prince and Miss Edith Grebner visited Cincinnati to inspect the city school gymnasiums and to observe the work therein.

Digitized by eaOOQle
—tl9-

I

They were enthusiastic over the work they saw” in a few specially favored schools.

Prof. Dr. Herman Anders Krueger, Germany, lectured April 8th in the Auditorium on: “The awakening of dramatic life in Germany in the eighties.” He also gave a recital of “Modern German Lyrics.”

. The catalogue for *08—*9 has left the press and is ready for distribution. Members of the Alumni Association and others desiring copies should address President C. J. Kroh, Normal College N. A. G. U., 415—119 Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

It has been decided by the Administrative Board of the Normal College N. A. G. U. pending the organization of the Alumni Association, to call a meeting of that body for June 20th, following the graduating exercises of this year’s college class.

A request from the Boys* Club Association of Indianapolis for assistance in conducting gymnasium classes was answered by Messrs. Allen and Prince, who have successively conducted the Saturday evening classes of the Association during the past month. The total daily attendance at the Club House has been very large.

The State Board of Education of Indiana refuses to recognize as teachers* training colleges purely summer schools operated for a brief time and conducted apart from established educational institutions that offer regular courses throughout the year.

A number of names of Graduates of the Normal School, of the North American Gymnastic Union are on the records without addresses. Graduates of the school who for this reason have not received the circular inviting them to join the Alumni Association should send their names, writh a statement of courses attended and their present occupation (positions at present held) to President C. J. Kroh, care of Normal College, without delay.

BOOK REVIEW.

—„Unsere Lieder,“ “Our Songs.” Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

When it was certain that several hundred members of the North American Gymnastic Union would go to Frankfort in July to the great international festival Mr. Theo. Fritz, the business manager of “Mind and Body,” conceived the idea of collecting a number of typical American songs so that these might be sung on land and sea. In order that the Europeans would better appreciate the songs the text of six was translated into German. These six with four others have been published in a neat little booklet and dedicated to the voyagers. The six typical American songs are “Star Spangled Banner,” “My Country *tis of Thee,” “New America,” “0, Susanna,” “Marching Through Georgia,” and “Swanee River.” To be had from “Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis. Mailing price 10 Cents; $1.00 per dozen.

Digitized by C^ooQle
—120—

The Playground season is now upon us

Local conditions often make it impossible for a teacher to use the team games like baseball and others requiring much space. For such teachers and others who are looking for new games we offer

“200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games”

Jttarte ©ray.

The large variety of games described in this book will be certain to offer valuable games just suited to your particular conditions.

Mailing price 75 cents.	MIND	AND	BODY,

________________________Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

theTEMPLE university

NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

RUSSELL H. CONNELL, Pres.

Offers a two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. HOSPITAL CLINICS in MASSAGE and CORRECTIVE GYMNASTICS.

Well equipped laboratories for Histology and Physiology. Competent instructors and lecturers. Model School for Practice Teaching. 1®“ For catalogue and full information address

THE TEMPLE UNIVERSITY, Philadelphia, Pa. _____________ FRANK W. WHITE, M. D , Dean.

'fl....—O^^C^^iwmrirrnmiTiriTiTi CTi

THE GEISEXi EXERCISER.

Entirely new, simple construction, durable and finished in full nickel. Adopted to home or gymnasium. Used by classes of the Springfield and Springdale, Mass., Turnvereins. Send for iree illustrated booklet.

THEODOR R. OEISEL,	SPRINGFIELD, MASS



The Chautauqua Normal School of Physical Education—1908.

The summer term opens on July 6th and continues for six weeks. The daily hour schedule covers seven periods of fifty minutes each. Three of these periods are devoted to lecture and four to Floor-work and Athletics.

Send for the circular giving a detailed statement of the various courses to JAY W. SEAVER, M. D..

'	New Haven, Conn.

Anthropometric Chart.

(Arranged for the Use in Gymnasia and Higher Schools.)

BY

FRANZ PFISTER, M. D.

PRICE: Per Hundred $2.00; per Dozen 25 Cents Address:

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO* c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wl*.

Digitized by C.ooQle
(GYMNASTIC i

3535 DeKallTst.

____________THE____________

NEW YORK NORM ALSCHOOLof

PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Prepares men and women to become Teachers of Physical Education.

I®* All systems taught. — Specialist in every department. “©• (Catalogue	mailctr	an application*

TEACHERS SUPPLIED. SWIMMING a feature.

DR. WATSON L. SAVAGE. President, _____________308 and 310 West 59th Street, New York City.

p-STATE COLLEGE WANTS MAN

We have been asked to find a physical director and track coach for a State College. Permanent position.

A prominent universit}'— a school having an enrollment of over I twelve hundred students—wants an athletic director for next year.

Woman’s College desires lady to take full charge of new gymnasium in September. Salary, $1200.00.

Other good openings to suit you. Write for full information.

1 The Specialists’ Educational Bureau

(Formerly the Physical Training Teachers’ Bureau, Rockford, Illinois,) WEBSTER GROVES STATION, ST. LOUIS, MO.

New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics

307 York Street

NEW HAVEN, CONN.

SUMMER SESSION: July 6th to Aug. 7, 1908

gMitfr far (Circular*

PHYSICAL DIRECTOR

: wishes :

Summer Employment,^

class teaching in German and Swedish Gymnastics, folk dances and fancy drills. Graduate, N. Y. Normal School of Phys. Ed.

SAMUEL GREENBERG,

29 Antes St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

MEDART’S

NEW CATALOG

of GYMNASIUM SUPPLIES

should be in the hands of everyone interested in gymnasium work. It covers everything that is used in the gymnasium. It’s yours for the asking

Fred. Medart,

ST. LOUIS, MO

Complete Volumes

-OF-

MIND a’'5 BODY”

$1.00. Bd. $1.75.

Postage paid.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wla


GYMNAS I U 7V\ OUTFITTE R S

Gymnastic Apparatus Lockers Bowling Alleys Playground Apparatus

Anthropometric Apparatus

NARRAGANSETT MACHINE CO.

f

Write for Catalogs.	PROVIDENCE, R. I.,	U.S.A.

NORMAL COLLEGE i NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION,

4X5-419 East Michigan Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical trainirig. Established 1861; reorganized 1868. Conducted at New York, Chicago, and Milwaukee, 1868-1889; at Indianapolis, 1889-1891; at Milwaukee, 1891-1907. Removed to Indianapolis and incorporated in Indiana,

1307.

Courses open to high school graduates who are physically sound and well formed: Ope-ycar course, leading to certification as Teacher of Physical Training for Gymnastic Societies. Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate In Gymnastics (G: G ). Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics (B. S. G.). Graduate courses, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics (M. S. G.). The College also offers an elementary one-year course, which is open to male students that have attained a high degree of proficiency in gymnastics and are well versed in German, but do not meet the requirements for matriculation.

For illustrated catalogue, address KARL J. KROH. President of the Normal College of the N. A. G. U., 415—419 E Michigan St.. Indianapolis, Ind.________

JUST OUT!

Successful Drills and Marches

.BY.

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUNDGREN,

PRICE, 50 CENTS.

Freidenker Publishing Co., Berold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

JbyGoOQlc

;'fC C t., 1, ‘VsA





Ah